
                               1 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        Watertown Daily Times (New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 24, 2008 Monday

Hospitals make NNY economy healthier

BYLINE: Alex Jacobs, Watertown Daily Times, N.Y.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 739 words


Mar. 24--In addition to quality health care, the north country's hospitals
provide jobs and revenue for surrounding communities. Recent economic impact
reports by the Healthcare Association of New York State show just how far that
money goes.

Using economic modeling software developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce's
Bureau of Economic Analysis, HANYS estimates each hospital's economic impact
using multipliers to show the ripple effect each dollar a medical center spends
has on its community.

The organization found that New York state's hospitals generate $101.1 billion
for the local and state economies, or about 10 percent of the state gross
product, each year.

According to HANYS's Economic and Community Benefit Report, Samaritan Medical
Center provided 2,090 jobs in 2006, with a payroll of $143,043,000. In addition,
the hospital spent $77,639,000 on goods and services and invested $18,055,000 in
capital spending.

All in all, Samaritan's total estimated economic impact was $238,728,000 in
2006.

"It's the biggest single employer in the city. That says it all. It has
tremendous impact to the extent that Watertown is a regional medical hub," Mayor
Jeffrey E. Graham said. "You've got to have a health care center with a
population center, and we're probably home to the biggest one in the north
country. That's a good thing."

At Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center, employee dollars go a long way in the
Ogdensburg economy -- and the hospital helps the city attract businesses.

The medical center paid its 710 employees $37,982,000 in 2006, according the
report. Dollars earned by hospital employees generated approximately $73,336,000
in economic activity for the Ogdensburg area. The hospital's total estimated
economic impact in 2006 was $133,499,000.

"Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center is extremely important to the greater Ogdensburg
community. It's a first-class facility, and it's extremely important in
recruiting prospective businesses," Ogdensburg Mayor William D. Nelson said.
"It's a very large economic engine in the community. As the community grows, the
hospital does as well."

Mr. Nelson, who works as vice president of support services for the hospital,
added that the physicians and medical staff recruited by the hospital contribute
to the city's character.

"They bring new ideas, and many are involved with community boards. It brings a
whole spectrum to the community," the mayor said.

Canton-Potsdam Hospital, Potsdam, also helps to entice professors and college
students to the north country.

"Many people, when they're choosing a college or job, look to access to health
care as a key part of where they go," said Richard D. Jacobs, the hospital's
vice president for finance. "We clearly provide a service as well as creating a
key part of the infrastructure of the community. As we grow and hire new
employees, they spend dollars that go in local employers' pockets."

The hospital had a payroll of $29,978,000 for its 560 employees in 2006, which
accounted for another 1,010 jobs in the community and generated approximately
$57,882,000 for local businesses. Canton-Potsdam Hospital's overall economic
impact was estimated to be $108,987,000 in 2006.

"For every dollar we spend, we generate $1.93 in the community," Mr. Jacobs
estimated.

Lewis County General Hospital and Residential Health Care Facility, Lowville,
with a payroll of $23,132,000, provided 500 jobs and helped to generate
approximately $44,663,000 in the Lowville area in 2006, according to the report.

The hospital spent $10,567,000 on goods and services and $3,537,000 on buildings
and equipment; its total estimated economic impact was $71,895,000.

Carthage Area Hospital's payroll was $31,090,000 in 2006, and it provided 540
jobs. The hospital spent $15,775,000 on supplies and $3,775,000 for its
buildings and equipment. The hospital's estimated total economic impact was
$50,640,000.

Figures were not available for Massena Memorial Hospital, River Hospital in
Alexandria Bay or E.J. Noble Hospital, Gouverneur.

To see more of the Watertown Daily Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.watertowndailytimes.com. Copyright (c) 2008, Watertown Daily
Times, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080324-WE-HOSPITALS-IMPACT-20080324

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WE


                      Copyright 2008 Watertown Daily Times


                               2 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            February 2, 2009 Monday

Economic health care

BYLINE: ERIK HOGSTROM TH staff writer/ehogstrom@wcinet.com

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 607 words


Rail headline The annual economic impact of Dubuque's hospitals: MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER-DUBUQUE Payroll - $50 million (plus $2.5 million from Mercy-Dyersville)
Economic impact - $86 million Retail sales - $32.6 million Sales tax revenue -
$2 million THE FINLEY HOSPITAL Payroll - $36.3 million Economic impact - $59.1
million Retail sales - $22.4 million Sales tax revenue - $1.34 million - Source:
Iowa Hospital Association News You can use Russell Knight witnesses the economic
importance of his hospital at the movie theater, the grocery store and elsewhere
in Dubuque. "I am very conscious of the economic impact of Mercy because I see
Mercy peo-ple literally everywhere I go," said Knight, president and chief
executive officer at Mercy Medical Center-Dubuque. "I often think what the
picture would look like if all of those people were removed." Iowa's community
hospitals generate 149,096 jobs that add more than $5.8 billion annually to the
state's economy, according to the Iowa Hospital Association's latest Iowa
hospital economic impact report.

"It's a daily economic impact - big time," said Mike Blouin, president of the
Greater Dubuque Development Corp. "They are very much an asset." Iowa hospital
employees by themselves spend nearly $1.9 billion annually on retail sales and
contribute more than $112 million in state sales-tax revenue. "Even in these
difficult economic times, Iowa hospitals remain major employers and business
partners throughout the state," said Kirk Norris, the association's president
and chief executive officer. "In addition to providing essential health care and
community services, hospitals are at the foundation of Iowa's economic
infrastructure." The association study examined the jobs, income, retail sales
and sales tax produced by hospitals and the rest of the state's health-care
sector. The Finley Hospital provides an economic impact of more than $59
million, based on its $36.3 million payroll. "Finley should and does have a very
prominent place in Dubuque's economy," said Chad Wolbers, Finley's chief
operating officer. "As one of the top five employers in town, we pour tens of
millions of dollars into this economy by way of our payroll and through the
purchase of local and regional goods and services. This is also the case in
nearly all of the remaining 98 counties in Iowa. Somewhere within each of these
counties, there is a medical enterprise to thank for providing a strong helping
hand to the local economy." The Iowa study was compiled from hospital-submitted
data on the American Hospital Association's Annual Survey of Hospitals and with
software that other industries have used to determine their economic impact.
"These economic impact studies work by starting with payroll and applying a
multiplier," Knight said. Mercy employs nearly 1,400 people, with a payroll of
about $50 million. The study found that Iowa hospitals directly employ 72,220
people and create another 76,876 jobs outside the hospital sector. As an income
source, hospitals provide $3.3 billion in salaries and benefits and generate
almost another $2.4 billion through other jobs that depend on hospitals. In all,
Iowa's health care sector, which includes employed clinicians, long-term care
services and assisted-living centers, pharmacies and other medical and health
services, directly and indirectly provides 366,072 Iowa jobs, or more than
one-fifth of the state's total employment. "Conventional wisdom is that
hospitals are more recession-proof, but I am not so sure they are entirely
recession-proof," Knight said. "The demand for services may increase, but the
ability for people to pay may not."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                           November 6, 2013 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

HOSPITALS CRUCIAL TO STATE ECONOMY

BYLINE:  Earl V. Rogers  President, Georgia Hospital Association

SECTION: NEWS TIMES; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 624 words


When most people think of economic development, they think of the large
industrial plant moving to town or the Fortune 500 company bringing a few
hundred new jobs to the area. But in many communities throughout Georgia, the
biggest and most reliable source of economic development and stability is the
place that many take for granted: your community hospital.

Georgia hospitals generated more than $38.6 billion to their local and state
economies in 2011 and accounted for almost 7 percent of the state's entire Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) in 2010. Additionally, more than 124,000 people are
directly employed by a Georgia hospital or health system, and these institutions
also indirectly generate another 283,000 jobs in Georgia as hospitals purchase a
wide array of goods and services from other businesses as they provide optimal
care for patients.

To put that into perspective, Georgia's hospitals employ more people in our
state alone than Coca-Cola Enterprises does in all of North America (roughly
75,000 people) and more than Delta Air Lines has worldwide (80,000 people).
These important, mission-driven hospital jobs impact all areas of the state,
including the large urban centers from Atlanta to Savannah and Columbus to
Augusta and the many rural towns from Bainbridge to Royston and Cedartown to
Waycross.

In short, Georgia hospitals not only save lives and serve the health care needs
of their communities, but also put food on the table and a roof over the heads
of hundreds of thousands of Georgia families.

Yet the future of the industry and its continued economic viability is not
necessarily secure. Earlier this year, three of Georgia's hospitals were forced
to close because of severe financial difficulties: Calhoun Memorial Hospital in
Arlington, Ga., (worth $12.4 million per year to its local and state economy);
Stewart Webster Hospital in Richland, Ga. (with an annual economic impact of
$11.2 million); and Charlton Memorial Hospital in Folkston, Ga. (worth $18.4
million to its local and state economy in 2010). How do these small communities,
which also lost a combined 305 jobs, recover from such a loss? How do they
attract new business to those areas when there is no nearby place to deliver a
baby or receive life-saving care during a medical emergency?

Unfortunately, these aren't the only Georgia communities facing uncertainty when
it comes to access to health care, as well as critical economic growth.
According to the most recent Georgia Department of Community Health Hospital
Financial Survey, 38 percent of all hospitals in the state had a negative
operating margin in 2011. Among Georgia's rural hospitals, 55 percent lost
money.

When it comes to advocacy initiatives like opposing payment cuts to hospitals
that treat Medicaid recipients or attempts to weaken the state's Certificate of
Need (CON) program, the Georgia Hospital Association is fighting not only to
preserve access to vital health care services, but also to protect thousands of
jobs in communities throughout the state. We know that your hospital, like your
local school and the public utility system, is an indispensable part of your
community infrastructure.

At GHA, we take hospital closures personally and focus on your hospital's
well-being. Our annual hospital economic impact study serves as a reminder of
the importance of your hospital to the community, which stretches far beyond
providing health care services. After more than five long years, it appears that
Georgia is finally on the path to economic recovery. But if we're to experience
true prosperity again, we must ensure that your hospitals are strong and able to
serve not only as the guardians of health, but also as one of your area's most
important economic engines.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 994 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 2009 Board of Trustees of the University of
                                    Arkansas
                University of Arkansas at Little Rock Law Review

                                  Spring, 2009

                University of Arkansas at Little Rock Law Review

                       31 U. Ark. Little Rock L. Rev. 505

LENGTH: 3852 words

ARTICLE: PLACING PROFITS ABOVE HIPPOCRATES: THE HYPOCRISY OF GENERAL SERVICE
HOSPITALS

NAME: Robert Steinbuch*

BIO:


* Associate Professor of Law, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, William H.
Bowen School of Law. J.D. from, and John M. Olin Law & Economics Fellow at,
Columbia Law School. B.A. and M.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Commissioner on the Arkansas Commission for Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank
Initiative. Professor Steinbuch's research focuses on the intersection of health
and corporate law. The author wishes to thank Professors Pearl Steinbuch,
Frances S. Fendler, J. Thomas Sullivan, Richard J. Peltz, and Diane S. Mackey,
as well as Ben Pape, for their guidance, input, and/or contributions. The author
also wishes to thank Matthew Runge for his outstanding insights and
assistance-without whom this piece would not have become a reality.

 TEXT:
 [*505]

    I.Introduction

    Specialty hospitals focus on a specific medical field-often high dollar
fields, such as orthopedics or cardiology. n1 These hospitals are often
physician owned. n2 "The GAO (Government Accountability Office) classified
hospitals that met these criteria into five types of specialty hospitals:
cardiac, orthopedic, surgical, women's, and other." n3 General service hospitals
(GSHs), in contrast, are full service entities and are generally non-profit
institutions. n4 For GSHs, "cases requiring cardiac, orthopedic, or general
surgical services are among their most profitable." n5 As a consequence of their
desire to hold onto their most profitable cases, GSHs-through "the American
Hospital Association (AHA) and the Federation of American Hospitals (FAH)[-]
[*506]  have begun an aggressive political effort to thwart the development of
more specialty hospitals" through the use of "economic credentialing" and
loyalty oaths. n6 GSHs typically critique specialty hospitals by arguing that
(1) the specialty hospitals threaten the viability of GSHs by skimming off
revenue-generating cases that finance unprofitable basic services such as
emergency room services and (2) specialty hospitals create conflicts of interest
when physicians refer patients to their own hospitals for financial reasons. n7
This article considers these arguments and concludes that the anti-competitive
tactics utilized by GSHs are against societal interests and medical regulations.

    II.The Efforts to Thwart the Growth of Specialty Hospitals

    In Little Rock, Arkansas, there are several GSHs; the three most notable are
University of Arkansas for Medical Science Hospital, Saint Vincent Health
System, and Baptist Medical Center. There are also two outstanding specialty
hospitals-the Arkansas Heart Hospital and the Arkansas Surgical Hospital. n8
These specialty hospitals actively compete on the basis that they generally
provide better care than that provided at GSHs. n9

    One method that GSHs have adopted to combat the encroachment of specialty
hospitals is the concept of "economic credentialing."  [*507]  Although there is
no single definition for economic credentialing, n10 the American Medical
Association (AMA) has defined it as "the use of economic criteria unrelated to
quality of care or professional competence in determining a physician's
qualifications for initial or continuing hospital medical staff membership or
privileges." n11 The method for credentialing doctors employed by hospitals has
evolved over time. "Historically, hospital credentialing decisions have been
based almost exclusively on qualitative criteria and a physician's clinical
competence." n12 Thereafter, the concept of "economic credentialing" evolved. "
Economic credentialing meant that hospitals would assess the insurance coverage
of a physician's panel of patients before granting admitting privileges, to
limit privileges to physicians caring predominantly for well-insured patients."
n13 Recently, economic credentialing has developed further, such that GSHs have
denied privileges to doctors who are owners of competing specialty hospitals or
who do not agree to refer all patients to the GSH. n14

    GSHs argue that in order to be able to offer essential but unprofitable
services, such as an emergency room, obstetrics, pediatrics, and critical care,
they need to "protect" their market in highly lucrative practice areas, such as
orthopedics and cardiology. n15 As such, GSHs have been known to:

    refuse to grant initial or continuing staff privileges to physicians who own
or have other financial interests in competing healthcare entities, refer
patients to competing entities, have staff privileges at any other area
hospitals, or fail to admit some specified percentage

     [*508]

    of their patients to the hospital. Alternatively, the hospital might require
a physician seeking privileges to sign a loyalty oath or pledge to perform a
certain percentage of medical services at the hospital. n16


    Given that GSHs complain that specialty hospitals foster conflicts of
interest when physicians refer patients to their own hospitals for financial
reasons, n17 these loyalty oaths are particularly insincere as they result in
the very same outcome about which GSHs complain. The difference, however, is
that this hypocrisy inures to their benefit.

    The AMA has stated its opposition to the use of economic criteria unrelated
to patient care to grant privileges: n18

    The AMA believes that the practice of conditioning a physician's medical
staff privileges on an agreement to refer patients only to that hospital is a
violation of the anti-kickback law . . . . Whether called loyalty oaths or
conflict of interest policies, the effect is the same. These practices . . .
negatively impact a physician's prerogative regarding patient care as well as
patient choice. n19


    Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's n20 challenged this policy of economic
credentialing in South Dakota. n21 In that case, a hospital refused to
credential doctors because they apparently had a competing financial interest.
n22 The doctors sued the hospital. n23 The South Dakota Supreme Court ruled that
the hospital could base its decision to grant or  [*509]  deny credentials for
economic reasons rather than quality of care. n24 "The court . . . recognized
that the hospital relied on 'the profitable neurosurgical services' in order to
be able to continue offering 'other unprofitable services' in the . . . area.
The court's decision seemed informed by the unique economics of hospital
financing that require cost-spreading to fund[] treatment for uninsured and
underinsured patients." n25

    In Little Rock, the situation of Janet Cathey, a gynecologist, presents a
conspicuous example of economic credentialing. n26 For twenty years her medical
practice was centered at Baptist Medical Center, Little Rock's largest hospital.
n27 Baptist is the largest healthcare system in Arkansas and is the preferred
provider for Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the state's biggest health
insurer. n28 Indeed, Baptist is Blue Cross's only acute care hospital in Little
Rock. n29 Cathey's husband joined a group of Baptist doctors who were opening
Arkansas Surgical Hospital. n30 In anticipation of competition from the new
Arkansas Surgical Hospital, Baptist established an economic credentialing
policy. n31 The policy prohibits doctors "with a direct or indirect financial
interest in a competing hospital" from having privileges at Baptist's hospitals.
n32 Indeed, "the policy applies not only to physician investors in such
facilities, but also to their immediate family members-with no right to a
hearing or appellate review." n33

    Cathey was informed by Baptist that under the terms of the new
conflict-of-interest policy, once Arkansas Surgical Hospital opened, her
appointment and clinical privileges at Baptist would be terminated. n34 Thus, as
a result of her husband's involvement in Arkansas Surgical Hospital, Cathey was
no longer entitled to admit patients or perform procedures at Baptist. n35
Because most of her patients were  [*510]  insured by Arkansas Blue Cross and
Blue Shield, Cathey's loss of privileges at Baptist would destroy her practice
and deny her patients the choice of care they once had. n36 Similarly, Baptist
stripped privileges from six cardiologists who are part-owners of Little Rock's
Arkansas Heart Hospital. n37 Cathey and the cardiologists sued separately. n38
The cardiologists were granted an injunction, but, on appeal, the Arkansas
Supreme Court remanded the case back to circuit court. n39 On remand the circuit
court granted an injunction on behalf of the cardiologists, which was appealed.
The Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed the injunction. n40

    Although it is distasteful, the concept of economic credentialing is often
found to be financially legitimate and legally permissible in a competitive
market as long as hospitals comply with the laws on safety and competition.
Hospitals are business entities that can seek to maximize their profits. Much
has been written on whether economic credentialing is anti-competitive. n41
Assuming that it is not so in all circumstances, which seems to be a conclusion
often employed by courts, n42 and assuming that hospitals are not compromising
the safety  [*511]  of their patients-which is best left open for another
discussion-hospitals will continue to employ this tool. Businesses will usually
not hire employees who are at the same time actively competing with them, and
GSHs have successfully argued that the same should be true for hospitals. n43
GSHs have relied upon these laissez-faire arguments to support their economic
-credentialing policies. n44

    The difficulty is that GSHs also employ wholly non-competitive arguments in
opposing specialty hospitals. As discussed previously, GSHs critique specialty
hospitals arguing that (1) the specialty hospitals threaten the viability of
GSHs by skimming off revenue-generating cases that finance unprofitable basic
services and (2) the specialty hospitals create conflicts of interest when
physicians refer patients to their own hospitals for financial reasons. n45
Neither of these arguments seeks to allow the marketplace to solve their
concerns-the supposed rationale for allowing economic-credentialing policies.
The first argument supports subsidizing unprofitable areas within the hospital
through reduced consumer choice-a definitely non-market-based concern. The
second basis is an ethical concern that, by implication, seeks to impose
non-market-based (i.e., ethical) restrictions on the actions of doctors with
financial stakes in specialty hospitals.

    Even with economic-credentialing policies, GSHs success in thwarting the
growth of specialty hospitals through competition will be impossible. As long as
GSHs maintain unprofitable centers, they will lose out against specialty
hospitals on a strictly competitive basis. As a consequence, GSHs have resorted
to governmental intervention by actively lobbying Congress to extend a ban on
the creation of new specialty hospitals. n46 There is no doubt that society
needs both the profitable and currently unprofitable groups within GSHs. The
question is how to ensure GSHs continued viability. GSHs attempt to do so by
running specialty hospitals out of business through competitive and
non-competitive devices. The cost of such a proposal is that the generally
better care provided at specialty hospitals-for the areas that they cover-will
be lost in an effort to subsidize the unprofitable centers at GSHs. That seems
wrong.   [*512]

    III.Conclusion

    We should not saddle the owners of specialty hospitals with the
responsibility of ensuring that both the profitable and currently unprofitable
groups within GSHs survive-particularly as a mere coincidence of the fact they
compete with GSHs. The alternatives are to develop a means to make the
unprofitable centers profitable and/or to supplement the unprofitable but
medically-necessary functions of GSHs. If we choose government intervention to
prop up GSHs, society is better served by providing for subsidization rather
than squelching healthy competition.

    Moreover, as long as GSHs seek extra-competitive, governmental resolution to
their concerns, they are profoundly subject to an equal attack. Supporters of
specialty hospitals might well suggest that governmental entities and/or private
regulating bodies such as the AMA regulate GSHs use of economic credentialing.

    Such logic would not be without basis. For example, the AMA "adopted an
opinion of the Judicial Council that declared that noncompetition agreements
were not 'in the public interest.'" n47 The AMA Council on Ethical and Medical
Affairs, Code of Medical Ethics states:

    9.02 Restrictive Covenants and the Practice of Medicine: Covenants not to
compete restrict competition, disrupt continuity of care, and potentially
deprive the public of medical services. The Council on Ethical and Judicial
Affairs discourages any agreement which restricts the right of a physician to
practice medicine for a specified period of time or in a specified area upon
termination of an employment, partnership or corporate agreement. Restrictive
covenants are unethical if they are excessive in geographic scope or duration in
the circumstances presented, or if they fail to make reasonable accommodation of
patients' choice of physician. n48


    Even had, as discussed above, the AMA not explicitly opposed the use of
economic credentialing, the logic of Section 9.02 would equally speak to the
AMA's disapproval of economic credentialing. Thus, before GSHs seek to continue
to attack specialty hospitals with their new-found interest in unchecked
business practices, they should  [*513]  keep in mind that they may die by the
very sword they have previously employed-non-market regulatory forces.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Contracts LawTypes of ContractsCovenantsHealthcare LawAntitrust
ActionsFacilitiesHealthcare LawAntitrust ActionsPhysicians

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Battle Lines Drawn over Specialty Hospitals, AAMC REPORTER, May 2006,
available at http://www.aamc.org/newsroom/reporter/may06/specialty.htm
[hereinafter AAMC Reporter].




n2  Id.




n3  John K. Iglehart, The Emergence of Physician-Owned Specialty Hospitals, 352
NEW ENG. J. MED. 78, 78 (2005), available at
http://content.nejm.org/cgi/content/full/352/1/78 [hereinafter Iglehart,
Hospitals].




n4  Id. at 79.

    The GAO also reported that more than ninety percent of the specialty
hospitals that have opened since 1990 are for-profit entities, as compared with
twenty percent of all general hospitals. Specialty hospitals are much less
likely than general hospitals to have emergency departments (forty-five percent
vs. ninety-two percent) or to treat Medicaid or uninsured patients. In 2001,
specialty hospitals accounted for an estimated $ 871 million, or one percent, of
Medicare's spending on inpatient services, nearly two-thirds of which went to
facilities that treat patients with cardiac disorders

    Id..




n5  Id. at 78.




n6  Id. at 83.




n7  AAMC REPORTER, supra note 1. ("'The AAMC is concerned that specialty
hospitals treat disproportionately low shares of very sick and uninsured and
under-insured patients, create conflicts of interest, and negatively impact the
revenue centers of teaching hospitals,' said Richard Knapp, executive vice
president of the AAMC and head of the office of government relations."); Sujit
Choudhry, Niteesh K. Choudhry & Troyen A. Brennan, Specialty Versus Community
Hospitals: What Role For The Law?: A paradox exists in the mixed
market/regulatory posture of U.S. health care, HEALTH AFFAIRS: THE POLICY
JOURNAL OF THE HEALTH SPHERE, Aug. 9, 2005, available at
http://content.healthaffairs.org/cgi/content/full/hlthaff.w5.361/DC1
[hereinafter Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community Hospitals]. "General hospitals
warn that specialty hospitals threaten their financial viability and quality of
care by reducing the volume of procedures performed in full-service settings."
Id.




n8  I have no affiliation with these hospitals. I have served as a Board of
Trustees Member on the Society of Chest Pain Centers, which accredited both
Saint Vincent's Chest Pain Center and the Arkansas Heart Hospital. If I thought
that I was having a heart attack or if I needed orthopedic surgery, I would
prefer to go to the Arkansas Heart Hospital or the Arkansas Surgical Hospital,
respectively.




n9  See, e.g., AAMC REPORTER, supra note 1. (Officials at Houston's Texas
Orthopedic Hospital said specialty hospitals can perform routine orthopedic
procedures three times faster than the average general hospital, with an
infection rate of less than one percent and high patient satisfaction.)




n10  See James W. Marks and Jayme R. Matchinski, Conflicts Credentialing:
Hospitals and the Use of Financial Considerations to Make Medical Staffing
Decisions, 31 WM. MITCHELL L. REV. 1009, 1015 (2005). See also Beverly Cohen, An
Examination of the Right of Hospitals to Engage in Economic Credentialing, 77
TEMP. L. REV. 705, 729 (2004); Judith E. Orie, Economic Credentialing:
Bottom-Line Medical Care, 36 DUQ. L. REV. 437, 441 (1998).




n11  AMA: American Medical Association, 2003 Legal Issues: Economic
Credentialing-Issues and Answers (2003),
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/legal-topics/current-legal-t
opics/2003.shtml (last visited Nov. 30, 2008). [hereinafter AMA, Economic
Credentialing].




n12  John W. Jones, Legal implications of economic credentialing, PHYSICIAN'S
NEWS DIGEST (April 2006), available at
http://www.physiciansnews.com/law/406jones.html.




n13  Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community Hospitals, supra note 7.




n14  See Jones, supra note 12.




n15  Elizabeth A. Weeks, The New Economic Credentialing: Protecting Hospitals
from Competition by Medical Staff, 36 J. HEALTH L. 247, 248 (2003), available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstractid=959196#.




n16  Id.




n17  AAMC Reporter, supra note 1; Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community
Hospitals, supra note 7.




n18  AMA, Economic Credentialing, supra note 11.




n19  Id.




n20  621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001).




n21  Id.; Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community Hospitals, supra note 7. But see
Jones, supra note 12:

    In its 2005 Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, OIG
provides: "Certain medical staff credentialing practices may implicate the
anti-kickback statute. For example, conditioning privileges on a particular
number of referrals or requiring the performance of a particular number of
procedures, beyond volumes necessary to ensure clinical proficiency, potentially
raise substantial risks under the statute. On the other hand, a credentialing
policy that categorically refuses privileges to physicians with significant
conflicts of interest would not appear to implicate the statute in most
situations. Whether a particular credentialing policy runs afoul of the
anti-kickback statute would depend on the specific facts and circumstances,
including the intent of the parties."






n22  Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 153 (S.D. 2001).




n23  Id.; Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community Hospitals, supra note 7.




n24  Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001); Choudhry, Specialty
Versus Community Hospitals, supra note 7.




n25  Weeks, supra note 15, at 251-52.




n26  Berkeley Rice, Economic credentialing: When hospitals play hardball,
MEDICAL ECONOMICS, Sept. 15, 2006, available at
http://medicaleconomics.modernmedicine.com/memag/article/articleDetail.jsp?id=37
038.




n27  Id.




n28  Id.




n29  Id.




n30  Id.




n31  Id.




n32  Rice, supra note 26.




n33  Rice, supra note 26.




n34  Rice, supra note 26.




n35  Rice, supra note 26.




n36  Rice, supra note 26.




n37  Rice, supra note 26.




n38  Cathey obtained an injunction against Baptist and settled shortly
thereafter. Cathey v. Baptist, No. CV-2005-5701 (Cir. Ct. Ark. Apr. 18, 2005).




n39  Baptist Health v. Murphy, 362 Ark. 506, 511, 209 S.W.3d 360, 364 (2005).




n40  Baptist Health v. Murphy, 365 Ark. 115, 132, 226 S.W.3d 800, 813 (2006).




n41  See Anne S. Kimbol, The Debate Over Specialty Hospitals: How Physician-
Hospital Relationships Have Reached a New Fault Line Over These "Focused
Factories," 38 J. HEALTH L. 633 (2005) (arguing that specialty hospitals are
helpful entities and that there should be limits on economic credentialing);
Tracy A. Powell, The Permissibility of Conflicts Credentialing (A/K/A Economic
Credentialing) by Traditional Hospitals as a Response to the Growth of Specialty
Hospitals, 20 No.  1 HEALTH LAWYER 17 (2007) (concluding that laws governing
economic credentialing are not settled but that economic credentialing may be
legal in some cases); Weeks, supra note 15 (concluding that many of the new
forms of economic credentialing violate state and federal antitrust statutes).
See generally William E. Berlin, Antitrust Implications Between Physician-Owned
Facilities and General Hospitals: Competition or Exclusion, 20 No.  5 HEALTH
LAWYER 1 (2008) (detailing recent developments in case law, antitrust
legislation, and potential defenses to litigation against economic
credentialing); Beverly Cohen, An Examination of the Right of Hospitals to
Engage in Economic Credentialing, 77 TEMP. L. REV. 705 (2004) (surveying case
law, state law, and federal law and concluding that there are few instances in
which economic credentialing is foreclosed).




n42  See, e.g.  Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 160 (citing Imperial v. Suburban Hosp.
Ass'n, Inc., 862 F. Supp. 1390, 1401 (DMd 1993); Hutton v. Memorial Hosp., 824
P.2d 61, 63 (ColoApp 1991); Sarin v. Samaritan Health Center, 176 Mich. App.
790, 440 N.W.2d 80, 82 (MichApp 1989); Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 82 Cal. App.
3d 368, 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 906-07 (CalCtApp 1978).,




n43  Cohen, supra note 10, at 729 (citing Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Mem'l Reg'l
Med. Ctr., No. 91-589, slip. op. at 3 (Cir. Ct. Fla. June 18, 1992)).




n44  See, e.g., Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 156.




n45  AAMC Reporter, supra note 1; see supra note 7.




n46  Iglehart, Hospitals, supra note 3, at 83.




n47  Paula Berg, Judicial Enforcement of Covenants not to Compete between
Physicians: Protecting Doctors' Interests at Patients' Expense, 45 RUTGERS L.
REV. 1, 9 (1992).




n48  Available at http://www.heart-intl.net/HEART/030106/AMAcode.htm.


                               5 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                            November 10, 2013 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

HOSPITALS, CRUCIAL TO OUR STATE'S ECONOMY, FACE UNCERTAINTIES

BYLINE:  Earl V. Rogers  Guest Columnist

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G3

LENGTH: 770 words


When most people think of economic development, they think of the large
industrial plant moving to town or the Fortune 500 company bringing a few
hundred new jobs to the area. But in many communities throughout Georgia, the
biggest and most reliable source of economic development and stability is the
place that many take for granted: your community hospital.

GEORGIA HOSPITALS generated more than $38.6 billion to their local and state
economies in 2011 and accounted for almost 7 percent of the state's entire gross
domestic product in 2010. Additionally, more than 124,000 people are directly
employed by a Georgia hospital or health system, and these institutions also
indirectly generate another 283,000 jobs in Georgia as hospitals purchase goods
and services from other businesses as they provide optimal care for patients.

To put that into perspective, Georgia's hospitals employ more people in our
state alone than Coca-Cola Enterprises does in all of North America (about
75,000 people) and more than Delta Air Lines has worldwide (80,000 people).
These important, mission-driven hospital jobs impact all areas of the state,
including the large urban centers from Atlanta to Savannah and Columbus to
Augusta, and the many rural towns from Bainbridge to Royston and Cedartown to
Waycross.

Georgia hospitals not only save lives and serve the health care needs of their
communities, but also put food on the tables and roofs over the heads of
hundreds of thousands of Georgia families.

Yet the future of the industry and its continued economic viability is not
necessarily secure. Earlier this year, three of Georgia's hospitals were forced
to close because of severe financial difficulties: Calhoun Memorial Hospital in
Arlington (worth $12.4 million per year to its local and state economy); Stewart
Webster Hospital in Richland (with an annual economic impact of $11.2 million);
and Charlton Memorial Hospital in Folkston (worth $18.4 million to its local and
state economy in 2010). How do these small communities, which also lost a
combined 305 jobs, recover from such a loss? How do they attract new business to
those areas when there is no nearby place to deliver a baby or receive
life-saving care during a medical emergency?

UNFORTUNATELY, THESE aren't the only Georgia communities facing uncertainty when
it comes to access to health care, as well as critical economic growth.
According to the most recent Georgia Department of Community Health Hospital
Financial Survey, 38 percent of all hospitals in the state had a negative
operating margin in 2011. Among Georgia's rural hospitals, 55 percent lost
money.

The presumption is that, because people will always need medical care, hospitals
and other health care providers are recession-proof. That couldn't be further
from the truth. Since the nation's economy plummeted in 2008, the number of
uninsured/underinsured people that Georgia hospitals treat has skyrocketed
(nearly 20 percent of Georgians are currently uninsured). At the same time,
budget-crunched state and federal governments have cut Medicare/Medicaid
payments to hospitals.

In 2011, Georgia provided $1.57 billion in uncompensated care, a massive
increase of approximately $270 million in only four years. Add that to the $4.5
billion in Medicare cuts that Georgia hospitals will absorb over a 10-year
period under national health care reform, and you have many communities in
Georgia fearful that their hospitals will be next on the endangered list.

When it comes to advocacy initiatives such as opposing payment cuts to hospitals
that treat Medicaid recipients, or attempts to weaken the state's Certificate of
Need program, the Georgia Hospital Association is fighting not only to preserve
access to vital health care services, but also to protect thousands of jobs in
communities throughout the state. We know that your hospitals, like your local
school and the public utility system, are an indispensable part of your
community infrastructure.

AT THE GHA, we take hospital closures personally and focus on your hospitals'
well-being. Our annual hospital economic impact study serves as a reminder of
the importance of your hospitals to the community, which stretches far beyond
providing health care services. After more than five long years, it appears that
Georgia is finally on the path to economic recovery.

But if we're to experience true prosperity again, we must ensure that your
hospitals are strong and able to serve not only as the guardians of health, but
also as some of your area's most important economic engines.

(The writer is president of the Georgia Hospital Association.)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  March, 1993

                         Vol. 26, No. 3, HOSPLW Pg. 65

LENGTH: 6447 words

TITLE: Evaluation of Medical Staff Using Fiscal Factors: Economic Credentialing

AUTHOR: John D. Blum, Professor of Law & Director, Loyola University Chicago,
Institute for Health Law. B.A., 1970, Canisius College; J.D., 1973, Notre Dame;
M.H.S., 1974, Harvard School of Public Health.

TEXT:

   INTRODUCTION

   Medical staff credentialing is a focal point from which many of the current
changes and pressures in hospital operations can be observed. [n1] Until
recently, credentialing stood at a point where medical quality, managerial
innovation and legal pressures met.  In the current climate of hospital
competition, the credentialing axis now involves economic realities that are
having profound effects on physician evaluation processes.  This Article
considers the most overt influence of economics on hospital medical staff
evaluation: economic credentialing. [n2] The Article focuses on background
developments affecting economic analysis of medical practice, definitional
issues and a review of legal issues, including relevant cases and those dealing
with related developments in the area of exclusive contracting.

   BACKGROUND DEVELOPMENTS

   The roots of economic credentialing lie in developments affecting health care
economics and medical quality assurance.  Economic evaluation of physician
practices is hardly a new phenomenon, as any student of health care
reimbursement or management knows.  In the current climate of acute care
medicine, the realization of a medical staff's importance to the "bottom line"
of profitability is clearly understood. [n3] The economic fate of hospitals may
be affected by management, but physician practice patterns within the
institution clearly control the hospital's fiscal viability.

   Acute care institutions compete to attract and retain physicians on staff
whose practices are both high quality and cost-effective.  In essence, what is
occurring within hospitals is a more recent extension of developments in health
maintenance organization (HMOs) and other forms of managed care where physician
medical practices are routinely subjected to financial scrutiny.  In fact,
continued membership in managed care plans will likely be open only to providers
whose practice profiles demonstrate cost effectiveness. [n4]

   Hospital based quality assurance is undergoing significant change as a result
of a national movement to develop clinical practice parameters. [n5] Created in
1989, the United States Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) has
been charged with developing clinical practice guidelines and outcome measures
to address the problems of widespread variability in medical practice. [n6] The
efforts of AHCPR are complimented by ongoing programs of organized medicine to
identify parameters and benchmarks of appropriate medical care. [n7] The Joint
Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), in turn, has
revised its accreditation standards in the quality area, replacing the focus on
outlier problems with an orientation toward improving the processes of hospital
based care. [n8] Outliers are specific hospitals or physicians who exhibit
practice patterns that significantly deviate from the mean or median pattern for
a particular diagnosis. [n9] The ongoing revolution in quality of care
evaluation is underpinned by expanding data capabilities, which allow for
clinical and financial analysis of physicians on an individual and collective
basis. [n10]

   Of particular relevance to economic credentialing is the development of
physician profiling methods. [n11] A physician profile is a set of aggregate
data that statistically depicts clinical and/or economic factors of a particular
physician's practice over a given period of time.  Individual profiles can be
compared with larger aggregate medical practice data sets to determine whether a
given physician's practice patterns fall within an acceptable range of
performance.  Individual institutions may use the wide variety of new physician
data in constructing profiles to meet the needs of a given facility. [n12]
Clearly in the area of economics, profiles can be constructed which paint
compelling portraits of a physician's financial performance that can be easily
incorporated into credentialing processes.

   To date, profiling in hospitals has been viewed as a tool of quality
assurance, system assessment, and utilization review, but these are all
evaluative processes that impact directly on credentialing. [n13] For profiling
to achieve maximum use there are many data system problems that need to be
addressed.  However, advances in this area are rapid, and collection of
financial information poses fewer problems than the case on the clinical side.

   DEFINITIONAL ISSUES

   In view of the developments in quality assurance and data technology, it
seems reasonable to conclude that the ability to track and analyze medical
practice from an economic perspective may become the practice of health care
providers.  Whether a hospital chooses to use financial data to evaluate
physicians for appointment or reappointment is clearly a question that
transcends technical feasibility.  From an analytical standpoint, the debate
over engaging in economic credentialing is colored partly by how the concept is
characterized.  The very term "economic credentialing" has become somewhat of a
lightening rod for organized medicine. [n14] The process has been represented as
a crass application of baseline financial measures to medical practice, with
financial considerations divorced from the quality of medical care. [n15]

   The California Medical Association (CMA) has taken the lead in developing a
definition of economic credentialing as a process of evaluation that is
concerned only with questions of the "bottom line." [n16] In its report on the
subject, CMA listed a series of practices that it felt should not be used in
credentialing.  These criterion included concurrent DRG review, physician profit
by reimbursement, payor mix, commercial payor profiles, market share, charge
comparisons. [n17] Also included in the CMA list were indicators such as lengths
of stay, ICU days, and excessive testing.  Each of which has clear financial
implications, but could also be considered in a quality of practice evaluation.
[n18] The CMA's position on economic credentialing has been endorsed by American
Medical Association (AMA) and seems to be widely shared in the ranks of
organized medicine. [n19] The Florida Medical Association (FMA) views economic
credentialing as a practice that denies access to hospitals and is violative of
an acute care institution's public health mission. [n20]

   There is, however, an alternative view of economic credentialing.  One can
argue financial analysis is merely a focus of evaluation that can be joined with
more traditional clinical practice evaluations.  In fact, within ongoing quality
assurance (QA) processes, particularly utilization review (UR), fiscal
ramifications stemming from a given physician's behavior are highly relevant.
It has been suggested that new clinical practice guidelines used in QA and UR
incorporate cost benefit considerations into decisions about which medical
treatments should be pursued. [n21]

   Results of QA/UR processes have traditionally been channeled into medical
staff credentialing.  Thus, when economics enters such analyses, financial
factors will ultimately impact on medical staff appointments.  In practice, it
may be difficult to separate out quality of care and pure economics, because
quality and finances tend to be tightly related, particularly in the larger
context of continuous quality improvement.  Moreover, the JCAHO has endorsed
continuous quality improvement as a replacement to the outlier centered quality
assurance reviews that focus on specific hospitals and physicians whose practice
patterns for a particular diagnoses deviate significantly from the mean. [n22]

   While the hospital community has been rather cautious in its approach to
economic credentialing, it seems likely that hospitals will view economic
credentialing as an extension of current physician evaluations.  The American
Health Lawyers Association (AHA) does not use the term economic credentialing,
but rather refers to the analysis of practitioner resource utilization data that
flows out of existing analytical processes. [n23] While most hospitals factor
physician resource utilization into credentialing in varying ways, few have
launched formal programs in economic credentialing. [n24] It seems more likely
that hospitals will back into economic analysis of medical staff members by
developing physician profiling programs for use first as an educational tool.

   Another tentacle of the economic credentialing area arises from the
increasingly common practice of hospitals entering into exclusive contracts with
physician groups.  Under the terms of exclusive arrangements, only physicians
who belong to the group are allowed to practice in a particular hospital.  Such
arrangements are common for hospital based practitioners like anesthesiologists,
radiologists, pathologists, as well as for surgical specialists.  The incentives
for exclusive contracts are both managerial and economic.  Exclusive contracts
guarantee the provision of necessary services and the institution benefits from
the services of cost effective and profitable practitioners.  Medical staffs
often view exclusive contracts as vehicles circumventing credentialing, and it
has been suggested that these arrangements ought to be subjected to medical
staff approval. [n25] Recent focus on exclusive arrangements by the Office of
Inspector General has shown the potential for abuse when hospitals extract
unusually high payments from groups as a contractual quid pro quo. [n26]

   ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING MEETS THE LAW

   Corporate Duty to Credential

   By virtue of tradition, state law, [n27] and JCAHO accreditation standards,
[n28] credentialing has been a process delegated by the hospital corporation to
the medical staff.  Through its bylaws, a medical staff establishes the
processes of appointment and reappointment and privilege delineation. [n29]
While the hospital board has final authority over appointments, this authority
is rarely exercised in ways which conflict with staff recommendations.  Economic
credentialing challenges the hands-off approach to credentialing followed by
most boards because it is a process conducted or mandated by the hospital board.
Use of economic credentialing raises questions about whether it is a legally
appropriate exercise of board power, a necessary board function, an abuse of
board power, an infringement on the self governing medical staff and a possible
violation of antitrust law.

   Any review of hospital law reveals the fact that the hospital corporation has
a legal duty to monitor the quality of medical care. [n30] Inherent in this duty
is a corporate responsibility to appoint only qualified physicians to a medical
staff and to continue to monitor the performance of staff members to insure the
maintenance of an acceptable level of practice. [n31] This duty is universal to
public and private acute care facilities; and, although it may have been created
by different areas of law, it represents a fundamental obligation.  From the
1965 decision of Darling v. Charleston Community Hospital [n32] to more recent
decisions in Florida [n33] and Pennsylvania, [n34] the courts have charged
institutions with a corporate duty in credentialing. [n35] In turn, regulation
has adopted the quality mandate and made it a hospital obligation. [n36]

   While it is difficult to dispute a hospital's duty in credentialing, the
question is whether economic credentialing falls within the ambit of the quality
mandate.  In determining whether fiscal analysis of physician practice
transcends the boundaries of the quality obligation the definition of economic
credentialing becomes a central issue.  If economic credentialing is viewed as
an extension of traditional quality of care analyses, then it would appear to be
a process that logically fits within the broader quality duty.  Questions
flowing from economic credentialing as quality analysis center around whether a
board is required to delegate such review to the medical staff or perform this
type of analysis independently.

   If one follows the definition posited by organized medicine, economic
analysis is only focused on the bottom line of profitability.  However, it could
be argued that economic credentialing is separate from quality review and is not
encompassed by this duty.  Thus, the hospital that engages in economic
credentialing is entering into a physician evaluation process which exceeds the
current legal mandates for appointment and reappointment.  However, even if
economic credentialing does not flow from the quality mandate, it does not
necessarily make it an illegal exercise of corporate power.

   State Law and Hospital Credentialing

   In turning to the law for guidance, one finds most states adopted the medical
staff self governing model. [n37] For example, under Illinois laws hospitals are
required to have organized medical staffs with written bylaws, rules and
regulations. [n38] Illinois requires medical staffs to have written policies
regarding credentialing; clearly the implication of the state law is that the
process of appointment, reappointment, and privilege delineation is one that
falls within the scope of the medical staff. [n39] Other state laws may be even
more explicit than that of Illinois in requiring medical staff responsibility
for credentialing. [n40] Indeed, the JCAHO accreditation manual requires that
hospitals have self governing medical staff responsible for credentialing
matters. [n41]

   The fact that the medical staff is typically delegated the task of
credentialing does not, however, answer the question of whether or not a board
can intervene in this process.  Quite clearly, the hospital board has the final
authority for credentialing decisions, and, as such, it is reasonable for a
board to have formal input, either during or at the end of the process.  State
laws provide hospital boards with broad authority for approving medical staff
operations, beyond credentialing issues. [n42]

   Conceivably, a hospital board could mandate a medical staff to adopt certain
criteria in its appointment and reappointment evaluations.  Using Illinois law
as an example, there is no language in current regulations limiting the
credentialing process to a quality review evaluation. [n43] Under the standards
of JCAHO, a stronger argument may be offered that the board should not directly
interfere with credentialing.  But such a conclusion places the governing entity
in the position of having final authority and liability for a process it does
not control. [n44] As fiduciaries, one could argue that boards have an
obligation to protect the institution's fiscal viability and should take
corrective action against physicians whose practices are adversely impacting the
hospital's financial position. [n45]

   Case Law and Economic Credentialing

   In looking at case law on economic credentialing, the breadth of the
concept's definition will determine the volume of case law that can be
identified.  Predictably, the broader the concept is defined, the more abundant
the case law will be.  When economic credentialing is viewed in a more limited
way, there is a paucity of case law on which to draw.

   Viewing economic credentialing broadly, there are numerous hospital medical
staff physician disputes that have been litigated which combine both quality and
cost considerations. [n46] Case law demonstrates many instances in which
physicians' credentials are adversely affected solely as a result of clinical
quality considerations. [n47] But often in credentialing cases centering on
issues of quality assurance, there are underlying economic factors. [n48] The
fact is, poor quality has a direct impact on hospital financial concerns: from
obvious problems of malpractice and patient endangerment; to denial of payment
and loss of patient volume; to an ultimate reduction in competitiveness.
Certainly, a credible argument can be made that economic issues are inherent in
medical utilization problems.

   A good example of a case about quality with strong economic ramifications is
Knapp v. Palos Community Hospital. [n49] In Knapp, a group of physicians
challenged the curtailment of their medical staff privileges on multiple legal
grounds.  The hospital based its action against the physicians on quality
assurance reviews which revealed serious utilization problems.  Specifically,
medical reviews uncovered a pattern of both inappropriate utilization and over
utilization of lung scans and medications, excessive use of certain diagnoses,
and improper testing and treatment. [n50] While the areas noted raised major
quality problems, the hospital was also concerned because the plaintiff
physicians' costs were thirty-one percent higher than those of other staff
members. [n51] The cost problems clearly mirrored quality of care difficulties,
however, if poor practices did not affect costs, the hospital would not have
been as motivated to take action.

   In a federal antitrust action, Friedman v. Delaware County Memorial Hospital,
[n52] the plaintiff physician was excluded from the staff for over-utilizing
bronchoscopes and for refusing to adhere to the recommendations of the
hospital's utilization review committee.  In an exhaustive discussion of the
facts, the federal district court never directly mentioned the cost implications
of the plaintiff's behavior.  The hospital formed a special medical staff
endoscopy committee for the purpose of reviewing the plaintiff.  In so doing,
the institution was responding, in part, to audit deficiencies raised by Blue
Cross of Greater Philadelphia. [n53] Blue Cross had concluded the physician was
performing an unnecessarily high number of unjustified bronchoscopes.  Clearly
the conclusions of Blue Cross have direct economic implications in that third
parties will not reimburse for unnecessary procedures.  Unquestionably, the
physician's quality problems with bronchoscopes had very direct financial
ramifications for the hospital.

   Economic Credentialing and Exclusive Contracting

   The narrower definition of economic credentialing as a "bottom line" only
process uncovers few cases directly on point, but a number of cases in the
exclusive contract area can be reviewed that have been pulled into the economic
credentialing orbit.  In the 1982 New Jersey case of Edelman v. JFK Hospital,
[n54] a lower court dealt with a physician's challenge to his denial of
reappointment.  The physician's privileges at JFK Hospital were terminated
because of a pattern of extensive and uncorrectable over-utilization that
resulted in significant payment denials.  The court, in validating the action of
the hospital board, did not reject the notion that a physician may be excluded
from a medical staff for financial reasons. [n55] The physician's quality
problems, while inherent in the case, were never discussed by the court.
Although, this opinion has been labeled an economic credentialing decision, the
fact is that it was a fairly typical medical staff-hospital dispute, based on a
procedural due process challenge.  The issue of the physician's qualifications
flows from utilization problems that were uncovered by medical staff committee
reviews.  The concept of economic credentialing was not known in 1982 as a
distinct basis for decision making about reappointments.  This case represents
another situation where cost and quality are mixed together, but unlike the
other cases previously noted, the cost issues became the primary focal point of
adjudication.

   The first reporting of a pure economic credentialing decision in which the
concept was explicitly discussed by a court occurred in 1992. [n56] In the
Florida case of Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center, [n57]
the plaintiff challenged the hospital's decision not to grant him cardiac
surgical privileges.  The plaintiff, a cardiac surgeon, was under contract as
the director of an open heart surgical program at a proprietary hospital in
competition with Tallahassee Memorial (TMRMC).  The board of TMRMC denied his
application for cardiac privileges, although it did grant him general surgical
privileges.  The basis for the denial rested on a perceived economic conflict of
interest and not on quality grounds.

   The court's analysis rested on two key points. [n58] First, the court
emphasized the importance that the physician was an applicant for privileges and
not a member of the medical staff.  Had the plaintiff belonged to the medical
staff, the court felt a contractual right would have been created based on staff
bylaws, and, as such, reduction of privileges would need to occur under the
dictates of those bylaws.  While the court did not discuss the rather illusive
concept of property rights in the context of staff privileges, property rights
claims have been invoked in the medical staff context as a limitation on
arbitrary actions against individual staff members.

   The second point of analysis for the Rosenblum court focused on Florida
statutory law. [n59] Section 395.011(5) specifies criteria for eligibility for
medical staff membership to be used by the governing board. [n60] After listing
standard criteria the Florida law includes the statement, "and by such other
elements as may be determined by the governing board." [n61] It was the court's
opinion that other elements legitimately included the concept of economic
credentialing.  The court reasoned that costs, independent of quality, were
valid issues for a governing board to take into consideration in making
privilege determinations. [n62]

   The Rosenblum opinion was tempered by discussion because of the need to
examine economic factors without caprice or arbitrariness.  The court felt that
trying to determine how the plaintiff would behave as a member of the TMRHC
staff was purely speculative, and not a valid reason for denial of cardiac
privileges. [n63] The fact, however, that he had contractual responsibilities to
run a competing heart program was determined to be a legitimate consideration,
particularly in view of the competitive nature of the hospital business.

   While Rosenblum is the best example of an economic credentialing case, it
should be cautiously interpreted.  The decision was a lower court opinion [n64]
resting on a statute [n65] granting hospital boards wide authority, but which
was likely drafted without consideration of economic credentialing.  The case
was appealed by the plaintiff but settled when the hospital acquiesced and
granted him cardiac surgical privileges once the proprietary hospital contract
lapsed. [n66] Still the case has received widespread attention because it is, to
date, the only opinion directly discussing economic credentialing.  Rosenblum
may not have precedential value, but it does provide some guidance as to how
other courts might interpret a board's role under wide grants of statutory
authority.

   Challenges to Institutions Economic Motive

   Recently, a New York federal court jury in the case of Purgess v. Sharrock
[n67] awarded an anesthesiologist $ 9.2 million in damages for loss of hospital
privileges and defamation.  The plaintiff's contract and privileges were
terminated without a hearing because he only had provisional privileges and the
hospital by-laws did not provide for a hearing in such a case.  The bulk of the
plaintiff's case was based on antitrust challenges which were dismissed, but
other allegations including breach of contract and defamation went to trial.
The hospital argued that its actions were taken for quality reasons.  The
plaintiff, on the other hand, presented evidence that his clinical outcomes were
superior to his colleagues, and that the underlying motivation for exclusion was
his challenge of the hospital's billing and case assignment practices.  Evidence
at trial demonstrated that the hospital had submitted incorrect reports on the
plaintiff to the state of New York.

   The plaintiff won a jury verdict of $ 700,000 for breach of contract, $ 4.6
million in punitive damages and $ 3.5 million for defamation. [n68] The jury
felt that the plaintiff should have had a medical staff hearing even if the
bylaws did not clearly require it at the time.  While the case is likely to be
appealed, it raises another aspect of economic credentialing: where economic
credentialing is viewed as inappropriate it may be used as an affirmative
allegation by a plaintiff physician to demonstrate impropriety in hospital
procedure.  The plaintiff in this case was not excluded for reasons based on a
systematic economic practice analysis, but instead for questioning hospital
business arrangements.  The case demonstrated the difficulty in making staffing
decisions on nonquality grounds.  In future cases involving economic
credentialing, physicians will likely argue they were not removed from a medical
staff for quality reasons, but rather inappropriate economic factors.  Hospitals
that choose to use economic analyses will need to incorporate that policy into
medical staff and corporate bylaw provisions, and delineate what specific
economic measures will be used.  A failure to be explicit about economic
credentialing will result in allegations that such analysis is an inappropriate
basis for exclusion. [n69]

   Organized medical groups characterize economic credentialing in a way that
also includes exclusive contractual arrangements and decisions to close medical
staffs or particular departments. [n70] The underlying notion in such
characterizations is that economic credentialing entails any hospital practice
which excludes physicians from the medical staff for business reasons and is
made outside of medical staff procedures.  Clearly hospitals close medical staff
departments and enter into exclusive arrangements with physician groups for a
variety of reasons, but it is fair to conclude that business considerations are
primary ones in such decisions.

   A number of legal challenges have been brought by physicians who have lost
exclusive contracts, or have been locked out of a particular hospital as a
result of an exclusive arrangement. [n71] In addition, cases exist in which a
hospital decision to close membership of the medical staff in general or in a
particular department, has been the subject of litigation. [n72] However, courts
rarely second guess decisions of hospital boards, and have upheld exclusive
contracts and closure decisions as legitimate exercises of board power. [n73]
Most state [n74] laws are broad enough to allow the governing entity to make
responsible business decisions, and, provided such decisions are not arbitrary
or discriminatory, they will be upheld. [n75]

   Problems With Exclusive Contracts

   Problems occur in the exclusive contracting area when the existence of an
exclusive contract is not linked to a physician's medical staff privileges.
[n76] Two recent cases, Lewisburg Community Hospital v. Alfredson [n77] and
Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Hospital Center, [n78] demonstrate
difficulties hospitals may encounter when exclusive contracts and privileges are
not tied together.  In Alfredson, the Tennessee Supreme Court ruled that
termination of an exclusive contract for radiological services did not result in
automatic loss of medical staff privileges, but the medical staff bylaw fair
hearing procedures had to be invoked. [n79] The contract did not link medical
staff privileges to the hospital's continued existence.  The court rejected the
hospital argument that the plaintiff was not harmed because he still retained
medical staff membership; because without radiological privileges, staff
membership was meaningless.

   In Bilek, the plaintiff physician was barred from exercising his clinical
privileges in therapeutic radiology as a result of the hospital entering into an
exclusive contract for this service with another physician. [n80] The contract
was structured to allow the contracting physician total control over radiation
therapy services including hiring other physicians.  The plaintiff's request for
a hearing on his loss of privileges was denied by the hospital, which took the
position that such a process would be meaningless in view of the institution's
commitment to the exclusive arrangement.

   The Bilek court held that the hospital's exclusive contract for radiological
services constituted a constructive revocation of the plaintiff's privileges.
According to the court, privileges constitute a property interest that cannot be
denied without due process. [n81] Further, the court ruled that the medical
staff bylaws constitute a contract with the plaintiff; and, as such, the
dictates of the bylaws must be followed in removal of privileges.  By revoking
the physician's privileges through an exclusive agreement, the hospital was in
breach of contract with the plaintiff.  According to the court, Florida law
requires staff privileges to be handled with requisite fairness and due process;
and staff privileges are not to be denied summarily through contracting
practices. [n82]

   It is important to note that in Bilek the court did not find exclusive
contracts invalid per se; nor did the court find invalid the specific agreement
the hospital entered into with another radiologist.  The problem was the
hospital's use of a contract as an end run around the medical staff bylaws.  The
situation would have been different had the plaintiff been under contract with
the hospital to provide therapeutic radiological services, and such a contract
linked continuation of the contract to continuation of clinical privileges.
Short of such express linkages, hospitals must follow the fair hearing
procedures in their medical staff bylaws.  What will prove interesting will be
any future case in which a hospital attempts to justify terminating the clinical
privileges of an exclusive contracting physician based upon failure to live up
to the business expectations of a given contract.

   Fraud and Abuse Issues

   It has also been suggested that economic credentialing is violative of the
Medicare Fraud and Abuse provisions. [n83] If fraud and abuse prohibitions are
really as broad as some have argued the very notion of utilization review, which
deals in part with cost effectiveness, may not be used as a factor in
credentialing decisions.  The argument is made that certain economic criteria,
specifically those involving minimum utilization requirements, are in fact a
form of requesting referrals or payment in exchange for privileges, and, as
such, violate the fraud and abuse law. [n84] Such an argument is based on a very
narrow construct of economic credentialing as a type of quota system, and fails
to recognize the scope of possible economic evaluation measures and processes
that will be available to assess medical practice.  More than likely economic
credentialing will be incorporated into a broader physician evaluation program
if action is taken based on economic analysis, it will be in conjunction with
adverse findings in clinical practice as well.  Institutions that are interested
in economic credentialing should be able to develop programs using a wide range
of economic measures that do not violate fraud and abuse statutes.

   Antitrust Issues

   In a very broad sense, medical staff antitrust cases [n85] are highly germane
when considering the subject of economic credentialing.  Concerted attempts to
block access to medical staff membership have strong economic motivations
underlying them.  At the heart of the medical staff antitrust challenge is an
allegation that the plaintiff physician is deliberately being excluded to
enhance the economic position of competing physicians. [n86]

   While medical staff antitrust cases could be classified as a form of economic
credentialing, the process of applying economic criteria to medical staff
appointments and reappointments is not necessarily violative of antitrust laws.
In the abstract, a scenario could be constructed in which a medical staff or
hospital used economic criteria as a way to inappropriately exclude a physician
from staff membership for competitive reasons.  Inappropriate use of economic
criteria could rise to the level of an illegal restraint of trade, a conspiracy,
a group boycott, or monopoly, and, as such, may constitute a violation of
sections 1 or 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act. [n87]

   Constructing an antitrust case in the medical staff context is not easily
done.  Section 1 violations are either classified as a per se [n88] or rule of
reason violation, [n89] and in the medical staff arena the requisite elements
for the more serious per se violation are generally not present. [n90] The legal
trend in the courts demonstrates a growing reluctance to find a per se
violation, particularly where the alleged anticompetitive behavior can be
justified on a quality of care basis. [n91]

   Under the more typically used rule of reason analysis, several factors must
be demonstrated. [n92] These include the existence of a conspiracy, [n93] the
impacts of the conspiracy on the relevant market, [n94] and the lack of an
appropriate rationale for discriminating against the physician in question.
[n95] The issue of conspiracy is complicated by the uncertainty of whether a
court will recognize a hospital and its medical staff as economically distinct
entities. [n96] In some situations, courts have recognized the medical staff as
a combination of individuals with disparate interests, [n97] and, thus, capable
of conspiring among itself.  However, the latter view is not firmly established.
[n98]

   If an economic credentialing challenge is evaluated under a rule of reason
analysis, defendants would more than likely argue that use of such criteria is
justified by operational efficiency requirements.  Legitimate business reasons
are valid grounds for defense of practices that may result in economic injury to
certain individuals. [n99] Institutions that adopt economic criteria for
assessment of physicians at the appointment and reappointment stages could make
convincing arguments that they did so for legitimate business interests.  But if
economic guidelines used in credentialing do not meet legitimate institutional
objectives, they may be viewed as suspect, and as a possible subterfuge for
anticompetitive behavior.

   If a hospital uses economic criteria that can be classified as arbitrary,
potential antitrust problems may arise.  In Friedman v. Delaware County Memorial
Hospital, [n100] a federal court was confronted with an antitrust challenge that
called into question the scientific merits of certain medical criteria.  While
the Friedman court found the criteria valid, an opposite conclusion would have
raised questions about appropriate use, which would clearly diminish a defense
that the criteria in question were legitimate and that the economic injury it
caused could be tolerated.  Proof that a particular economic standard lacked
validity and was arbitrarily or inappropriately applied could raise legitimate
concerns about improper motives and could lead to an antitrust challenge.
Problems with criteria do not, however, in and of themselves, result in
antitrust violations, for clearly the requisite elements of a rule of reason
violation must be established.

   CONCLUSION

   The battle over economic credentialing is being waged outside the courts in
the political arena by organized medicine.  The CMA, an original opponent of
economic credentialing, entered into a joint agreement with the California
Hospital Association (CHA) opposing the practice. [n101] The joint CMA/CHA
resolution rejects the use of economic criteria in appointment or reappointment
unrelated to clinical qualifications and quality.  Medical societies in New
York, Florida and South Carolina have all gone on record opposing economic
credentialing, along with the AMA. [n102]

   Whether organized medicine can prevent the adoption of economic credentialing
programs is unclear because the concept is broad and illusive, and, in many
respects, is part of a larger trend toward ensuring economic efficiency in
health care.  To date, only one national study has been conducted on the use of
physician economic factors in credentialing. [n103] The study surveyed close to
two thousand hospital medical chiefs of staff and found that sixty percent of
hospitals use economic data such as patient charges per admission and average
lengths of stay for appointment and reappointment evaluations. [n104] The
results of the survey indicate that economic analysis is being used in various
physician evaluation processes within hospitals, and some of these evaluations
are being channeled into credentialing. [n105]

   Economic analysis of physician practices occurs widely in managed care and in
various ambulatory settings.  What makes economic credentialing in hospitals
volatile is not so much legal concerns as the political ones.  If a medical
staff voluntarily initiates an economic review within credentialing, it is
unlikely to generate as much controversy as a similar initiative coming from
trustees or administration.  The fact that exclusive contracts and decisions to
close staff or departmental membership have been pulled into the economic
credentialing debate reinforces the overriding issue of control over medical
staffing within the hospital. [n106]

   Credentialing and other medical staff issues have until recently been the
sole purview of physicians, but competition among hospitals has made staff
composition an important strategic tool in the management of hospitals.
Business realities have motivated decisions about who provides medical services
and to a certain extent economic credentialing is representative of ongoing
fiscal strategies.  Even if the overt practice of economic credentialing is
stymied, the notion that physicians will be judged solely on the basis of
clinical quality is unrealistic in the current climate of health care.  The
challenge for health care management and medical practitioners is to devise
economic criteria for analyzing medical practice that are verifiable, accurate
and equitable, and do not compromise patient care.  Hospital administrators,
trustees and medical staffs will need to reach consensus about the appropriate
uses of economic evaluation of medical practices.  However, until such consensus
is achieved, the issue will likely be the subject of ongoing debates.

REFERENCE: [n1.] See John D. Blum, Hospital-Medical Staff Relations in the Face
of Shifting Institutional Business Strategies: A Legal Analysis, 14 PUGET SOUND
L. REV. 561 (1991).

   [n2.] Id. at 583-89.

   [n3.] Stephen M. Shortell et al., Economic Regulation and Hospital Behavior:
The Effects on Medical Staff Organization and Hospital-Physician Relationships,
20 Health Services Res. No. 6 (Dec. 1985).

   [n4.] Physician Manager, DC Blues to Use Provider Profiling to Cut MDs, 3
PHYSICIAN MANAGER 12 (1992).

   [n5.] Pamela Taulbee, Outcomes Management: Buying Values and Cutting Costs,
BUS. & HEALTH, Mar. 1991, at 28; Charles Havighurst, Practice Guidelines for
Medical Care: The Policy Rationale, 34 ST. LOUIS U. L.J. 777 (1990).

   [n6.] 42 U.S.C. § 299 (Supp. III 1991).

   [n7.] John T. Kelly, M.D. & James Swartwout, Development of Practice
Parameters by Physician Organizations, 16 QUALITY REV. BULLETIN 54 (1990).

   [n8.] Dennis O'Leary, M.D., CQI - A Step Beyond QA, 17 QUALITY REV. BULLETIN
4 (1991).

   [n9.] AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, MEASURING MEDICAL PRACTICE at 36 (1987).

   [n10.] Dennis L. Bush, Quality Measurement Through Statistics, Vol. 13, No. 5
J. OF QUALITY ASSURANCE 40 (Sept./Oct 1991).

   [n11.] See Roz Diane Lasker, et al., Realizing the Potential of Profiling,
Paper presented at the Physician Payment Review Commission's Conference on
Profiling (Jan. 15, 1992) (on file with the Health Law Institute).

   [n12.] Id.

   [n13.] John D. Blum, Hospitals, New Medical Practice Guidelines, CQI and
Potential Liability Outcomes, 36 ST. LOUIS U. L.J. 913, 930 (1992).

   [n14.] Brian McCormick, Is Economic Credentialing Really Thriving, AM. MED.
NEWS, Dec. 14, 1992, at 9-10.

   [n15.] Denise Andresen, Economic Credentialing: Profitability Versus Quality,
FMA TODAY (Sept./Oct. 1992).

   [n16.] John Rotenberg, M.D., Task Force on Exclusive Contracting and Economic
Credentialing's Report to the Council, (1990) (on file with the Health Law
Institute).

   [n17.] Id.

   [n18.] Id.

   [n19.] See McCormick, supra note 14, at 9-10.

   [n20.] Letter from Jeffrey L. Cohen, Associate General Counsel Florida
Medical Association, to Wanda Carter, Florida House of Representatives (Sept. 8,
1992) (on file with the Health Law Institute) [hereinafter Cohen Letter].

   [n21.] Report on Medical Guidelines and Outcomes Research, Eddy: Cost Must be
Considered in Guidelines Development, 2 RMGs OR (Feb. 15, 1991).

   [n22.] See O'Leary, supra note 8.

   [n23.] AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION, PROPOSED AD HOC COMMITTEE ON
APPROPRIATE USE OF PRACTITIONER RESOURCE UTILIZATION DATA, (1992).

   [n24.] Christina Kent, Case Study: De Graf Memorial Hospital: A Case Study on
Credentialing, Vol. 2, No. 3 REPORT ON MEDICAL GUIDELINES AND CLINICAL OUTCOMES
RESEARCH 10 (1991).

   [n25.] See Cohen Letter, supra note 20; Mary J. Koska, Review Exclusive
Contracts in Light of Recent Challenges, 66 HOSPS., Apr. 20, 1992, at 38.

   [n26.] Linda Perry, Overpriced Billing Services May Break Anti-Kickback Laws,
Vol. 20, No. 30 MOD. HEALTHCARE 3, July 30, 1990.

   [n27.] See, e.g., N.C. GEN. STAT. § 131E-76 (1992).

   [n28.] JCAHO, ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS § MS. 3 (1993).

   [n29.] See, e.g., Id. § MS. 4.1.

   [n30.] See Horty, Springer & Mattern, Ltd. HOSPITAL LAW:
NEGLIGENCE-LIABILITY, ch. 1 & 2 (1985).

   [n31.] See, e.g., Shelton v. Morehead Memorial Hosp., 347 S.E.2d 824 (N.C.
1986).

   [n32.] 211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill. 1965).

   [n33.] Insinga v. LaBelle, 543 So. 2d 209 (Fla. 1989).

   [n34.] Thompson v. Waso Hosp., 535 A.2d 1177 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1988).

   [n34.] 211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill. 1965); 535 A.2d 1177 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1988); 543
So. 2d 209 (Fla. 1989).

   [n35.] See, e.g., ALA. CODE § 22-21-8 (1992).

   [n36.] See, e.g., CAL. HEALTH & SAFETY CODE § 32128 (Deering 1993).

   [n37.] 77 ILL. ADMIN. CODE, tit. 1, § 250.310 (1992).

   [n38.] Id.

   [n39.] See, e.g., MICH. STAT. ANN. § 330.1245 (Callaghan 1991).

   [n40.] JCAHO, ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS, § MS. 4.1.2 (1993).

   [n41.] 77 ILL. ADMIN. CODE, tit. 1, § 250.210 (1992).

   [n42.] See supra notes 38 and 42 and accompanying text.

   [n43.] John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing: A New Twist in Hospital
Appraisal Processes, 12 J. LEGAL MED. 427, 463-466 (1991).

   [n44.] Id.

   [n45.] See infra notes 47-53 and accompanying text.

   [n46.] See Fahey v. Holy Family Hosp., 336 N.E.2d 309 (Ill. App. 1975).

   [n47.] Knapp v. Palos Community Hosp., 465 N.E.2d 554 (Ill. 1984).

   [n48.] Id.

   [n49.] Id. at 560.

   [n50.] Id.

   [n51.] 672 F. Supp. 171 (E.D. Pa. 1987).

   [n52.] Id. at 183.

   [n53.] No. C-2104-08 (N.J. Super. 1982) cert. denied, 475 A.2d 585 (N.J. Sup.
Ct. 1984).

   [n54.] Id.

   [n55.] Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-589
(Fla. Cir. 1992) (on file with author) [hereinafter Rosenblum].

   [n56.] Id.

   [n57.] Id.

   [n58.] Id.

   [n59.] FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.011(5) (1993).

   [n60.] Id.

   [n61.] Rosenblum, supra note 56.

   [n62.] Id.

   [n63.] Id.

   [n64.] FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.011(5).

   [n65.] Tallahassee Physicians Caught in Battle Over Economic Credentialing,
FMA TODAY, Sept. 10, 1992.

   [n66.] Purgess v. Sharrock, 806 F. Supp. 1102 (S.D.N.Y. 1992).

   [n67.] See McCormick, supra note 14, at 9.

   [n68.] Id.

   [n69.] See Cohen Letter, supra note 20.

   [n70.] See, e.g., Johnson v. Greater Southeast Community Hosp. Corp., 943
F.2d 561 (D.C. Cir. 1991).

   [n71.] See, e.g., Kramer v. Kent Gen. Hosp., 1992 WL 91130 (Del. Super. Feb.
28, 1992).

   [n72.] Id. at *6.

   [n73.] See, e.g., Dattilo v. Tucson Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700, 703 (Ark.
1975).

   [n74.] See Blum, supra note 44.

   [n75.] See Id.

   [n76.] 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).

   [n77.] No. 9L973 (Fla. Cir. Ct.) (on file with the author).

   [n78.] 805 S.W.2d 761.

   [n79.] No. 9L973 (Fla. Cir. Ct.) (on file with the author).

   [n80.] Id.

   [n81.] Id.

   [n82.] Katherine Benesche, Economic Credentialing and the Fraud and Abuse
Caveat, 6 MEDICAL STAFF COUNSELOR 27 (Fall 1992); 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-76 (1988)
amended by Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-508, §
4161(a)(4), 104 Stat. 1388, 1389-94 (1990).

   [n83.] Id.

   [n84.] See, e.g., Diane Ruder, Antitrust and the Credentialing and
Decredentialing of Physician, 19 N. KY L. REV. 351 (1992) (examines the Supreme
Court's application of the antitrust doctrine to the peer review process and the
credentialing and decredentialing of physicians).

   [n85.] See, e.g., Summit Health, Ltd. v. Pinhas, 111 S. Ct. 1842, 1844
(1991).

   [n86.] 15 U.S.C. §§ 1, 2 (1991).

   [n87.] See, e.g., Arizona v. Maricopa Cty. Medical Soc'y, 457 U.S. 332, 355
(1982).

   [n88.] See, e.g., Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984).

   [n89.] James F. Blumstein & Frank A. Sloan, Antitrust and Hospital Peer
Review, LAW & CONTEMP. PROBS., Spring 1988, 7.

   [n90.] Id. at 53-56.

   [n91.] Id. at 54.

   [n92.] Id. at 53.

   [n93.] Id. at 54-56.

   [n94.] Id. at 29-30.

   [n95.] Id. at 39-53.

   [n96.] Id. at 43 (citing Arizona v. Maricopa Cty. Medical Soc'y, 457 U.S. 332
(1982)).

   [n97.] Id. at 50 (citing Weiss v. York Hosp., 745 F.2d 786 (3rd. Cir. 1989)).

   [n98.] See Hassan v. Independent Practice Associates, 698 F. Supp. 679 (E.D.
Mich. 1988).

   [n99.] 672 F. Supp. 171 (E.D. Pa. 1987), aff'd 849 F.2d 600 (3rd. Cir. 1988).

   [n100.] California Medical Association, California Association of Hospitals
and Health Systems, Joint Statement on Economic Credentialing and Exclusive
Contracting (on file with the Author).

   [n101.] See Andersen, supra note 15.

   [n102.] Loyola University Chicago, Institute for Health Law, Hospital-Medical
Staff Survey 1992, (on file with Loyola University-Chicago).

   [n103.] Id.

   [n104.] Id.

   [n105.] For a recent example of how hospital and medical staffs are locked in
battles over control see BNA HEALTH REPORTER, AMA Pledges to Fight Hospitals'
Attempt to Force Physicians to Become Employees (St. Luke's Radiologists v.
Metro Health St. Luke's Medical Center) 1 HEALTH REP. No. 14, at 430 (Dec. 31,
1992). #LS930830SP# #LS930902LEufishmx#  #LS931105SP# #LS931105LEuhollsj#


                               7 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Albany Herald (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 24, 2017 Monday

Phoebe Putney Health System generates $1.2 billion economic impact in 2015

BYLINE: Jennifer Parks, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1009 words


April 24--ALBANY -- Phoebe Putney Health System generated more than $1.2 billion
in revenue for the economy in 2015, a recent report by the Georgia Hospital
Association, the state's largest hospital trade association, says.

The report also found that, during the same period, the health system provided
more than $56 million in community benefit while supporting more than 8,000
full-time jobs throughout Southwest Georgia and across the state.

"Our top priority at Phoebe is, and always will be, to offer the best possible
health care to everyone in Southwest Georgia who needs treatment, regardless of
their ability to pay," Phoebe President and CEO Joel Wernick said. "As we
continue to provide world class care that keeps patients right here at home for
specialized treatment, we are proud that Phoebe is our region's largest employer
and remains a major economic engine for our part of the state."

The report revealed that PPHS had direct expenditures of over $545 million in
2015. When combined with the economic multiplier developed by the U.S.
Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total economic impact
of those expenditures was more than $1.2 billion.

"These are challenging and uncertain times in health care, but we believe our
history of wise fiscal management and our strategic planning for the future will
help us ensure people throughout our region will have access to the highest
quality health care," Wernick said.

Phoebe has partnered with other entities, such as Grady EMS, in providing
critical care and non-emergent transport between Phoebe's facilities and others.

The PPHS hospitals included in the report are Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital,
Phoebe Sumter Medical Center, Phoebe Worth Medical Center and Southwest Georgia
Regional Medical Center. Below is the economic impact each of the hospitals
generated in 2015 as reported by GHA:

-- Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital, located in Albany, generated a total
economic impact of more than $1 billion on $472 million in direct expenditures.
The hospital supported 6,802 full-time jobs while also providing $45 million in
community benefits, including charity and uncompensated care.

-- Phoebe Sumter Medical Center in Americus generated a total economic impact of
more than $137 million on $59.9 million in direct expenditures. The hospital
supported 905 full-time jobs while also providing over $8.2 million in community
benefits, including charity and uncompensated care.

-- Phoebe Worth Medical Center in Sylvester generated a total economic impact of
$18 million on $7.8 million in direct expenditures. The hospital supported 323
full-time jobs while also providing more than $2 million in community benefits,
including charity and uncompensated care.

-- Southwest Georgia Regional Medical Center, located in Cuthbert and managed by
Phoebe, generated a total economic impact of over $13 million on $5.6 million in
direct expenditures. The hospital supported 342 full-time jobs while also
providing approximately $1.1 million in community benefits.

While Georgia hospitals are known for taking care of the state's more than 10
million residents, they also play a role in bolstering Georgia's economic health
by pumping nearly $47.8 billion into the state's economy in 2015, the GHA report
said.

The report also revealed that hospitals supplied more than 141,000 full-time
jobs and indirectly created nearly 344,000 jobs in Georgia.

"Georgia hospitals are making a positive difference in people's lives, both at
the bedside and in their communities economically," said GHA President and CEO
Earl Rogers. "In communities throughout the state, hospitals are among the
largest employers and are a key component of the infrastructure necessary to
attract business to those areas."

Many Georgia hospitals continue to face a wide array of financial challenges
that have resulted in reduced services and employee cutbacks. Since the
beginning of 2013, six Georgia hospitals have closed, many of them in rural
areas.

The GHA study said Georgia hospitals absorbed more than $1.74 billion in costs
for care that was delivered but not paid for in 2015.

"Throughout Georgia, hospitals are the only source of medical care for most
uninsured residents," Rogers said. "Add to that a growing number of residents
who actually have insurance but cannot pay their high insurance deductibles, and
hospitals end up absorbing even more losses. These dynamics are not sustainable
long term."

A recent study by the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured said that
Georgia had the second highest percentage of uninsured residents in the country
at 14 percent in 2015. Officials said Medicaid pays Georgia hospitals, on
average, about 87 percent of actual costs, meaning hospitals lose 13 cents on
every dollar spent treating a Medicaid recipient.

"The financial pressure that Georgia hospitals face is greater than ever,"
Rogers said. "Hospitals have a commitment to be there for the their communities
24 hours a day, seven days a week, but for many, just remaining financially
viable is a challenge. When hospitals suffer financially, access to care and
services for all Georgians is at risk."

The output multiplier considers the ripple effect of direct hospital
expenditures on other sectors of the economy, such as medical supplies, durable
medical equipment and pharmaceuticals. Economic multipliers are used to model
the resulting impact of a change in one industry on the "circular flow" of
spending within an economy as a whole.

Stay Informed

Success! An email has been sent with a link to confirm list signup.

Error! There was an error processing your request.

Breaking News Alerts

Get Breaking News alerts from the Albany Herald delivered to your email.

Local Newsletter

Get the Local News headlines from the Albany Herald delivered daily to your
email.

Sports Newsletter

Get the Sports headlines from the Albany Herald delivered daily to your email.

Manage your lists

___ (c)2017 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170424-1AH-Phoebe-Putney-Health-System-generates-1.2-billion-economic
-impact-in-2015-0424-20170424

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                        Copyright 2017 The Albany Herald


                               8 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            November 2, 2012 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

BYLINE: Jim Ware | Jim.Ware@StarNewsOnline.com

SECTION: Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 718 words


he economic impact of New Hanover Regional Medical Center reaches far beyond New
Hanover and its adjoining counties, Brunswick and Pender, according to a study
conducted by UNCW for the hospital.

The study shows the hospital will support $1.34 billion in economic activity
this year, when the impacts of construction, operations and patient visitor
spending are combined. That amounts to 11.1 percent of the estimated total
economic activity for the three-county statistical area.

The impact on the seven-county region that additionally includes Bladen,
Columbus, Duplin, and Onslow counties is $1.95 billion, or 7.4 percent of the
total economic activity in the region, according to the study.

"I think we're the best investment in town because, for zero taxpayer dollars,
they're getting $2 billion worth of economic benefit," said John Gizdic,
executive vice president of strategic planning for the hospital. "And that
doesn't even take into account the high-qualty health care that they're being
provided."

Gizdic said the study, which cost $26,821, was requested to help hospital
leadership and trustees understand NHRMC's role in economic development and its
benefit to the community.

"When you think about economic development, when you think about economic
impact, I think very few people probably think about the hospital and think
about health care," Gizdic said Wednesday. "As you look through this study and
the results, at the end of the day this to me says NHRMC is one of the - if not
the - top economic drivers in this region."

He said since the hospital initiated its master facilities plan in 2006, NHRMC
has invested more than $400 million in facilities, technology and new services
such as a pediatric intensive care unit, a health and diagnostic services
medical complex in Brunswick Forest, and an electronic medical records system.

"I don't know of anybody else who has invested $400 million in the past six
years in this community," Gizdic said.

He also pointed to nearly $100 million in annual additional benefits to the
community not included in the impacts the study analyzes. Among those are $15.7
million for charity care in 2011 and more than $4 million a year to operate New
Hanover County's emergency medical system.

"That was a $4 million tax burden that we took off of the taxpayers," Gizdic
said. "Not a single penny of tax dollars goes to that or anything else here."

In fact, though the not-for-profit hospital pays no property or sales taxes, its
ripple effect from taxes paid by vendors and employees in the three-county area
results in about $26 million in taxes paid.

During the last three years, the hospital has added more than 400 jobs, bringing
total employment to a little more than 5,000 people, Gizdic said.

Its annual budget is about $800 million.

The study says 2.43 jobs are created in the three-county area for each job
created at the hospital, and 3.67 jobs are created in the seven-county region
for each NHRMC job.

New Hanover Regional Medical Center is the region's largest employer, said Woody
Hall, professor of economics at the University of North Carolina Wilmington and
senior economist with the university's Swain Center for Business and Economic
Services.

The hospital contracted with the center to conduct the study.

Hall said the center hasn't done other studies that would allow it to rank the
hospital's economic impact with other entities, though he estimated UNCW's
impact at $600 million to $700 million less than the hospital's impact.

"What the hospital buys is so doggone expensive," Hall said. "It's also not
inexpensive to run the hospital." People who work in the hospital also make
above-average salaries, he said.

Gizdic said the hospital trustees and its leadership team have been proactive
over the past several years to keep NHRMC "in a very strong position, both
financially and, certainly, from a patient care and quality standpoint."

"What that's translated into is a strong medical center which has translated
into a very strong impact in the economy," he said. "Continuing to be proactive
in these uncertain times, with changes in health care reform and reimbursement,
is going to be imperative, not only to continue to provide those quality medical
services, but it's going to be critical to our economy."

Jim Ware: 343-2387

On Twitter: @jimware

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday

Hospitals power economy;
Hospital association study: Health facilities a bigger driving force for the
area than WPAFB.

BYLINE: By Ben Sutherly Staff Writer

SECTION: DAILY B2B; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 333 words


DAYTON - The Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association in a new report says its
member hospitals had a greater economic impact on the region in 2008 than that
of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.

The hospital association put the sector's overall local economic impact - the
amount of dollars flowing through the community annually due to hospitals - at
$6.77 billion, compared to $4.44 billion at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.

The report shows hospitals in 11 local counties provide not only quality health
care, but also are key employment and economic forces in the region, said Bryan
Bucklew, GDAHA's president and CEO.

Bucklew noted the base is a widely recognized economic engine in the region. The
comparison made between the impact of the hospitals and the base wasn't meant to
detract from the base's economic significance to the region, Bucklew said.

Instead, he said, it's aimed at underscoring for lawmakers how key hospitals
also are to the local economy.

"I think it should come to mind when we're trying to change public policy,"
Bucklew said.

Base spokesman Derek Kaufman declined comment on GDAHA's comparison.

"I've found people in the Miami Valley have varying degrees of understanding
about Wright-Patt's varied missions, but virtually everyone recognizes the base
is a huge economic engine for southwest Ohio," Kaufman wrote in an e-mail.

The hospitals' economic impact was up 19 percent from $5.68 billion in 2005,
GDAHA reported.

GDAHA also said hospitals directly employ 31,297 people in hospitals, nursing
and personal care facilities, and medical and health services facilities. The
base had more than 25,700 employees in fiscal 2008, according to its most recent
economic impact analysis.

Bucklew acknowledged GDAHA has not tried to calculate the value of tax breaks
received by its members, most of which are nonprofits.

Report data were prepared by the University of Cincinnati's Economics Center for
Education & Research. GDAHA paid $15,000 to $20,000 for the study, Bucklew said.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              10 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            February 16, 2009 Monday

Thai Nakarin to build new outpatient wing

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 944 words


Thai Nakarin Hospital will spend Bt1 billion to construct a new building
adjacent to its existing hospital to serve outpatients, whose numbers are
expected to increase once the BTS Skytrain's Onnuj-Baring extension is up and
running early next year.

While other large hospitals have deferred major investments until the economy
recovers, Thai Nakarin is forging ahead.

Thai Nakarin expects the population of eastern Bangkok and Samut Prakan to grow
with the completion of the BTS extension, founder and board chairman Jatuporn
Sihanatkathakul said last week. Residential and condominium projects are
mushrooming in this area, and the hospital expects a parallel increase in
patient numbers.

The new building will serve outpatients, whose numbers have grown by 10 to 15
per cent a year, compared to 5-per-cent growth for inpatients, Jatuporn said.
Some specialist clinics will be moved to the new building, which will also house
a new neurology clinic. "We will start construction by the end of this year. I
expect the outpatient building to start operations in 2011," Jatuporn said.

Jatuporn said the new facility was on schedule, unlike a plan drawn up two years
ago to expand Thai Nakarin Hospital on Bang Na-Trat Road and to build sites in
new locations, particularly prime areas of the capital. These projects have been
delayed indefinitely, mainly due to the poor economic situation.

The delayed plan calls for new hospitals on Sukhumvit Soi 42, Charoen Krung Road
and Soi Onnuj. Land has already been secured on Sukhumvit 42, and the firm is
still looking for good sites on Charoen Krung and Onnuj. These hospitals will be
smaller than Thai Nakarin Hospital on Bang Na-Trat Road.

"We can't expand to new locations if the economic situation does not improve.
But we still need to expand our hospital headquarters on Bang Na-Trat Road
because I believe the population in the area is certain to increase," Jatuporn
said.

Thai Nakarin Hospital has felt the effects of the economic crisis, as patients
have opted to seek treatment at state hospitals or less-expensive private
hospitals. And while some high-income patients who used to go to high-end
private hospitals have moved to less costly hospitals like Thai Nakarin, these
new patients have not offset the loss of less wealthy clients.

Jatuporn, who is also the owner of the Landmark hotel, said the hospital
business has weathered the economic crisis better than the hotel industry.
However, he cautioned investors looking to enter the hospital business to
rethink their plan, as the field has become very crowded.

"I forecast Thai Nakarin Hospital's revenue will grow 10 per cent this year -
well below our average growth of 20 per cent a year," Jatuporn said.

Thai Nakarin Hospital plans to invest Bt1 billion to construct new building
adjacent to the existing hospital in order to serve outpatient which it expects
to increase after BTS sky train Onnut-Bearing extension is operated in the early
of next year.

The hospital confidences to do major investment amid the economic crisis, while
other large-sized hospitals have deferred their investments until economic
recover.

Founder and chairman of the board Jatuporn Sihanatkathakul said last week that
Thai Nakarin expects the number of population in the eastern Bangkok as well as
Samutprakarn would increase after BTS extension is completed in 2010. Many
residential and condominium projects are mushrooming in this area. So, the
hospital believes that its patient will also increase.

He said the new building would serve outpatients which have grown by 10-15 per
cent per year, higher than inpatients which have risen only 5 per cent per
annum. Some specialised clinics will be moved to the new building. The hospital
will also set up Neuro clinic as its new specialised clinic after the building
construction is completed. "We will start the construction by the end of this
year. I expect the outpatient building to start the operation in 2011," he said.

Jatuporn said this business expansion was on schedule. He planned two years ago
to expand Thai Nakarin Hospital on Bangna-Trad Road and also to new locations,
particularly prime areas. But the new hospital projects are indefinitely delayed
mainly due to economic situation.

He earlier planned to build new hospitals at Sukhumvit 42, Charoen Krung Road
and Onnut. The hospital has already had land bank at Sukhumvit 42. It is seeking
for good land band on Chareon Krung Road and Onnut. Most hospitals in the three
locations will have smaller sized than Thai Nakarin Hospital on Bangna-Trad
Road.

"We can't expand to new locations if economic situation does not improve. But we
still have to expand our hospital headquarter on Bangna-Trad Road because I
believe that the number of population will absolutely increase thanks to city
expansion," he said.

He said Thai Nakarin Hospital had been also affected from economic crisis as
some patients that could not afford its medical treatment prices have moved to
state hospitals or other private hospitals that offer lower medical treatment
prices. However, some large-income patients who used to go to hi-end private
hospitals have moved to the lower prices like Thai Nakarin, as well. But new
patients could not offset existing clients.

Jatuporn, who is also the owner of Landmark hotel, added that hospital business
had lower impact than hotel one. However, some businesspersons that are planning
to enter hospital business should revise their decisions because this business
is facing over supply similar to hotels.

"I forecasts Thai Nakarin Hospital's revenue this year to grow by 10 per cent,
lower than the average growth rate at 20 per cent per year," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        The Banner (Bernice, Louisiana)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               September 29, 2011

Louisiana Hospitals Are Major Economic Force, State Healthcare Budget Cuts Lead
to Significant Loss in Federal Funding;
Report Shows the Economic Importance of Hospitals and the Negative Impact on
Communities When Hospitals Face Severe Cuts and Other Financial Pressures

BYLINE: The Banner staff

LENGTH: 898  words


Baton Rouge-Louisiana hospitals are economic leaders, generating more than $27.1
billion annually in economic activity and directly employing more than 99,350
people in communities throughout the state, according to a new study, "Hospitals
and the Louisiana Economy, 2011," released today by the Louisiana Hospital
Association.

The LHA retained Dr. James A. Richardson, Alumn Professor of Economics at
Louisiana State University, to provide an analysis of the economic impact of the
hospital industry on the Louisiana economy, metropolitan areas within the state,
and various districts of the state.

According to the report, the healthcare sector in Louisiana employs more than
269,184 people, about 16.2 percent of the state's total workforce and
approximately 15 per-.cent of the state's total private payroll. Hospitals
account for over 99,350 of these employees, with a payroll of approximately $4.4
billion per year.

Furthermore, overall hospital expenditures are estimated to be $13.9 billion,
and overall business transactions as measured by business sales, including the
direct hospital expenditures, are $27.1 billion. Personal earnings associated
with these business transactions amount to $9.5 billion, with 240,691 direct and
indirect jobs supported by these hospital expenditures.

"People often do not realize that hospitals are huge contributors to our
economy, even during an economic recession," said John Matessino, LHA president
& CEO. "Hospitals across the state provide their communities with thousands of
well-paid, highly-skilled jobs. This has a positive economic ripple effect in
every corner of the state. Every dollar spent by a hospital supports 95 cents of
additional business activity, and each hospital job supports approximately 1.4
additional jobs."

Dr. Richardson explains in the report that "the direct employment by hospitals
and the associated payrolls offered by the hospitals represent just one step in
an economic process that affects persons throughout the economy." From 2009 to
2010, Louisiana hospitals averaged about $903.7 million in building
construc-tion, leading to the creation of more than 15,717 new jobs yearly in
sectors other than healthcare. The overall economic activity that is supported
by hospital expenditures, including payroll, supplies and other services, leads
to $690 million in state tax collections and $567 million in local tax
collections.

Cuts Negatively Impact Hospitals and the Community

Medicaid and Medicare account for 71 percent of the hospital services delivered
in the state and are the primary funding sources for hospitals in Louisiana.
Therefore, when these programs are cut, the ripple effect negatively impacts
hospitals, businesses and patients. For every 35 cents the state spends on the
Medicaid program, Louisiana receives approximately 65 cents from the federal
government. Because of this federal match, the impact of the state reducing its
direct expenditures for Medicaid by $150 million would be a loss of an
additional $430 million of federal dollars, reducing overall funding by $580
million. It would also result in a loss of approximately 6,764 jobs statewide; a
decrease in personal earnings of $258 million; and a reduction in overall
business transactions of $800 million.

"Each legislative session, the hospital industry is faced with the same budget
battle. The state needs to change the way it addresses its budget shortfall by
creating more flexibility in the budget process," said Paul Salles, president
and CEO of the Metropolitan Hospital Council of New Orleans. "Cuts to hospitals
have a serious and long-term effect on our communities. Although hospitals
continually make strategic decisions to deal with these cuts so that they have
the least impact on patient care, eventually there will be nothing left to trim
or reduce except direct services and jobs."

The executive summary of the report also includes a series of responses from the
2011 LHA Annual Hospital Survey about the effects of the current market
conditions on hospitals. Of the hospitals surveyed: 70% have seen a decrease in
patient account collections; 41% have seen a decrease in elective surgeries; and
54% have seen an increase in emergency room visits for uninsured patients.

Hospitals have made or are considering the following changes in order to cut
costs because of current market conditions: 46% froze or reduced capital
purchases because of current market conditions, and 25% are considering freezing
or reducing capital purchases; 23% halted construction, equipment purchases and
other projects, and 19% are considering it; 51% eliminated vacant positions, and
34% are considering it; 19% reduced services, and 24% are considering reducing
services; and 15% have reduced community benefit programs, and another 14% are
considering reducing community benefits.

"Hospitals are the heart of their communities, from urban to rural Louisiana,"
said Milton Bourgeois, Jr., Chair of the LHA Board of Trustees and CEO of
Ochsner-St. Anne General Hospital. "Our hospitals continue to find innovative
ways to improve care for patients. We are investing in new technology and
implementing best practices so that we can continue to provide critically-needed
healthcare services. Our business is taking care of patients, and the fact that
we are an. enormous economic driver is just one more benefit we provide to our
communities."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BAB

                      Copyright 2011 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                           Copyright 2011 The Banner


                              12 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                           Agency Tunis Afrique Press

                           November 17, 2016 Thursday

Advocacy workshop focuses on Tunisian-Spanish twinning project on new medical-
economic information system

LENGTH: 365 words


1/1

(TAP) - Health Minister Samira Merai Friaa said, Thursday, the consolidation of
the new medical-economic information system and its implementation in all public
hospitals from 2012 to 2017 is a key programme that will streamline funding of
hospital institutions and strengthen public health governance capacity.

Speaking at an advocacy workshop held in Tunis as part of the Tunisian-Spanish
twinning project on the new medico-economic information system and its
implementation in all public hospitals, she said this programme, funded by the
European Union, was launched initially in six hospitals with a [#x20ac]1.3
million budget.

This project, she added, is being implemented in ten other facilities (from 2015
to 2017).

Health facilities involved in the first phase are:

Tunis Maternity Centre, Habib Thamer Hospital, Fattouma Bourguiba Hospital in
Monastir, Nutrition Institute, Bizerte's regional hospital and the Ras Jebel
hospital.

The other ten institutions are:

Charles Nicolle Hospital, Rabta Hospital, Abderrahmane Mami Hospital in Ariana,
Bechir Hamza Children hospital, Aziza Othmana Hospital, Saleh Azaiez Institute,
Mongi Slim Hospital in Marsa, Farhat Hached Hospital in Sousse, Taher Sfar
Hospital in Mahdia and Beja's regional hospital.

The Health Minister added that this programme will help the ministry determine
the cost of disease and each patient in hospitals be t hey university, regional
or local and the medical-economic activity in regions.

Spain's Health Minister Jesus Fernandez Sanz, who participated in this meeting
as an expert, said the meeting helped present the first results of health
activities and its costs in Tunisia.

The consolidation of the new medical-economic information system and its
implementation in all public hospitals aims at strengthening public health
governance capacity (effective allocation of available resources and evaluation
of performance), improving the quality of health institutions' services and
contributing to achieving national health goals.

It also aims at establishing a national scale of optimal cost by pathology and
used as a base for billing care provided by health facilities.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/142/392/64/147942235559.JPG



LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 392


                               Copyright 2016 Tap
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      February 20, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Illinois Hospitals Generate $78.7 Billion Annual Impact on State's Economy

LENGTH: 790  words


New Delhi, Feb. 20 -- Illinois' 200 hospitals and health systems generate a
total annual impact of $78.7 billion on the state's economy, according to a new
report released today by the Illinois Hospital Association (IHA). Illinois
Hospitals and Health Systems $78.7 Billion State Economic Impact examines the
statewide economic impact of Illinois hospitals.

"In addition to providing vital medical and health care services to Illinoisans,
Illinois hospitals are absolutely essential for the state's economy as a steady,
recession-proof source of excellent, well-paying jobs, providing stability and
even growth during difficult economic times," said Illinois Hospital Association
President & CEO Maryjane A. Wurth. "Illinois hospitals employ more than a
quarter of a million people, resulting in more than 422,500 direct and indirect
jobs."

Illinois hospitals are among the top three employers in nearly half of the
state's counties. Hospitals provide excellent jobs and substantial benefits for
a wide range of workers and spur additional economic activity through their
spending on goods, services and capital improvements. They are a key cornerstone
of the local and state economy.

Among the report's key findings:

* Jobs: Illinois hospitals employ more than a quarter of a million people and
expend $15.4 billion a year on wages and benefits, resulting in a total of
422,575 direct and indirect jobs and an economic impact from hospital payrolls
alone of $37.0 billion;

* Illinois hospitals generate a total economic impact to the state of $78.7
billion;

* Illinois hospitals spend $14 billion on goods and services, resulting in $19.5
billion in other spending in the state economy, for a combined impact of $33.5
billion;

* Illinois hospitals also invest in capital improvements, spending $3.4 billion
on buildings and equipment, which generated an additional $4.8 billion for a
total of $8.2 billion.

* Each Illinois hospital job generates an additional 1.1 Illinois jobs;

* Every dollar spent by Illinois hospitals on goods, services and payroll
generates an additional $1.40 in spending throughout the local and state
economy;

* In challenging economic times, Illinois' health care sector added 39,400 jobs,
a 7% growth between January 2008 and November 2011-while Illinois lost 126,300
jobs.

* The state's economy grew by 52,600 jobs between December 2010 and December
2011. Nearly one-third of this growth - 16,700 jobs - was created in the health
care and education sector.

* The Illinois Health Care/Social Assistance sector is projected to add 149,755
jobs by 2018 - more than any other sector in the state economy.

* During the recent economic downturn, Illinois GDP grew by only 2.8% - with
some sectors dropping by up to 20% - while the GDP of health care/social
assistance grew by 11.4%. This vast economic activity generated by the health
care/social assistance sector makes it the sixth highest contributor to
Illinois' GDP, or more than 7% of the gross state product.

The IHA report notes that Illinois hospitals provide enormous benefits to their
communities with their charity care and uncompensated care; subsidization of
money-losing services such as emergency and trauma care; medical research;
education and training of physicians, nurses and other highly-skilled health
care professionals; and underpayments for services to Medicare and Medicaid
patients that they absorb.

Overall community benefits provided by the more than 100 Illinois hospitals that
file annual community benefit reports is now more than $4.6 billion annually,
including nearly $561 million in charity care, an increase in charity care of
124% since 2005.

"Hospitals sustain communities through jobs, community program and medical
services to those in need, especially the underserved, regardless of ability to
pay," said Wurth. "Imposing Medicaid cuts and property taxes on hospitals would
harm one of the few sectors that has been creating jobs and damage the health
care system as well. Hospitals would have to consider hiring freezes and layoffs
and service reductions or elimination. In dire cases, hospitals will be forced
to close, creating 'health care deserts' around the state."

Estimates of the economic impact of Illinois hospitals are based on the Regional
Input-Output Modeling System II (RIMS-II) developed by the U.S. Dept. of
Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). The final demand multipliers,
obtained from BEA RIMS-II, were applied to the latest available Medicare cost
report data of hospital jobs and spending (2010/2011 cost report data) as
validated and updated by hospitals.

The IHA report also includes a detailed breakdown on the economic impact of
Illinois hospitals by state senate districts and Illinois Congressional
districts.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 18, 2009 Friday

Study: New hospital will create 800 jobs

BYLINE: Steve Vied, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 700 words


Sep. 18--A new hospital in Daviess County will create 500 permanent health care
jobs within five years of its opening and ultimately bring a total of 800 new
jobs to the region, raising total earnings by more than $24 million a year,
according to a new study.

The Greater Owensboro Economic Development Corp. compiled the study, replicating
a data analysis method used by the University of New Orleans to evaluate the
overall economic impact of hospitals as base industries in metropolitan areas.

"Little attention is paid hospitals from an economic development perspective,
and this is unfortunate," said EDC President Nick Brake. "The lack of attention
is, in part, because of the perception that health care is only a locally
serving activity that has little impact on driving a metropolitan area's
economic prosperity. Evidence from around the country is showing us otherwise.
Hospitals are significant contributors to the economic base of regions. This
analysis indicates that is the case here in Owensboro."

Owensboro Medical Health System is moving ahead with a plan to build a $385
million, 442-bed hospital east of Owensboro between Daniels Lane and Pleasant
Valley Road. According to the EDC study, expanding the local health care
industry with the construction of a new hospital will have a significant
economic impact on the Owensboro region.

The study said that hospitals contribute to local and regional economies through
the purchase of goods and services and by providing jobs for large numbers of
workers. The EDC used data from the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis and the
Bureau of Labor Statistics to show that health care is a base industry in the
Owensboro metropolitan statistical area, rather than just a locally serving
industry. Each dollar in earnings and jobs for employment in such an industry
creates additional earnings and jobs in the region. In Owensboro's case, for
every 10 new health care jobs created, six additional jobs will be created.

OMHS' current annual payroll is $163 million, according to the EDC, based on
3,147 employees. OMHS, the region's single largest employer, has seen employment
rise by 1,000 workers since 1995.

The jobs and earnings projections in the EDC analysis do not count the
construction phase of the hospital project, or the jobs created by physicians
being recruited to the region as a result of the new hospital. During the
construction phase, using the same multipliers, more than 4,000 jobs will be
created, resulting in earnings of $139 million for the region.

The University of New Orleans study found that hospitals in small metropolitan
regions, such as Owensboro, have the potential to evolve as a significant
"export industry" because they provide basic care in the surrounding area. The
new OMHS facility will serve 11-county region, making it an industry that will
add to the region's overall economic growth.

The new hospital will also affect the local and regional economy because OMHS
receives about $75 million annually in Medicare payments from patients outside
the Owensboro metropolitan statistical area.

The Owensboro region has more health care jobs than similar regions, according
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and they are relatively much higher-paying
jobs. The average salary for health practitioner occupations in the Greater
Owensboro region is more than $52,000 per year, greater than double the median
income of the region.

"It is reasonable to conclude that the health care industry in Greater Owensboro
is an export-oriented industry central to the region's economic base," Brake
said. "Expansion in the health care industry would positively impact the export
base and provide a long-term economic benefit to the region."

Steve Vied, 691-7297, svied@messenger-inquirer.com

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090918-OW-Study-New-hospital-will-create-800-jobs-0918

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2009 Messenger-Inquirer


                              15 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday

Hospitals an economic engine

BYLINE: Guy Kovner, The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 883 words


June 15--With construction of the North Coast's first new hospital in more than
two decades under way along Highway 101, a report released Friday by a hospital
trade group shows the enormous impact the fast-growing medical sector has across
five North Bay counties.

Hospitals generate spending of nearly $5 billion a year and more than 35,000
jobs in Sonoma, Marin, Mendocino, Lake and Napa counties, according to data from
the Hospital Council of Northern and Central California.

Those jobs pay above-average wages and are more resistant to cuts during
recessions, the report said. Plus, the sector is expected to grow faster than
the rest of the economy, on average, the report said.

The economic impact report cites $2.8 billion in direct spending by 24
hospitals, including $1.6 billion in wages and benefits and $1.2 billion on
supplies, research, education and capital improvements.

An additional $767 million comes from spending by companies that supply hospital
goods and services, and an additional $1.3 billion is attributed to spending by
employees of the hospitals and their suppliers on housing, food, transportation
and other expenses.

The $4.9 billion total and 35,480 employees represent the hospitals' overall
economic impact.

In Sonoma County, seven acute care hospitals spend $882.7 million on wages and
benefits, plus purchases of supplies, research and education, the report said.

A Sonoma County Economic Development Board report prepared by Moody's last year
said the health and wellness sector accounted for $1.83 billion, or 8 percent of
Sonoma County's $23.3 billion in annual economic activity. That puts it on par
with the $1.9 million generated by the agriculture, food and wine sector.

Kaiser Permanente, St. Joseph Health and Sutter Medical Center are the three
largest private sector employers in the county with a combined workforce of
nearly 6,600 last year, according to the Moody's report.

Only one other business, Agilent Technologies, had more than 1,000 employees.

Health care salaries in Sonoma County average $71,839 a year, 44 percent higher
than the overall average salary of $50,024, according to Friday's report.

In Mendocino and Lake counties, health care salaries are 49 percent higher than
the average, compared with just 20 percent higher in the Bay Area, including
Marin County.

Hospitals employ highly trained people, including nurses, pharmacists and
imaging technicians, and operate "high-end technology" to treat patients, said
Todd Salnas, president of St. Joseph Health, Sonoma County, which includes Santa
Rosa Memorial and Petaluma Valley hospitals.

By law, California hospitals may not directly employ physicians, and they are
not included in the data released Friday, Salnas said.

It is unclear how many of the new Sutter hospital's 1,000 workers will be new
hires, but Friday's report said the $284 million building accounts for more than
half of the $523 million in North Bay hospital construction costs over the next
five years. Howard Memorial Hospital in Willits is building a new $62 million
facility, and Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae has plans for new $445 million
structure, but the economic impact report includes just $165.6 million over the
five-year period.

Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital's $15 million emergency room expansion is not
included in the report.

Memorial's trauma center, which receives patients from the Golden Gate Bridge to
the Oregon border and beyond, requires a high level of investment to treat the
"sickest of the sick," Salnas said.

Memorial's annual spending of $327 million is the highest among the 24 hospitals
included in the report.

Hospitals are naturally an economic mainstay, said Robert Eyler, director of the
Center for Regional Economic Analysis at Sonoma State University.

"It's an expensive service and there's no end to demand," he said.

Economists use the term "inelasticity of demand" to describe services or
products, such as health care, that people will pay for no matter the cost.

Tough times impact hospitals as people put off elective surgery and more
uninsured patients come to the emergency room, Salnas said.

But for the most part, he said, "when people need health care they're going to
get it."

The 17 acute care hospitals in the economic impact report provided more than
$374 million in charity and non-reimbursed care in 2010, the economic impact
report said.

Throughout the North Bay, health care jobs are growing faster than the average
for all occupations, the report said.

In Sonoma County, health care jobs are expected to increase by 17.7 percent from
2008-2018, compared with 9 percent overall job growth, according to California
Employment Development Department forecasts.

In Mendocino and Lake counties, health care jobs will expand by 12.1 percent,
twice the overall rate.

The nation's aging population will "drive higher health care utilization, Salnas
said.

The St. Joseph system expects to focus its expansion in services outside
hospitals, with increased emphasis on wellness, outpatient and ambulatory care
aimed at reducing costs, he said.

You can reach Staff Writer Guy Kovner at 521-5457 or
guy.kovner@pressdemocrat.com

___ (c)2013 The Press Democrat (Santa Rosa, Calif.) Visit The Press Democrat
(Santa Rosa, Calif.) at www.pressdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130615-UR-Hospitals-an-economic-engine-0615-20130615

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UR


                                 Copyright 2013


                              16 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 14, 2013 Friday

Hospitals an economic engine

BYLINE: Guy Kovner, The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 883 words


June 14--With construction of the North Coast's first new hospital in more than
two decades under way along Highway 101, a report released Friday by a hospital
trade group shows the enormous impact the fast-growing medical sector has across
five North Bay counties.

Hospitals generate spending of nearly $5 billion a year and more than 35,000
jobs in Sonoma, Marin, Mendocino, Lake and Napa counties, according to data from
the Hospital Council of Northern and Central California.

Those jobs pay above-average wages and are more resistant to cuts during
recessions, the report said. Plus, the sector is expected to grow faster than
the rest of the economy, on average, the report said.

The economic impact report cites $2.8 billion in direct spending by 24
hospitals, including $1.6 billion in wages and benefits and $1.2 billion on
supplies, research, education and capital improvements.

An additional $767 million comes from spending by companies that supply hospital
goods and services, and an additional $1.3 billion is attributed to spending by
employees of the hospitals and their suppliers on housing, food, transportation
and other expenses.

The $4.9 billion total and 35,480 employees represent the hospitals' overall
economic impact.

In Sonoma County, seven acute care hospitals spend $882.7 million on wages and
benefits, plus purchases of supplies, research and education, the report said.

A Sonoma County Economic Development Board report prepared by Moody's last year
said the health and wellness sector accounted for $1.83 billion, or 8 percent of
Sonoma County's $23.3 billion in annual economic activity. That puts it on par
with the $1.9 million generated by the agriculture, food and wine sector.

Kaiser Permanente, St. Joseph Health and Sutter Medical Center are the three
largest private sector employers in the county with a combined workforce of
nearly 6,600 last year, according to the Moody's report.

Only one other business, Agilent Technologies, had more than 1,000 employees.

Health care salaries in Sonoma County average $71,839 a year, 44 percent higher
than the overall average salary of $50,024, according to Friday's report.

In Mendocino and Lake counties, health care salaries are 49 percent higher than
the average, compared with just 20 percent higher in the Bay Area, including
Marin County.

Hospitals employ highly trained people, including nurses, pharmacists and
imaging technicians, and operate "high-end technology" to treat patients, said
Todd Salnas, president of St. Joseph Health, Sonoma County, which includes Santa
Rosa Memorial and Petaluma Valley hospitals.

By law, California hospitals may not directly employ physicians, and they are
not included in the data released Friday, Salnas said.

It is unclear how many of the new Sutter hospital's 1,000 workers will be new
hires, but Friday's report said the $284 million building accounts for more than
half of the $523 million in North Bay hospital construction costs over the next
five years. Howard Memorial Hospital in Willits is building a new $62 million
facility, and Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae has plans for new $445 million
structure, but the economic impact report includes just $165.6 million over the
five-year period.

Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital's $15 million emergency room expansion is not
included in the report.

Memorial's trauma center, which receives patients from the Golden Gate Bridge to
the Oregon border and beyond, requires a high level of investment to treat the
"sickest of the sick," Salnas said.

Memorial's annual spending of $327 million is the highest among the 24 hospitals
included in the report.

Hospitals are naturally an economic mainstay, said Robert Eyler, director of the
Center for Regional Economic Analysis at Sonoma State University.

"It's an expensive service and there's no end to demand," he said.

Economists use the term "inelasticity of demand" to describe services or
products, such as health care, that people will pay for no matter the cost.

Tough times impact hospitals as people put off elective surgery and more
uninsured patients come to the emergency room, Salnas said.

But for the most part, he said, "when people need health care they're going to
get it."

The 17 acute care hospitals in the economic impact report provided more than
$374 million in charity and non-reimbursed care in 2010, the economic impact
report said.

Throughout the North Bay, health care jobs are growing faster than the average
for all occupations, the report said.

In Sonoma County, health care jobs are expected to increase by 17.7 percent from
2008-2018, compared with 9 percent overall job growth, according to California
Employment Development Department forecasts.

In Mendocino and Lake counties, health care jobs will expand by 12.1 percent,
twice the overall rate.

The nation's aging population will "drive higher health care utilization, Salnas
said.

The St. Joseph system expects to focus its expansion in services outside
hospitals, with increased emphasis on wellness, outpatient and ambulatory care
aimed at reducing costs, he said.

You can reach Staff Writer Guy Kovner at 521-5457 or
guy.kovner@pressdemocrat.com

___ (c)2013 The Press Democrat (Santa Rosa, Calif.) Visit The Press Democrat
(Santa Rosa, Calif.) at www.pressdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130614-UR-Hospitals-an-economic-engine-0614-20130614

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UR


                                 Copyright 2013


                              17 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright (c) 1998 Duquesne University
                              Duquesne Law Review

                                  Winter, 1998

                              36 Duq. L. Rev. 437

LENGTH: 8457 words

COMMENT: Economic Credentialing: Bottom-Line Medical Care

NAME:  Judith E. Orie, M.D.

TEXT:
 [*437]

    Introduction

    Norman Rockwell's paintings of the benevolent and trusted doctor offering
his patients gentle ministrations defined the popular image of the
physician-patient relationship of the 1940's and 1950's. In contrast, if Mr.
Rockwell had had the opportunity to depict the physician-patient relationship of
the 1990's, he probably would have shown the physician holding a stopwatch while
he rushes one wary patient out of the office as he quickly ushers in the next.
Perhaps, in his 1990's painting, Mr. Rockwell also would have included an
insurance company representative whispering in the doctor's ear about the
appropriateness of the procedure the physician had just performed on the exiting
patient.

    Recent advancements in information technology allow hospitals to measure
precisely a physician's past economic and financial performance with respect to
patient care, enabling them to create financial and economic profiles of
physicians that are ultimately used by hospitals in credentialing,  n1
contracting, or making staff appointments and/or reappointments.  n2 The new
focus of hospitals on economic and financial factors relating to patient care
has significant future implications for the quality of medical care.
Increasingly, physicians are evaluated on criteria such as: number of patients
treated, time allotted to each patient, amount of  [*438]  insurance
reimbursement received, number of referrals and consultations, medication costs,
liability claims, patient satisfaction surveys, and other similar economic
factors.  n3 The terms "economic efficiency" and "cost containment," frequently
touted by hospitals, are merely euphemisms for economic credentialing. This new
emphasis on financial and economic factors necessarily reduces the stature of
traditional credentialing criteria, including: clinical skills, medical
competence, experience in treating patients, and patient care results. As
hospitals consolidate, they are forced to focus even more on financial
considerations, rather than on patient outcome. Ultimately, financial interests
of hospitals and insurance companies will take precedence over the more
important societal interest of high-quality medical care.

    Background

    Traditionally, physicians and hospitals provided services and were paid by
the patient.  n4 Direct payment limited the amount of money expended on health
care, but it also limited the performance of unnecessary services.  n5 Blue
Cross developed what we now think of as the conventional health insurance system
during the "Great Depression" of the 1930's.  n6 Later, the federal government
entered the health care field, through Congressional enactment of the Medicare
and Medicaid programs under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act of 1965.  n7
Health care costs  [*439]  increased significantly due to implementation of
these programs, because government funding increased the number of persons
eligible for care. The government's entry into the field of health care finance
caused the cost of medical services to rise dramatically during the 1970's.

    Institutional medicine has rapidly evolved in the twentieth century,
experiencing both an organizational and a financial transformation.  n8 This
process was perhaps best described by Eli Ginzberg, who dubbed it, "the
monetarization of medical care."  n9 This emphasis on "the bottom line" has
diminished medicine's reputation because society now perceives it as merely
another expensive commodity in the stream of ordinary commerce.  n10 The doctor
of the early twentieth century entered practice after completing a lengthy
apprenticeship and treated most patients with only the contents of his black
bag.  n11 Medical economics drastically changed as training grew more rigorous,
hospitals became plentiful, and medical technology exploded. The cost of
providing medical care burgeoned until it exceeded $ 400 billion per year in the
late 1990's. According to estimates, by the year 2000, the health care industry
will generate $ 2,000,000,000,000 annually; this figure represents 15% of the
gross national product of the United States.  n12

    From the 1930's through the 1950's, employment-based voluntary health
insurance became widely available from third-party private insurers such as Blue
Cross, Blue Shield, and others. These companies paid physicians for health
services delivered to insured patients. In 1965, the federal government
supplemented this private insurance network by creating Medicare and Medicaid,
programs designed to fund medical care of the aged and indigent.  n13 Medical
privatization and the public insurance provided by Medicare and Medicaid allowed
many patients to receive premium medical care for the first time. This care was
the best in the world, but cost  [*440]  more than a middle-income wage earner
could earn in a lifetime.  n14

    Beginning in the 1970's, the consequences of the third-party payment system
began to surface as the cost of medical care soared. Physicians worried little
about budget constraints. Patients, similarly, had no incentive to monitor the
cost of their medical care.  n15 As a result, in the 1990's, managed care has
become the dominant force in American health care. Managed care embraced the
concept of the Health Maintenance Organization ("HMO"), which was designed to
control spiraling costs. HMOs combine the risk assumption inherent in insurance
with provider responsibility for cost control. By establishing HMOs, third-party
insurers could provide physician and hospital services to all enrolled members
at a reduced cost.  n16 In addition, many traditional indemnity insurers could
now offer managed care products.

    "Health maintenance strategies," promulgated by HMOs, were designed to give
participants comprehensive care in return for a fixed premium. HMOs rendered
services through their own doctors and hospitals or "selected" doctors and
hospitals. In an HMO, the insurer, hospital, and physician belong to a
"network," bound by financial ties. These networks limit physician discretion as
to the type of care delivered to the patient.  n17

    The number of independent sole practitioners and practice group partnerships
is rapidly declining, replaced by joint ventures formed between physicians and
HMOs. Hospitals and HMOs are increasingly enrolling physicians in their networks
or creating other arrangements that link physicians' financial well-being to the
network. In return, the network asserts the right to control and review the
clinical decisions made by physicians by rewarding those who utilize network
facilities and economize in their use of network resources.  n18 The more frugal
a physician is, the more the system financially rewards him or her.  n19

    To ensure the reduction of medical care costs, both the federal government
and insurance carriers have targeted physicians as the principal point for cost
containment.  n20 Increasingly, hospitals face  [*441]  compelling financial
pressures, but because fees and reimbursements are fixed, they must continually
search for alternate means of reducing costs.  n21 For hospitals and HMOs, the
primary methods for securing cost savings have been: reducing the number of
patient visits, limiting or controlling the length of hospital stays,
streamlining physician practices, and rationing of expensive treatment.  n22 The
only effective leverage that hospitals and HMOs can exercise over physicians is
using economic credentialing to eliminate those physicians whose practices are
not cost effective.

    In the past, the credentialing procedure a physician underwent to obtain
staff privileges in a health care organization was reviewed by the hospital or
HMO medical staff credentialing committee. The committee investigated the
physician's background, including his education, competence, ability,
experience, and judgment. In addition, for staff reappointments, the committee
subjected physicians with existing privileges to the same level of review to
ensure that all physicians were competent and providing high quality care.
Although the board of directors of a health care organization had the final word
in any credentialing decision, it usually deferred to the decision of the
medical staff credentialing committee.  n23

    Economic Credentialing

    The evolution of managed care led directly to the proliferation of economic
credentialing. No universal definition of "economic credentialing" exists, but
it is commonly defined as the practice of applying economic data and efficiency
criteria to hospital medical staff appointment and reappointment decisions.  n24
The American Medical Association has adopted a somewhat more detailed
definition. It defines "economic credentialing" as "the use of economic criteria
unrelated to quality of care or professional competency in determining [a
physician's] qualifications for initial or continuing hospital medical staff
membership or privileges."  n25  [*442]  Hospitals employing economic
credentialing typically apply the following criteria in evaluating physicians:


    Length of stay by the diagnosis-related group ("DRG"),  n26

    Charges by the DRG,

    Charges or length of stay adjusted for severity of illness,

    Utilization review denials,  n27

    Bad debt expenses,

    Timeliness of medical record completion, and

    Incident reports.  n28


    The AMA and other medical organizations are vehemently opposed to economic
credentialing. For these groups, the rationale is obvious -- credentialing of
physicians should directly relate to professional competence -- ensuring quality
of care for patients. A physician's peers who are members of the organization's
medical staff should conduct credentialing.  n29 The real issue is whether
economic credentialing is an appropriate tool for measuring a physician's
entitlement to hospital privileges or participation in an HMO when the physician
regularly meets objective medical quality standards, but because of factors
wholly unrelated to the quality of medical care provided, causes an adverse
economic drain on the hospital or HMO.  n30

    Typically, these economic factors relate to cost per covered life  [*443]
of the patient.  n31 Costs of medical care are easily quantifiable and provide
easy comparisons for measuring medical services. The proponents of economic
credentialing conveniently overlook the fact that such factors do not readily
risk-adjust for other than average patients.  n32

    The question is: who is an average patient? No patient can be accurately
classified as "average." Innumerable factors may reflect on patient care, as
each individual patient is unique. A physician can scrupulously follow clinical
practice guidelines. Nevertheless, patients may still develop unforeseen side
effects from the therapy, fail to respond, or develop unpredictable
complications. None of these occurrences relate to physician malpractice.

    A physician's case mix or types of cases based on the severity of each
patient's illness and "risk profile" may affect the physician's performance. As
the number of diseases or the severity of a given patient's illness increases,
the physician's care becomes more complicated. In all fairness, these factors
should be considered in evaluating that physician.  n33 In addition, each
physician's medical practice will also exhibit age and sex differences in its
patient population.  n34 These factors should also be considered as relevant in
computing the cost per covered life.  n35

    Both the California and New York State Medical Societies are ahead of other
states in developing economic criteria relevant to the quality of patient care.
These criteria are used as additional secondary evaluation factors, after
medical quality criteria, to credential or recredential a physician for
privileges in health care organizations.  n36 The California and New York models
include: clinically unnecessary treatment, inappropriate/excessive testing of
patients, and improper or improvident use of hospital resources that might have
an adverse economic impact on the hospital.  n37 These states reject irrelevant
criteria that do not relate to quality of care, such as: revenue per physician,
payor mix, and DRG profiling (comparing profitable DRG categories to
non-profitable DRG categories).  n38  [*444]

    Hospitals and HMOs also utilize physician profiling in such areas as patient
outcome and length of stay, comparing their findings to a norm. Further, they
try to compare physician behavior with other practices.  n39 The problem is that
no universally accepted norms for care or physician behavior have been
developed. Moreover, "quality of patient care" remains undefined.  n40

    Many health care institutions have developed standard practice guidelines
based on controlled clinical studies supplemented by data derived from patient
outcomes.  n41 Some institutions rely on these guidelines to regulate clinical
decision-making and to produce cost savings.  n42 At the very minimum,
physicians who do not follow the "cookbook style" of medicine (those who fail to
follow the practice guidelines) are required to justify any deviations from the
practice guidelines. Failure to provide justification may result in denial of
payments or sanctions.  n43 Large-scale studies have never validated these
practice guidelines because varied guidelines exist against which a particular
medical intervention is judged. Serious doubts have been expressed as to whether
these guidelines can properly identify the correct and appropriate medical
intervention. As a result, many diagnostic tests that would normally be
indicated are excluded because managed care deems them inappropriate.  n44

    Medical practice and patient care is indeed a science, but the fact remains
that the practice of medicine is an art, combining scientific knowledge with the
clinical experience of the physician. Most of the practice guidelines, however,
rely on a panel of experts  [*445]  who merely extrapolate data from studies
appearing in the medical literature. Typically, however, these experts are far
removed from the actual physician-patient encounter.  n45 Managed care
organizations should not coerce physicians into using economic guidelines to
decide medical issues. Rather, the guidelines should be voluntarily consulted to
inform medical decision making.  n46 To date, no proof exists that these
guidelines improve quality of care. Furthermore, large variations in medical
practice may cause physician error if he or she is forced to use these practice
guidelines.  n47 It is also doubtful that the full implementation of practice
guidelines would produce cost savings.  n48

    Because the data compiled by profiling patient outcomes and physician
behavior has been inadequate to assess the quality of care, health care
institutions, such as HMOs and third-party payors, have continued to focus on
the economics of patient care. Reliance on economic credentialing forces
physicians to implement guidelines designed to save money, without considering
the impact on the quality of health care provided.  n49 Economic credentialing
has troublesome implications for physicians who are treating patients with acute
or chronic illnesses that do not fit neatly within the parameters or guidelines
attendant to the economic credentialing model.  n50

    A study completed in 1987 conclusively demonstrates that financial
incentives do influence the behavior of physicians toward their patients.  n51
The study generally found that the use of financial incentives makes a
statistically significant difference in the length of patient stays,
illustrating a definite correlation between financial incentives and the number
of patient visits; namely, the greater the financial risk to the physician, the
fewer the visits by patients.  n52 Studies have observed that the use of
capitation  n53 or salaries for  [*446]  HMO physicians (compared to physicians
paid on a fee-for-service basis) resulted in physicians hospitalizing patients
less often in for-profit networks.  n54 Placing individual physicians at
personal financial risk, combined with the imposition of penalties for deficits
in HMO or hospital revenue, has resulted in significantly fewer outpatient
visits ordered by physicians.  n55 This reduced number of outpatient visits was
associated with a lower rate of hospitalization, because more frequent visits
lead to discovery of reasons to hospitalize the patient. Finally, it was found
that for-profit HMOs had lower rates of hospitalization than non-profit HMOs.
n56 Is it not evident that reliance on economic credentialing will undermine the
quality of medical care?

    Analysis

    Hospital Privileges

    A physician may not admit a patient to a hospital unless the hospital grants
the physician privileges.  n57 A special peer review committee within the
hospital reviews a physician's request for privileges. The committee reviews the
individual physician's credentials, including medical education, residency
training, board certification, and practical skills (i.e., the number of
procedures the physician has performed), and determines whether the physician
should be granted staff privileges. The extent of privileges granted to the
physician depends on his level of training, expertise, and staff speciality. For
instance, a physician trained in internal medicine would not be granted
privileges in cardiovascular surgery because an internist does not generally
possess this skill. The hospital would grant the internist privileges to
practice medicine within the hospital only to the level of his training and
expertise. The process by which the hospital determines which particular
physicians may receive hospital privileges is commonly known as credentialing or
peer review.  n58  [*447]

    Traditionally, the credentialing process focused on a number of criteria
relating to a physician's medical and clinical competency.  n59 Hospital
credentialing decisions have commonly been based on such criteria as the
physician's experience, ability, judgment and other related factors designed to
ensure quality medical care for the hospital patient.  n60 Prior to the recent
emergence of economic credentialing criteria, all physicians seeking hospital
privileges for the first time and those physicians seeking to maintain existing
privileges were subject to the same examination by a peer review committee to
ensure that physicians were competent and providing quality medical care.  n61

    In recent years, the health care market has undergone a significant
transformation, particularly due to increasing consolidation of hospitals and
health care systems and the emerging importance of managed care.  n62 The role
of managed care providers, such as HMOs, and governmental payors in modern
medical care, is pervasive. HMOs, insurance companies, and government medical
programs have the tremendous power to deprive prospective users of the
hospital's medical services.  n63 Government advocates see the HMO as an
attractive model because of its implicit incentive to maintain a low rate of
hospital admissions. Third-party payors view medical services as a commodity and
search for hospitals charging the lowest prices.  n64 Due to the overwhelming
leverage possessed by managed care corporations and government medical programs,
hospitals are subject to strict pricing rules and, therefore, cannot bargain or
negotiate the prices of medical services.  n65 Accordingly, the strictures
imposed by governmental HMOs and insurance company payors effectively transfer
the financial burdens, risks of loss, and other economic risks to hospitals and
physicians.  n66 The hospitals respond by developing practices, programs, and
incentives designed to alleviate the financial burden, ultimately shifting the
cost to the patient by decreasing the care received. Physicians, and ultimately
their patients, are thus penalized for increased utilization of  [*448]  medical
services and hospitalization.

    The financial pressures faced by hospitals have compelled them to evaluate
medical service providers on a cost-benefit basis. Increasingly, hospitals are
looking to economic credentialing to mitigate the financial pressures imposed by
governmental and insurance company payors. For example, hospitals are using
physician credentialing based on such factors as patient length of stay,
hospital reimbursement, referrals, consultations, number of tests ordered,
number of hospital admissions vis-a-vis outpatient services utilizations,
excessive testing, DRG, and other bottom line considerations.  n67

    Managed care corporations, such as HMOs and government payors, will soon
displace the traditional fee-for-service practice with capitation as the primary
method of reimbursement for medical services.  n68 The capitation reimbursement
system is generally the process of providing a fixed payment per patient per
month.  n69 Pursuant to the capitation system and other similar reimbursement
schemes, hospitals assume the financial risk from insurance company and
government payors.  n70 In turn, hospitals are compelled to impose financial and
economic pressure on doctors and other health care providers.  n71 The most
effective leverage available to the hospital is the physician credentialing
process. By imposing economic criteria on the physician credentialing process,
hospitals can create incentives for doctors to engage in more restrained and
conservative medical care practices.  n72

    Ethical and Legal Implications of Economic Credentialing

    Economic credentialing by hospitals poses severe ethical and legal
consequences that jeopardize the physician-patient relationship. Because a
physician must be aware of the financial and economic consideration associated
with a particular medical test, treatment, or care, it necessarily follows that
the patient's welfare may not always be the physician's primary concern.
Economic credentialing by hospitals creates inherent conflicting  [*449]
loyalties for the physician in that he or she must make a choice between the
patient's well being and the cost of diagnostic procedures and treatment options
that will be reflected in his or her peer review. Such conflict poses
significant ethical and legal ramifications for physicians and serious
consequences for the patients in their care. By reducing expenditures, promoting
efficiency, and decreasing hospitalization, managed care may, in some instances,
provide better treatment for some patients. It will likely decrease the quality
of life of other patients, however, because medical judgments will be based on
the economic consequences of the service required.  n73

    Ethical Issues

    The basis of the physician-patient relationship is the patient's belief that
a physician is wholly committed to serving his or her needs.  n74 The
Hippocratic oath states that physicians will do everything in their power to
help their patients.  n75 Society expects doctors to furnish a wide range of
services, appropriate diagnostic testing, and the best treatment necessary to
improve a patient's medical condition and quality of life.  n76 Economic
credentialing, however, creates two conflicting loyalties for the physician.

    First, physicians must balance the interests of their patients with the
interests of other patients.  n77 Under the fiscal realities of economic
credentialing, physicians have an obligation to keep expenses to a minimum by
limiting the use of medical services, increasing efficiency, shortening the time
spent with the patient, and using specialities very sparingly.  n78 Therefore,
the physician must decide whether to order a diagnostic test or procedure for a
patient, reserve such tests or procedures for another patient, or choose not to
order the test at all to comply with the fiscal profile established by the
hospital.  n79

    Second, the cost constraints inherent in economic credentialing compel
physicians to choose between the best interests of their  [*450]  patients and
their own economic survival.  n80 An unfortunate by-product of such conflict is
a likely reduction in the quality of care. This is true because it is likely
that doctors will increasingly limit the services and procedures they provide or
fail in their role as a patient advocate by excluding or rationing care for
acute patients.  n81 Economic credentialing pushes physicians into excruciating
quandaries as they deceive themselves into thinking that what they are doing is
best for the patient when, in fact, they are deciding not to treat the patient
based on their own economic survival.  n82

    Legal Issues

    Presently, no state or federal appellate decisions have specifically
addressed the issue of economic credentialing. Accordingly, this Comment focuses
on potential legal issues arising from economic credentialing. In Rosenblum v.
Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center,  n83 a Florida trial court
affirmed a hospital's decision to deny staff privileges to a reputable and
skillful surgeon whose medical qualifications were beyond reproach, strictly
because of economic factors.  n84 In Rosenblum, the hospital denied the
physician privileges in its cardiac department solely because he had a
relationship with a competing hospital. The hospital did not base the denial on
the physician's quality of care, but rather on the economic consequences of his
professional behavior. The state court judge determined that economic
credentialing was a valid basis for denying hospital privileges under Florida
law.

    Another potentially negative legal implication related to economic
credentialing involves situations in which a class of patients or a medical
specialty is a money-loser for the hospital and, therefore, does not meet the
hospital's fiscal criteria. The hospital may consider discontinuing or limiting
certain medical services, thereby reducing the utility of certain physicians'
hospital privileges. Under these circumstances, however, the hospital may be
vulnerable to allegations of antitrust or restraint of trade.  n85 The Health
Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986  n86 provides limited  [*451]  antitrust
immunity for participants in medical staff peer reviews. This immunity, however,
does not extend to a credentialing decision based solely upon economic
considerations.  n87

    Economic credentialing may implicate a new form of informed consent. Under
the doctrine of medical malpractice, physicians may be held liable for
inadequate disclosure in obtaining consent for medical procedure. Likewise,
under economic credentialing, physicians also face potential liability for
failing to disclose to the patient any direct or indirect financial or economic
incentives they may have for limiting testing and treatment.  n88 Such a
scenario would raise an interesting conundrum for physicians: should they inform
their patients of available diagnostic tests, alternative treatments, and
clinical options to allow patients to elect the best course of medical action;
or should they disclose the economic and financial constraints that managed care
imposes upon them?  n89 Failure to make either disclosure may expose the
physician to liability.  n90

    A legitimate objective of health care policy is to promote the improvement
of the quality of patient care.  n91 Because economic credentialing defines a
physician's qualifications based on economic criteria unrelated to competency,
it is an illegitimate public policy objective.  n92 With economic credentialing,
hospitals and HMOs place the interests of health care corporations before the
interests of the public.  n93

    Conclusion

    In recent years, the rising cost of health care has resulted in a complete
overhaul of the practice of medicine. Due to the increasing financial burden
transferred by the government, HMOs, and insurance company payors, hospitals are
seeking ways to impose financial discipline on physicians to further contain
costs. Hospitals have already found effective means of controlling physician
behavior through the traditional peer review process.   [*452]

    Hospitals and HMOs are expanding the peer review process beyond traditional
quality of care criteria such as competence, experience, and skill to include
financial and economic factors. Under an economic credentialing policy, a
physician may be excluded for treating too many poor people, having too many
acutely ill patients, or simply for providing thorough and effective medical
care.

    Significantly, economic credentialing raises a host of potential ethical and
legal issues. The failure of hospitals to recognize the potential legal and
ethical consequences of economic credentialing may ultimately pose the greatest
risk to patients. Although hospitals must continue to be cognizant of the
inherent tension between quality medical care and bottom line business
considerations, a meaningful effort must be made to prevent economic criteria
from serving as the exclusive mechanism for defining medical care.

    The AMA opposes economic credentialing. Nearly all physicians agree that
economic credentialing is unprofessional and unethical. These physicians would
like to use medical competence as the only standard for credentialing a
physician.  n94 California hospitals and physicians have drafted a mutual
agreement on economic credentialing as an alternative to legislative changes.
Their statement reads: "Termination or granting of medical staff privileges
based solely on economic criteria unrelated to clinical qualifications,
professional responsibilities or quality of care is inappropriate."  n95 Because
economic credentialing is still in its infancy, many states have not addressed
this issue.

    California was the first state to embrace managed care, and HMOs have been
in business in California for many years. California Representative, Fortney
Stark, Jr., is frustrated by the obstacles he had to overcome before his
grandson could see a pediatrician. His solution, the "Managed Care Consumer
Protection Act of 1997," H.R. 337, addresses the financial constraints placed on
physicians by managed care.  n96 Under his bill, no denial of medical services
would be upheld unless it was issued by a physician reviewer who is clinically
qualified within the same specialty as the recommending physician.  n97  [*453]

    In 1996, thirty-five states enacted legislation to protect health care
consumers and physicians, aimed at tightening the reins of managed care
corporations, such as HMOs. Economic credentialing of physicians should be added
to the list of issues included in any list of necessary legislative reforms. The
issues now under review include: gag clauses that prevent physicians from
informing patients of more costly beneficial treatment options, deselection of
physicians by HMOs without just cause, and reimbursement for emergency room
visits if a lay person believes the visit is justified.  n98 Physicians need to
meet with legislators and lobby for their profession and patients. Most
physicians believe that the goals of health care reform should include universal
access and reasonable cost control. Policy makers, however, should not interfere
with the integrity of the physician-patient relationship and turn this
relationship into a market arrangement.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawManaged
HealthcareHealth Maintenance OrganizationsInsurance LawClaims &
ContractsPremiumsRefunds

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Vergil N. Slee, M.D., Health Care Terms 34 (1st ed. 1986). "Credentialing"
describes the process of granting physicians hospital privileges in accordance
with their medical credentials. Id. These credentials include: medical diplomas,
state licenses, and specialty certifications. Supplemental credentials examined
include: academic preparation, training, and performance at other hospitals. Id.
Granting of privileges or an "appointment" to a hospital is the responsibility
of the hospital's governing body. This group normally follows the recommendation
of the medical staff organization that appoints the physician after the
hospital's credentials committee has verified and investigated the physician's
credentials. Id.




n2  The American Medical Association ("AMA") defines "economic credentialing" as
the "use of economic criteria unrelated to quality of care or professional
competency in determining an individual's qualifications for initial or
continuing medical staff membership or privileges." See AMA, Economic
Credentialing, Report of the Hospital Medical Staff Section Governing Council
Report Q (1993).




n3  John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing Moves from the Hospital to Managed
Care, 22 J. Health Care Fin. 65 (1995).




n4  Robert G. Shouldice & Katherine H. Shouldice, Medical Group Practice 1-11
(1978).




n5  Marc A. Rodwin, J.D., Ph.D., Medicine, Money and Morals 13 (1993).




n6  Jeff C. Goldsmith, Ph.D., Managed Care Comes of Age, Healthcare Forum J.
14-16 (Sep./Oct. 1995). See also Shouldice, supra note 4, at 4-12.




n7  Pub. L. No. 89-97, 79 Stat. 290 (1965). Title XVIII established a two-part
program of health insurance for the aged known as Medicare. Patients are
eligible to participate in Medicare, Part A (the hospital insurance program), if
they: (1) are 65 or older and are receiving retirement benefits under Title II
of the Social Security Act or the Railroad Retirement Act, (2) qualify under a
special program for persons with end-stage kidney disease, or (3) qualify under
the special transitional program. Persons not qualifying, but who are over 65,
may participate by paying premiums. Anyone aged 65 or older, who is a United
States citizen or has been a permanent resident alien for 5 years may elect to
enroll in Medicare, Part B (a supplementary medical insurance). Id.

    Medicare covers services provided by a physician to a beneficiary. Claims
must be presented to trigger reimbursement under Part A; reimbursement is a
prospectively determined amount per discharge according to the patient's
diagnosis and the facilities location. See Pub. L. No. 98-21, 97 Stat. 65 (1983)
as amended by Pub. L. No. 98-369, 98 Stat. 1073 (1984); 42 C.F.R. Sections
405.470-405.477 (1988). Medicaid is a joint federal state program designed to
provide medical assistance to individuals unable to afford health care. Id.

    States are not required to have Medicaid programs (Title XIX of the Social
Security Act).

    Medicaid is different from Medicare in that it provides medical assistance
to persons in financial need, whereas Medicare only has an age limit of 65 or
older without regard to financial need. See Sandy Sanbar, M.D., Ph.D., J.D., et
al., Legal Med. 663-71 (3rd ed. 1995).




n8  Rodwin, supra note 5, at 11.




n9  Id.




n10  Id.




n11  Id.




n12  National Center for Health Statistics, Health-United States, DHHS Pub. No.
(PHS) 84-1232, U.S. G.P.O. (Dec. 1983).




n13  Rodwin, supra note 5, at 13.




n14  Id. at 13-14.




n15  Id.




n16  David O. Weber, Second Thoughts: Can Managed Care Be Ethical? 40 Healthcare
Forum J. 17-24 (1997).




n17  Rodwin, supra note 5, at 14.




n18  Id.




n19  Id. at 17.




n20  Goldsmith, supra note 6, at 16-19.




n21  Id. at 18-20.




n22  Id. at 18-23.




n23  Brad Dallet, Economic Credentialing: Your Money or Your Life!, 4 Health

    Matrix 330 (1994).




n24  Nathan Hershey, L.L.B., Economic Credentialing: A Poor Title for a
Legitimate

    Assessment Concept, 9 American College of Med. Quality 3 (1994).




n25  Deborah S. Kolb, Randall L. Hughes, & C. Edward Young, Economic
Credentialing, 19 Top Healthcare Fin. 59 (1993).




n26  Peter R. Kongstveldt, M.D., The Managed Health Care Handbook 563 (1996). A
"DRG" is a statistical system of classifying by diagnosis any inpatient stay in
an institution, such as a hospital, for purposes of payment. This form of
reimbursement is used by the Health Care Financing Agency to pay hospitals for
care of Medicare recipients. The DRG system has also been applied by a few
states to all insurance payors. Id. It is also used by many private health plans
(usually non-HMOs) for contracting purposes. Id.




n27  Donald Snook, Jr. & Kathryn M. Ruck, A Guide to Hospital Words, Terms &
Phrases 46-47 (1988). A "utilization review committee" is comprised of
physicians, nurses, and administrators. It reviews the medical records of
current and discharged patients in order to determine the medical necessity for
their treatment and hospital stay. "Utilization review denial" is defined as a
denial of continued hospitalization and/or admission to the hospital based on
the interdisciplinary review committee's determination that the patient's
hospital admission, the services provided, the length of stay or the hospital's
discharge practices created unnecessary costs. Utilization review is required by
the Joint Commission for Accreditation of Hospital Organizations ("JCAHO"),
Medicare, Medicaid, and other third-party payors and agencies. Id.




n28  Slee, supra note 1, at 66. An "incident" is an event occurring in the
hospital in which a patient is injured, due to the alleged negligence of the
hospital. Sometimes this event is called an "adverse patient occurrence," a
broader term that includes unexpected results of a patient's treatment as well
as accidents. Id.




n29  Hershey, supra note 24, at 4.




n30  Howard L. Lang, M.D., Economic Credentialing - Why It Must Be Stopped, 5
The Med. Staff Counselor 19-20 (1991). See also Kolb, et al., supra note 25, at
59-61.




n31  Id.




n32  David Palmer, Clinical Practice Guidelines, 99 Pediatrics 101-06 (1997).




n33  Kongstveldt, supra note 26, at 440-49.




n34  Id.




n35  Id. at 448.




n36  Id.




n37  Id.




n38  Konigsveldt, supra note 26, at 448. See also supra note 26. "DRG" is a
prospective payment system for reimbursing hospitals that is based on a system
of "Diagnostic Related Groups." Id. Under DRG, the hospital is reimbursed a
fixed fee for each patient admitted. Id. Reimbursement is based on one
diagnosis, even if the patient has multiple active medical problems requiring
hospitalization. Id. Regardless of the expense of treatment or the length of
stay, the hospital receives only a single DRG payment based on one diagnosis.
Id. "DRG profiling" refers to choosing the proper diagnosis, thereby allowing
the hospital to request reimbursement from Medicare. Id. "Profitable DRGs" are
simple medical problems that are easily diagnosed, resulting in a short hospital
stay for the patient. Id.

    When the diagnosis is in doubt, the physician desires to perform procedures
or tests to aid in proper diagnosis and treatment of the patient. This process
is clearly opposed to the hospital's desire to keep expenses down by using
minimal resources to diagnose and treat the patient. Hospitals and HMOs,
therefore, have resorted to economic credentialing of individual physicians to
lower the expense of health care and increase their profit margins. Id.




n39  Id.




n40  Jerome P. Kassirer, M.D., The Quality of Care and the Quality of Measuring
It, 329 New Eng. J. Med. 1263-64 (1993).




n41  Id. at 1263.




n42  Id.




n43  Id.




n44  Id.




n45  Kassirer, supra note 40, at 1263.




n46  Id. at 1263-64.




n47  Id. at 1264.




n48  Id.




n49  Palmer, supra note 32, at 108-109.




n50  Id. See also Lang, supra note 30, at 22-24.




n51  Alan L. Hillman, M.D., Mark V. Pauly, Ph.D., & Joseph J. Kerstein, How Do
Financial Incentives Affect Physicians' Clinical Decisions and the Financial
Performance of Health Maintenance Organizations? 321 New Eng. J. Med. 86 (1989).




n52  Id. at 89-91.




n53  Kongstveldt, supra note 26, at 989. "Capitation" refers to a set amount of
money received or paid out based on membership in a managed care or insurance
plan, not on the professional services rendered. It also refers to a fixed low
monthly plan payment (usually ranging between $ 7 and $ 10 per patient) received
by the physician whether or not the patient received services. This fee covers
all of the patient's health care services. If a patient's care exceeds the
capitation payment set by the managed health care plan, the physician becomes
personally liable to the plan for the excess patient expenses.




n54  Id.




n55  Id.




n56  Id.




n57  Dallet, supra note 23, at 329.




n58  Id. at 329-30. See also Joint Comm'n on Accreditation of Healthcare Orgs.,
The Accreditation Manual for Hospitals 53 (1993).




n59  See generally Elizabeth A. Snelson, J.D., The Price of Profitability -
Economic Credentialing Can Threaten Health Care Quality, 76 Minn. Med. 37-39
(1993).




n60  Dallet, supra note 23, at 330.




n61  Id. at 330-31.




n62  Hershey, supra note 24, at 4-5.




n63  Id. at 4. See also Rodwin, supra note 5, at 4.




n64  Id at 4-5.




n65  Id. at 5.




n66  Id.




n67  Blum, supra note 3. See also Snelson, supra note 59, at 37-38.




n68  John D. Blum, The Evolution of Physician Credentialing into Managed Care
Contracting, 22 Am. J. Law and Med. 174-77 (1996).




n69  Id. at 175.




n70  Blum, supra note 3, at 66-67.




n71  Id. at 66-68.




n72  Blum, supra note 3, at 66-67.




n73  Marc A. Rodwin, Conflicts in Managed Care, 332 New Eng. J. Med. 604-05
(1995).




n74  Council Report of the AMA Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs, Ethical
Issues in Managed Care, 273 JAMA 331 (1995).




n75  Id.




n76  Jerome P. Kassirer, Managed Care and the Morality of the Market Place, 333
New Eng. J. Med. 50-51 (1995).




n77  Council Report, supra note 74, at 331-32.




n78  Kassirer, supra note 76, at 50.




N79  Council Report, supra note 74, at 331.




n80  Kassirer, supra note 76, at 50-51.




n81  Id. See also Council Report, supra note 74, at 331-333.




n82  Kassirer, supra note 76, at 50-52.




n83  No. 91-589 (Cir. Ct. Leon County, Fla., filed June 22, 1992) (unpublished
decision).




n84  Rosenblum, No. 91-589 (Cir. Ct. Leon County, Fla., filed June 22, 1992).




n85  Kolb, et al., supra note 25, at 62-64; See also Dallet, supra note 23, at
353-62.




n86  Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, Sec. 402, 42 U.S.C. § 11101-52
(1988).




n87  Dallet, supra note 23, at 360-61.




n88  Rodwin, supra note 73, at 605-06.




n89  Id.




n90  Marc A. Rodwin, Physicians' Conflicts of Interest: The Limitations of
Disclosure, 321 New Eng. J. Med. (1989); See also generally Marcia Angell, The
Doctor as Double Agent, 3 Kennedy Inst. of Ethics J. 279-286 (1993).




n91  See generally Dallet, supra note 23, at 325-63.




n92  Id. at 347.




n93  Id.




n94  Daniel B. Moskowitz, First, Do No Harm. Second, Turn A Profit, 4 J. Am.
Health Care 33 (1994).




n95  Id.




n96  See generally Weber, supra note 16.




n97  Id.




n98  Id.


                              18 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 14, 2010 Sunday

Iowa relies on hospitals' economic impact

BYLINE: Rex L. Troute, The Hawk Eye, Burlington, Iowa

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 572 words


Mar. 14--A study by the Iowa Hospital Association reveals how large of an impact
southeast Iowa's hospitals make on their local economies. The IHA study examined
the jobs, income, retail sales and sales tax produced by hospitals and the rest
of the state's health-care sector in 2008.

Great River Medical Center's footprint in Des Moines County proved to be large
by the numbers. The West Burlington facility generated 2,689 jobs and added
$104,778,689 to Des Moines County's annual economy according to the 2008 study.
Great River Medical Center employees spent $36,817,603 on retail sales and
contributed $2,209,056 in state sales-tax revenue.

Henry County Health Center in Mount Pleasant generated 392 jobs that added
$17,790,537 to Henry County's economy. HCHC employees spent $4,740,563 on retail
sales and contributed $284,434 in state sales tax revenue.

"The health sector is vitally important to Henry County's economy. In addition
to providing Henry County residents with quality and compassionate care, we
contribute to the economy as a community employer that employs a significant
number of area residents," said Robb Gardner, CEO of HCHC. "An increase or
decrease in activity in the health sector will greatly affect the medical and
economic health of the community. In order to attract new business, industry and
residents to our area, it is crucial that we are able to provide high quality
health services."

The numbers have been combined for Lee County by Keokuk Area Hospital and Fort
Madison Community Hospital. The two facilities provided 899 jobs and generated
the creation of another 567 jobs in 2008. The hospitals' total economic impact
on Lee County was $57,638,059. Their employees generated $16,519,811 in taxable
retail sales.

The IHA study revealed that Iowa's hospitals employed 74,027 people and created
another 73,953 jobs outside the hospital sector. The hospitals provided $3.65
billion in salaries and benefits, and generated another $2.5 billion through
other jobs that depend on hospitals.

Between 2004 and 2008, Iowa hospitals added 4,611 employees and more than $747
million to their payrolls.

More than one-fifth of Iowa's employment, 354,907 jobs, came from the
health-care sector. Along with hospitals, the employers include clinicians,
pharmacies, long-term care services, assisted living centers, and other medical
and health services.

"Iowa enjoys the economic security that comes with having one of the finest
health-care systems in the nation," said Kirk Norris, IHA president and CEO.
"Iowa hospitals are at the foundation of Iowa's economy, and remain major
employers and business partners in all parts of the state. Just as no one
provides the services and community benefits found at our hospitals, there is
also no substitute for the jobs hospitals provide and create."

The study was compiled from hospital-submitted information on the American
Hospital Association's annual survey of hospitals, and from software used by
other industries to determine hospitals' economic impact.

To see more of The Hawk Eye or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thehawkeye.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Hawk Eye, Burlington, Iowa
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100314-QW-Iowa-relies-on-hospitals-economic-impact-0314

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QW


                          Copyright 2010 The Hawk Eye


                              19 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                              April 1, 2016 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

REPORT TOUTS HOSPITALS' IMPACT;
BILLIONS PUT INTO AUGUSTA ECONOMY

BYLINE:  DAMON CLINE  STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 878 words


A recent report by Georgia's largest hospital trade association shows the
industry pumped more than $43.6 billion into the state's economy in 2014.

Based on information recently provided by some local hospitals, a significant
portion of that total can be attributed to Augusta's massive health care
industry.

The Georgia Hospital Association said all hospitals in its state survey directly
employed

160,000 Georgians on a full- and part-time basis and indirectly created 364,000
full-time jobs in other Georgia industries through a ripple effect.

Association spokesman Kevin Bloye said it disclosed individual hospital details
only to the hospitals themselves, giving them final say on whether to release
them.

"We just publicize the aggregate data, which shows that each one of these
facilities are integral to the state and local economy there," he said.

The association calculates the impact figures by running direct hospital
expenditures through an economic multiplier developed by the U.S. Department of
Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis.

Augusta has eight hospitals: two affiliated with the federal government; two
speciality facilities; one academic medical center; one community-based
nonprofit health system; one private for-profit and one faith-based.

The two largest hospitals, Augusta University Medical Center and University
Hospital, issued statements following on the association's study. Doctors
Hospital provided its figures when asked. The economic impact of the three was

$2.6 billion.

Four of the remaining five hospitals declined to respond to information
requests, while the fifth said it was not included in the report.

The market's largest health system in terms of economic impact, the
state-affiliated AU Medical Center, disclosed that its economic impact in 2014
was $1.2 billion - $1.3 billion if its partnership with the state's Roosevelt
Warm Springs Rehabilitation and Specialty Hospitals were combined.

"While our health system prides itself on being the hospital that meets the
critical health care needs for this area, we are equally proud to be a major
regional employer and a business partner to many, contributing countless added
benefits to the Georgia economy," said Shawn Vincent, the medical center's
interim chief operating officer.

He said the trade group's report noted that the hospital provided nearly

$50 million in uncompensated care and sustained more than 7,800 full-time jobs
in Augusta and elsewhere.

A news release from University Hospital said it generated an $849.6 million
impact, with more than 6,700 employees and $33 million in uncompensated care.

James Davis, the president and CEO of University Health Care System, said the
company's

$371.8 million in direct expenditures included facility investments such as a $9
million renovation of the hospital's Orthopaedic & Spine Center. And though it
wasn't reflected in the report, the hospital's board in February approved a $30
million renovation/expansion of its emergency department and $7 million in
equipment upgrades.

"As Augusta's only locally owned not-for-profit hospital, University reinvests
all revenue in excess of expenses back into the hospital and satellite
facilities to ensure all residents have access to the latest technology," he
said. "We are easily one of the best equipped health systems in the state."

When contacted, Doctors Hospital in west Augusta issued a statement reporting
its economic impact at

$549 million, with more than 1,600 employees. As part of the for-profit,
Nashville-based Hospital Corp. of America network, it reported paying more than
$23.2 million in local, state and federal taxes and providing $21.1 million in
uncompensated care.

"The loyalty of our patients, staff and physicians is the main reason we are
able to have such a major impact on our local economy," Doctors Hospital
President and CEO Doug Welch said in a statement. "We judge success based more
on the lives we improve and save, but we know the money we put into the economy
helps our area, too."

Augusta's Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center wasn't included in the report,
according to hospital spokesman Brian Rothwell. He said the downtown facility
employs more than

2,500.

Requests for information from the city's other federally affiliated hospital,
Eisenhower Army Medical Center, the on-post hospital at Fort Gordon, went
unanswered Thursday, as did requests to Trinity Hospital, a private
Catholic-affiliated hospital in the Summerville area; Select Speciality
Hospital, a specialized acute care facility in the medical district; and
HealthSouth Walton Rehabilitation Hospital, an inpatient rehabilitation facility
in the medical district.

Facilities on the South Carolina side of the Augusta metro area were not
included in the report.

Reach Damon Cline at (706) 823-3352

or damon.cline@augustachronicle.com

ECONOMIC IMPACT IN AUGUSTA AREA

Hospital Employment Impact

Augusta University Medical Center 7,800 $1.2 billion

University Hospital 6,700 $849.6 million

Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center 2,500 Not in report

Doctors Hospital 1,600 $549 million

Eisenhower Army Medical Center* N/A N/A

Trinity Hospital* N/A N/A

HealthSouth Walton Rehabilitation Hospital* N/A N/A

Select Specialty Hospital* N/A N/A

* Did not respond

Source: Georgia Hospital Association, local hospitals

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times (Munster, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 30, 2011 Friday

Munster hospital highlights economic impact in report

BYLINE: Kathleen Quilligan, The Times, Munster, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 291 words


Sept. 30--MUNSTER -- In an economic impact report released this week, Franciscan
Physicians Hospital announced it has a $57 million impact on the community.

"Franciscan Physicians Hospital is critical to the economic viability of our
community," the report said. "(It) is a major source of employment and purchaser
of goods and services, while providing health care that allows people to be
productive citizens."

The 63-bed hospital, which opened in 1994, became part of the Franciscan
Alliance in 2007. Formally a for-profit, physician-hospital partnership, the
hospital paid $911,118 in sales tax and property tax revenue.

"We feel it's important to educate the community on the impact we have,"
hospital President Barb Greene said. "Without us here, that economic base would
be gone."

Last year, the hospital had 857 inpatient visits and 7,699 outpatient visits.
The hospital provides 200 jobs to the community including 151 health care
professionals. The total payroll for the hospital is $17.7 million and the
report indicates employees invest that money back in the local economy by buying
items such as groceries, clothing and rent creating about 90 additional jobs in
the community.

The report also states the hospital spent about $38.9 million in supply
purchases and just less than $1 million in capital spending.

Greene said the final sentence of the report, which asks for continued support
and investment from legislators and Congress, is related to the health care
reform legislation signed in March 2010.

"A lot has been delegated back to the states," Greene said. "We want to continue
to have high-quality care."

___ (c)2011 The Times (Munster, Ind.) Visit The Times (Munster, Ind.) at
www.nwitimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110930-MU-Munster-hospital-highlights-economic
-impact-in-report-20110930

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MU


                            Copyright 2011 The Times


                              21 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Albany Herald (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             May 4, 2016 Wednesday

GHA study finds Phoebe Putney Health System generates $1.2 billion economic
revenue

BYLINE: The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 590 words


May 04--ALBANY -- Phoebe Putney Health System generated more than $1.2 billion
in revenue for the local and state economy in 2014, according to a recent report
by the Georgia Hospital Association.

The report by the state's largest hospital trade association determined that the
health system provided nearly $60 million in community benefit while supporting
more than 10,000 full-time jobs in Southwest Georgia and the state that year.

"A hospital is an important part of a community's infrastructure, and this
report shows that Phoebe continues to have an enormous positive impact on
Southwest Georgia's economy by providing steady job growth while improving the
health and wellness of the communities we serve," Joel Wernick, president/CEO of
Phoebe Putney Health System, said.

Phoebe had direct expenditures of more than $531 million in 2014, according to
the report. Combined with the economic multiplier developed by the U.S.
Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total economic impact
was more than $ 1.2 billion.

The multiplier takes into account the ripple effect direct hospital expenditures
have on other parts of the economy, such as medical supplies, durable medical
equipment and pharmaceuticals. Economic multipliers are used to model the
resulting impact of a change in one industry on the "circular flow" of spending
within an economy as a whole.

"We are very appreciative of the ongoing support our local hospitals receive,
and we will continue to work hard to ensure the residents in the communities we
serve have access to the best and highest quality health care," Wernick said.

With medical facilities throughout the state facing concerns about economic
challenges such as Medicare and Medicaid payments and a fast-growing uninsured
population, PPHS in 2014 provided $59.8 million in community benefits, including
charity and uncompensated care.

Health System hospitals included in the report were Phoebe Putney Memorial
Hospital, Phoebe Sumter Medical Center, Phoebe Worth Medical Center and
Southwest Georgia Regional Medical Center. A breakdown of the economic impact of
each in 2014, according to GHA, shows (community benefit numbers include charity
and uncompensated care):

-- Phoebe Putney Memorial generated a total economic impact of more than $1
billion on $461.2 million in direct expenditures. The hospital supported 7,974
full-time jobs while also providing nearly $50 million in community benefits;

-- Phoebe Sumter in Americus generated a total economic impact of more than $126
million on $55.3 million in direct expenditures. The hospital supported 1,025
full-time jobs while also providing more than $7.6 million in community
benefits;

-- Phoebe Worth in Sylvester generated a total economic impact of more than
$18.8 million on $8.2 million in direct expenditures. The hospital supported 538
full-time jobs while also providing nearly $2 million in community benefits.

-- Southwest Georgia Regional in Cuthbert, which is managed by Phoebe, generated
a total economic impact of more than $14 million on $6.1 million in direct
expenditures. The hospital supported 513 full-time jobs while also providing
approximately $1.2 million in community benefits.

Statewide, GHA said Georgia hospitals in 2014 generated nearly $43.6 billion for
the state's economy, provided nearly $1.8 billion in uncompensated and charity
care, and supported more than 364,800 full-time jobs.

___ (c)2016 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20160504-1AH-GHA-study-finds-Phoebe-Putney-Health-System-generates-1.2-billion-
economic-revenue-0504-20160504

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                        Copyright 2016 The Albany Herald


                              22 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Americus Times Recorder (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday

Mandy Young: New Community and Economic development director

BYLINE: Robert Griffin, Americus Times-Recorder, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


May 21--AMERICUS -- Hometown pride and economic development are things that
Mandy Young learned from an early age. Young is the new Community and Economic
Development Director for the City of Americus.

The Community and Economic development director plans, directs, and manages the
operation of community development. This includes housing, zoning, writing and
applying for grants, downtown development, economic development as a whole,
marketing, and historic preservation.

Young is a 2001 graduate of the University of Georgia where she obtained a
degree in Speech Communications. She started her career with the City of
Americus later that year with the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) as the
main street manager. Young worked with the DDA until 2005 when she was hired as
the director of Customer service for Sumter Regional Hospital.

After the tornado of 2007, Young became the recovery campaign coordinator for
the hospital, where she became an intregal part of the hospitals effort to
rebuild in the aftermath of the storm. During this time, Young served as the
hospitals liason to representatives associated with FEMA, GEMA, and federal
lobbyists.

The next year Young took over as the director of physician relations for the
hospital. Her job entails managing the hospitals physician recruitment and
retention programs and activities.

Young's new position with the city is allowing her to return to her passion and
to help the city she loves. "I love what Im doing at the hospital, but this
position is a great opportunity to help the community as a whole," said Young, "
instead of just in one aspect."

My passion is in economic recruitment. my job here at the hospital is physician
recruitment and retention, which is a form of economic development. I reallly
knew that I wanted to get back into the economic development side of things, I
just didnt know when, so when Angela Davis (the previous holder of this
position) called me and let me know that she was resigning I knew immediatly
that I would apply for this position. "I have a lot of ideas for further
developing the economic development side, I plan to meet with the other economic
players in town, the coc director, PDA, chamber, and just see how we can all
work together and get the same goal."

To see more of the Americus Times-Recorder, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.americustimesrecorder.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Americus
Times-Recorder, Ga. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090521-AF-Mandy-Young-New-Community-and-Economic
-development-director-0521

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AF


                                 Copyright 2009


                              23 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             March 27, 2009 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

STUDY DETAILS HOSPITAL BENEFITS

BYLINE: The Capital Times

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 288 words


They add significantly to communities' economic health, a new report says.

Hospitals are good for a community's economic health, according to a study
released Thursday by the University of Wisconsin Extension and the Wisconsin
Hospital Association.

The report on the state's 145 hospitals showed the facilities generated $22
billion in economic activity and employed more than 100,000 people.

Hospitals were among the top 10 employers in 44 of the state's 72 counties and
among the top five employers in 20 counties, said Andrew Lewis, community
development specialist with the Center for Community and Economic Development at
the UW-Extension.

The study found a strong health-care network adds to a community's
attractiveness as a place to live, work and retire.

"As baby boomers age, more Wisconsin families will base their decision on where
to retire on the availability of quality health care," the study said.
"Wisconsin consistently is among the top-ranking states in health-care quality."

The study also said in addition to a 100,000-plus workforce, hospitals
indirectly are responsible for 90,000 more jobs in Wisconsin through purchases
of goods and services, with the ripple effect of hospitals accounting for $22
billion in business a year.

A hospital in a rural setting also acts as a magnet for other essential
services, said Matthew Kures of the UW-Extension.

"Rural hospitals provide an anchor for other health-care jobs, such as
physicians and pharmacists, that, in the absence of the hospital, may not be
available," Kures said.

"Communities we work with cite the inability to attract and retain college
graduates, but hospitals are able to provide employment for these individuals
and help stem the so-called brain drain."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 8, 1993, Friday, City Edition

CEOs told economy is picking up

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 858 words



Chief executives of the nation's largest corporations were told Thursday that
the lackluster economic performance during the first half of this year was a
temporary setback and that growth already had picked up.

Senior economic advisers to the 111 active and retired chief executives
attending the meeting of the elite Business Council in Williamsburg, Va.,
forecast an economic growth rate of 3.1 percent during the second half of this
year and in 1994.

That's more than double the first half's 1.3 percent growth rate in the  gross
domestic product, the sum of all goods and services produced in the  United
States.

Meanwhile, corporate expectations for higher sales and profits in the  fourth
quarter of 1993 rose from a year ago, the Dun & Bradstreet Corp. said  Thursday.
Its quartely poll of about 3,000 U.S. executives also showed that  some of the
optimism expressed in this year's third quarter had waned because  of
uncertainties surrounding upcoming fiscal and health care policy decisions.

HOSPITAL COMPANIES FORM ALLIANCE. Columbia Healthcare Corp., a fast-growing
hospital company, has forged an alliance with Medical Care America Inc., which
runs outpatient surgery centers in a move that further integrates their health
care offerings. The announcement Thursday came less than a week after  Columbia,
the nation's largest for-profit hospital chain, said it would  acquire HCA-
Hospital Corp. of America in a $ 5.7-billion stock-swap deal.

ROBERD'S WILL OPEN IN SEMINOLE. Roberd's Inc., a Dayton, Ohio-based  consumer
electronics and furniture retailer with four stores in Tampa Bay, has  signed a
lease to take over a vacant Kmart in Seminole. The 87,000-square-foot  store on
Seminole Boulevard at Park Boulevard will be remodeled into Roberd's  latest
prototype store. It will be one-third bigger than other Roberd's stores  in the
area when it opens in mid-November.

PEPSI HOAX COSTLY. Pepsi-Cola Co. estimated Thursday that a syringe hoax
earlier this year cost the soft drink marketer and its bottlers about  $
35-million in lost sales and increased expenses. But the company said its
overall sales including new products were up 7 percent in July and August, the
biggest gains for Pepsi products in the two key summer months in five years.

PER CAPITA INCOME GROWS. The growth of Americans' per capita income  accelerated
in 1992, growing 4.9 percent nationally last year. The income  growth exceeded
inflation in all but seven states: Florida, where it was up  just 2.6 percent;
Delaware, 2.7 percent; California and Hawaii, 2.9 percent  each; Alaska, 3.2
percent; Maryland, 3.6 percent; and Wyoming, 3.7 percent.

LORENZO DECISION TO BE RECONSIDERED. The Transportation Department ordered  one
of its administrative law judges Thursday to reconsider a recommendation  that
Frank Lorenzo be barred from operating a new discount airline. The  department
told Judge Richard L. Barton Jr. to reopen public hearings in the  case and
develop a more complete record on Lorenzo's bid to launch a new  carrier, ATX
Inc.

VALUE LINE TO RATE MUTUALS. Value Line, publisher of the nation's largest
independent investment advisory service, announced Thursday that it was
launching a rating and reporting service on mutual funds. The mutual fund
service, which also includes a monthly newsletter, costs $ 295 a year, and will

 compete with the well-established Morningstar Mutual Funds service, based in
Chicago.

NEW LAYOFFS NUMBER FALLS. The Labor Department said Thursday the number of
newly laid off Americans fell by 9,000 last week to 320,000, the lowest level
in more than nine months. It was the second straight decline and the seventh  in
the last 10 weeks.

PLANT TO DEMONSTRATE CLEANUP METHODS. The U.S. Department of Energy plant  in
Largo will be the first agency facility to participate in a program
demonstrating various innovative environmental cleanup methods. The department
will provide data on proven technologies that have not yet achieved widespread
acceptance in the private sector in an effort to accelerate their use. The
plant, operated by Martin Marietta Corp., makes components for nuclear weapons
and is scheduled to stop production in 1995.

RETAIL SALES REBOUND. Sales at the nation's major retailers rebounded in
September from the prior month's dismal start for the back-to-school season.
The Salomon Brothers retail index rose 5.6 percent last month from a year ago,
based on reports released Thursday.

TOOJAY'S REORGANIZES. The two partners who fashioned TooJay's into a
Florida-style New York deli chain with a 300-item menu have split up. Hal
McGeorge, a former Wendy's International executive who is bringing the chain  to
Tampa Bay, will be the new president of the West Palm Beach chain. The deal
means McGeorge's franchise operation in Tampa Bay will be folded into a
reorganized TooJay's International headed by TooJay's other founder, Marc
Katzenberg. TooJay's opened in Clearwater this summer and will open in St.
Petersburg's Tyrone area in a few weeks and in Tampa by year's end.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              25 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1993

                         Vol. 26, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 97

LENGTH: 4748 words

TITLE: Exclusive Contracting: The Original Economic Credentialing

AUTHOR: Michael J. Baxter, Smith, Somerville & Case, Baltimore, Maryland. B.A.,
1977, University of Maryland; J.D., 1980, George Washington University.

TEXT:

   INTRODUCTION

   As the controversy surrounding the use of economic analysis in the
credentialing of physicians escalates, little attention has been paid to a
related credentialing mechanism: exclusive contracting.  This fact is
particularly ironic given the economic underpinnings of most exclusive
contracts.  The broad-based acceptance of exclusive contracts makes them an
attractive means for both medical managers and policy makers to contain costs
and improve efficiency.  Accordingly, this Article analyzes the utility of
exclusive contracting in relation to economic credentialing, cost containment
and quality assurance concerns.

   THE CURRENT STATUS OF ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING AND EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS

   The furor over economic credentialing extends to disagreement as to its
definition. [n1] Opponents of economic credentialing describe it as the "use of
economic criteria which do not apply to quality to determine a physician's
qualification for the granting or renewal of medical staff membership or
privileges." [n2] It has also been more generally defined as "evaluative
practices whose goal is to assess the fiscal impact on a medical institution of
a particular physician's practice." [n3] Another commentator even distinguished
between two types of economic credentialing: [n4] first, linking physicians'
privileges to comparative utilization data and second credentialing based on a
physician's patient mix (i.e., the patients' ability to pay and the
profitability of their diagnosis related groups (DRGs)). [n5] This definitional
disagreement explains to some extent the ongoing controversy over the concept.
Insofar as economic credentialing is thought to allow medical institutions to
reduce costs only at the expense of sacrificing quality care, it will evoke
strong opposition.  However, to the extent economic credentialling merely allows
consideration of some economic measures in physician credentialing, in addition
to quality of care issues, it may constitute a legitimate cost-containment
measure for institutions already under intense fiscal pressure.

   The dispute over economic credentialing, even absent a consistent definition,
continues to escalate.  A recent Florida trial court decision, Rosenblum v.
Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center, attracted national attention as
the first judicial approval of pure economic credentialing. [n6] Moreover, the
medical profession's opposition to the concept of economic credentialing has
progressed to the point that the American Medical Association (AMA) issued a
policy paper advocating specific responses physicians should take against
economic credentialing in their hospitals. [n7]

   Notwithstanding the ongoing debate over economic credentialing, the use of
exclusive contracts continues to increase quietly.  Although physicians have not
accepted exclusive contracting with open arms, [n8] the process is widely used
and judicially approved. [n9] While various courts describe exclusive
contracting differently, [n10] unlike economic credentialing, there is no
definitional dispute.  Simply stated, an exclusive contract is an agreement
between a medical institution and an individual or group of physicians whereby
the hospital allows only the contracting physician(s) to be exclusive
provider(s) of certain medical services in that institution, and the
physician(s) agree to provide and manage all aspects of that service.

   Exclusive contracts were first used in the areas of pathology, anesthesiology
and radiology because there specialties are ancillary hospital-based services
requiring extensive coverage and depending almost exclusively on referrals from
other physicians. [n11] Exclusive contracts are said to facilitate better
service coverage and superior peer review, and to improve care supervision.
[n12] They are thought to encourage better working relationships between the
contracting group and support and primary health care providers. [n13]

   Judicial approval of exclusive contracts in the past was virtually unanimous.
[n14] In fact, courts considering challenges to the legality of exclusive
contracts did not hesitate to cite the economic efficiencies of such agreements
when upholding them. [n15] Those same economic justifications for the contracts
suggest that they are a form of economic credentialing.

   Only recently have challenges to exclusive contracts experienced limited
success. [n16] However, the successful challenges have not been based on the
invalidity of economic justifications for the contracts, but on the impingement
of rights of excluded physicians.  It remains undisputed that hospitals may, in
their exercise of management discretion, enter into exclusive contracts for
economic as well as quality of care reasons. [n17]

   PRIOR CHALLENGES TO EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTING

   Challenges based on antitrust theory

   Early challenges to exclusive contracting focused specifically on the
legality of the contracts, as distinguished from the effect of the contracts on
an excluded physician's privileges. [n18] For example, in Blank v. Palo
Alto-Stanford Hospital Center, [n19] a staff radiologist challenged an exclusive
contract to run a hospital's radiology department as an unlawful restraint of
trade and an unreasonable monopoly.  Citing administrative and efficiency
considerations, the court upheld the contract as a reasonable exercise of
discretion and judgment by the hospital's board of directors. [n20] Several
years later, the California Court of Appeal rejected a similar challenge to an
exclusive contract in Letsch v. Northern San Diego Hospital District. [n21] The
Letsch court also rejected the claim that the exclusive contract violated the
excluded physician's constitutional and statutory rights to practice medicine.
[n22]

   Attacks on exclusive contracts for their alleged violation of antitrust laws
have also failed.  In Hyde v. Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2, [n23] the
United States Supreme Court reversed a decision of the Court of Appeals of the
Fifth Circuit that held an exclusive contract was a per se illegal tying
arrangement in violation of section 1 of the Sherman Act.  Similarly, in Beard
v. Parkview Hospital, [n24] the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit rejected a contention that an exclusive contract with a group of
radiologists was an illegal tying arrangement under the Sherman Act. [n25] Again
in Belmar v. Cipolla, [n26] the Supreme Court of New Jersey held an exclusive
contract between a hospital and a group of anesthesiologists did not violate
that state's antitrust law.

   Challenges based on due process claims

   The current dispute over exclusive contracts concerns their impact on
excluded physicians (those physicians who are not party to the contract).
Basing their claims on due process rights, [n27] aggrieved physicians have
sought to block exclusive contracts which exclude them from practicing at a
particularly institution.  Early unsuccessful challenges in this regard
recognized the impact of such contracts on certain basic rights of excluded
physicians.  For example, in Anne Arundel General Hospital v. O'Brien, [n28] the
Maryland Court of Special Appeals recognized the due process rights of staff
physicians when those physicians lost their exclusive contract to another group.
Holding that the hospital's bylaws represented an enforceable contract between
the hospital and the excluded physicians, the court concluded the due process
procedures contained in the bylaws applied to the exclusion of physicians
resulting from the change in exclusive contracts.  However, the court went on to
hold the process by which the new exclusive contractor was selected (which
included affording an opportunity to the ultimately excluded physicians to apply
for the contract) provided adequate due process.  Hence, the court upheld the
exclusive contract. [n29]

   Other courts have enforced exclusive contracts holding that an exclusive
contract, absent express revocation of the excluded physician's privileges, does
not trigger the credentialing bylaws due process provisions because the
privileges are not actually terminated. [n30] This rationale seems more
compelling when the excluded physician does not provide hospital-based,
equipment-intensive medical services.

   Ultimately, most courts upholding exclusive contracts have based their
decisions on a hospital's right to make management decisions.  These courts
expressed reluctance to second-guess rational management decisions. [n31] As the
New Jersey Supreme Court stated:

   No matter what arrangement a hospital may have with a physician, its primary
purpose remains to serve the public (citations omitted).  As long as those
entrusted with the management and governance of a hospital make reasonable
decisions consistent with the public interest, their decisions should be
respected.  (citation omitted)

   Consequently, courts normally do not interfere with a reasonable management
decision concerning staff privileges as long as that decision furthers the
health care mission of the hospital (citation omitted). [n32]

   Such judicial deference to management decisions is founded upon an implied
acceptance of economic factors underlying the decisions.  Courts describe this
acceptance in different ways, [n33] but it is the implicit support for the use
of economic analysis in deciding to enter into an exclusive contract which ties
economic credentialing to the exclusive contracting issue.  The widespread
nature of this judicial approval suggests economic credentialing is already
entrenched in the privileging process, and exclusive contracting may be the
least objectionable means of applying economic factors to the practice of
medicine.

   Challenges based on contractual claims

   However, in several recent cases physicians aggrieved by exclusive contracts
successfully sued the contracting hospital. [n34] Nevertheless, none of those
cases turned up judicial opposition to economic justifications for the exclusive
contracts.  Instead, all of the cases merely allowed damages and/or injunction
relief to excluded physicians.  As a practical matter, those decisions may have
made implementation of the particular contracts difficult, if not impossible.
Nevertheless, the contracts and their economic basis have not been successfully
challenged.

   A careful examination of those recent cases holding in favor of excluded
physicians exposes their limited precedential value.  Each case turned upon
clear violations of the specific contract and/or medical staff bylaws at issue.
For example, in Lewisburg Community Hosp. v. Alfredson, [n35] the Tennessee
Supreme Court held a Tennessee hospital was required, pursuant to its medical
staff bylaws, to grant a hearing to a privileged radiologist who was prohibited
from practicing at the hospital when the hospital awarded an exclusive contract
to another group of radiologists.  The court ruled the medical staff bylaws were
a contract between the hospital and the radiologist.  Because the bylaws
mandated a hearing when a physician's privileges were altered, the hospital was
required to provide a hearing when it entered into a new exclusive contract.
Primarily because the hospital had prohibited the radiologist from using
hospital equipment after entering into the exclusive contract, the court
rejected the hospital's contention that the radiologist's privileges had not
been altered. [n36]

   The determinative aspect of the Alfredson holding was that the radiologist's
contract with the hospital initially contained a provision stating the
physician's privileges would be automatically terminated if the hospital did not
renew his contract. [n37] However, that provision was deleted before the new
exclusive contract was signed.  Clearly, the parties contemplated the effect of
the contract termination on the physician's privileges, and decided not to
revoke them by such termination.  Because the hospital's actions constituted a
de factor reduction or termination in privileges, they triggered the staff
bylaws due process provisions. [n38]

   Hospital Corp. of Lake Worth v. Romaguera [n39] is another recent case
decided in favor of a physician who objected to an exclusive contract.  In
Romaguera, the District Court of Appeal of Florida held a hospital's decision to
enter into an exclusive contract with a group of pathologists constituted a
breach of its contract with an excluded staff pathologist.  Again, the court's
holding turned on a violation of the bylaws and contract at issue.  When the
physician first contracted with the hospital the medical staff bylaws contained
a "clean sweep" clause [n40] providing if an exclusive contract was terminated,
the excluded physician's privileges were automatically revoked.  The physician's
contract with the hospital contained a similar provision.  However, after the
contract with the physician was entered into, the hospital amended the medical
staff bylaws such that termination of exclusive contracts did not affect staff
privileges.  Holding that the bylaws constituted a contract between the hospital
and the physician, the court gave effect to this amendment and ruled the
physician's privileges remained intact, despite the termination of his exclusive
contract.  Accordingly, the hospital's failure to comply with the bylaws due
process provisions pertaining to privileges termination constituted a breach of
contract on its part.  Again, the specific language of the bylaws comprising
part of the contractual agreement with the physician was the determinative
factor in the court's holding.

   A similar case drawing national attention was Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial
Regional Medical Center, a nisi prius decision arising in Florida. [n41] In
Bilek, a hospital staff radiologist claimed his privileges were improperly
altered when the hospital entered into an exclusive contract with another
radiologist.  The hospital bylaws required certain due process procedures be
followed before altering a physician's privileges.  The hospital contended the
radiologist's privileges were not altered, although the hospital prohibited him
from using hospital radiology equipment.  Finding for the physician, the court
held 1) the hospital's actions were a de facto reduction in the physician's
privileges; 2) the medical staff bylaws constituted a contract between the
physician and the hospital; and 3) the hospital breached the contract by not
following its due process mandate. [n42]

   Once again, the specific language of the contract was the dispositive factor.
In particular, the absence of a "clean sweep" provision (a bylaw providing in
the event an exclusive contract is entered into within a department, the
incumbent department members' privileges are automatically terminated), required
the court to find for the physician. [n43]

   Lastly, in a case more notorious for the amount of its verdict than for its
precedential effect, a pathologist brought suit over a hospital's decision to
enter into an exclusive contract for pathology services. [n44] The pathologist
was awarded a $ 19.2 million judgment, over $ 19 million of which was punitive
damages.  The hospital allegedly attempted to limit the excluded physician's
ability to practice pathology at the hospital using harassing methods, although
it did not expressly revoke his privileges.  While the physician received a
large verdict, the exclusive contract at issue was not invalidated. [n45]

   To date there are no reported cases involving a successful challenge to an
exclusive contract where the challenge was based on economic factors.  Indeed,
when exclusive contracts were implemented without violating the medical staff
bylaws or prior contracts with excluded physicians, courts have been quick to
point out the economic advantages of such contracts.  In this format, reasonable
economic credentialing is alive and well.

   ORGANIZED MEDICINE AND EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS The AMA and several leading state
medical associations recently issued position papers on economic credentialing,
and on exclusive contracting insofar as it involves economic credentialing.
[n46] All of these organizations, including one prominent hospital organization
(the California Association of Hospitals and Health Systems), oppose economic
credentialing and exclusive contracting to the extent that those activities
consider only economic factors to the exclusion of quality of care factors.  In
that regard, the positions of these organizations are hardly controversial.
However, several of the organizations further contend that no economic factors,
with or without quality of care issues, should be considered in credentialing.
[n47] The same arguments supporting that position are being extended to the
exclusive contracting area. [n48]

   As noted above, the AMA's definition of economic credentialing is essentially
credentialing based solely on economic factors. [n49] Understandably, the AMA
opposes that practice. [n50] However, it also condemns any credentialing process
which considers economic factors in addition to quality of care issues. [n51]
While the AMA has not specifically opposed exclusive contracting that is
partially based on economic criteria, it does oppose related contractual clean
sweep provisions facilitating the use of exclusive contracts. [n52]

   The Medical Society of New York (MSNY) also opposes the use of any economic
analysis in physician credentialing, both generally and specifically when
exclusive contracts are involved. [n53] In a policy paper issued in 1992, the
Society argues economic considerations should have no effect on medical
determinations. [n54] MSNY further suggested that medical institutions may be
using exclusive contracts strictly for financial reasons, and as a means of
circumventing established peer review procedures.  Like the AMA, the MSNY also
recommends specific actions for physicians to take to prevent the consideration
of economic factors in the credentialing process.

   In California, the leading physician group and hospital organization, the
California Medical Association (CMA) and the California Association of Hospitals
and Health Systems (CAHHS), recently issued a joint statement on economic
credentialing and exclusive contracting. [n55] Reflecting the different
perspectives of the groups, the paper strikes a more moderate tone.  While it
rejects consideration of only economic factors in credentialing, it accepts
analysis of resource utilization.  Although "patient payor mix or diagnosis"
[n56] is deemed an inappropriate criteria for privileging decisions, the paper
concludes physicians should not "disadvantage a hospital through selective or
discriminatory practices." [n57] Specifically regarding exclusive contracting,
the CMA and CAHHS agree such contracting should not be allowed to preempt
medical staff peer review.  While recognizing the need for medical staff input
in exclusive contracting decisions, the groups also advocate reserving the final
decision making authority in this regard to the medical institution's governing
body.

   Clearly, the California groups' position is closest to the mainstream of
practice.  Most hospitals do (or should) consider efficiency issues in deciding
whether to implement exclusive contracts.  Invariably, quality of care
considerations are intertwined with these efficiency issues.  However, to the
extent an exclusive contract provides quality care and results in greater
efficiencies and, perhaps, lower costs, even absent quality problems with an
incumbent physician or group, hospitals and other medical institutions are
continuing to enter into such contracts.  As long as specific contracts and
bylaws are complied with, courts generally uphold such contracts.  In that
regard, the positions of the AMA and the MSNY may be representative of the
sentiment of their memberships, but not indicative of what is occurring in
medicine today [n58] or what will likely occur in the future.

   CLEAN SWEEP PROVISIONS

   As discussed above, successful challenges to exclusive contracts have been
based on the specific language of an institution's staff bylaws and the
exclusive contract at issue. [n59] Given the general acceptance of exclusive
contracts absent unique bylaw or contractual provisions, as well as the
acceptance of the economic justifications for such contracts, careful drafting
of bylaws and contracts should ensure their validity.  Specifically, including
"clean sweep" provisions in both may prevent costly litigation, thereby
facilitating the use of exclusive contracts.

   Clean sweep provisions are simply contractual terms providing for automatic
termination of an excluded provider's staff privileges when a new or replacement
exclusive contract is executed. [n60] Such provisions are often included in an
exclusive contract and may also be included in an institution's medical staff
bylaws.  If such provisions are included only in exclusive contracts, subsequent
amendments to medical staff bylaws may be deemed as overriding any clean sweep
provisions in exclusive contracts. [n61]

   The AMA and several prominent state medical associations publicly oppose
clean sweep provisions. [n62] The primary objection to such provisions is that
they forfeit the due process rights of the excluded provider, i.e., the right to
notice and a hearing pertaining to the exclusion. [n63] Physician groups are
concerned hospitals armed with clean sweep provisions in their staff bylaws and
confronted by cost-containment pressures, may use exclusive contracts solely for
economic reasons to the detriment of quality care.  These groups suggest
granting a hearing to a potentially excluded provider whenever an exclusive
contract is considered will prevent such abuses.

   Given the increased incidence of economic and efficiency justifications for
exclusive contracts, the rationale for the opposition to clean sweep provisions
loses some of its force.  The due process provisions of medical staff bylaws are
generally designed to assess clinical competency, not matters of economic
efficiency.  Indeed, due process proceedings serve legitimate purposes when the
issue is quality of care.  However, when the issues are economic (i.e., that a
department will be more efficient and more cost-effective if administered by a
particular exclusive contractor as opposed to an open system), there is nothing
to consider at the excluded provider's hearing.  Medical competency is not the
issue in such a situation.  The management decisions of a hospital or HMO rests
solely with its governing body.  The medical staff's input should be limited to
clinical issues.

   However, clean sweep provisions do reduce staff autonomy and increase
hospital leverage in the dynamic of hospital-physician relations.  As such, they
create the potential for abuse.  By by-passing the peer review protections
afforded to incumbent staff members, clean sweep provisions transfer significant
authority from those with little real cost-containment concerns (i.e. the
medical staff) to those with significant economic pressures upon them (i.e. the
hospital administration).  Therefore, care must be taken when clean sweep
provisions are exercised.

   The primary safeguard against abuse of clean sweep provisions is inclusion of
the medical staff in the clinical component of the selection of an exclusive
contractor.  Although the hospital's governing board must retain final
decision-making authority in this regard, [n64] active participation by the
staff, especially in the selection of the contractor, will guard against any
profit-driven excesses.

   In addition, strict scrutiny when considering granting privileges to new
exclusive providers is essential.  New exclusive providers must be members of
the medical staff in good standing.  The clinical aspect of the application
process for all new providers, exclusive or otherwise, should be reserved to the
medical staff. [n65] If a hospital medical staff is rigorous in its
consideration of incumbent members as well as new applicants, including
exclusive providers, there should be no quality of care problems.

   Lastly, governing board members must be careful to avoid improper motives
when entering into exclusive contracts.  Directors and trustees have significant
obligations accompanying their positions.  Fiscal responsibility is just one of
them.  While they may decide to close a department or to contract with one
provider for a specialty service, they must not ignore the welfare of their
institution's patients in the process.  Just as board members must ensure
inappropriate motives do not taint privileging recommendations by the medical
staff, so too must they monitor administrative decisions.

   Clean sweep provisions, if properly used, provide a distinct competitive edge
for hospitals and the physicians comprising their medical staff.  They prevent
costly challenges to new contracting groups.  Assuming the medical staff and the
hospital governing body work together to prevent their misuse, clean sweep
provisions are good for physicians and patients, not just hospital.

   EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTING IN THE FUTURE

   Given increasing physician opposition to economic credentialing, exclusive
contracting may come under greater scrutiny because it involves economic
considerations.  However, opposition to exclusive contracting may prove
short-sighted in light of increasing political and societal demands for
controlling health care costs.  The sweeping changes of the managed care system
(itself a form of exclusive contracting) were, in large part, in response to
economic problems.  Given the limited success of medicine in that regard, [n66]
and the increasingly recognized detrimental implications of the escalating
expense of medicine, [n67] continued efforts to contain costs are likely.

   In many ways, exclusive contracts offer an opportunity to the health care
industry to being controlling costs without sacrificing quality of care.  The
ability of a hospital or HMO to freely change department structures in a rapidly
evolving industry creates a distinct competitive advantage.  Competition in a
health care setting includes the ability to attract the best medical staff as
well as new specialties.  Inflexible staff membership or inappropriately closed
departments will quickly disadvantage a medical institution.  On the other hand,
a hospital or HMO that can react quickly to new advances or to fleeting
opportunities to attract leaders in a specialty field, while at the same time
controlling costs, certainly will succeed both medically and financially.

   With careful monitoring, exclusive contracting may foster higher quality of
care.  Controlled competition produces excellence.  The removal; of structural
impediments to medical staff changes fosters a healthy competitive environment.
Provider groups that contract with hospitals have clear motivation to insist
upon competency in their group's members, which only can result in aggressive
peer review and better patient care.

   In addition to providing opportunities for quality improvement and cost
control, exclusive contacts may be a model for much of what the medical delivery
system will consist of in the future.  Some commentators predict that grouping
of physicians and other health care providers will significantly alter, if not
supplant, the current medical staff system in place across the country. [n68] If
that prediction materializes, a necessary accompanying development will be the
proliferation of exclusive contracting.  With that proliferation will come
broad-based acceptance of consideration of economic factors and resource
consumption in the practice of medicine.

   The structure of the health care industry has changed significantly in the
last decade.  Most of the changes, such as managed care, fraud and abuse
monitoring, and joint ventures, have been driven by the problems that have given
rise to exclusive contracts, many of which are economic.  As long as quality of
care is not ignored in the search for ways to improve efficiency in medicine,
exclusive contracting, with its economic credentialing aspects, represents a
viable method of bringing the medical delivery system in line with resources
available to support it.

REFERENCE: [n1.] See, e.g., Emmons, et al., Data on Employee Physician
Profiling, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. LAW 73, 75 (1993). See also, Andresen, Economic
Credentialing, infra note 7, at 1 (AMA definition of economic credentialing).

   [n2.] CALIFORNIA MEDICAL ASSOCIATION'S TASK FORCE ON EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTING
AND ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING, EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS AND ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING:
POTENTIAL FOR ABUSE IN THE QUALITY ASSURANCE SYSTEM, Jan. 1991, at 4
[hereinafter CMA TASK FORCE]. See also AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION COUNCIL ON
MEDICAL SERVICE, Report B, Dec. 1991, at 245.

   [n3.] John Blum, Physician Economic Efficiency-A New Factor in Credentialing,
MED. STAFF. COUNS., Winter 1992, at 25.

   [n4.] Discussed in Economic Credentialing is Fine -- For Tightrope Walkers,
HOPS. PEER REV., Apr. 1990, at 1.

   [n5.] Id.

   [n6.] Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-589
(Fla. Cir. Ct. 1992).

   [n7.] Denise Andresen, Economic Credentialing: Profitability versus Quality,
AMA Memoranda (1992) [hereinafter Andresen, Economic Credentialing].

   [n8.] See David Kalifon, Romaguera Refrain: Staff Privileges and Exclusive
Hospital Contracts, MED. STAFF COUNS., Fall 1989, at 51; Denise Andresen,
Exclusive Contracts and Clean Sweep Provisions, AMA Memoranda, Jan. 1992
[hereinafter Andresen, Exclusive Contracts].

   [n9.] The following cases provide examples of concurring opinions reflecting
judicial approval of exclusive contracting: Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2
v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, (1984) (concurring opinion); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912
F. 2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990); Redding v. St. Francis Medical Ctr., 225 Cal. Rptr.
806 (Cal. Ct. App. 1989); Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984); Anne
Arundel Gen. Hosp. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483 (Md. Ct. Spec. App. 1981); Adler v.
Montefiore Hosp. Ass'n of Western Pa., 311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973).

   [n10.] Various courts have described exclusive contracting in different ways.
In Hospital Corp. of Lake Worth v. Romaguera, 511 So.2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App.
1986), the District Court of Appeals of Florida described exclusive contracting
as the awarding of "exclusive franchises to medical doctor groups to perform all
the hospital's work, on a contract basis" (in certain practice areas). In
Radiology Professional Corp. v. Trinidad Area Health Ass'n, 577 P.2d 748, 751
which "limit the use of a hospital's facilities to certain specialists or which
provide that all services of a particular type required by hospital patients be
performed by the contracting specialists. . . ."

   [n11.] Mark A. Hall, Institutional Control of Physician Behavior: Legal
Barriers to Health Care Cost Containment, 137 U. PA. L. REV. 431 (1988).

   [n12.] See M. Pollard & R. Leibenluft, Antitrust and the Health Professions;
Policy Planning Issues Paper (Fed. Trade Comm'n, 1981).

   [n13.] See id.

   [n14.] See supra note 9 and accompanying text.

   [n15.] See Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984) (the advantages of
anesthesiology exclusive contracts include better use of operating room
personnel, greater ability to process more operative procedures, avoidance of
fee-splitting between surgeon and anesthesiologist and better 24 hour coverage);
Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990) (exclusive contract was
argued as necessary to enhance quality of patient care and improve hospital
efficiency); Datillo v. Tuscon Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1975)
(recognizing prior case law describing exclusive contracts as in furtherance of
a hospital's obligation to operate and administer the hospital efficiently and
economically): Centeno v. Roseville Community Hosp., 167 Cal. Rptr. 183 (Cal.
Ct. App. 1979) (exclusive radiology contract may improve operational efficiency
as well as promote better scheduling economy and availability of services).

   [n16.] See infra notes 34-45 and accompanying text.

   [n17.] Redding v. St. Francis Medical Center, 225 Cal. Rptr. 806 (Cal. Ct.
App. 1989); Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984); Engelstad v. Virginia
Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983).

   [n18.] Blank v. Palo Alto-Stanford Hosp. Center, 44 Cal. Rptr. 572 (Cal. Ct.
App. 1965); Letsch v. Northern San Diego County Hosp. Dist., 55 Cal. Rptr. 118
(Cal. Ct. App. 1967).

   [n19.] 44 Cal. Rptr. 572 (Cal. Ct. App. 1965).

   [n20.] Id. at 579.

   [n21.] 55 Cal. Rptr. 118 (Cal. Ct. App. 1967).

   [n22.] Id. at 120. In an interesting precursor to current events the Letsch
Court alluded in dicta to the fact that the hospital had not profited
financially from its decision to implement the exclusive contract: ". . . the
fees charged the patients for services of the radiology department have produced
income for the hospital but such income has not resulted in any profit or gain
to the hospital from the professional services rendered by the hospital
radiologist."

   [n23.] 466 U.S. 2 (1984).

   [n24.] 912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990).

   [n25.] See also Collins v. Associated Pathologists, 844 F.2d 473 (7th Cir.
1988) (exclusive contract with group of pathologists not an illegal tying
arrangement); Peter Sfikas, Antitrust Challenges by Allied Health Professionals
Involving Hospital Staff privileges, 24 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 361 (1991).

   [n26.] 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984).

   [n27.] The source of the due process rights varies depending on the nature of
the involved hospital.  Public hospitals are governed by the Fourteenth
Amendment. Private hospitals are not, absent a showing of state action. However
private hospitals may be governed by common law due process principles. See
Adkins v. Sarah Bush Lincoln Health Ctr., 544 N.E.2d 733 (Ill. 1980) (physicians
entitled to notice and fair hearing in disciplinary action); Desai v. St.
Barnabas Hosp, 537 N.Y.S.2d 944 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 1989) (private hospital
disciplinary process must provide due process to physician); Huntsville Memorial
Hosp. v. Ernest, 763 S.W.2d 856 (Tex. Ct. App. 1988 (private hospital must
provide due process before terminating physicians' staff privileges).

   [n28.] 432 A.2d 483 (Md. Ct. Spec. App. 1981).

   [n29.] Id.

   [n30.] Engelstad v. Virginia Municipal Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983).
The Engelstad court aptly noted the hearing provisions of the bylaws at issue
were designed to address credentialing decisions based solely on quality of care
issues.  Thus, they made little sense in the context of an exclusive contracting
decision based on an administrative rationale. However, the court concluded the
pathologist-physician's privileges were not terminated, despite the fact that he
was apparently excluded from using the hospital's pathology lab. This reasoning
seems to ignore the realities of hospital-based ancillary practices such as
pathology and radiology, and has not been adopted in recent cases. See, e.g.,
Lewisburg Community Hosp. v. Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).

   [n31.] See Redding v. St. Francis Medical Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806 (Cal. Ct.
App. 1989); Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984); Capili v. Shott, 487 F.
Supp. 710 (S.D. W. Va. 1978), aff'd, 620 F.2d 438 (4th Cir. 1980); Centeno v.
Roseville Community Hosp., 167 Cal. Rptr. 183 (Cal. Ct. App. 1979); Radiology
Professional Corp. v. Trinidad Area Health Assoc., 577 P.2d 748 (Colo. 1978).

   [n32.] Belmar, 475 A.2d at 538.

   [n33.] See Redding, 255 Cal. Rptr. at 810 ("reasonable management decisions
to change" (hospital's format)); Dattilo v. Tucson Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700, 704
(Ariz. Ct. App. 1975) (exclusive contract needed for "effective, efficient
operation of the department"); Centeno, 167 Cal. Rptr. at 188 ("managerial
decision" resulting in "decreased costs to patients").

   [n34.] Lewisburg Community Hosp., 805 S.W.2d at 756; Hosp. Corp. of Lake
Worth v. Romaguera, 511 So. 2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1986); Bilek v.
Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-973 (Fla. Cir. Ct., Apr. 29,
1991); American Medical Int'l, v. Scheller, 590 So. 2d 947 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App.
1991), review dismissed, 602 So. 2d 533 (Fla. 1992).

   [n35.] 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).

   [n36.] See contra, Engelstad v. Virginia Municipal Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th
Cir. 1983).

   [n37.] Lewisburg Community Hosp., 805 S.W.2d at 756.

   [n38.] Although the Court's rationale enforced the parties' contractual
intention, there is some question as to the utility of requiring a hearing in
this setting. There was apparently no issue as to the competence of the involved
physician.

   [n39.] 511 So. 2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1986).

   [n40.] For a discussion of "clean sweep" provisions, see infra notes 48-65
and accompanying text.

   [n41.] No. 91-973 (Fla. Cir. Ct., Apr. 29, 1991).

   [n42.] Id. In what seems to be a more sensible approach than that employed in
Romaguera, the Court went on to hold, apparently with the hospital's consent,
that requiring a hearing would be meaningless because the hospital would not
change its decision to implement the exclusive contract.

   [n43.] Id. slip op. at 3-6.

   [n44.] American Medical Int'l. v. Scheller, 590 So. 2d 947 (Fla. Dist. Ct.
App. 1991), review dismissed, 602 So. 2d 533 (Fla. 1992).

   [n45.] Id.

   [n46.] See Andresen, Economic Credentialing, supra note 7; Andresen,
Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8; CALIFORNIA MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, supra note 2;
MED. SOCIETY OF NEW YORK, ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING AND EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS: MSNY
POLICY PAPER (1992) [hereinafter MSNY POLICY PAPER].

   [n47.] See MSNY POLICY PAPER, supra note 46, at 2; Andresen, Economic
Credentialing, supra note 7.

   [n48.] See CMA TASK FORCE, supra note 2.

   [n49.] AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION COUNCIL ON MEDICAL SERVICE, Report B,
Dec. 1991, at 245.

   [n50.] Andresen, Economic Credentialing, supra note 7, at 3.

   [n51.] Id. In its policy paper on this issue the AMA warns physicians to be
on guard for medical staff bylaws that permit consideration of any economic
factors in the credentialing process.  It offers the following example of an
unacceptable staff bylaw provision pertaining to factors to be considered in
credentialing:

   "[appropriate] training, current experience, clinical results, utilization,
practice patterns, documenting a continuing ability to provide patient care
services at an acceptable level of quality and efficiency given the current
state of the realty cuts and consistent with available resources." Id. at 2.

   [n52.] Andresen, Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8, at 5.

   [n53.] MSNY POLICY PAPER, supra note 46.

   [n54.] Id. at 1.

   [n55.] Id. CMA TASK FORCE, supra note 2.

   [n56.] Id. at 11.

   [n57.] Id.

   [n58.] A nationwide survey conducted under the auspices of the Institute for
Health Law, Loyola University, Chicago, reported approximately 60% of the
nation's hospitals include economic issues in their credentialing processes.
Loyola University of Chicago News Release, Nov. 11, 1992.

   [n59.] See supra notes 34-45 and accompanying text.

   [n60.] Andresen, Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8, at 2.

   [n61.] See Hospital Corp. of Lake Worth v. Romaguera, 511 So. 2d 559 (Fla.
Dist. Ct. App. 1986).

   [n62.] Andresen, Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8, at 3-5; MSNY, supra note
46, at 1; CMA TASK FORCE, supra note 2.

   [n63.] Andresen, Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8, at 3.

   [n64.] See, Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations,
ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS, §§ GB.1.1, MS 2.12 (1992).

   [n65.] Id. § MS.5.1.

   [n66.] It has been estimated that by the year 2000, health care costs will
constitute 18% of American's gross domestic product. Health Care Spending to
Consume 18 Percent of GDP by 2000, CBO Says, HEALTH LAW REP. (BNA) vol. 1, No.
6, at 159 (Oct. 22, 1992).

   [n67.] Id. at 160.

   [n68.] Arthur Chenen, Medical Staff Structures, National Health Lawyers
Association Medical Staff Seminar (1992) (in a presentation at the National
Health Lawyers Association Medical Staff Seminar in Chicago speaker argues the
growth of multi-specialty medical groups, to the exclusion of the traditional
medical staff, is inevitable).


                              26 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Losing hospital a major loss for municipality

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 496  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


Hospitals, along with churches and schools, are among the most revered
institutions in almost all communities.

The role of our hospital in the life of our community cannot be underestimated.
In analyzing the economic impact of the NHS plan through its recommended cost
saving strategy, there exists a paradox -- that closing hospitals will have
unrealized health, social and economic costs.

My question to the NHS: What are the true economic costs to our municipality?

Just as the availability of good schools is important to a community seeking to
promote economic development, so is the presence of a viable hospital.

Does a hospital encourage existing residents, businesses and industry to remain
in a community? Will it be a deciding factor if new businesses, industries and
residents choose Fort Erie as their new home?

What about the aftermath associated with hospital closures? Will they include
the suffering of elderly and children, the loss of local jobs, the loss of
multiplier effect revenue, migration of area residents, impact on volunteer fire
and emergency services, further declines in the local economy, and
transportation problems?

Through perception or reality, the economic impacts cannot be ignored. What
about the studies that suggest the closure of the sole community hospital will
reduce the per capita income and increase the unemployment rate? What percentage
of people polled found it important to live close to a hospital? Furthermore,
what percentage would consider moving away if their hospital closed? What
happens to physician retention and recruitment after a hospital closes?

Will Douglas Memorial Hospital turn into an under-utilized grey-field, lowering
property values of surrounding homes? Can the NHS tell me definitively the
closure of our hospital will not result in migration and loss of community
physicians now and in the future and that there will not be an overall decline
in the attractiveness of the community as a living environment?

If such is the case, the hospital's closure clearly could spell the economic
demise of our town. Just as a hospital gives life to a community, it's departure
can surely take it away.

Ultimately, families remember their hospital as a place "where little Sydney was
born," "where Dad got well," and "where Grandpa died."

In most places they are an important part of defining what a community means to
the people who live there. When we lose them, the cost is dramatic.

The NHS would like us to remain objective, dispassionate and analytical when
preparing comments for their review. I would suggest no matter what drives your
comments, be it your head or your heart, the NHS will be hard pressed to defend
a position that is so fundamentally wrong on so many levels.

The Town of Fort Erie is now poised to become the second fastest growing
community in the Niagara region. The role that Douglas Memorial Hospital played
in achieving that milestone, cannot be underestimated.

Sandy Annunziata

Councillor, Fort Erie

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Losing hospital a major loss for municipality

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 496  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


Hospitals, along with churches and schools, are among the most revered
institutions in almost all communities.

The role of our hospital in the life of our community cannot be underestimated.
In analyzing the economic impact of the NHS plan through its recommended cost
saving strategy, there exists a paradox -- that closing hospitals will have
unrealized health, social and economic costs.

My question to the NHS: What are the true economic costs to our municipality?

Just as the availability of good schools is important to a community seeking to
promote economic development, so is the presence of a viable hospital.

Does a hospital encourage existing residents, businesses and industry to remain
in a community? Will it be a deciding factor if new businesses, industries and
residents choose Fort Erie as their new home?

What about the aftermath associated with hospital closures? Will they include
the suffering of elderly and children, the loss of local jobs, the loss of
multiplier effect revenue, migration of area residents, impact on volunteer fire
and emergency services, further declines in the local economy, and
transportation problems?

Through perception or reality, the economic impacts cannot be ignored. What
about the studies that suggest the closure of the sole community hospital will
reduce the per capita income and increase the unemployment rate? What percentage
of people polled found it important to live close to a hospital? Furthermore,
what percentage would consider moving away if their hospital closed? What
happens to physician retention and recruitment after a hospital closes?

Will Douglas Memorial Hospital turn into an under-utilized grey-field, lowering
property values of surrounding homes? Can the NHS tell me definitively the
closure of our hospital will not result in migration and loss of community
physicians now and in the future and that there will not be an overall decline
in the attractiveness of the community as a living environment?

If such is the case, the hospital's closure clearly could spell the economic
demise of our town. Just as a hospital gives life to a community, it's departure
can surely take it away.

Ultimately, families remember their hospital as a place "where little Sydney was
born," "where Dad got well," and "where Grandpa died."

In most places they are an important part of defining what a community means to
the people who live there. When we lose them, the cost is dramatic.

The NHS would like us to remain objective, dispassionate and analytical when
preparing comments for their review. I would suggest no matter what drives your
comments, be it your head or your heart, the NHS will be hard pressed to defend
a position that is so fundamentally wrong on so many levels.

The Town of Fort Erie is now poised to become the second fastest growing
community in the Niagara region. The role that Douglas Memorial Hospital played
in achieving that milestone, cannot be underestimated.

Sandy Annunziata

Councillor, Fort Erie

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Losing hospital a major loss for municipality

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 496  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


Hospitals, along with churches and schools, are among the most revered
institutions in almost all communities.

The role of our hospital in the life of our community cannot be underestimated.
In analyzing the economic impact of the NHS plan through its recommended cost
saving strategy, there exists a paradox -- that closing hospitals will have
unrealized health, social and economic costs.

My question to the NHS: What are the true economic costs to our municipality?

Just as the availability of good schools is important to a community seeking to
promote economic development, so is the presence of a viable hospital.

Does a hospital encourage existing residents, businesses and industry to remain
in a community? Will it be a deciding factor if new businesses, industries and
residents choose Fort Erie as their new home?

What about the aftermath associated with hospital closures? Will they include
the suffering of elderly and children, the loss of local jobs, the loss of
multiplier effect revenue, migration of area residents, impact on volunteer fire
and emergency services, further declines in the local economy, and
transportation problems?

Through perception or reality, the economic impacts cannot be ignored. What
about the studies that suggest the closure of the sole community hospital will
reduce the per capita income and increase the unemployment rate? What percentage
of people polled found it important to live close to a hospital? Furthermore,
what percentage would consider moving away if their hospital closed? What
happens to physician retention and recruitment after a hospital closes?

Will Douglas Memorial Hospital turn into an under-utilized grey-field, lowering
property values of surrounding homes? Can the NHS tell me definitively the
closure of our hospital will not result in migration and loss of community
physicians now and in the future and that there will not be an overall decline
in the attractiveness of the community as a living environment?

If such is the case, the hospital's closure clearly could spell the economic
demise of our town. Just as a hospital gives life to a community, it's departure
can surely take it away.

Ultimately, families remember their hospital as a place "where little Sydney was
born," "where Dad got well," and "where Grandpa died."

In most places they are an important part of defining what a community means to
the people who live there. When we lose them, the cost is dramatic.

The NHS would like us to remain objective, dispassionate and analytical when
preparing comments for their review. I would suggest no matter what drives your
comments, be it your head or your heart, the NHS will be hard pressed to defend
a position that is so fundamentally wrong on so many levels.

The Town of Fort Erie is now poised to become the second fastest growing
community in the Niagara region. The role that Douglas Memorial Hospital played
in achieving that milestone, cannot be underestimated.

Sandy Annunziata

Councillor, Fort Erie

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Losing hospital a major loss for municipality

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 496  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


Hospitals, along with churches and schools, are among the most revered
institutions in almost all communities.

The role of our hospital in the life of our community cannot be underestimated.
In analyzing the economic impact of the NHS plan through its recommended cost
saving strategy, there exists a paradox -- that closing hospitals will have
unrealized health, social and economic costs.

My question to the NHS: What are the true economic costs to our municipality?

Just as the availability of good schools is important to a community seeking to
promote economic development, so is the presence of a viable hospital.

Does a hospital encourage existing residents, businesses and industry to remain
in a community? Will it be a deciding factor if new businesses, industries and
residents choose Fort Erie as their new home?

What about the aftermath associated with hospital closures? Will they include
the suffering of elderly and children, the loss of local jobs, the loss of
multiplier effect revenue, migration of area residents, impact on volunteer fire
and emergency services, further declines in the local economy, and
transportation problems?

Through perception or reality, the economic impacts cannot be ignored. What
about the studies that suggest the closure of the sole community hospital will
reduce the per capita income and increase the unemployment rate? What percentage
of people polled found it important to live close to a hospital? Furthermore,
what percentage would consider moving away if their hospital closed? What
happens to physician retention and recruitment after a hospital closes?

Will Douglas Memorial Hospital turn into an under-utilized grey-field, lowering
property values of surrounding homes? Can the NHS tell me definitively the
closure of our hospital will not result in migration and loss of community
physicians now and in the future and that there will not be an overall decline
in the attractiveness of the community as a living environment?

If such is the case, the hospital's closure clearly could spell the economic
demise of our town. Just as a hospital gives life to a community, it's departure
can surely take it away.

Ultimately, families remember their hospital as a place "where little Sydney was
born," "where Dad got well," and "where Grandpa died."

In most places they are an important part of defining what a community means to
the people who live there. When we lose them, the cost is dramatic.

The NHS would like us to remain objective, dispassionate and analytical when
preparing comments for their review. I would suggest no matter what drives your
comments, be it your head or your heart, the NHS will be hard pressed to defend
a position that is so fundamentally wrong on so many levels.

The Town of Fort Erie is now poised to become the second fastest growing
community in the Niagara region. The role that Douglas Memorial Hospital played
in achieving that milestone, cannot be underestimated.

Sandy Annunziata

Councillor, Fort Erie

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Losing hospital a major loss for municipality

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 496  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


Hospitals, along with churches and schools, are among the most revered
institutions in almost all communities.

The role of our hospital in the life of our community cannot be underestimated.
In analyzing the economic impact of the NHS plan through its recommended cost
saving strategy, there exists a paradox -- that closing hospitals will have
unrealized health, social and economic costs.

My question to the NHS: What are the true economic costs to our municipality?

Just as the availability of good schools is important to a community seeking to
promote economic development, so is the presence of a viable hospital.

Does a hospital encourage existing residents, businesses and industry to remain
in a community? Will it be a deciding factor if new businesses, industries and
residents choose Fort Erie as their new home?

What about the aftermath associated with hospital closures? Will they include
the suffering of elderly and children, the loss of local jobs, the loss of
multiplier effect revenue, migration of area residents, impact on volunteer fire
and emergency services, further declines in the local economy, and
transportation problems?

Through perception or reality, the economic impacts cannot be ignored. What
about the studies that suggest the closure of the sole community hospital will
reduce the per capita income and increase the unemployment rate? What percentage
of people polled found it important to live close to a hospital? Furthermore,
what percentage would consider moving away if their hospital closed? What
happens to physician retention and recruitment after a hospital closes?

Will Douglas Memorial Hospital turn into an under-utilized grey-field, lowering
property values of surrounding homes? Can the NHS tell me definitively the
closure of our hospital will not result in migration and loss of community
physicians now and in the future and that there will not be an overall decline
in the attractiveness of the community as a living environment?

If such is the case, the hospital's closure clearly could spell the economic
demise of our town. Just as a hospital gives life to a community, it's departure
can surely take it away.

Ultimately, families remember their hospital as a place "where little Sydney was
born," "where Dad got well," and "where Grandpa died."

In most places they are an important part of defining what a community means to
the people who live there. When we lose them, the cost is dramatic.

The NHS would like us to remain objective, dispassionate and analytical when
preparing comments for their review. I would suggest no matter what drives your
comments, be it your head or your heart, the NHS will be hard pressed to defend
a position that is so fundamentally wrong on so many levels.

The Town of Fort Erie is now poised to become the second fastest growing
community in the Niagara region. The role that Douglas Memorial Hospital played
in achieving that milestone, cannot be underestimated.

Sandy Annunziata

Councillor, Fort Erie

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Losing hospital a major loss for municipality

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 496  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


Hospitals, along with churches and schools, are among the most revered
institutions in almost all communities.

The role of our hospital in the life of our community cannot be underestimated.
In analyzing the economic impact of the NHS plan through its recommended cost
saving strategy, there exists a paradox -- that closing hospitals will have
unrealized health, social and economic costs.

My question to the NHS: What are the true economic costs to our municipality?

Just as the availability of good schools is important to a community seeking to
promote economic development, so is the presence of a viable hospital.

Does a hospital encourage existing residents, businesses and industry to remain
in a community? Will it be a deciding factor if new businesses, industries and
residents choose Fort Erie as their new home?

What about the aftermath associated with hospital closures? Will they include
the suffering of elderly and children, the loss of local jobs, the loss of
multiplier effect revenue, migration of area residents, impact on volunteer fire
and emergency services, further declines in the local economy, and
transportation problems?

Through perception or reality, the economic impacts cannot be ignored. What
about the studies that suggest the closure of the sole community hospital will
reduce the per capita income and increase the unemployment rate? What percentage
of people polled found it important to live close to a hospital? Furthermore,
what percentage would consider moving away if their hospital closed? What
happens to physician retention and recruitment after a hospital closes?

Will Douglas Memorial Hospital turn into an under-utilized grey-field, lowering
property values of surrounding homes? Can the NHS tell me definitively the
closure of our hospital will not result in migration and loss of community
physicians now and in the future and that there will not be an overall decline
in the attractiveness of the community as a living environment?

If such is the case, the hospital's closure clearly could spell the economic
demise of our town. Just as a hospital gives life to a community, it's departure
can surely take it away.

Ultimately, families remember their hospital as a place "where little Sydney was
born," "where Dad got well," and "where Grandpa died."

In most places they are an important part of defining what a community means to
the people who live there. When we lose them, the cost is dramatic.

The NHS would like us to remain objective, dispassionate and analytical when
preparing comments for their review. I would suggest no matter what drives your
comments, be it your head or your heart, the NHS will be hard pressed to defend
a position that is so fundamentally wrong on so many levels.

The Town of Fort Erie is now poised to become the second fastest growing
community in the Niagara region. The role that Douglas Memorial Hospital played
in achieving that milestone, cannot be underestimated.

Sandy Annunziata

Councillor, Fort Erie

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Losing hospital a major loss for municipality

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 496  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


Hospitals, along with churches and schools, are among the most revered
institutions in almost all communities.

The role of our hospital in the life of our community cannot be underestimated.
In analyzing the economic impact of the NHS plan through its recommended cost
saving strategy, there exists a paradox -- that closing hospitals will have
unrealized health, social and economic costs.

My question to the NHS: What are the true economic costs to our municipality?

Just as the availability of good schools is important to a community seeking to
promote economic development, so is the presence of a viable hospital.

Does a hospital encourage existing residents, businesses and industry to remain
in a community? Will it be a deciding factor if new businesses, industries and
residents choose Fort Erie as their new home?

What about the aftermath associated with hospital closures? Will they include
the suffering of elderly and children, the loss of local jobs, the loss of
multiplier effect revenue, migration of area residents, impact on volunteer fire
and emergency services, further declines in the local economy, and
transportation problems?

Through perception or reality, the economic impacts cannot be ignored. What
about the studies that suggest the closure of the sole community hospital will
reduce the per capita income and increase the unemployment rate? What percentage
of people polled found it important to live close to a hospital? Furthermore,
what percentage would consider moving away if their hospital closed? What
happens to physician retention and recruitment after a hospital closes?

Will Douglas Memorial Hospital turn into an under-utilized grey-field, lowering
property values of surrounding homes? Can the NHS tell me definitively the
closure of our hospital will not result in migration and loss of community
physicians now and in the future and that there will not be an overall decline
in the attractiveness of the community as a living environment?

If such is the case, the hospital's closure clearly could spell the economic
demise of our town. Just as a hospital gives life to a community, it's departure
can surely take it away.

Ultimately, families remember their hospital as a place "where little Sydney was
born," "where Dad got well," and "where Grandpa died."

In most places they are an important part of defining what a community means to
the people who live there. When we lose them, the cost is dramatic.

The NHS would like us to remain objective, dispassionate and analytical when
preparing comments for their review. I would suggest no matter what drives your
comments, be it your head or your heart, the NHS will be hard pressed to defend
a position that is so fundamentally wrong on so many levels.

The Town of Fort Erie is now poised to become the second fastest growing
community in the Niagara region. The role that Douglas Memorial Hospital played
in achieving that milestone, cannot be underestimated.

Sandy Annunziata

Councillor, Fort Erie

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Losing hospital a major loss for municipality

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 496  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


Hospitals, along with churches and schools, are among the most revered
institutions in almost all communities.

The role of our hospital in the life of our community cannot be underestimated.
In analyzing the economic impact of the NHS plan through its recommended cost
saving strategy, there exists a paradox -- that closing hospitals will have
unrealized health, social and economic costs.

My question to the NHS: What are the true economic costs to our municipality?

Just as the availability of good schools is important to a community seeking to
promote economic development, so is the presence of a viable hospital.

Does a hospital encourage existing residents, businesses and industry to remain
in a community? Will it be a deciding factor if new businesses, industries and
residents choose Fort Erie as their new home?

What about the aftermath associated with hospital closures? Will they include
the suffering of elderly and children, the loss of local jobs, the loss of
multiplier effect revenue, migration of area residents, impact on volunteer fire
and emergency services, further declines in the local economy, and
transportation problems?

Through perception or reality, the economic impacts cannot be ignored. What
about the studies that suggest the closure of the sole community hospital will
reduce the per capita income and increase the unemployment rate? What percentage
of people polled found it important to live close to a hospital? Furthermore,
what percentage would consider moving away if their hospital closed? What
happens to physician retention and recruitment after a hospital closes?

Will Douglas Memorial Hospital turn into an under-utilized grey-field, lowering
property values of surrounding homes? Can the NHS tell me definitively the
closure of our hospital will not result in migration and loss of community
physicians now and in the future and that there will not be an overall decline
in the attractiveness of the community as a living environment?

If such is the case, the hospital's closure clearly could spell the economic
demise of our town. Just as a hospital gives life to a community, it's departure
can surely take it away.

Ultimately, families remember their hospital as a place "where little Sydney was
born," "where Dad got well," and "where Grandpa died."

In most places they are an important part of defining what a community means to
the people who live there. When we lose them, the cost is dramatic.

The NHS would like us to remain objective, dispassionate and analytical when
preparing comments for their review. I would suggest no matter what drives your
comments, be it your head or your heart, the NHS will be hard pressed to defend
a position that is so fundamentally wrong on so many levels.

The Town of Fort Erie is now poised to become the second fastest growing
community in the Niagara region. The role that Douglas Memorial Hospital played
in achieving that milestone, cannot be underestimated.

Sandy Annunziata

Councillor, Fort Erie

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                            October 14, 2016 Friday

BDMS eyes centres to treat disease

LENGTH: 340  words


Phyathai Hospital Group and Paolo Hospital Group, subsidiaries of a SET-listed
Bangkok Dusit Medical Services Plc (BDMS), seek to capitalise on the
fast-growing Asean economies by investing more in specialised disease treatment
centres, says Att Thongtang, the group's chief executive.

"This year, the growth in the hospital sector remains robust despite the
economic slowdown. The number of Thai patients is still growing and the number
of foreign patients is growing even faster, especially from our Asean
neighbours," said Mr Att.

The group operates nine hospitals: Phyathai 1 Hospital, Phyathai 2 Hospital,
Phyathai 3 Hospital, Phyathai Hospital Nawamin, Phyathai Sriracha Hospital,
Paolo Hospital Phaholyothin, Paolo Hospital Samutprakarn, Paolo Hospital
Chokchai 4 and Paolo Hospital Rangsit.

Mr Att said the groups expect double-digit growth in regional patients this
year.

"Rising purchasing power from high economic growth in Asean countries and
improving connectivity between countries in the region help make transportation
from those countries to Thailand easier," said Mr Att.

He said the group's strategy is to develop specialised services and treatment by
investing more in "Centres of Excellence" within the hospitals.

Phyathai 1 Hospital has a specialised brain-related centre, while Phyathai 2
Hospital has centres for heart and bone-related diseases and a Women's Centre.

He declined to reveal the investment budget of the two hospital groups for next
year. However, he said the groups will invest more in building facilities,
high-technology equipment and specialists to support rising number of patients.

Regarding BDMS's 10.8 billion-baht deal to buy Nai Lert Park Hotel and turn it
into a holistic service medical centre, Mr Att said it is a very good strategy
to expand into preventive medical services.

Mr Att said most of leading wellness centers in other country do not have
hospital chains to support the wellness centres. However, BDMS aimed to use this
chain to be as its advantage to differentiate itself from competitors.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 1, 2014 Friday

Pennsylvania: Corbett Administration Announces the Release of Economic Growth
Initiative Grant to The Children's Home of Pittsburgh Project

LENGTH: 851  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


The Keystone State, The State of Pennsylvania issue the following news release:

Governor Tom Corbett today announced the award of a $1.5 million Economic Growth
Initiative grant to The Children's Home of Pittsburgh for the expansion of the
Pediatric Specialty Hospital.  The Pediatric Specialty Hospital expansion
project will benefit the neighborhoods of Bloomfield, Friendship, Garfield, and
Lawrenceville.

"The specialty health services offered by The Children's Home of Pittsburgh are
providing much needed care to children who may not otherwise get it," Gov.
Corbett said. "By partnering with The Children's Home, we can increase access to
quality, affordable care."

Since 2007, the annual number of patients served has been steadily increasing
and since 2011, patient numbers have grown by more than 50 percent. The
expansion of the Pediatric Specialty Hospital will add clinical space in order
to provide greater access to healthcare for vulnerable pediatric patients, and
to provide greater facility flexibility. Fourteen private hospital rooms in two
new units will provide space for the child's family to stay in the room, as well
as a communal kitchen and sitting area for families and patients to utilize
throughout their hospital stay.

The Pediatric Specialty Hospital is unique in its holistic, family-centered
medical care. This expansion will provide more flexibility to the Pediatric
Specialty Hospital, while enabling the hospital to expand the unduplicated
services it provides as a bridge for pediatric patients transitioning from
hospitals to home.

"The Children's Home of Pittsburgh is grateful to Governor Corbett and his team
for their support of this necessary expansion of the Pediatric Specialty
Hospital," said CEO Pamela Schanwald. "The Children's Home's programs were borne
out of community need, and continue to adapt in order to best serve the changing
needs of the children and families in our region. This expansion will nearly
double the Pediatric Specialty Hospital's capacity to serve vulnerable patients,
as well as continue to contribute to the economic growth of our neighborhood by
adding new jobs."

The expansion of the Pediatric Specialty Hospital is in-line with larger trends
both in healthcare and in Pittsburgh. There is a burgeoning trend in healthcare
towards home healthcare, as it is a less restrictive setting and less expensive
than high-tech tertiary care hospitals. The Pediatric Specialty Hospital blends
the hospital and home healthcare model into a cost-effective home-like hospital
that assists patients in the transition to home. The second trend in healthcare
is to expand services available to pediatric patients to mirror the wide range
available to adults. The Pediatric Specialty Hospital is a sub-acute hospital
setting, which while currently uncommon in pediatrics, is a very common option
for adults transitioning from tertiary care hospital to home.

"Children are a unique patient population," Gov. Corbett said.  "It's not only
about the type of care they receive but also about how they receive it. The care
that The Children's Home of Pittsburgh will be able to provide through this
expansion will produce better outcomes for these patients and their families."

In 2012, Corbett reformed the state's method of funding Redevelopment Assistance
Capital Program with a significant redesign, making the process more transparent
and objective.  Projects are now selected based upon their job-creation
potential, their economic impact, as well as their viability and construction
readiness.

Prior to Corbett taking office, the state's spending and borrowing for capital
redevelopment assistance had become unsustainable for the state and its
taxpayers, growing from $400 million in 1986 to slightly more than $4 billion in
2010.  Corbett also said that the program had strayed considerably from its
intended purpose of encouraging and assisting job growth through regional
economic development projects.

Last round, the Corbett administration announced 58 new Economic Growth
Initiative grants, totaling more than $133 million. The announced projects are
expected to create more than 45,000 jobs in 24 counties across the state.

To ensure the commonwealth can continue supporting Economic Growth Initiative
grants, Corbett continued to urge the state legislature to enact meaningful
pension reform and address the current pension system's $50 billion debt.
Ballooning pension costs, which consume approximately 60 cents of every new
dollar of general fund revenues, detract from the commonwealth's ability to
invest in economic development and projects that spur job creation.

"Every dollar saved through pension reform is an opportunity to support more
Economic Growth Initiative grants that build a stronger Pennsylvania," said Gov.
Corbett. "Doing nothing to fix our pension crisis fails our families throughout
Allegheny County and the state."

For more information on the program, visit the Budget Office online at
www.budget.state.pa.usand select the Redevelopment Assistance Capital Program
link.

For more information please visit: http://www.pa.gov

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 994 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 1994 The Detroit College of Law Review
                         Detroit College of Law Review

                                  Winter, 1994

                            1994 Det. C.L. Rev. 1179

LENGTH: 18201 words

ARTICLE: CAUGHT IN THE CROSSFIRE: ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING IN THE HEALTH CARE WAR

NAME: Jane C. Taber* and Janna P. King**

BIO:



   * Jane C. Taber is a partner in the Dallas office of the firm Gardere &
Wynne, L.L.P. She obtained her J.D. (1982) and B.S. (1979) from Louisiana State
University. Ms. Taber is experienced in the representation of providers and
companies in state and federal health law issues as well as insurance matters.
Her practice emphasizes the corporate and regulatory aspects of health law and
advice to clients on legal compliance with federal and state law.

   ** Janna P. King is a senior attorney for Beverly Enterprises, Inc. of Ft.
Smith, Arkansas. She obtained her J.D. from Memphis State University in 1991 and
her B.S. from Mid-America College in 1977. Prior to serving as in-house counsel,
Ms. King was in private practice specializing in corporate and regulatory health
law. Her current practice specialty area is that of corporate health law with
particular emphasis in the area of managed care.

 TEXT:
 [*1179]   [*1180]  INTRODUCTION

   In today's rapidly changing health care environment, hospitals have been
placed in the combat zone of market crossfire, replete with economic and quality
of care arsenals. This crossfire is particularly evident in the area of granting
or denying staff privileges.  n1 In its most basic terms, an individual
physician who is permitted to admit patients to a given hospital is deemed to
have "privileges" at the hospital.  n2 The process whereby privileges are
granted is referred to as "credentialing."  n3 Once granted, a physician's
hospital privileges are further evaluated and renewed every two years through
the hospital's credentialing process.  n4

   In years past, credentialing's sole focus was that of evaluating a
physician's clinical competence. Recently, however, health care entities,
particularly hospitals, have begun to move toward a review process whereby
physician competency is measured, not only on the basis of clinical performance,
but also on the basis of how a physician's practice affects the financial
position of both the patient and the hospital.  n5 This movement was spurred by
numerous market forces, including rising labor costs, technological advances,
increased government regulation, increased patient and societal demands, as
[*1181]  well as changes in reimbursement policies.  n6 In response to such
forces, hospitals have altered both external and internal operations, seeking to
achieve a balance between economic concerns and patient care. Reaching such a
balance is made more difficult since, oftentimes, the needs and demands of
society differ from those of individual patients. From a societal perspective,
attainment of affordable health care is currently of utmost importance, yet,
from an individual perspective, patients are unwilling to yield quality of care
to realize financial benefits. This dichotomy is the driving force behind health
care reform and resulting innovations in the area of physician credentialing.

   Undoubtedly, as health care reform continues to gain momentum, hospitals must
become increasingly more competitive in efforts to attract and maintain
clinically competent and fiscally prudent medical staff physicians. The granting
of medical staff privileges to a physician with inferior clinical skills or
inefficient practice skills may place the hospital in the nebulous position of
being a moving target amid the health care battle, particularly in the area of
malpractice suits and reimbursement losses.  n7 In light of this "target"
mentality, it is now critical for hospitals to minimize the potential for
liability based upon the negligent acts of physicians affiliated with the
hospital. Hospitals must achieve this feat, however, in a cost-effective manner.
As a result, hospitals are faced with the difficult challenge of evaluating the
overall competence, expertise and, arguably, efficiency of physicians seeking
staff privileges. This is achieved through a process referred to as physician
credentialing.

   This Article presents a general discussion of a hospital's duty of care,
physician credentialing, theories of liability associated with physician
credentialing and credentialing mechanisms. This Article places particular
emphasis on the controversial mechanism of economic credentialing and
recommendations as to effective and meaningful incorporation of economic
credentialing criteria into the credentialing process.

   I. DEFINITION

   The steadfast premise behind physician credentialing is that of ensuring the
competency of physicians who are granted staff privileges,  [*1182]  which will
result in a higher standard of patient care. This, in theory, results in
economic savings to the hospital and ultimately to the patient. In its most
basic form, physician credentialing constitutes a clinical evaluation of
physicians seeking hospital staff privileges. There is no question that poor
quality patient care negatively impacts a hospital's bottom line financial
position. By contrast, increased physician competency undoubtedly results in
greater patient satisfaction, a reduction in malpractice lawsuits and an
increase in patient volume, all of which positively impact the economic
condition of the hospital. It may be argued that a clinical credentialing
process, whereby only clinically proficient physicians are granted privileges,
inherently provides an indirect economic benefit to the hospital. Yet many
hospitals feel this "end result" cost savings is not sufficient to place the
hospital in an economically competitive position. Thus, many hospitals have
extended the credentialing process to include both clinical and economic
evaluation components designed to identify cost efficient and clinically
competent physicians which will result in a direct economic benefit to the
hospital. In doing so, physician competency is determined based upon an
evaluation formula consisting of clinical and economic criteria, each considered
as a separate evaluation component.  n8

   Proponents of this combined approach assert that its use is crucial to a
hospital's economic survival. Regardless of the credentialing approach selected
by a hospital, physician competency may only be accurately determined through
the development of appropriate evaluation criteria, notwithstanding the use of
clinical or economic factors. Clearly, in establishing evaluation criteria in
today's health care market place, the issue of economics cannot be entirely
omitted from the credentialing process. The question then becomes: to what
degree may economic factors be considered in the credentialing process.

   II. DUTY OF DUE CARE

   As a general starting point, a hospital owes a duty to its patients to use
due care in the selection and retention of physicians to whom medical staff
privileges are given. Failure to do so may render the hospital liable to
patients for the negligent actions of physicians  [*1183]  providing services
within the hospital.  n9 This premise was first recognized in the seminal case
of Darling v. Charleston Community Memorial Hospital.  n10 Prior to Darling,
physicians were considered to be independent contractors and hospitals were
construed to be mere buildings in which physician independent contractors
rendered services.  n11 Accordingly, hospitals owed no duty to the patient since
the hospital did not undertake to treat patients, but undertook, instead, simply
to provide physical facilities in which medical services were rendered by
independent physicians.  n12

   The Darling court dispelled this notion by imposing hospital liability in
circumstances involving privileges granted by a hospital to an incompetent
physician.  n13 In conjunction with the Darling holding, not all states have
case law addressing the imposition of hospital liability in physician
credentialing decisions under similar fact situations. Even so, the overwhelming
judicial trend of holding hospitals liable in the credentialing arena is based
upon liability under general common law corporate liability arguments. The
collective impact of state and common law in the area of a hospital's duty of
care to its patients, which has resulted in the increased liability of hospitals
for a physician's negligent acts, has led to dramatic changes in the nature and
scope of the physician credentialing process.

   III. HISTORICAL OVERVIEW OF PHYSICIAN CREDENTIALING

   American health care reform dates back to the early 20th Century.  n14
Initially, reform measures were realized through state medical licensure boards.
n15 In response to the creation of state licensure boards and the concerted
professional actions of the American College of Surgeons, Congress enacted the
Hospital Survey and Construction Act, commonly referred to as the "Hill-Burton
Act."  n16

   The Hill-Burton Act was implemented for the purpose of subsidizing  [*1184]
hospital construction in medically underserved areas.  n17 States receiving
Hill-Burton funds were statutorily required to have a hospital licensure law in
effect.  n18 With the assistance of a federally-developed model licensing bill,
within one year after the passage of the Hill-Burton Act every state had
implemented some form of hospital licensure law.  n19 While it is beyond the
scope of this Article to compare and contrast the variations among state
licensure laws, a fundamental concept implicit in the licensure laws of all
fifty states is that of requiring the "adoption of medical staff bylaws,
physician appointment procedures, classification of staff membership,
depart-mentalization, and periodic meetings to review clinical work."  n20

   In 1952, following the enactment of the Hill-Burton Act, a private
organization named the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals ("JCAHO")
n21 assumed primary responsibility of hospital accreditation functions. Shortly
thereafter, JCAHO implemented "requirements for medical staff review of
physician members' clinical experiences."  n22 These requirements, as set forth
in the JCAHO accreditation manual ("Accreditation Manual"), provide guidelines
regarding the physician credentialing process.  n23 Notably, JCAHO accreditation
is not mandatory, but absence of JCAHO accreditation will result in a hospital's
inability to receive Medicare payments. In view of the hospital provider's need
to access Medicare funds, JCAHO accreditation, while voluntary in theory, is, in
practice, oftentimes a necessary prerequisite to the success and longevity of a
hospital in today's competitive and cost-driven health care environment.

   Pursuant to JCAHO requirements, hospitals must establish appropriate means to
review physicians in conjunction with the granting of hospital privileges. In
other words, hospitals must establish a physician credentialing process. The
general JCAHO framework for  [*1185]  physician credentialing sets forth the
parameters as to how hospital physician credentialing is to be conducted.  n24
The framework, as found in the Accreditation Manual, contains identifiable
standards to be used in the selection and retention of medical staff.

   The Accreditation Manual requires that hospitals establish an organized
medical staff charged with overall responsibility for ensuring: (i) quality
professional services; (ii) that said services are provided by individuals with
clinical privileges; (iii) accountability to the governing body; and (iv)
establishment of a mechanism to assure that all individuals with clinical
privileges provide services within the scope of individual clinical privileges
granted.  n25 The Accreditation Manual further requires that the medical staff
develop and adopt bylaws, rules and regulations to establish a framework for
selfgovernance of medical staff activities and accountability to the hospital's
governing body.  n26 JCAHO accreditation standards expressly require that a
process for granting and denying clinical privileges be described in the medical
staff bylaws, rules and regulations, and that the process be implemented by the
medical staff.  n27 Finally, the Accreditation Manual requires the establishment
of processes for reappointment to the medical staff and reappraisal of clinical
privileges.  n28 These processes must be fully described in the medical staff
bylaws, rules and regulations, and must be implemented by the medical staff.
n29

   In accordance with the JCAHO framework, the ultimate responsibility for
physician credentialing is placed upon the hospital board as the governing body
of a hospital.  n30 In fulfilling this responsibility, hospitals are required to
establish both corporate and medical staff bylaws containing, among other
things, a description of the medical staff credentialing and reappointment
process.  n31 The bylaws typically delegate a portion of the credentialing
process to the medical staff and/or its various committees (collectively,
"Medical Staff"), who, in turn, make staff appointment and retention
recommendations to the hospital board.  n32 In making such recommendations, the
Medical  [*1186]  Staff utilizes preset physician evaluation criteria. Many
hospitals ascribe to usage of credentialing criteria which may include economic
performance factors, provided, however, that such factors relate to the
hospital's traditional objective of rendering quality patient care in a
financially prudent manner.  n33 Undoubtedly, a review process consisting of
both clinical and financial measures falls within a board's standard objectives
of ensuring quality patient care and serving as fiscal fiduciary.  n34

   It must be recognized that, while the hospital board is ultimately
responsible for reviewing the professional qualifications and competence of
physicians providing services to patients in the hospital, the board is not a
"guarantor" of medical treatment.  n35 Instead, the hospital board fulfills its
due care/credentialing obligation upon establishment of a meaningful mechanism
through which reasonable efforts may be made to ensure that only those
physicians with recognized professional competence render medical treatment to
patients within the hospital.  n36

   In determining a hospital's due care/credentialing obligation, courts have
consistently held that hospitals need only exercise "reasonable" care when
credentialing and supervising staff physicians.  n37 As a result, the hospital
must establish an adequate credentialing process to limit negligent
credentialing exposure. For the most part, courts have afforded substantial
discretion to hospitals with regards to decisions to grant medical staff
privileges, so long as the hospital's identifiable purpose in making
credentialing decisions is that of the enhancement of the quality of care.  n38
This discretionary approach was articulated by the Fifth Circuit in Sosa v.
Board of Managers.  n39  [*1187]  In proffering such discretion, the Sosa court
recognized the need to afford the hospital board great leeway in establishing
physician standards, limited, however, to standards relevant to the objectives
and operations of the hospital.  n40

   IV. PHYSICIAN EVALUATION

   In general, there are three primary means for evaluating the competency of
physicians. First, state licensing boards determine whether a physician has the
minimum level of clinical expertise and competence to practice medicine.  n41
The state licensure process centers upon passage of an examination. Upon an
applicant's passing the examination and completing state licensure requirements,
a medical license is issued by the state licensure board. State licensure
provides the hospital with initial evidence of physician competency or the first
tier of a physician's evaluation. Building on licensure, board certification by
the American Medical Association presents a second tier of substantiation that a
given physician has reached a higher level of competence in a specific practice
field, over and above the initial level of state licensure.  n42 Finally, the
third tier of physician evaluation is accomplished by the individual hospital
through the physician credentialing process.  n43

   In conjunction with the credentialing process, the hospital reviews the
competence of a physician for the purpose of granting and retaining a
physician's hospital privileges and, in doing so, reviews the first two criteria
discussed above. Generally, this entails a review process to determine if a
given physician performs the quality and standard of work desired by the
hospital. Specifically, hospitals are free to establish the specific standards
and criteria used to determine if privileges are granted to a physician.  n44
Most hospitals' credentialing criteria, however, include an examination of the
following standards: (i) references; (ii) prior malpractice actions brought
against the physician; and (iii) licensure and board certification.  n45 Beyond
the above-referenced criteria, hospitals routinely  [*1188]  utilize national
accreditation standards, state hospital licensing statutes and regional practice
standards in developing credentialing criteria.  n46

   V. THEORIES OF LIABILITY ASSOCIATED WITH PHYSICIAN CREDENTIALING

   Upon successful completion of the credentialing process a physician is
granted hospital privileges. While the granting of hospital privileges does not,
in and of itself, render the physician an employee of the hospital, the
negligent actions of a physician providing medical services to patients within
the hospital may, in turn, be imputed to the hospital. Further, failure to grant
a physician privileges may, in some circumstances, result in an imposition of
hospital liability. In conjunction with physician credentialing, hospital
liability may be imposed via two primary avenues: liability to the patient and
liability to the physician.

A. Liability to the Patient

   A hospital patient who suffers damages as a result of a physician's negligent
treatment may successfully assert a cause of action against both the physician
and the hospital if it is determined that the hospital breached its duty to the
patient to use due care in the selection and retention of the physician.  n47
Under the auspices of this 'due care' obligation, hospitals have been found
liable for negligence, infliction of emotional distress and intentional torts,
depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case.  n48 Summarily,
liability to the patient has been premised on four legal theories, each of which
may be successfully used to establish a cause of action by a patient against a
hospital based on the hospital's grant of physician staff privileges despite
some flaw in the physician's skill or competence to practice medicine.

    [*1189]  1. Respondeat Superior

   Respondeat superior in the health care field denotes a legal theory commonly
used by a patient to impose liability on the hospital for the negligent acts of
a physician. The theory entails the fundamental concept of an employer's
responsibility for actions of its employees undertaken within the scope of
employment. Under the respondeat superior theory, a hospital is liable for the
negligence of a staff physician based upon the employment relationship between
the physician and the hospital. To succeed on this theory, a patient/plaintiff
must prove: (i) the physician committed malpractice; (ii) the existence of an
employer-employee relationship between the physician and the hospital; and (iii)
the physician was acting in the scope of employment in administering treatment.
n49 Not surprisingly, the key issue in efforts to prevail under the respondeat
superior theory is that of establishing that the physician is an employee of the
hospital.  n50

   When faced with an employee determination in the health care context, the
Texas Court of Appeals, in Hunte v. Hinkley,  n51 held that, in the absence of
an employer/employee relationship, a health care clinic could not be held liable
for the actions of a physician providing services at the clinic because the
clinic had no control over the physician's practice of medicine.  n52 The Hunte
court found that the evidence presented established an independent contractor
relationship through which the physician performed services at the clinic.  n53
The court held that, in the absence of an employer/employee relationship, the
respondeat superior theory must fail. Accordingly, hospitals may only be found
liable under the theory of respondeat superior when the physician in question is
an employee of the hospital.  n54

   Not surprisingly, the pivotal respondeat superior inquiry oftentimes becomes
that of an "employment" determination. In the clearest of  [*1190]  cases, staff
physicians who receive a salary and benefits from the hospital are identifiable
employees and present a vehicle through which the hospital may be found liable.
Moving down the spectrum, however, other physician/hospital relationships
present a more difficult inquiry as to the nature of the relationship. This
increased difficultly is often due to the presence of both employment and
independent contractor relationship aspects. In such cases, state law factors,
as well as factors set forth by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"),  n55
provide guidance for making an employment determination.

   An employment determination analysis involves dissemination of the nature and
tenor of the relationship in question. In formulating an employment analysis
involving a physician and a hospital, relevant factors indicative of an
employment relationship include the degree of control exercised over the
physician, type of payment and the manner in which the medical services are
rendered to the patient.  n56 Specifically, if a physician is paid based upon
how many patients visit the hospital rather than his individual services, an
employment relationship may be deemed to exist.  n57 Additionally, physicians
who are not free to choose their patients may also be deemed agents or employees
of a hospital.  n58 Further, when a hospital exercises substantial "control"
over a physician, an agency or a potential employment relationship may be found
to exist.

   The element of control is a highly determinative factor, as recognized by
both state law and the IRS.  n59 It is the element of control, rather than the
named status of the relationship, which frequently leads the courts to construe
the relationship as an employment relationship. For example, the District of
Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals, in Scheier v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
n60  [*1191]  held a hospital liable under the theory of respondeat superior, in
circumstances in which a physician identified as an independent contractor
committed malpractice.  n61 In Scheier, a cardiologist was called in by a staff
physician to assist on a case. In treating the patient, the cardiologist
committed malpractice. The court found Kaiser liable notwithstanding the
independent contractor status of the cardiologist.  n62 The court's holding was
based on the element of control.  n63 Kaiser had the power to call in and
dismiss the consulting physician, and the court determined that this control
formed the necessary link from the cardiologist to Kaiser.  n64 Further, the
Scheier court found the services rendered by the cardiologist were part of
Kaiser's duty owed to the patient to provide adequate health care services.  n65

   2. Ostensible Agency

   A second theory that may be asserted by a patient against a hospital is that
of ostensible agency.  n66 Ostensible agency is closely related to respondeat
superior, with one significant difference. Under the ostensible agency theory,
the element of "employment" is not required.  n67 Instead, in health care cases
the point of inquiry is whether the physician in question was held out as an
agent of the hospital.  n68 This theory of liability was addressed in McClellan
v. Health Maintenance Organization.  n69 McClellan involved a malpractice claim
asserted on behalf of the estate of a deceased member of an independent practice
association model health maintenance organization ("HMO").  n70 The McClellan
court based its finding on the following facts: (i) the physician was held out
to be the agent of the HMO; (ii) the HMO represented to its subscribers that its
primary care physicians were carefully screened, fully qualified, and  [*1192]
competent to render needed care; (iii) the physician was not properly screened,
evaluated or qualified to render needed care; and (iv) as a result of the
physician's incompetency, needed tests were not performed and needed specialty
assistance was not procured, ultimately resulting in the death of the
subscriber.  n71 Typically, an ostensible agency inquiry may successfully be
asserted if: (i) the patient looked to the hospital rather than the physician
for care; (ii) the patient reasonably perceived an employment relationship by
and between the physician and the hospital; and (iii) the hospital represented
itself as having an employment relationship with the physician.  n72

   The basic rationale behind the ostensible agency theory is that of the
"apparent" employment nature of the relationship. If the hospital in question
has created the reasonable impression in the patient's mind that the physician
works for the hospital, an apparent or agency relationship, and the
corresponding liability associated with the relationship, will be found to
exist.  n73

   3. Negligent Credentialing

   A third theory of liability which may be asserted by a patient against a
hospital is that of negligent credentialing. Negligent credentialing is
applicable when a patient is able to prove that the hospital did not exercise
reasonable care in either the selection or retention of its physicians.  n74 The
theory of negligent credentialing does not focus on the nature of the
relationship between the hospital and the physician. Instead, the theory of
negligent credentialing is premised upon a recognition that any physician who
practices medicine at a hospital should be adequately reviewed and effectively
credentialed prior to being permitted to treat a hospital patient.  n75

   In Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hospital,  n76 the patient/plaintiff
brought suit against the hospital alleging that the hospital's failure to
properly credential a physician constituted a  [*1193]  breach of the hospital's
duty of care owed to its patients.  n77 In presenting the case, the plaintiff's
evidence established the following failures of the hospital's credentialing
process: (i) failure to obtain a completed medical staff application; (ii)
failure to document the physician's appointment to the medical staff; and (iii)
failure to investigate the physician's competency before granting privileges.
n78 Extended to its full effect, the underlying concept behind Misericordia and
the theory of negligent credentialing is the assumption that, if adequate
credentialing had been implemented and effectuated, the hospital would have
discovered the physician's incompetence and, upon doing so, should not have
allowed the physician to treat patients within the hospital.

   4. Breach of Contract

   Liability may be asserted by a patient against a hospital based upon a breach
of contract theory.  n79 It must be noted, however, that the breach of contract
theory in the patient/hospital context is relatively new and has not been
extensively examined by the courts. The success of this theory is dependant upon
the plaintiff's establishing that the defendant hospital promised a certain
level of care and subsequently failed to provide such level of care.  n80 Among
those cases that have addressed the proper application of a breach of contract
theory in a patient treatment scenario is McClellan v. Health Maintenance
Organization.  n81 In McClellan, the plaintiff asserted hospital liability based
upon both the ostensible agency theory and the hospital's breach of a
contractual relationship with the patient to provide reasonably competent
medical care, the breach of which led to the patient's death.  n82 The McClellan
court found the breach of contract argument sufficiently strong to overcome a
demurrer.  n83 A Missouri Court of Appeals similarly found liability of a HMO
based on physician malpractice in a case entitled Stelmach v. Physicians
[*1194]  Multispecialty Group, Inc.  n84 In Stelmach, the HMO was contractually
obligated to provide medical services to the patient and, in so doing, referred
the patient to the physician. In view of the HMO's contractual obligation, the
patient's failure to receive adequate medical services constituted a breach of
contract for which the HMO was liable.  n85 Extension of this reasoning beyond
an HMO to the area of hospital liability may be based upon the hospital's
contractual obligation to provide medical care to patients and its implicit
obligation to the patient to ensure that such medical care is competently
rendered.

B. Liability to the Physician

   The second avenue of hospital liability is that of liability to a physician
who has been denied hospital privileges. A physician who has been denied staff
privileges as a result of the credentialing process or, alternatively, as a
result of the absence of a meaningful credentialing process may assert a cause
of action against the hospital. Physician directed litigation against a hospital
based upon a denial of medical staff privileges typically centers upon state and
federal antitrust claims, due process claims, denial of fair hearing process
claims, federal employment claims and/or Medicare fraud and abuse claims.

   1. Due Process

   In the area of hospital liability to a physician, litigation frequently
centers upon a physician's assertion of the denial of proper hearings, which
results in a denial of staff privileges or a revocation of staff privileges: in
other words, a due process claim.  n86 The Fourteenth Amendment of the United
States Constitution forbids any state to "deprive any person of life, liberty,
or property, without due process of law."  n87 Beyond the protection afforded by
the United States  [*1195]  Constitution, state constitutions also contain due
process provisions.  n88 The combined state and federal concepts of due process
protection require that a judicial or administrative hearing follow legally
established due process procedures.  n89 In so doing, the requisite elements of:
(i) notice; (ii) hearing; and (iii) impartial adjudication must be present in
the credentialing process if it is to withstand an applicable due process
challenge.  n90 A hospital's failure to afford these procedural safeguards may
result in the imposition of liability.

   The first prong of a due process claim is contingent upon establishing the
existence of "life, liberty, or property" interests. A physician does not have
an unqualified right to practice medicine, but does have a "liberty interest"
which has been construed to include the right to engage in his chosen
occupation.  n91 Generally, such a liberty interest cannot be deprived absent
adequate procedural due process. In Christhilf v. Annapolis Emergency Hospital,
n92 a physician's staff privileges were terminated prior to his receipt of a
fair hearing process.  n93 In addressing the due process claim, the Christhilf
court held that the physician had a constitutionally protected property interest
in his continued employment, as well as a liberty interest in his professional
reputation.

   The second prong of a due process analysis concerns the existence of "state
action."  n94 In the case of a public hospital, the receipt of government funds
and the government operation of the hospital comprise the state action component
of a due process claim.  n95 Therefore, a public hospital which is "owned,
maintained and operated" by a governmental entity may be found liable under a
due process theory if a physician is wrongfully excluded from performing
services at a public hospital in circumstances in which the hospital acted
arbitrarily or unreasonably.  n96 Private hospitals, on the other hand, have
traditionally enjoyed a due process safety zone in the form  [*1196]  of
absolute discretion in selecting and retaining medical staff physicians.  n97

   This safety zone was, historically, deemed an inherent consequence of the
absence of state action in a due process challenge. In recent years, however,
state action has been found to exist in some private hospital cases, based upon
the hospital's receipt of Hill-Burton, Medicare or Medicaid funds, which,
arguably, provide sufficient governmental involvement with the hospital so as to
create state action. While this argument may be asserted, courts are extremely
reticent to find state action based solely upon a private hospital's receipt of
government funds.  n98 Instead, when faced with a private hospital due process
claim, courts have typically applied theories of fiduciary duty, fair process
and contract law rather than due process.

   2. Antitrust

   Throughout the last decade there has been an increase in the number of
lawsuits filed by physicians who have been denied hospital privileges or whose
hospital privileges have been revoked.  n99 Frequently, these suits are based
upon alleged violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act.  n100 Section 1 of the
Sherman Act provides that "every contract . . . or conspiracy, in restraint of
trade or commerce . . . is declared to be illegal . . . ."  n101

   In determining the scope of § 1 of the Sherman Act, the United States Supreme
Court recognized early on that the § 1 "every contract" language could not be
read literally, as all contracts by their very nature impose restraints on the
contracting parties.  n102 Accordingly, the Supreme Court looked to the intent
behind the Sherman Act to determine the scope of the § 1 ban. The Supreme Court
found the intent behind § 1 to be that of a ban of unreasonable restraints of
trade.  n103 When again faced with the issue of the scope of § 1, the  [*1197]
Supreme Court adopted the "rule of reason" test for evaluating Sherman Act
restraint of trade claims.  n104 Unfortunately, however, the rule of reason test
was ambiguous, overly broad and its analysis was very time consuming. Not
surprisingly, therefore, the Court adopted a per se antitrust rule of illegality
that may be applied in § 1 cases.  n105

   A physician-asserted antitrust suit oftentimes alleges a conspiracy of the
credentialing committee to restrain trade and wrongfully exclude the physician
from the health care market.  n106 The 1984 keynote medical staff antitrust
decision in Weiss v. York Hospital,  n107 recognized the capability of medical
staff members to conspire with each other in the credentialing process in
violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act. In Weiss, the Third Circuit found that a
medical staff's refusal to deal with an osteopathic physician constituted a
group boycott and was, therefore, a per se violation of the Sherman Act.  n108
In the course of its Sherman Act analysis, the Weiss court addressed each of the
major elements of a § 1 Sherman Act violation in the credentialing process as
follows: (i) existence of a contract; (ii) combination or conspiracy; (iii)
restraint of trade; and (iv) effect on interstate commerce.  n109 Application of
the § 1 elements to the Weiss facts resulted in the Third Circuit Court's
holding that the medical staff's boycott actions were in violation of the
Sherman Act.  n110

   Section 2 of the Sherman Act provides that "every person who shall
monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other
person or persons, to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce . . . shall
be deemed guilty of a felony."  n111 The combined effect of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act in the health care  [*1198]  context is that of potential litigation
based upon general allegations of illegal tying arrangements, group boycotts,
unlawful exclusive dealing arrangements, and monopolization.

   While antitrust actions involving excluded physicians have increased in
recent years, physician antitrust actions have, for the most part, been
unsuccessful.  n112 This is due in large part to the overall reluctance of the
courts to review physician exclusion antitrust claims under a per se antitrust
analysis.  n113 Instead, the majority of courts have applied the antitrust "rule
of reason" analysis in cases involving an excluded physician.  n114 In rule of
reason cases brought by excluded physicians, it is somewhat difficult for
plaintiff physicians to establish the requisite element of an adverse effect on
competition.  n115

   In Hassan v. Independent Practice Associates,  n116 a rule of reason analysis
was applied to a § 1 Sherman Act price fixing challenge brought by an excluded
physician.  n117 Hassan involved an independent practice association ("IPA")
wholly owned by the individual physicians comprising it; one of whom was
terminated after the IPA determined he was overutilizing laboratory tests.  n118
In finding for the defendant, the Hassan court determined that the physician's
exclusion, based on cost containment factors, was justified and in full concert
with the IPA's practice philosophy.  n119 Prior to reaching such a conclusion,
the Hassan court refused to apply the per se rule because the function of
establishing price was a reasonable and necessary function of the IPA.  n120
Instead, the Hassan court applied the rule of reason analysis and found no
antitrust violation due to the plaintiff's failure to assert anti-competitive
effects.  n121 It is important to note that, under a rule of reason analysis,
economic factors may justify actions that would otherwise be construed as
anticompetitive based on the notion of enhanced efficiency.

    [*1199]  When faced with an antitrust claim asserted by a physician, the
most common hospital defense is that of state law compliance. In asserting such
a defense, hospitals frequently take the position that the credentialing process
which ultimately led to the physician's exclusion was mandated by state law.
Accordingly, hospital's assert that federal antitrust law is inapplicable based
upon the "state action" doctrine.  n122 In response to this argument, the United
States Supreme Court, in California Retail Liquor Dealers Ass'n v. Midcal
Aluminum, Inc.,  n123 created a two-part test to analyze the state action
defense to federal antitrust claims. The test is as follows: (i) the conduct in
question must be clearly articulated and affirmatively exercised as state
policy; and (ii) the policy must be actively supervised by the state.  n124

   The Supreme Court later applied the two-part test, in the peer review
context, in the case of Patrick v. Burget.  n125 In Patrick, Dr. Patrick filed
suit against the clinic, alleging antitrust violations based on the existence of
an unlawful review process which was allegedly implemented to reduce competition
rather than improve patient care. In response to Dr. Patrick's claim, the
defendant clinic asserted the state action doctrine. In finding for the
plaintiff, the Court held that application of the state action doctrine is
contingent upon the state's exercise of "ultimate control" over the conduct in
question, which the Court found lacking in Patrick.  n126 Application of the
Patrick rationale to future antitrust cases may reduce the hospital defendant's
chances of prevailing under a state action defense to a federal antitrust claim.

   3. Health Care Quality Improvement Act

   In years past, hospital efforts to comply with state law in the area of peer
review and credentialing were jeopardized by the threat of antitrust claims
associated with physician credentialing. Physicians, faced with the threat of
antitrust liability, were reluctant to participate in the peer review process.
The absence of needed physician participation substantially weakened the
credentialing process. In response to antitrust liability concerns due to the
antitrust/state action  [*1200]  tug of war in the health care field, Congress
enacted the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 ("HCQIA").  n127 Under
HCQIA, a limited federal immunity is afforded the peer review process as a
shield against antitrust actions.  n128 Simply stated, the HCQIA shield provides
federal immunity, limited to monetary damages, to good faith participants of the
peer review process. The legislative intent upon which HCQIA was based is that
of encouraging physician participation in the peer review process by reducing
antitrust liability concerns, which in turn ensures the identification of
incompetent physicians.  n129 To fall within the HCQIA safety zone, certain
statutory criteria  n130 must be satisfied, which are as follows: (i) the
medical review in question must constitute a "professional review action," made
by a "professional review body;" (ii) with intent and belief of furthering
quality patient care; and (iii) the review must be factually based,
appropriately reported, and evolve from a fair process.  n131

   As a result of HCQIA, adopting states have armed physicians and hospitals
with a shield in the context of credentialing antitrust battles. Still, HCQIA
was not enacted to circumvent antitrust laws and the HCQIA safety net does not
provide a complete "no fire zone" for antitrust attacks resulting from
credentialing decisions.  n132 Therefore, antitrust actions remain a viable
avenue through which hospital liability may be imposed.

   4. Federal Employment Status

   A third theory of liability that may be asserted by a physician is that of a
violation of a federal employment statute.  n133 Specifically, the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA"),  n134 Americans With Disabilities Act
("ADA"),  n135 § 1981 of the 1866 Civil Rights Act,  n136 and Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 ("Title  [*1201]  VII")  n137 provide an impetus for
potential claims by hospital employees for discriminatory practices in hiring or
employment decisions. The question then becomes whether the federal employment
statutes apply to decisions regarding the granting or denial of hospital staff
privileges to physicians.

   A cursory review of pertinent federal employment statutes may render an
initial determination that none of the statutes are applicable to medical staff
privilege decisions, as physicians are not typically employees of the hospital.
n138 Closer review and analysis of the federal statutes, however, require
further inquiry into the relationship of a hospital to the physician, due to the
difficulty of identifying the nature of the relationship between the physician
and the hospital. Arguably, hospital-based physicians may be considered
employees of the hospital. In making such an argument, application of statutory
and common law employee/employer factors, as well as the factors recognized by
the IRS,  n139 may result in a finding of an employment relationship. Of
particular importance in the analysis of a physician-hospital relationship are
the elements of the hospital's: (i) control over the work place; (ii) provision
of facilities and personnel; and (iii) absence of other meaningful sources of
revenue.  n140 The combined effect of such factors may be a judicial
determination of an employment relationship between the physician and the
hospital.

   Beyond the employment analysis, courts have begun to extend the requirements
of Title VII to a hospital's denial or restriction of physician privileges.
n141 In so doing, the Eleventh Circuit, in Pardazi v. Cullman Medical Center,
n142 reversed a lower court summary judgment action and held that Title VII may
extend to a claim that a hospital defendant has interfered with an individual
physician's employment relationship with another entity.  n143 In Pardazi, the
physician was not an employee of the defendant hospital.  n144 The lower court
found this to be compelling and denied relief under Title VII on the basis of
the same.  n145 The Eleventh  [*1202]  Circuit disagreed and, in so doing, held
that Title VII protection extends to circumstances involving a defendant's
interference with the plaintiff's employment relationship with a third party.
n146 Other courts, however, have refused to extend Title VII to circumstances
involving a physician who is not directly employed by a hospital.  n147

   As to application of ADEA claims and ADA claims, hospitals may be forced to
defend ADEA and/or ADA physician claims in the context of the physician
application, review and credentialing process. Due to the relative infancy of
these statutes, application of ADA and ADEA to the credentialing arena is
presently unclear. It is clear, however, that hospitals may take precautionary
measures to reduce potential liability under these types of claims by careful
drafting of medical staff application documents and bylaws, particularly in the
areas of age limitations, physical and mental prerequisites, and disclosure of
personal information.  n148 In view of the current state of disagreement over
appropriate application of federal employment statutes to physician
credentialing matters, federal employment claims by physicians will likely
increase. In any event, federal employment statutes may, in all likelihood, be
deemed applicable in some physician hospital relationships, depending upon the
nature and tenor of the arrangement and the facts and circumstances of the
claim.

   5. Medicare Fraud and Abuse

   A final theory of liability that may be asserted by an excluded physician is
that of a violation of the Social Security Act provisions, commonly referred to
as the Medicare Fraud and Abuse Statute ("Fraud and Abuse Statute").  n149 An
extremely broad application of the Fraud and Abuse Statute prohibition to the
physician credentialing process may result in a prohibition of a hospital's
consideration of economic factors in the review process. The basis for such an
argument is that economic criteria constitute a subterfuge form of payment for
physician referrals or a request for physician referrals, both of which
contravene the intent and purpose of the Medicare system. In the case of
Virginia Radiology Associates v.  [*1203]  Culpepper,  n150 a group of
radiologists brought suit against a hospital for terminating their services. The
radiologists asserted a Fraud and Abuse Statute violation, alleging they were
required to purchase unnecessary and illusory services in order to retain their
arrangement with the hospital.  n151 In future cases, this theory of liability
will most likely not prevail, as it: (i) involves an overly broad interpretation
of the Fraud and Abuse statute; (ii) does not pose the potential abuse sought to
be corrected by the statute; and (iii) fails to account for the legal and
justifiable extension of economic criteria to the overall assessment of
physician competency.

   VI. CREDENTIALING MECHANISMS

   While the general credentialing framework has been established by JCAHO,
applicable state statutes and case law, the specific credentialing process must
be developed by each individual hospital.  n152 In establishing an effective
credentialing process, various credentialing mechanisms may be utilized.
Depending upon the individual needs and characteristics of a given hospital,
various types of credentialing mechanisms may be incorporated into the
hospital's credentialing process to ensure that the hospital grants staff
privileges to only competent physicians. Among the credentialing mechanisms
warranting examination are: (i) application credentialing; (ii) primary
credentialing; (iii) secondary credentialing; and (iv) economic credentialing.
n153

   In assessing the feasibility of any credentialing mechanism, the hospital's
ability to accurately and effectively gather and utilize pertinent layers of
data is crucial. The specific data may be of a clinical nature, economic nature,
or both. Further, if an economic credentialing process is desired, the hospital
must devise a means by which the clinical and financial data are merged. In any
credentialing process, the initial layer of clinical data typically includes the
procurement of information about an applicant's education, medical training and
experience, work history, personal references and malpractice coverage.  n154

    [*1204]  Heightened layer clinical data involves procurement of clinical
information encroaching economic review. Examples of this layer include quality
assurance, utilization review and resource management information. Finally, an
additional layer of economic data that may be utilized in the credentialing
process is that of pure economic data. This layer includes, but is not limited
to, information regarding malpractice exposure, number of hospital admissions,
diagnosis related group ("DRG") profiles, and laboratory/service utilization.
n155 Regardless of the credentialing mechanism selected, the success and
effectiveness of its use are largely dependent upon the identification of clear
and concise criteria and corresponding data sources. Only then may the
credentialing process render effective physician staffing decisions.

A. Application Credentialing

   Application credentialing in and of itself does not adequately protect a
hospital from liability because it entails only minimal information and does not
involve any independent research by the hospital to ensure that the information
provided on the application is true and complete.  n156 Instead, this process
involves the sole requirement of completion and submission of an application. If
a physician completes and submits an application, he is automatically granted
hospital privileges.

B. Primary Credentialing

   Primary credentialing is a commonly used credentialing mechanism consisting
of an independent evaluation methodology. Under the mechanism of primary
credentialing, the hospital from whom privileges are sought gathers specific
data and evaluation information, such as proof of licensure, board
certification, malpractice coverage and professional training, and subsequently
conducts an independent evaluation based on the data to ensure that a physician
is competent to practice medicine at the hospital.  n157 This method, when
properly  [*1205]  implemented, affords a heightened degree of protection to the
hospital as opposed to the application credentialing process.

C. Secondary Credentialing

   Secondary credentialing involves research and review conducted by a hospital
which is part of a larger provider network.  n158 In other words, secondary
credentialing relies upon a secondary review source. Members of a health care
network rely on other members' research and review of prospective physicians
rather than conducting an independent investigation. Instead, upon establishment
of privileges in one member hospital, an applicant will automatically be granted
privileges in any other network entity to which he applies without any further
evaluation.  n159 This process presents substantial areas of liability exposure
in that, if the primary hospital fails to conduct adequate research and
investigation, the secondary hospital may be held liable for negligent
credentialing.  n160

D. Economic Credentialing

   The final credentialing mechanism, referred to as economic credentialing, is
a controversial avenue through which hospitals endeavor to determine whether a
physician has the proper credentials to join a medical staff. This credentialing
mechanism represents a concerted effort to homogenize the competing forces of
economics and quality of care. Economic credentialing stems from a hospital's
need to balance high quality patient care and profitability. In its most basic
form, the driving forces of quality assurance and fiscal performance have been
incorporated into a single process referred to as economic credentialing.
Economic credentialing is, however, in reality, both a process and an end
result. This is so, in that it represents the hospital's ability to track and
analyze patient care, at least, in part, from an economic perspective and, in so
doing, provides an overall evaluation of physician competency.

   In some respects, economic credentialing may be deemed an "audit" of a
physician's worth to the hospital, yet in other respects it may be deemed a
viable method of determining physician competence. It is this chameleon nature
of economic credentialing that has  [*1206]  resulted in heated debate and
controversy as to its use in physician credentialing. In its most comprehensive
sense, there are two forms of economic credentialing. The first form will be
referred to, herein, as hybrid credentialing and the second as pure economic
credentialing.

   1. Hybrid Economic Credentialing

   Proponents of economic credentialing, who characterize the process as a form
of physician evaluation that entails economic criteria coupled with more
traditional clinical practice evaluations, advocate the form of economic
credentialing referred to, herein, as hybrid economic credentialing.  n161
Hybrid credentialing represents an endeavor to merge the fiscal with the
clinical aspects of a physician's practice. When the hybrid approach to economic
credentialing is taken, economic factors are considered based upon the premise
that quality of care and finances cannot be separately evaluated. Instead, it is
only when quality and economic factors are collectively and jointly reviewed
that a true assessment of a physician's competency may be made. Hybrid
credentialing attempts to unite identifiable aspects of a physician's fiscal
practices with pertinent aspects of his or her clinical expertise in an effort
to evaluate the physician's overall competency. Examples of economic factors
that may be incorporated into a hybrid credentialing process are malpractice
risk exposure, number and type of hospital admissions, the number of patient
intensive care unit ("I.C.U.") days, patient length of stay, outpatient services
utilization, resource utilization, use of ancillary services and laboratory
tests, DRG profiles, utilization review factors, and the physician's payor
profile.  n162

   The relevancy of economic factors and linkage to clinical factors in the form
of hybrid credentialing was addressed in Knapp v. Palos Community Hospital,
n163 when a group of physicians challenged revocation of staff privileges. The
hospital's defense centered upon its effective use of quality assurance reviews
depicting the physicians' overutilization practices, as evidenced by excessive
use of lung scans, diagnostic tests, pacemakers, medications, and pulmonary
[*1207]  angiograms.  n164 The hospital's decision was due, at least in part, to
its consideration of economic criteria, specifically, that the plaintiff
physicians' costs exceeded those of other staff members by thirty-one percent.
n165 In finding for the hospital, the Knapp court found excessive costs to be
"symptomatic of quality" and, thus, relevant in the credentialing and review
process.  n166

   Similarly, the New Jersey case of Edelman v. John F. Kennedy Memorial
Hospital  n167 upheld the hospital's credentialing decision which resulted in
denial of physician reappointment. In Edelman, the hospital presented evidence
in the form of utilization review data which demonstrated inappropriate and
costly patient lengths of stay as well as excessive use of unnecessary
diagnostic tests.  n168 In finding for the defendant hospital, the court found
the hospital's decision to have been a legitimate operational function of the
hospital.  n169 Both Knapp and Edelman are indicative of the deference and
leniency afforded hospitals under the auspices of judicial interpretation and
application of hybrid credentialing.

   Undoubtedly, there are problematic aspects of hybrid credentialing. While it
does appear that hospitals may expand credentialing criteria from purely
clinical factors to include economic factors, the permitted scope of such
extension is unclear. What is clear is that, prior to being able to withstand
judicial scrutiny, many hospitals will be forced to appropriately revise
corporate and medical staff bylaws, incorporating the terms and process
associated with the hospital's hybrid credentialing process. The hospital must
then undertake the hybrid credentialing process in full accord with the bylaws.
Stated simply, as a proactive measure, economic criteria should: (i) be
pertinent to the specific hospital's operation and exigencies; (ii) be
incorporated into the hybrid credentialing process; (iii) be reasonably related
to the hospital's operational objective; and (iv) be rationally linked to a
physician's clinical performance.  n170 Further, hospitals  [*1208]  must
carefully and consistently utilize the economic data in compliance with internal
policies and procedures.

   In seeking to attain a proactive posture in conjunction with physician
credentialing decisions, hospitals may invest in physician profile software
packages designed to measure physician economic performance. Effective use of
such programs would likely strengthen the hospital's justification of its use of
economic data in conjunction with its hybrid credentialing process.  n171 Still
further, economic criteria utilized in a hybrid credentialing process must be
specific and precise enough so as to provide a physician with adequate notice
regarding acceptable standards of performance and conduct. Overly broad or vague
standards may be judicially construed as arbitrary and thereby unable to
withstand challenge. In summary, the hybrid credentialing process, under which
relevant cost and quality factors are collectively reviewed in a reasonable,
orderly and clear credentialing process, will likely be afforded continued
judicial deference in upcoming cases.

   2. Pure Economic Credentialing

   By contrast, the more extreme position of economic credentialing may be
characterized as an economic measure, devoid of patient care concerns.  n172
This position of sole economic focus will be referred to herein as "pure"
economic credentialing. Pure economic credentialing represents a review process
based on identifiable financial components of a physician's practice, considered
separate and apart from clinical expertise.  n173 Simply stated, under a pure
economic credentialing approach, physicians are evaluated for appointment or
reappointment based solely on financial performance or profitability thresholds.
n174 A pure economic credentialing evaluation does not involve review of the
physician's clinical qualifications, abilities or feats. Instead, pure economic
credentialing focuses on the physician's economic worth to a hospital.  n175 A
pure economic  [*1209]  review process looks to the hospital's financial "bottom
line" and does not consider qualitative criteria such as a physician's medical
training, expertise and clinical experience.  n176

   This single focus approach to physician credentialing is driven by economic
factors devoid of an overlay of clinical criteria. Examples of pure economic
factors include data as to: whether the physician is making a profit on patient
services, the type and demographics of admitted patients, the percentage of
physician profit by reimbursement type, the physician percentage of market
share, and the physician payor profile.  n177 Not surprisingly, this form of
economic credentialing has many critics. Many fear its use may result in an
evaluation process under which a physician's clinical abilities, if considered
at all, may be secondary to that of economics. Proponents of pure economic
credentialing, however, suggest that such an approach will not diminish quality
of care because quality physicians will also be cost efficient physicians.  n178
Thus, in theory, a pure economic credentialing process that identifies fiscally
irresponsible physicians will concurrently result in identification of
clinically inferior physicians.  n179

   In pure economic credentialing cases, the pivotal case of Rosenblum v.
Tallahassee Regional Medical Center  n180 has been construed to be the "first
judicial approval of pure economic credentialing."  n181 In Rosenblum, the trial
court upheld the hospital's credentialing decision which resulted in a cardiac
surgeon's denial of privileges.  n182 The basis of the hospital's decision was
economic in nature because the physician was head of the cardiology department
at a competing hospital, an economic issue the court found compelling in
evaluating the validity of the hospital's credentialing process.  n183 As a
result, the Rosenblum court upheld the hospital's denial of privileges based
solely on an economic conflict of interest. In so doing, the court determined
that the hospital's decision reflected a valid economic basis of evaluation in
light of the physician's  [*1210]  serving as program chair at a competing
hospital. It must be noted, however, that Rosenblum has limited precedential
value since it is a lower court opinion and was dependent in large part on
Florida statutory law granting wide hospital board discretion.  n184

   In evaluating issues pertaining to pure economic credentialing, one pure
economic credentialing method, referred to as exclusive contracting, has been
the source of substantial controversy. The concept of exclusive contracting
entails an arrangement, whereby the hospital enters into exclusive contracts for
specified hospital services, such as radiology or pathology.  n185 While the
primary hospital objective of exclusive contracting is typically that of
quality, its use further ensures that only cost-effective specialists will
render services in the specified practice area.

   The noteworthy case of Belmar v. Cipolla  n186 presents a judicial
examination of the use of an exclusive contract arrangement in the hospital
context. In Belmar, an exclusive contract arrangement between an anesthesia
group and the hospital was challenged by two excluded anesthesiologists based
upon alleged violations of state public policy and antitrust laws.  n187 When
faced with such claims, the New Jersey Supreme Court entertained the inquiry of
whether the actions of the hospital were in the public's interest.  n188 In so
doing, the Belmar court balanced the public's interest with the need to afford
the hospital discretion in its management and operation of the hospital. Upon
balancing public interest with managerial discretion, the Belmar court
determined that the hospital's actions were reasonable and appropriate.  n189 As
to the antitrust claim, the physicians asserted that the exclusive contract
arrangement constituted an illegal tying arrangement, in violation of New Jersey
antitrust law.  n190 The court held that the evidence presented was insufficient
to establish an antitrust violation under a rule of reason analysis and,
therefore, rejected the physicians' claims.

   In looking at the ability of exclusive contract arrangements to withstand
judicial scrutiny, those cases that have failed to withstand  [*1211]  the same
have generally involved clear violations of the contract in question or the
medical staff bylaws.  n191 Thus, successful physician challenges to exclusive
contracts have turned on impingements of the rights of excluded physicians, not
on the invalidity of economic criteria in the credentialing process. In any
event, at present, hospitals may enter into exclusive contract arrangements,
reasonably incorporating economic and quality of care considerations, without
undue fear of liability based upon use of the same.

   VII. RECOMMENDATIONS AS TO THE USE OF ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING

   In light of its single focus nature, pure economic credentialing may fail to
adequately evaluate a physician's level of competence and may increase the
hospital's liability exposure. By contrast, the more effective credentialing
evaluation process consists of a qualitative analysis with an overlay of an
economic evaluation. This hybrid form of economic credentialing evaluates a
physician's clinical skills and professional expertise from an economic
perspective  n192 and subsequently enables the reviewers to observe the quality
of an applicant's work from a fiscal standpoint. Effective application of this
approach enables the hospital to hire physicians who will likely be economically
advantageous to the health care facility. As a result, both the hospital and the
patient realize initial cost savings and the hospital's liability exposure is
minimized which results in further savings.

   Arguably, the end result of hybrid credentialing is that of protecting the
interests of the hospital, the individual physician and the patients. With
regards to the hospital's interests, hybrid credentialing may be used as a means
to diminish the hospital's fiscal challenges due to reimbursement losses and
budget constraints. In this vein, a vital aspect of the fiduciary duty of the
board of a hospital is to ensure that the hospital remains fiscally viable.
n193 An effective way to ensure  [*1212]  that hospitals maintain fiscal
integrity is to monitor the financial performance of each physician providing
services therein. Because hospitals are typically given wide latitude for
establishing a credentialing process, credentials committees should effectively
be able to establish guidelines for processing physician privilege applications
and conduct corresponding physician reviews that include economic factors.
Hospital interests are further protected under hybrid credentialing as a result
of the development of a meaningful evaluation process which effectively
precludes incompetent physicians from rendering medical services within the
hospital, thereby reducing malpractice claims and increasing patient
satisfaction.

   By protecting the interests of the physician, hybrid credentialing permits
consideration of all pertinent aspects of a physician's clinical capabilities
and patient practices, including those of an economic nature. Factors considered
by the hospital in the review process constitute "physician evaluation
criteria." Hospitals using hybrid credentialing must explicitly incorporate both
the physician evaluation criteria and the administrative process associated with
credentialing into the corporate and medical bylaws. This, in turn, provides
clear guidance to the physician as to his procedural and administrative rights
and as to the hospital's expectations of the physician.

   Finally, the patient's interests are protected due to the development of
verifiable, fair, and concise clinical and economic criteria, resulting in the
procurement and retention of competent physicians, which in turn results in
enhanced patient care and increased patient satisfaction. The interests of
patients are further enhanced by a comprehensive physician credentialing process
which excludes costly, unnecessary and inappropriate physician practices which
are ultimately passed on to the hospital consumer.

   CONCLUSION

   Today's hospitals are frequently caught in the inevitable crossfire between
the need for economic survival and the need to provide top quality patient care.
In attempting to correlate the two forces, the process of physician
credentialing has been used as an effort to balance the forces of economics and
quality of care. Physician credentialing has been achieved through application,
primary, secondary and economic credentialing processes. While each of the
credentialing methods has been the subject of debate, economic credentialing has
generated substantial controversy within the medical community.

    [*1213]  Economic credentialing is particularly difficult to understand and
apply in the physician credentialing process, as there is no generally
recognized definition of the term "economic credentialing." Summarily, economic
credentialing refers to two different approaches to the physician evaluation
process. First, pure economic credentialing refers to a system that evaluates
physicians based on pure financial factors which form the evaluation basis of
the hospital credentialing process. Under this approach, relevant data includes
per patient profit level, patient demographics and reimbursement profiles.
Further, under a pure economic credentialing approach, a physician may be
required to satisfy a preset profit threshold prior to obtaining hospital
privileges.

   The second form of economic credentialing, referred to as hybrid
credentialing, involves a two layer physician evaluation consisting of an
economic layer and a clinical layer. The two layers collectively serve to
provide a combined evaluation depicting a physician's overall competency.
Advocates of the two layer approach of hybrid credentialing maintain that
consideration of a physician's financial practices are justified because
economic practices affect both the physician's and the hospital's ability to
render quality patient care. Under a hybrid credentialing process, certain
economic factors are reviewed, considered and factored into the overall
evaluation process, but only in the context of conducting a comprehensive
physician appraisal.  n194

   While neither form of economic credentialing is without merit, hybrid
economic credentialing affords greater protection to all interested parties over
that of pure economic credentialing. Hybrid credentialing incorporates economic
factors into the review process only in the realm of a physician's total
practice. Effective incorporation of economic factors into the physician
credentialing process represents a viable means through which the needs of the
patient may be correlated with the available economic resources of the hospital.
Not only does hybrid credentialing protect and preserve quality of care, its use
provides additional liability protection which ultimately leads to bottom line
cost savings. In light of today's health care battlefield, in which many
hospitals are currently positioned, meaningful reduction of liability exposure
and improved fiscal responsibility may enable hospitals to not only win the
immediate battles associated  [*1214]  with economics and quality of care, but
to ultimately prevail in the on-going health care war.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawActions Against FacilitiesGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawActions
Against Healthcare WorkersDoctors & PhysiciansHealthcare LawBusiness
Administration & OrganizationHospital PrivilegesGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Phyllis Brasher, Provider Selection Issues in Provider Network and Managed
Care Organizations (PHOs, IPAs, PPOs, HMOs), 1993 Texas Health Law Conference
(Oct. 8, 1993). See also ROBERT D. MILLER, PROBLEMS IN HOSPITAL LAW 113 (6th ed.
1990).




n2  MILLER, supra note 1.




n3  K.J. Williams, Some Basic Principles of Medical Staff Organization, in
COLLECTED PAPERS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO EIGHTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE ON
HOSPITAL MEDICAL STAFF MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION 25, 27-28 (1971).




n4  THE JOINT COMMISSION ON ACCREDITATION OF HEALTHCARE ORGANIZATIONS,
ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS (1989) (hereinafter "ACCREDITATION MANUAL").




n5  John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing: A New Twist in Hospital Appraisal
Processes, 12 J. LEGAL MED. 427, 428 (1991). The physician credentialing process
is utilized by various healthcare entities, including, but not limited to,
managed care organizations, independent practice associations and hospitals. Id.
at 429-30. The scope of this article, however, centers upon physician
credentialing in the hospital context.




n6  Alden Solovy, Healthcare in the 1990s: Forecasts by Top Analysts, HOSPITALS,
July 20, 1989, at 34-36, 38-42, 46.




n7  This is due in large part to the commonly perceived "deep pockets" of
hospitals.




n8  James G. Wiehl, "Physician Integration": The Legal Pressures for
Consolidation of Health Care Services, 34 ST. LOUIS U. L.J. 917, 918 (1990).




n9  S. Gregory Frogge, Advancing Medical Technology: Can the Hospital Board Keep
Pace?, 2 KAN. J.L. & PUB. POL'Y 73, 73-75 (1993).




n10  211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill. 1965), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966).




n11  Edward E. Hollowell, Medical Staff Credentialing: Rights, Duties, and
Restrictions, 15 LEGAL ASPECTS OF MED. PRAC. 1 (1987).




n12  Daniel D. King & Joel T. Allison, Medical Staff Credentialing: Taking Steps
to Avoid Liability, DEF. COUNS. J., Jan. 1994, at 107-108 (citing Darling, 211
N.E.2d at 253).




n13  Darling, 211 N.E.2d at 256.




n14  Blum, supra note 5, at 431.




n15  MILTON I. ROEMER & JAY W. FRIEDMAN, DOCTORS IN HOSPITALS 34-35 (1971).




n16  42 U.S.C. § 291 (1988).




n17  Id.




n18  David M. Mulholland III, The Corporate Responsibility of the Community
Hospital, 17 U. TOL. L. REV. 343, 344 (1986). As of 1946, the year the
Hill-Burton Act was passed, only ten states had any form of licensure law. Blum,
supra note 5, at 432.




n19  Blum, supra note 5, at 432.




n20  Id. (footnote omitted).




n21  The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals was subsequently renamed
the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations. Any and all
subsequent references herein to JCAHO denotes the renamed status.




n22  Blum, supra note 5, at 432 (footnote omitted).




n23  See ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 4, at 101-24 (encompassing the Medical
Staff Section).




n24  Id.




n25  Id.




n26  Id.




n27  Id.




n28  Id.




n29  Id.




n30  Id. at PP 1.2.3.1.3.2, 1.2.3.1.8.




n31  Id.




n32  Blum, supra note 5, at 435-36. This internal structure is consistent with
case law, statutory law and JCAHO standards. The delegation to the medical staff
and/or its committees is warranted since hospital members frequently are not
licensed physicians and, therefore, may lack the clinical and professional
expertise to assume the full burden of the credentialing and review process.




n33  John D. Blum, Evaluation of Medical Staff Using Fiscal Factors: Economic
Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 65, 67 (1993).




n34  Id.




n35  Frogge, supra note 9, at 73.




n36  Id.




n37  Id. at 75. See also Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hosp., 301 N.W.2d 156
(Wis. 1981).




n38  See generally Darling v. Charleston Community Hosp., 211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill.
1965), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966); Park N. Gen. Hosp. v. Hickman, 703
S.W.2d 262 (Tex. Ct. App. 1985).




n39  437 F.2d 173 (5th Cir. 1971).




n40  Sosa, 437 F.2d at 177.




n41  King & Allison, supra note 12, at 107.




n42  Id.




n43  Id.




n44  Frogge, supra note 9, at 73.




n45  Id.




n46  Id.




n47  Marcia A. Mobilia, Hospital Corporate Liability - Toward a Stricter
Liability Standard for Administrative Services, HOSP. LIAB. L. & PRAC. 329,
337-39 (Mary M. Bertolet et al. eds. 1987). See also Elam v. College Park Hosp.,
183 Cal. Rptr. 156 (Cal. Ct. App. 1982).




n48  Kevin E. Grady, Current Topics in Medical Staff Development and
Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 193, 195 (1993).




n49  Brenda T. Strama & Laura Van Os, Credentialing and Managed Care
Organizations, 6th Annual Health Law Conference 2 (Apr. 8, 1994).




n50  See generally Sloan v. Metropolitan Health Council, 516 N.E.2d 1104 (Ind.
Ct. App. 1987); Dunn v. Praiss, 606 A.2d 862 (N.J. Super. Ct. App. Div. 1992);
Hunte v. Hinkley, 731 S.W.2d 570 (Tex. Ct. App. 1987).




n51  731 S.W.2d 570, 571 (Tex. Ct. App. 1987).




n52  Hunte, 731 S.W.2d at 571. See also Abalos v. Oil Dev. Co., 544 S.W.2d 627,
631 (Tex. 1976); Jeffcoat v. Phillips, 534 S.W.2d 168, 172 (Tex. Civ. App.
1976).




n53  Hunte, 731 S.W.2d at 571.




n54  Id.




n55  Rev. Rul. 87-41, 1987-1 C.B. 296.




n56  David J. Oakley & Eileen M. Kelley, HMO Liability for Malpractice of Member
Physicians: The Case of IPA Model HMOs, 23 TORT & INS. L.J. 624, 627-29 (1988).
See also Brentwood Fin. Corp. v. Lamprecht, 736 S.W.2d 836, 845 (Tex. Ct. App.
1987).




n57  Oakley & Kelley, supra note 56, at 627-29. Hospitals may refer patients to
doctors who work at their facility or simply take a patient's name and assign
him or her to a physician. These types of activities indicate an agency
relationship. If the hospital pays a salary to a physician or provides medical
or dental benefits to a physician, the physician will likely be considered an
employee of the hospital rather than an agent.




n58  Dunn, 606 A.2d at 868.




n59  Rev. Rul. 87-41, 1987-1 C.B. 296. See also Michael Kanute, Comment,
Evolving Theories of Malpractice Liability for HMO's, 20 LOY. U. CHI. L.J. 841,
849 (1989).




n60  876 F.2d 174 (D.C. Cir. 1989) (per curiam).




n61  Scheier, 876 F.2d at 174.




n62  Id. at 178.




n63  Id.




n64  Id. at 177-78.




n65  Id. at 178.




n66  Baptist Mem. Hosp. Sys. v. Smith, 822 S.W.2d 67, 72 (Tex. Ct. App. 1991).
See also Mduba v. Benedictine Hosp., 52 A.2d 450, 453-54 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 1976).




n67  Baptist Mem., 822 S.W.2d at 72. See also RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF AGENCY §
267 (1958).




n68  Boyd v. Albert Einstein Medical Ctr., 547 A.2d 1229, 1232 (Pa. Super. Ct.
1988).




n69  604 A.2d 1053 (Pa. Super. Ct.), appeal denied, 616 A.2d 985 (Pa. 1992).




n70  McClellan, 604 A.2d at 1053.




n71  Id. at 1058.




n72  Diana J. Bearden & Bryan J. Maedgen, Emerging Theories of Liability in the
Managed Health Care Industry, University of Texas School of Law Sixth Annual
Health Law Conference 25 (Apr. 8, 1994).




n73  Id.




n74  Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hosp., 301 N.W.2d 156, 171-72 (Wis.
1981).




n75  Misericordia, 301 N.W.2d at 171-72.




n76  301 N.W.2d 156 (Wis. 1981).




n77  Misericordia, 301 N.W.2d at 158.




n78  Id. at 156.




n79  Michael Meyer & Andrew Murr, Not My Health Care, NEWSWEEK, Jan. 10, 1994,
at 36; 1993's Largest Verdicts: Insurance, THE NAT'L L.J., Jan. 17, 1994, at
S5-7.




n80  Broadus A. Spivey, Suing the HMO, Texas Trial Lawyers Association Medical
Malpractice Conference 6 (Oct. 29, 1992).




n81  604 A.2d 1053 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1992).




n82  McClellan, 604 A.2d at 1055.




n83  Id. at 1061.




n84  No. 53906, 1989 Mo. App. LEXIS 852, at *1 (Mo. Ct. App. Jun. 13, 1989).




n85  Michael C. Thornhill, Managed Care at Risk, 13 WHITTIER L. REV. 359 (1992)
(citing Stelmach, 1989 Mo. App. LEXIS, at *1).




n86  Depending upon the type of hospital involved - i.e. public or private, the
source of a due process right varies. The Fourteenth Amendment governs public
hospitals, but is inapplicable, absent some form of state action, to private
hospitals. Private hospitals may, however, be governed by the theory of common
law due process.




n87  U.S. CONST. amend. XIV, § 1.




n88  King & Allison, supra note 12, at 113.




n89  Id.




n90  Id.




n91  Hollowell, supra note 11, at 2.




n92  552 F.2d 1070 (4th Cir. 1977).




n93  Christhilf, 552 F.2d at 1072. The physician was ultimately given a hearing
some four years after his privileges were terminated.




n94  Hollowell, supra note 11, at 2.




n95  Id.




n96  Id.




n97  Id.




n98  Id. at 2-3.




n99  Diane Ruder, Comment, Antitrust and the Credentialing and Decredentialing
of Physicians, 19 N. KY. L. REV. 351 (1992). See also Bellam v. Clayton County
Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488 (N.D. Ga. 1990); Steurer & Latham v. National
Med. Ctrs., 672 F. Supp. 1489 (D. S.C. 1987), aff'd, 846 F.2d 70 (4th Cir.
1988).




n100  15 U.S.C. §§ 1-2 (1988 & Supp. IV 1992). See also Shahawy v. Harrison, 778
F.2d 636 (11th Cir. 1985); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir.
1990).




n101  15 U.S.C. § 1.




n102  Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U.S. 1, 59 (1911).




n103  Standard Oil, 221 U.S. at 50-51.




n104  Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U.S. 231, 239 (1918). The rule of
reason test balanced the anti-competitive effects of the arrangement in question
against the procompetitive effects.




n105  Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. United States, 356 U.S. 1, 5-6 (1958). The per se
rule is applicable in circumstances in which the conduct in question is
repeatedly found to be unreasonable under a rule of reason analysis. If the
conduct falls within a per se class, the conduct is deemed illegal, regardless
of its impact on competition.




n106  Tambone v. Memorial Hosp., 635 F. Supp. 508 (N.D. Ill. 1986), aff'd, 825
F.2d 1132 (7th Cir. 1987).




n107  745 F.2d 786 (3d. Cir. 1984).




n108  Weiss, 745 F.2d at 818.




n109  Id. at 812.




n110  Id. at 831.




n111  15 U.S.C. § 2 (1988).




n112  See Oksanen v. Page Memorial Hosp., 945 F.2d 696 (4th Cir. 1991), cert.
denied, 112 S. Ct. 973 (1992).




n113  Oksanen, 945 F.2d at 708.




n114  Id. at 709.




n115  Id.




n116  698 F. Supp. 679 (E.D. Mich. 1988).




n117  Hassan, 698 F. Supp. at 695-97.




n118  Id. at 683.




n119  Id. at 684.




n120  Id. at 690.




n121  Id. at 695-97.




n122  King & Allison, supra note 12, at 114.




n123  445 U.S. 97 (1980).




n124  Midcal, 445 U.S. at 105.




n125  486 U.S. 94, 99-100 (1988), rev'g 800 F.2d 1498 (9th Cir. 1986).




n126  Patrick, 486 U.S. at 99-100.




n127  42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (1988).




n128  Id. § 11111(a)(1).




n129  42 U.S.C. § 11101.1.




n130  42 U.S.C. § 11111, note 2.




n131  42 U.S.C. § 11112.




n132  James F. Blumstein & Frank A. Sloan, Antitrust and Hospital Peer Review,
51 LAW & CONTEMP. PROBS. 8, 39 (1988).




n133  Grady, supra note 48, at 205.




n134  29 U.S.C. §§ 621-634 (1988 & Supp. V 1993).




n135  42 U.S.C. §§ 12101-12117 (Supp. V 1993).




n136  49 U.S.C. § 1981 (1988).




n137  42 U.S.C. § 2000e (1988).




n138  Grady, supra note 48, at 205.




n139  26 C.F.R. § 31.3401(c)-1(b) (1993); Treas. Reg. § 31.3401(c)-1(b) (1993).
See Rev. Rul. 87-41, 1987-1 C.B. 296.




n140  Grady, supra note 48, at 206.




n141  Id.




n142  838 F.2d 1155 (11th Cir. 1988).




n143  Pardazi, 838 F.2d 1155.




n144  Id. at 1156.




n145  Id.




n146  Id.




n147  Mitchell v. Frank R. Howard Memorial Hosp., 853 F.2d 762 (9th Cir. 1988),
cert. denied, 489 U.S. 1013 (1989); Beverly v. Douglas, 591 F. Supp. 1321
(S.D.N.Y. 1984).




n148  Grady, supra note 48, at 207-09.




n149  42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b (1988 & Supp. IV 1992).




n150  No. 90-L-172 (Cir. Ct. of Culpepper County Va. filed Aug. 8, 1990).




n151  Virginia Radiology, No. 90-L-172.




n152  Frogge, supra note 9, at 73-78.




n153  Strama & Van Os, supra note 49, at 12-15.




n154  See generally John D. Blum, Hospital - Medical Staff Relations in the Face
of Shifting Institutional Business Strategies: A Legal Analysis, 14 U. PUGET
SOUND L. REV. 561 (1991).




n155  Id. at 571-73.




n156  Harrell v. Total Health Care, Inc., No. 39809, 1989 WL 153066 (Mo. App.,
Apr. 25, 1989), aff'd on other grounds, 781 S.W.2d 58 (Mo. 1989).




n157  Strama & Van Os, supra note 49, at 14-15.




n158  Id. at 13.




n159  Id.




n160  Id. at 14.




n161  See generally Blum, supra note 33, at 65; Strama & Van Os, supra note 49,
at 24.




n162  Strama & Van Os, supra note 49, at 23-26.




n163  465 N.E.2d. 554 (Ill. App. Ct. 1984).




n164  Knapp, 465 N.E.2d at 560.




n165  Id.




n166  Id.




n167  No. C-2104-80 (N.J. Sup. Ct. 1982), cert. denied, 475 A.2d 585 (1984).




n168  Id.




n169  Id.




n170  Eleanor D. Kinney & Marilyn M. Wilder, Medical Standard Setting in the
Current Malpractice Environment: Problems and Possibilities, 22 U.C. DAVIS L.
REV. 421, 442-50 (1989).




n171  Use of a software system must be appropriately adjusted to fit the needs
of the hospital.




n172  See generally Michael J. Baxter, Exclusive Contracting: The Original
Economic Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 97 (1993).




n173  Grady, supra note 48, at 194.




n174  See generally John D. Blum, Hospitals, New Medical Practice Guidelines,
CQI, and Potential Liability Outcomes, 36 ST. LOUIS U. L.J. 913 (1992).




n175  Id.




n176  Id.




n177  Michael D. Roth, Peer Review Pitfalls: The Data Bank and Beyond, 13
WHITTIER L. REV. 387 (1992).




n178  Blum, supra note 174, at 913.




n179  Id.




n180  No. 91-589 (Fla. Cir. Ct. filed June 22, 1992).




n181  Id.




n182  Id.




n183  Id.




n184  FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.0191(5) (West 1993).




n185  MICHAEL M. BIEHL & CATHLEEN S. BIEHL, THE MEDICAL STAFF: LEGAL ISSUES 114
(1990).




n186  475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984).




n187  Belmar, 475 A.2d at 533.




n188  Id. at 538.




n189  Id. at 539.




n190  Id. at 540.




n191  See generally Hospital Corp. v. Romaguera, 511 So.2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct.
App. 1986); Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Med. Center, No. 91-973 (Fla.
Cir. Ct., Apr. 29, 1991); Lewisburg Community Hosp. v. Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756
(Tenn. 1991).




n192  Observing a physician's application from a quality standpoint, a staff
physician might note that the applicant has always had quality results when
using complicated equipment owned by the hospital. A person looking at the
application from an economic perspective would note that, with the applicant's
knowledge of the hospital's equipment, the hospital would not have to hire an
additional specialist or provide training for the new physician to learn how to
use the equipment.




n193  Blum, supra note 174, at 913.




n194  An example of the second prong of economic credentialing is that of
excessive ordering of tests, which clearly have an adverse economic impact on
the institution, and may have an impact on the quality of care rendered the
patient.


                              37 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

HOSPITALS BOON TO A COMMUNITY'S ECONOMY, STUDY FINDS

BYLINE: The Capital Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 285 words


Hospitals are good for a community's economic health, according to a study
released Thursday by the University of Wisconsin Extension and the Wisconsin
Hospital Association.

The report examining the state's 145 hospitals showed the facilities generate
$22 billion in economic activity while employing more than 100,000 people.

"Hospitals were among the top 10 employers in 44 of the 72 counties in Wisconsin
and among the top five employers in 20 counties," said Andrew Lewis, community
development specialist with the Center for Community and Economic Development at
the UW-Extension.

The study found that a strong health care network adds to a community's
attractiveness as a place to live, work and retire.

"As baby boomers age, more Wisconsin families will base their decision on where
to retire on the availability of quality health care," the study said.
"Wisconsin consistently is among the top-ranking states in health care quality."

Besides a 100,000 strong workforce, the study said hospitals indirectly are
responsible for another 90,000 jobs in Wisconsin through purchases of goods and
services, with the ripple effect of hospitals accounting for $22 billion in
business a year.

A hospital in a rural setting also acts as a magnet for other essential
services, said Matthew Kures of the UW-Extension.

"Rural hospitals provide an anchor for other health care jobs, such as
physicians and pharmacists, that, in the absence of the hospital, may not be
available," Kures said. "Communities we work with cite the inability to attract
and retain college graduates, but hospitals are able to provide employment for
these individuals and help stem the so-called 'brain drain.' "

The Capital Times - 3/26/2009 12:38 pm

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Bond Buyer

PENNSYLVANIA

                             June 15, 1993, Tuesday

Compiled by Michele Midura



     Northampton Co. Hospital Authority, Pa. (Easton) - Fidelity Bank,
National Association, Philadelphia, as paying agent, calls for redemption
on July 1, 1993, hospital gross revenue bonds, Series of 1976, (Easton
Hospital), due July 1, 1996, in the principal amount of $485,000.

     Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg) -
CoreStates Bank, N.A., Philadelphia, as trustee, calls for redemption on
July 1, 1993, economic development revenue bonds, 1990 Series D1 (Bitrek
Corporation Project), in the principal amount of $100,000.

     Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg) -
CoreStates Bank, N.A., Philadelphia, as trustee, calls for redemption on
July 1, 1993, economic development revenue bonds, 1990 Series D2, (Joseph
J. Burner, Inc. Project), in the principal amount of $200,000.

     Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg) -
CoreStates Bank, N.A., Philadelphia, as trustee, calls for redemption on
July 1, 1993, economic development revenue bonds, 1990 Series D3,
(Cummings Lumber Co., Inc. Project), in the principal amount of $100,000.

     Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg) -
CoreStates Bank, N.A., Philadelphia, as trustee, calls for redemption on
July 1, 1993, economic development revenue bonds, 1990 Series D4, (Dodge
Regupol, Inc. Project), in the principal amount of $100,000.

     Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg) -
CoreStates Bank, N.A., Philadelphia, as trustee, calls for redemption on
July 1, 1993, economic development revenue bonds, 1990 Series D8, (RDL
Associates Project), in the principal amount of $25,000.

     Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg) -
CoreStates Bank, N.A., Philadelphia, as trustee, calls for redemption on
July 1, 1993, economic development revenue bonds, 1990 Series D10, (Way
Beck Properties Project), in the principal amount of $100,000.

     Saint Mary Hospital Authority (Bucks Co.), Pa. - CoreStates Bank,
N.A., Philadelphia, as trustee, calls for redemption on July 1, 1993,
hospital revenue bonds, Series of 1974, (Saint Mary Hospital of Langhorne
Project), dated March 15, 1974, due July 1, 2004, in the principal amount
of $530,000.

     Washington Co. Housing and Redevelopment Authority, Pa. (Washington)
- First Trust National Association, St. Paul, as trustee, calls for
redemption on July 1, 1993, governmental housing revenue bonds, Series
1988 A.

SECTION: BOND CALLS AND REDEMPTIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 487 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 The Bond Buyer, Inc.


                              39 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                         TendersInfo - Project Notices

                            December 28, 2015 Monday

Cho Ray Viet Nam-Japan Friendship Hospital Development Project

LENGTH: 493  words


Project details : Continue achieving sustainable economic growth, the investment
environment must be developed through infrastructure improvements, the
macroeconomy stabilized through economic structural and administrative reforms,
and international competitiveness strengthened. Furthermore, in order to promote
social development with balanced economic development, it is necessary to
alleviate the effects of and adapt to climate change, as well as addressing
vulnerabilities by improving the level of public sanitation that has worsened
with urbanization, and strengthening the health care system.


The public health care system of Vietnam has a three-level structure, in which
communes and districts are at the first level, provinces at the second level and
the nation at the third level. Top-rank hospitals not only receive patients
referred from lower-level hospitals, but also bear the responsibility of
providing guidance and support to lower-level hospitals. Given this system in
which lower-level hospitals refer patients to a higher-level hospital when
unable to provide proper treatment, a large number of patients seek treatment at
higher-level hospitals in cities without visiting the health care institutions
at the lower-level, resulting in a lower service quality and dysfunction in the
health care system overall. Even at Cho Ray Hospital, the top-level medical
center in southern Vietnam located in Ho Chi Minh City, the hospital bed
utilization rate stays consistently at about 140 percent, further lowering the
service quality and causing dysfunction.
This project will construct a new Viet Nam-Japan Friendship Cho Ray Hospital as
a second Cho Ray Hospital to expand the number of third-level hospital beds,
alleviate the overload, promote advanced medical and preventative health care,
and strengthen the functions as a base for health care human resource
development and training, including for lower-level hospitals. The project will
also strengthen hospital quality management, thereby contributing to the
enhancement of the health care system in Vietnam. The loan funds will be
allocated to constructing the hospital facilities, installing the medical device
and health care information system, and consulting services.
Issuing of letters of invitation for consulting services (including procurement
assistance, construction monitoring and hospital administration assistance): May
2016
Procurement package title: Hospital Facility Construction Package Release date:
July 2017

Project completion date : 2020-11-30 12:00:00
Major organization : CHO RAY HOSPITAL

Address : 201 B Nguyen Chi Thanh,
Ward 12, District 5,


Ho Chi Minh City,

Country :Viet Nam
Financier : Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) ,

Financier address : Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)
Nibancho Center Building 5-25,
Niban-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-8012
Japan
Website : http://www.jica.go.jp/
Tel : +81-3-5226-6660/6661/6662/6663

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 811


                          Copyright 2015 Tenders Info
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday

Hospitals are economic engines

LENGTH: 255  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release:



 Hospitals' contribution to their communities extends far beyond their role as
health care cornerstones. As the most recent update of our annual report on
hospitals' economic impact makes clear, they also are economic anchors,
providing the stability and growth that contributes greatly to the financial
health of the communities they serve.





 The health care field has traditionally been an economic lynchpin for the
nation. The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported that health care as a
whole added an average of 35,000 jobs per month in 2016.



 We studied economic activity in 2015, and found hospitals specifically employed
more than 5.7 million, were one of the top sources of private-sector jobs and
spent nearly $852 billion on goods and services from other businesses.



 Those goods and services created additional economic value for the community by
supporting 16 million total jobs and more than $2.8 trillion in economic
activity. This translates into hospitals supporting one of every nine jobs in
the U.S.



 Hospitals provide vital high-quality health care services to millions of people
each year and support a healthy, productive workforce. But what's not well
enough known is how all that quality health care acts as an engine driving
trillions of dollars of economic activity in communities across the nation.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday

Hospitals are economic engines

LENGTH: 255  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release:



 Hospitals' contribution to their communities extends far beyond their role as
health care cornerstones. As the most recent update of our annual report on
hospitals' economic impact makes clear, they also are economic anchors,
providing the stability and growth that contributes greatly to the financial
health of the communities they serve.





 The health care field has traditionally been an economic lynchpin for the
nation. The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported that health care as a
whole added an average of 35,000 jobs per month in 2016.



 We studied economic activity in 2015, and found hospitals specifically employed
more than 5.7 million, were one of the top sources of private-sector jobs and
spent nearly $852 billion on goods and services from other businesses.



 Those goods and services created additional economic value for the community by
supporting 16 million total jobs and more than $2.8 trillion in economic
activity. This translates into hospitals supporting one of every nine jobs in
the U.S.



 Hospitals provide vital high-quality health care services to millions of people
each year and support a healthy, productive workforce. But what's not well
enough known is how all that quality health care acts as an engine driving
trillions of dollars of economic activity in communities across the nation.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

Hospitals are economic engines

LENGTH: 255  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release:



 Hospitals' contribution to their communities extends far beyond their role as
health care cornerstones. As the most recent update of our annual report on
hospitals' economic impact makes clear, they also are economic anchors,
providing the stability and growth that contributes greatly to the financial
health of the communities they serve.





 The health care field has traditionally been an economic lynchpin for the
nation. The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported that health care as a
whole added an average of 35,000 jobs per month in 2016.



 We studied economic activity in 2015, and found hospitals specifically employed
more than 5.7 million, were one of the top sources of private-sector jobs and
spent nearly $852 billion on goods and services from other businesses.



 Those goods and services created additional economic value for the community by
supporting 16 million total jobs and more than $2.8 trillion in economic
activity. This translates into hospitals supporting one of every nine jobs in
the U.S.



 Hospitals provide vital high-quality health care services to millions of people
each year and support a healthy, productive workforce. But what's not well
enough known is how all that quality health care acts as an engine driving
trillions of dollars of economic activity in communities across the nation.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

Hospitals are economic engines

LENGTH: 255  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release:



 Hospitals' contribution to their communities extends far beyond their role as
health care cornerstones. As the most recent update of our annual report on
hospitals' economic impact makes clear, they also are economic anchors,
providing the stability and growth that contributes greatly to the financial
health of the communities they serve.





 The health care field has traditionally been an economic lynchpin for the
nation. The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported that health care as a
whole added an average of 35,000 jobs per month in 2016.



 We studied economic activity in 2015, and found hospitals specifically employed
more than 5.7 million, were one of the top sources of private-sector jobs and
spent nearly $852 billion on goods and services from other businesses.



 Those goods and services created additional economic value for the community by
supporting 16 million total jobs and more than $2.8 trillion in economic
activity. This translates into hospitals supporting one of every nine jobs in
the U.S.



 Hospitals provide vital high-quality health care services to millions of people
each year and support a healthy, productive workforce. But what's not well
enough known is how all that quality health care acts as an engine driving
trillions of dollars of economic activity in communities across the nation.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2010 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                  Spring, 2010

                      Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics

                           38 J.L. Med. & Ethics 127

LENGTH: 5038 words

INDEPENDENT ARTICLE: State Tort Reforms and Hospital Malpractice Costs

NAME: Charles R. Ellington, Martey Dodoo, Robert Phillips, Ronald Szabat, Larry
Green, and Kim Bullock

BIO: Charles R. Ellington, M.D., J.D., is an Assistant Professor of Family and
Community Medicine at Southern Illinois University School of Medicine Decatur
Family Medicine Residency Program. He received his degrees in law and medicine
from Southern Illinois University Schools of Law and Medicine and completed a
Family Medicine Residency at SIU Decatur. Dr. Ellington spent four years in
private practice in a rural Amish community before completing a health policy
fellowship at Georgetown University and the Robert Graham Center. His interests
include tort reform, rural health, and health care reform. Martey Dodoo, Ph.D.,
is the Senior Economist for the Robert Graham Center in Washington, D.C. He
earned his Ph.D. in demography and economics from the University of
Pennsylvania. Dr. Dodoo also earned graduate degrees in economics from the
University of Western Ontario (Canada) and the University of Ghana, as well as
an undergraduate degree in biochemistry. Robert Phillips, M.D., M.S.P.H.,
graduated from the University of Florida College of Medicine in Gainesville,
Florida, with honors for special distinction. He did residency training in
family medicine at the University of Missouri-Columbia, where he remained for a
research fellowship, completing a Masters of Science in Public Health.
Currently, Dr. Phillips is the Director of the Robert Graham Center in
Washington, D.C. Ronald Szabat, J.D., LL.M., is the Executive Vice President and
General Counsel for the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA). He received
his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Pittsburgh School of Law and an
LL.M. in taxation from Georgetown University School of Law. He is a member of
the bar in both Pennsylvania and the District of Columbia. After graduating law
school, Mr. Szabat served as the legislative director of US Representative Doug
Walgren. He later served as the Executive Director of the Council of Ethnic
Americans. Prior to joining the ASA, Mr. Szabat was the American Medical
Association (AMA) Director Division of Legislative Counsel where he was the
AMA's chief legal counsel in Washington. Larry Green, M.D., received his medical
degree from Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas. He also received a
B.A. from University of Oklahoma. Today, Dr. Green works in the Department of
Family Medicine at the University of Colorado Denver. Kim Bullock, M.D., is an
Associate Professor and Director of Community Health at Georgetown University
School of Medicine. She is a graduate of University of Michigan School of
Medicine, Ann Arbor. Trained as a family physician, Dr. Bullock practices
emergency medicine in Washington, D.C. Her areas of interest include advocacy
and domestic violence prevention.

HIGHLIGHT: This study explored the relation between state medical liability
reform measures, hospital malpractice costs, and hospital solvency. It suggests
that state malpractice caps are desirable but not essential for improved
hospital financial solvency or viability.

TEXT:
 [*127]  Medical liability remains a major concern among U.S. physicians, and
according to the American Medical Association (AMA) the United States is
currently experiencing its third full-blown medical liability crisis with many
physicians limiting their practices as a result of rising malpractice costs.  n1
The AMA, many in the medical community, and several prominent politicians
including former president George W. Bush have called for medical liability
reform including caps on non-economic damages. Some researchers argue that the
medical liability crisis has been overdrawn. Several studies have shown that the
vast majority of patients injured through medical malpractice do not sue, that
the insurance cycle is likely a major contributor to rising malpractice
insurance premiums, and that defensive medicine likely plays a minor role in
rising health care costs.  n2 Further, evidence shows that malpractice damage
caps may lead to a crossover effect where juries increase the amount of economic
damages they award to offset limitations in non-economic damages available.  n3
However, studies from the 1970s and 1980s  n4 as well as more recent studies  n5
have suggested that specific reforms including caps on noneconomic damages
correlate with lower physician liability premiums. There is also evidence that
states with caps have an increased supply of physicians, especially in rural
areas.  n6 A recent study from the Congressional Budget Office states that a
[*128]  package of reforms including a $ 250,000 cap on non-economic damages
would reduce national physician premiums by 10% and would reduce health care
costs by $ 11 billion in 2009 and reduce federal deficits by $ 54 billion over
the next 10 years.  n7

   Hospitals are also affected by the malpractice crisis, and evidence suggests
that malpractice costs have forced some hospitals to limit services or close
some services altogether.  n8 Hospitals claim that rising malpractice costs,
coupled with negative Medicare and Medicaid margins, place them at financial
risk.  n9 Rural hospitals are some of the most at risk with a larger proportion
of Medicare patients, fewer patients, and relatively high fixed costs.  n10
Teaching hospitals are also at risk with a higher Medicare and Medicaid
populations and a larger share of uncompensated care.  n11 Although preliminary
evidence suggests that medical liability reform correlates with lower hospital
malpractice premiums,  n12 no published systematic review to date has examined
the association between specific state medical liability reform measures,
hospital malpractice costs, and hospital solvency. This study attempts to
explore (1) whether a correlation exists, and (2) the nature of that
correlation.

Design and Methods
Article 1
Our main source of data was the Hospital Cost Report Information Set (HCRIS)
from 1998-2003. HCRIS is publicly available hospital cost data from the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).  n13 CMS requires every hospital that
receives Medicare funds to report their itemized annual costs to the agency,
using a standardized set of reporting forms. Beginning in 1996, CMS mandated all
hospitals to also report their malpractice costs including malpractice premiums,
payouts, and expenditures on self-insurance. There is a lag in hospital
reporting and report audits; consequently adequate data were available for
1998-2003. Hospitals are also required to report whether they are rural or
urban, and we used these designations to characterize the rural/urban status of
a hospital. Hospitals also are required to report whether they are engaged in
teaching. We characterized hospitals that reported they did any teaching as
teaching hospitals.

   We categorized all 50 states and the District of Columbia according to the
types of malpractice reforms enacted in the period. We reviewed the medical
liability reform statutes that were in force during the study period along with
relevant judicial opinions. We excluded data from states after the enactment of
reforms if the reforms occurred during the study period. We created ten reform
categories: (1) total damage caps; (2) caps on non-economic damages; (3) joint
and several liability; (4) collateral source rule; (5) attorney fee caps; (6)
mandatory arbitration; (7) voluntary arbitration; (8) excess coverage funds; (9)
permitted periodic payments; and (10) certificate of merit. We categorized total
damage caps (# 1) as caps of $ 500,000 or less, and caps greater than $ 500,000.
We also categorized caps on non-economic damages (# 2) as caps of $ 250,000 or
less, and caps greater than $ 250,000 (Figure 1).

   We sought to explain the following outcome measures: (1) average malpractice
costs per bed; (2) average malpractice premiums per bed; (3) average malpractice
payouts per bed; (4) average amount per bed set aside for self-insurance; and
(5) overall financial margins as a measure of solvency. Hospital data were from
an average of more than 2,000 hospitals each year over an 8-year period
(1996-2003) (N = 20,436 hospital-years). State-level data were derived for the
53 U.S. states and territories from 1996 to 2003 (N = 425 state-years). The
explanatory variables at the state-level included all 10 types of tort reform
environments, including total caps and caps on non-economic damages. Hospital
cost data for the years prior to the enactment of caps were included in the
non-cap group. We corrected for states that enacted caps during the study period
by excluding hospital cost data for these states after caps were enacted.
Explanatory variables at the hospital-level included urban/rural status,
teaching/non-teaching status, hospital organizational control, and hospital
size. The hospital cost data were annualized to account for variations in the
length and start date of fiscal years for the reporting hospitals. We also
corrected for hospitals with charitable immunity protection (Figure 2).

   We performed bivariate analysis to study the relationship between medical
malpractice reforms and our outcome measures. This was also done for specific
subsets of hospitals (rural/urban, teaching/ non-teaching). We performed
multivariate analysis with regression models to control for rural/urban,
teaching/non-teaching status as well as other reform measures that were also
part of that state's particular statute. We also performed multi-level analysis
using two-level hierarchical linear modeling (HLM).  n14 This step-wise process
permitted more precise estimation of and accounting for effects of hospital
characteristics on hospitals' financial status, and then better control for
hospital characteristics in estimating the impact of state tort environments.

   First-level modeling represented the relationships at the hospital-level (for
example hospital organization and culture), while the second-level model
represented the influence of state-level factors (for example the environment
imposed by state tort reform legislation).

 [*129]  Figure I
Damage Caps

STATES WITH HARD CAPS ON NON-ECONOMIC DAMAGES OF $ 250,000 OR LESS

California (Cal. Civ. Code sec 3333.2). $ 250,000 cap on non-economic damages.

Kansas (Kan. Stat.Ann. Secs. 60-1902, 60-1903). $ 250,000 cap on non-economic
damages.

Idaho (Idaho Code Sec 6-1603) ($ 250,000 cap adjusted annually based on wages
beginning July 1, 2004).

Montana (Mont. Code Ann. Sec. 25-9-411). $ 250,000 cap on non-economic damages.

STATES WITH HARD CAPS ON NON-ECONOMIC DAMAGES GREATER THAN $ 250,000

North Dakota (N.D. Cent. Code sec.32-42-02). $ 500,000 cap on non-economic
damages.

South Dakota (S.D Codified Laws Sec. 21-3-11). $ 500,000 cap on non-economic
damages.

Utah (Utah Code Ann. Sec 78B-3-410). $ 400,000 cap on non-economic damages.

Missouri (Mo. Rev. Stat. Sec. 538.210). $ 350,000 cap on non-economic damages.

West Virginia (WVa. Code Ann. Sec. 55-7B-8). Soft cap of $ 250,000 with hard cap
of $ 500,000 on non-economic damages. Hard cap raised to $ 1,000,000 in 2003.

Maryland (Md. Code Ann. Cts. & Jud. Proc. Sec. 11-108 (Supp. 2004)). Hard cap of
$ 500,000 with annual increases begun in 1994.

Michigan (Mich. Comp. Laws Ann. Sec 600.1483). Soft cap of $ 280,000 with hard
cap of $ 500,000 on non-economic damages.

Wisconsin (Wis. Stat.Ann. Secs. 893.55, 895.04). Cap of $ 350,000 on non-
economic damages indexed for inflation.

STATES WITH HARD TOTAL DAMAGE CAPS OF $ 500,000 OR LESS

Indiana (Ind. Code Sec. 34-18-14-3). Defendant is liable up to $ 100,000 per
practitioner per incident up to $ 300,000 per year. Total damages limited to $
750,000 with balance being paid from patient compensation fund. Upheld as
constitutional by Indiana Supreme Court in Johnson v. St. Vincent Hospital, 404
N.E. 2d 585 (1980).

Louisiana (La. Rev. Stat.Ann. Sec. 40:1299.42). $ 500,000 total cap exclusive of
interest, costs, and future medical expenses. Providers liable for up to $
100,000 with balance paid out of patient compensation fund. Upheld as
constitutional by Louisiana Supreme Court in Williams v. Kushner, slip op.,
88-C-1153, 88-C-1188 (September 12, 1989), hr'g denied 549 So.2d 294 (1989).

STATES WITH HARD TOTAL DAMAGE CAPS GREATER THAN $ 500,000

Nebraska (Neb. Rev. Stat. 44-2825). Upheld as constitutional in Prendergast v.
Nelson, 256 N.W. 2d 657 (1977)).Total damage cap of (a) $ 500,000 for
occurrences on or before December 31, 1984, (b) $ 1 million for occurrences
after December 31, 1984, and on or before December 31, 1992, (c) $ 1.25 million
for occurrences after December 31, 1992, and on or before December 31, 2003, and
(d) 1.75 million for occurrences after December 31, 2003.

Virginia (Va. Code Ann. Sec. 8.01-581.15). Upheld as constitutional by Virginia
Supreme Court in Etheridge v. Medical Center Hospitals, 376 S.E.2d 525 (Va.
1989).Total cap of $ 1.5 million with annual increases starting in July 2000.

*Maine enacted a $ 400,000 cap on non-economic damages in 1999 (Me. Rev.
Stat.Ann. Title 24-A, Sec. 4313). Nevada enacted a cap on non-economic damages
in 2002 (Nev. Rev. Stat. 41A.031), Ohio enacted a cap on non-economic damages in
2003 (Ohio Rev. Code Ann. Sec. 2323.43), and Oklahoma enacted a cap on non-
economic damages in 2003 (Okla. Stat.Ann. Title 63, Sec. 1-1708. IF). Florida
enacted a cap on non-economic damages of $ 500,000 in 2003 (Florida Statutes
Annotated Sec. 766.118). Since theses caps were enacted during the study period,
theses states were classified as not having caps for the time period prior to
the enactment of the cap, and were excluded from the sample for the period
following the implementation of caps.

 [*130]  Figure 2

Charitable Immunity

STATES WITH CHARITABLE IMMUNITY LAWS THAT SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT HOSPITALS

Massachusetts. Mass. Gen. Laws Ann. Ch. 231, sec. 85k. Limits liability to $
20,000 for charitable hospitals. Keene v. Brigham and Women's Hosp., Inc., 439
Mass. 223, 786 N.E.2d 824 (2003).

New Jersey. N.J. Stat.Ann. Secs. 2A:53A-7, 2A:53A-8 (Supp. 1979). Limits
liability for charitable hospitals to $ 10,000. In exploratory analysis we
considered the following outcome variables in the level-1 model: hospital
malpractice costs, hospital losses, hospital financial margins. In the
exploratory analysis we also estimated state-level coefficients and their
standard errors by regressing empirical Bayes residuals on state-level
predictors. After the exploratory analysis we selected hospital malpractice
costs as the level-1 outcome variable, and the overall model we estimated may be
represented in equation form as:

Level 1 Model (in Hospitals):
HMCost[ij] = [beta] [0j] + [beta] [1j]Urban[ij] + [beta] [2j]Teaching + [beta]
[2j]Ownership + [beta] [4j]Size[ij] + [gamma] [ij]

Level 2 Model (in States):
[beta] [0j] = [alpha] [10] + [mu] [oj]
[beta] [1j] = [alpha] [10]
[beta] [2j] = [alpha] [20]
[beta] [3j] = [alpha] [30] + [alpha] [31]StateCap[j] + [alpha] [32] # ofhosps[j]
+ [alpha] [33] #teachhosps[j]
[beta] [4j] = [alpha] [40]

Where HMCost[ij] the level-1 outcome variable, is annual hospital malpractice
costs measured as the sum of liability insurance premiums, self-insurance
premiums, and hospital losses over revenue per year; [beta] [i] (i = 0, 1 ... 4)
are level-1 coefficients which of course become the level-2 outcome variables;
[gamma] is the level-1 random effect; Urban[ij] designates hospitals in urban
communities; Ownership[ij] designates the type of hospital ownership; and
Size[ij] represents the size of the hospital (number of hospital beds). In the
state-level model, StateCapj = 1 for states with caps on damages of $ 250,000 or
less; # ofHosps[j] is the number of hospitals in the State; and # teachhosp[j]
is the number of teaching hospitals in the state.

   All the level-1 independent variables were group-centered. We used HLM
(version 6) Hierarchical Linear and Non-linear Modeling software with restricted
maximum likelihood as the method of estimation, and no weighting.  n15 The fixed
effects were estimated in regression models, and the results with robust
standard errors were reported.

Results
Nearly 40% of the states in our study had some cap on damages, 7.5% had non-
economic damage caps at $ 250,000 or less, and 5.6% had total caps at $ 500,000

   Table I

Results of Analysis Comparing States with Malpractice Damage Caps vs. No Caps
(1996-2003)
                                       N       Mean     Median
In States with No Malpractice Caps
Average Malpractice Costs per Bed      5,901   $ 5,868  $ 3,042
Average Hospital Financial Margin (%)  14,874  -96.4    0.9
Average Malpractice Losses per Bed     1,563   $ 3,995  $ 1,192
Self-Insurance Costs per Bed           1,010   $ 6,707  $ 3,767
Average Malpractice Premium per Bed    5,197   $ 4,158  $ 2,293

In States with any Malpractice Caps
Average Malpractice Costs per Bed      2,498   $ 4,558  $ 2,098
Average Hospital Financial Margin (%)  5,562   -259.8   0.9
Average Malpractice Losses per Bed     594     $ 3,879  $ 991
Self-Insurance Costs per Bed           361     $ 5,167  $ 2,525
Average Malpractice Premium per Bed    2,265   $ 3,186  $ 1,627

                                       95% CI
In States with No Malpractice Caps
Average Malpractice Costs per Bed      $ 5,606-$ 6,131
Average Hospital Financial Margin (%)  -327.9-135.1
Average Malpractice Losses per Bed     $ 3,551-$ 4,439
Self-Insurance Costs per Bed           $ 6,023-$ 7,39 I
Average Malpractice Premium per Bed    $ 3,948-$ 4,369

In States with any Malpractice Caps
Average Malpractice Costs per Bed      $ 4, 145-$ 4,971
Average Hospital Financial Margin (%)  -571.9-52.3
Average Malpractice Losses per Bed     $ 2,798-$ 4,960
Self-Insurance Costs per Bed           $ 4,288-$ 6,045
Average Malpractice Premium per Bed    $ 2,908-$ 3,463
[*131]  or less. Almost all the hospitals were general short-term hospitals; 62%
were urban hospitals; 31% were teaching hospitals; 63% were non-profit
hospitals; and 20% were public hospitals. There was significant variation among
states regarding the 10 reform measures studied (Table 1). Such variation and
lack of a clear unified policy among the states made further characterization
difficult.

   The average annual hospital malpractice cost was $ 5478 per bed (Table 1).
Our bivariate analysis demonstrated that average annual malpractice costs per
bed for hospitals in states with any cap was $ 4558 compared to $ 5868 for
hospitals in states with no caps. In other words average annual hospital
malpractice costs per bed were $ 1300 lower per year in states with caps
compared to those without caps. This difference was statistically significant at
a 95% significance level. Differences in the nine other studied reform measures
between states with and without such measures were not statistically
significant. No state-reform measure, including caps, was associated with
hospital financial solvency.

   States with caps of $ 500,000 on total damages had an average annual
malpractice cost per bed of $ 5,013. States with caps on non-economic damages
had average malpractice costs per bed of $ 5,012. For urban and teaching
hospitals, caps other than total caps of $ 500,000 were strongly correlated with
lower malpractice costs. The average malpractice costs per bed for urban
hospitals was significantly lower in states with non-economic damage caps of $
250,000 or less ($ 5512; 95% CI $ 5086-$ 5938), or any other cap except total
damage cap of $ 500,000 or less ($ 5606; 95% CI $ 4676-$ 6536), compared to
states with no caps ($ 7155; 95% CI $ 6664-$ 7647). The average malpractice
costs per bed for teaching hospitals was likewise significantly lower in states
with non-economic damage caps of up to $ 250,000 ($ 7417; 95% CI $ 6461-$ 8374),
and in states with any other cap except total damage cap Urban Hospital of $
500,000 ($ 6595;95% CI 5704-7486), compared to states with no caps Hospital
ownership ($ 9214; 95% CI $ 8379-$ 10,049). Similar results were found for
urban, teaching hospitals with average malpractice costs of $ 7298 (95% CI $
6300-$ 8297) in states with non-economic damage caps of $ 250,000 or less, and $
6939 (95% CI $ 5897-$ 7981) in states with any other cap except total damage
caps of $ 500,000 compared to costs of $ 9349 (95% CI $ 8444-$ 10,254) with no
caps. No significant difference was noted for rural and non-teaching hospitals
for any of the studied reform measures including caps.

   In multivariate analyses we found that caps on non-economic damages of up to
$ 250,000 were strongly correlated with lower average malpractice costs per bed
(p=0.004) but not total caps of $ 500,000 or less (p=0.105). This finding holds
true even after controlling for the urban/rural and the teaching status of a
hospital. No tort reform measures were associated with statistically significant
differences in hospital financial margins, even after controlling for urban/
rural and teaching status (Table 2).

   The results from our HLM analysis estimations with robust standard errors are
presented in Table 3. Our final model converged on the 8th iteration, with a
sigma-squared = 4,694,382 and overall reliability estimate = 0.561. The T-ratios
of all our fixed effect variables were significantly large with P-values below
0.05. At the hospital-level rural teaching hospitals are more likely to have
higher malpractice costs, and hospital malpractice costs are positively related
to the size of the hospital. Private and public hospitals are more likely to
have higher malpractice costs, compared to nonprofit hospitals. Non-economic
damage caps below $ 250,000 are associated with increased malpractice costs, as
is having relatively more teaching hospitals.

   The chi-square value for the level-2 (state-level) residual variance
significantly departs from zero (p-value = 0.000). The intra-class correlation
coefficient for the unconditional model was only 4.4%. This means that at
baseline, prior to including any predictor variables, 4.4% of the total variance
in the model

Table 2

Results of Multivariate Analysis at Hospital-Level to Explain Malpractice Costs
(1998-2003)
                        Coefficient  Std Error  TValue   Pr>[T]
Intercept                      2,965        358    8.29  <0.0001
Urban Hospital                 1,311        257    5.10  <0.0001
Teaching Hospital              4,133        268   15.40  <0.0001
Hospital ownership                40         34    1.20    0.230
Non-Economic Sate Cap         -1,531        525   -2.92    0.004
at $ 250,000 or less
Total State Cap at              -918        566   -1.61    0.105
$ 500,000 or Less
Other State Damage Cap        -1,006        290   -3.47    0.001
Some Tort Reform Other           880        306    2.88    0.004
Than Cap
Adjusted R<2>                  0.049
[*132]  is at the state level, and the remaining 95.6% is at hospital level. In
other words, the relative importance of the two levels to explain malpractice
costs may be low. When the predictor variables are included in the model, the
intra-class correlation coefficient remains low at 7.6%.

Discussion
Caps on non-economic damages are associated with significantly lower average
hospital malpractice costs per bed. In particular, the $ 250,000 cap on non-
economic damages appears to be strongly correlated with lower malpractice costs,
especially for urban and teaching hospitals. These findings may seem to conflict
with the cross-over effect noted by Sharkey.  n16 However, the Sharkey article
looked at the cross-over effect on malpractice awards, and jury behavior.
Although this effect will have broader impact, it does not directly look at
other factors that increase malpractice costs such as litigation and settlement
costs. Our study examines total malpractice costs, and this explains how our
findings differ from those of Sharkey. Other reform measures were not associated
with lower hospital malpractice costs. Our adjustments for location and teaching
status did not make the association between caps on non-economic damages go
away. Multi-level analysis suggests that a hospital's organizational control is
significantly associated with their malpractice costs. This multi-level approach
sheds new light on this issue and demonstrates the complexity of this issue. No
reform measure, including caps, was associated with improved overall financial
solvency as defined by positive financial margins.

   Financial solvency appears to be associated with other factors outside the
scope of this study. For an average hospital of 400 beds, $ 1300 per bed per
year of savings associated with non-economic damage caps would produce a
reduction in malpractice costs of $ 520,000 per year. Although this is
substantial, it does not appear to play a large part in the overall financial
success of a hospital since it does not appear to effect margins.

   The association of non-economic damage caps of $ 250,000 with lower
malpractice costs for urban and teaching hospitals but not rural and
non-teaching hospitals may be related to the acuity of illness in large teaching
centers. It also may reflect geographic

   Table 3

Two-Level HLM Analysis to Assess How State Tort Contexts Interact with Hospital
Characteristics to Determine Hospital Malpractice Costs (1996-2003)
                                                          Standard
              Fixed Effects                Coefficient     Error
  Intercept ([alpha] [00])                      -250.89       62.273
  Urban Hospital                                -128.96       48.698
  [beta] [1j]= [alpha] [10])
  Teaching Hospital                              178.85       64.997
  [beta] [2j]= [alpha] [10])
  Hospital Size (number of beds)                   3.79        0.565
  [beta] [4j]

  Hospital Ownership ([alpha] [30])               11.69        5.997

  State has a cap at $ 250,000 or less            23.01        7.749
  ([alpha] [31])
  Number of Hospitals in State                    -0.84        0.244
  ([alpha] [32])
  Number of Teaching Hospitals in State            3.23        0.949
  ([alpha] [33])

Random Effects                                              Variance
                                                           Component

Effects from Level 2 (States)                              194,445.3
([mu] [oj])
Effects from Level 1 (Hospitals)                         4,694,382.8
([gamma] [ij])


              Fixed Effects                    T-ratio      P-value
  Intercept ([alpha] [00])                           -4.029    0.000
  Urban Hospital                                     -2.648    0.008
  [beta] [1j]= [alpha] [10])
  Teaching Hospital                                   2.752    0.006
  [beta] [2j]= [alpha] [10])
  Hospital Size (number of beds)                      6.695    0.000
  [beta] [4j]

  Hospital Ownership ([alpha] [30])                   1.949    0.051

  State has a cap at $ 250,000 or less                2.969    0.003
  ([alpha] [31])
  Number of Hospitals in State                        -3.44    0.001
  ([alpha] [32])
  Number of Teaching Hospitals in State               3.401    0.001
  ([alpha] [33])

Random Effects                              Chi-Square (df)  P-value


Effects from Level 2 (States)                  1422.4 (424)    0.000
([mu] [oj])
Effects from Level 1 (Hospitals)
([gamma] [ij])
[*133]  and cultural differences in litigiousness, access to legal services, or
other factors.

   We find it more difficult to explain why caps of $ 250,000 on non-economic
damages are strongly correlated with lower malpractice costs but total caps of
up to $ 500,000 are not. Although total damage caps have often been held
unconstitutional, the caps studied have been upheld by the courts. This finding
for hospitals is different than a recent study that found that total caps and
non-economic damage caps are associated with lower malpractice premiums for
obstetricians.  n17 Our inability to find an association may be due to the
limited number of states and hospitals operating under this type of tort reform
legislation. It also may be due to differences in the ways that physicians and
hospitals are treated in the litigation process -- with hospitals having the
traditional deeper pockets from which to get the large non-economic damage
awards.

   This study adds to the growing understanding of the effects of state-based
malpractice reforms. Our evaluation of outcomes was strongly financial and shows
that specific reforms, namely payment caps, are associated with a significant
effect on hospital expenses, but without an identifiable impact on hospital
financial solvency. Applied generally, this suggests that malpractice caps are
desirable but not essential to hospital viability. This may not be true for
individual hospitals, especially since there can be wide variation in hospital
financial margins even within the same city.  n18

   Our study was limited by the small number of states that have adopted reforms
other than caps. This may have limited our capacity to find real effect. There
is significant variation among tort reform statutes that limited our ability to
categorize them. We are also constrained by the outcomes we studied. There may
be other ways to categorize hospitals that we did not consider. In addition, we
were unable to correct for hospitals that have a high proportion of independent
contractors. Since such hospitals in many jurisdictions have limited liability
for the negligence of these contractors, our study may underestimate the effects
of caps. There are non-economic outcomes, such as justice, making people whole,
apologizing for mistakes, and improving quality that may be more desirable.
Future studies will have to address these issues.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawActions Against FacilitiesGeneral OverviewTortsDamagesCompensatory
DamagesMedical ExpensesTortsMalpractice & Professional LiabilityHealthcare
Providers

FOOTNOTES:





n1  American Medical Association, Medical Liability Reform NOW!, February 5,
2008, available at <http://www.ama-assn.org/amal/pub/upload/mm/-1/mlrnow.pdf>
(last visited February 2, 2010).





n2  T. Baker, The Medical Malpractice Myth (Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 2005).





n3  C. Sharkey, "Unintended Consequences of Medical Malpractice Damages Caps,"
New York University Law Review 80, no. 2 (2005): 391-512.





n4  S. Zuckerman, R. Bovberg, and F. Sloan, "Effects of Tort Reforms and Other
Factors on Medical Practice Insurance Premiums," Inquiry 27, no. 2 (1990):
167-182; F. Sloan, P. Mergenhagen, and R. Bovberg, "Effects of Tort Reforms on
the Value of Closed Medical Malpractice Claims: a Microanalysis," Journal of
Health Politics, Policy and Law 14, no. 4 (1989): 663-689.





n5  See Baker, supra note 2; Sharkey, supra note 3; Zuckerman et al., supra note
4; Sloan et al., supra note 4; W. K. Viscusi et al., "The Effect of 1980s Tort
Reform Legislation on General Liability and Medical Malpractice Insurance,"
Journal of Risk Uncertainty 6, no. 2 (1993): 165-186; P. Born and W. K. Viscusi,
"The Distribution of the Insurance Market Effects of Tort Liability," in C.
Winston, M. N. Baily, and R. C. Reiss, eds., Brookings Papers on Economic
Activity, Microeconomics: 1998 (Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institute Press,
1999): at 55-100; D. Kessler and M. McClellan, "Do Doctors Practice Defensive
Medicine?" Quarterly Journal of Economics 111, no. 2 (1996): 353-390; A. Yoon,
"A Damage Caps and Civil Litigation: An Empirical Study of Medical Malpractice
Litigation in the South," American Law and Economics Review 3, no. 2 (2001):
199-227; K. E. Thorpe, "The Medical Malpractice 'Crisis': Recent Trends and the
Impact of State Tort Reforms," Health Affairs Supplement, Web Exclusives (2004):
W4-W30, available at
<http://content.healthaffairs.org/webexclusives/index.dtl?year=2004> (last
visited February 2, 2010); J. Guirguis-Blake et al., "The US Medical Liability
System: Evidence for Legislative Reform," Annals of Family Medicine 4, no. 3
(2006): 240-246.





n6  See Kessler and McClellan, supra note 5; AMA, supra note 1.





n7  Congressional Budget Office, Congressional Budget Office Letter to Senator
Orrin Hatch, October 9, 2009, available at
<http://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10641/10-09-Tort_Reform.pdf> (last visited
February 2, 2010).





n8  See Yoon, supra note 5.





n9  Agency for Healthcare Research & Quality, Research Activities, "Physician
Supply Increases in States with Caps on Malpractice Lawsuit Awards, with the
Greatest Impact in Rural Areas," June 2005, available at
<http://www.ahrq.gov/research/jun05/0605RA1.htm> (last visited February 2,
2010).





n10  See Thorpe, supra note 5; Zuckerman et al., supra note 4.





n11  American Hospital Association, The Fragile State of Hospital Finances,
2005, 1-9, available at
<http://www.aha.org/aha/content/2005/pdf/05fragilehosps.pdf> (last visited
February 2, 2010).





n12  American Hospital Association, Challenges Facing Rural Hospitals, Trend
Watch 4, no. 1 (2002), available at
<http://www.aha.org/aha/trendwatch/2002/twjune2002.pdf> (last visited February
2, 2010).





n13  General Accounting Office, Medical Malpractice: Implications of Rising
Premiums on Access to Health Care, August 2003, Report to Congressional
Requestors, GAO-03-836; see Born and Viscusi, supra note 5.





n14  American Tort Reform Association, ATRA Tort Reform Record, December 31,
2003, available at <http://www.atra.org/files.cgi/8442_record_12-09.pdf> (last
visited February 2, 2010).





n15  A. S. Bryck and S. W. Raudenbush, Hierarchical Linear Modeling:
Applications and Data Analysis Methods, 2nd ed. (New York: Sage Publications,
2001).





n16  See AMA, supra note 1.





n17  American Hospital Association, "Medical Liability Insurance: Looming
Crisis," Trend Watch 4, no. 3 (June 2002), available at
<http://www.aha.org/aha/trendwatch/2002/twO20618medliapl.pdf> (last visited
February 2, 2010); AMA, supra note 1.





n18  American Hospital Association, The Fragile State of Hospital Finances,
2005, available at <http://www.aha.org/aha/content/2005/pdf/05fragilehosps.pdf>
(last visited February 2, 2010); see Baker, supra note 2.


                              45 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday

Hospitals are economic engines

LENGTH: 256  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release



 Hospitals' contribution to their communities extends far beyond their role as
health care cornerstones. As the most recent update of our annual report on
hospitals' economic impact makes clear, they also are economic anchors,
providing the stability and growth that contributes greatly to the financial
health of the communities they serve.





 The health care field has traditionally been an economic lynchpin for the
nation. The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported that health care as a
whole added an average of 35,000 jobs per month in 2016.



 We studied economic activity in 2015, and found hospitals specifically employed
more than 5.7 million, were one of the top sources of private-sector jobs and
spent nearly $852 billion on goods and services from other businesses.



 Those goods and services created additional economic value for the community by
supporting 16 million total jobs and more than $2.8 trillion in economic
activity. This translates into hospitals supporting one of every nine jobs in
the U.S.



 Hospitals provide vital high-quality health care services to millions of people
each year and support a healthy, productive workforce. But what's not well
enough known is how all that quality health care acts as an engine driving
trillions of dollars of economic activity in communities across the nation.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Erie Times-News (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 7, 2009 Wednesday

Hospitals squeezed in Erie, Pa., area

BYLINE: David Bruce, Erie Times-News, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 660 words


Jan. 7--Local hospitals are feeling the effects of the nation's recession.

More patients are delaying CT scans, postponing checkups and leaving
prescriptions unfilled than they were a year ago, a Hamot Health Foundation
official said.

"I talked with our primary-care doctors and they said patients are avoiding
their routine visits," said Jim Fiorenzo, Hamot's chief operating officer. "They
are canceling checkups and diagnostic exams like CT scans because they can't
afford them."

Hamot isn't alone. A new survey shows that the economic crisis is hurting
hospitals all over Pennsylvania.

The survey was released Tuesday by the Hospital and Healthsystem Association of
Pennsylvania, which advocates for more than 250 Pennsylvania hospitals. It
reported that 75 percent of the state's hospitals believe the crisis will have a
moderate to significant effect on their financial stability in 2009.

The survey also showed that:
--48 percent of the state's hospitals are reconsidering or postponing building
projects.

--50 percent of the hospitals reported a moderate to significant decrease in
admissions, especially for elective procedures like knee-replacement surgery.

--83 percent of the hospitals reported significant declines in investment
income.

--51 percent of hospitals reported a moderate to significant increase in
uncompensated care -- medical care for which no payment is made.

"As more people lose jobs and/or health insurance, the financial burden on
hospitals will increase," HAP Chief Executive Carolyn Scanlan said in a
statement. "From a human perspective, however, the implications are worse. More
patients will postpone preventive and routine health care, and they will be put
at risk for more serious illnesses and complications before they seek care."

Meadville Medical Center officials said they weren't sure whether patients were
postponing elective cases, but the hospital's inpatient admissions declined in
2008.

"Meadville Medical Center is financially stable, but is experiencing impact from
our nation's economic downturn," Meadville Medical Center Spokesman Duane Koller
said in a statement. "Income from investments has declined compared to the same
period last year. Inpatient volume has also decreased, while outpatient volumes
are stable."

Not all hospitals are reporting decreases in admissions or elective procedures,
however.

Saint Vincent Health System's inpatient and outpatient admissions continue to
rise, said Steve Gary, Saint Vincent's chief financial officer.

"Maybe it's because people know that we have good charity care," Gary said.

Saint Vincent offers charity care to patients whose incomes fall within 300
percent of federal poverty guidelines -- a higher percentage than many other
Pennsylvania hospitals.

Saint Vincent has seen a 2 percent increase in charity care and a 14 percent
increase in bad debt, Gary said.

"We are still hitting our budget," Gary said. "The (crisis) has caused us to
evaluate our capital expenses. We haven't delayed or postponed anything, but we
are making sure projects are patient-care related."

Millcreek Community Hospital is seeing an increase in uncompensated care, said
spokesman Pierre Bellicini.

"We expect to see more of an increase in the next month or so, when employers
decide on any changes to their employees' health insurance," Bellicini said.

Scanlan, HAP's chief executive, said the survey is proof that health care isn't
immune to economic troubles.

"The current economic crisis imperils hospitals -- our community safety net --
and the patients who depend on them," Scanlan said.

To see more of the Erie Times-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.GoErie.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Erie Times-News, Pa. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090107-EI-HOSPITAL-SQUEEZE-20090107

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EI


                         Copyright 2009 Erie Times-News


                              47 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                             April 21, 2017 Friday
                                  Mars Edition

New LaPorte hospital will be built at current site

BYLINE: Stan Maddux Tribune Correspondent

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 524 words


LAPORTE -- The new LaPorte Hospital will go up beside its present location.

The much anticipated decision revealed Thursday was hailed by community leaders
because of the amount of traffic the hospital at 1007 Lincolnway generates for
downtown.

"The hospital has long been an anchor for downtown activity, and remains a
viable part of our physical and economic health and well-being of our
community," said LaPorte Mayor Blair Milo.

According to hospital officials, the new $125 million facility will be either
five or six stories, and groundbreaking is expected in early 2018, with a grand
opening in 2020.

LaPorte Hospital spokesperson Stacey Kellogg said the current hospital will be
used during construction of the new facility.

No decision has been made on whether the existing hospital will be demolished or
used in some capacity, she said.

A rendering of the new hospital was still in the development stages.

According to hospital officials, the announcement follows a thorough vetting of
more than 20 locations throughout the county over the last year as well as input
from building professionals, community leaders, hospital staff, physicians and
board members.

"Lots of work went into that decision," said Kellogg.

Ashley Dickinson, who recently took over as chief executive officer of the
hospital, said factors in the decision included the suitability of land, traffic
patterns, ease of access and proximity to the new LaPorte County Emergency
Medical Service station next door.

The site being centrally located for communities served by the hospital along
with its high visibility and impact on local economic development and vitality
also were factors in the decision, she said.

"LaPorte Hospital staff and physicians are deeply committed to having a thriving
community hospital, and we are excited to announce this major step forward,"
said Dickinson.

The hospital made it known early on that a location within the city limits was a
high priority, but community leaders began worrying as the decision process went
on.

The city council last year also took steps to steer the new hospital into the
city by restricting the extension of water and sewer lines on all new
development just outside the corporate boundaries.

Bert Cook, executive director of the Greater LaPorte Economic Development Corp.,
said the decision will be used in ongoing marketing of downtown.

"Any time you can show that new construction and state-of-the-art facilities are
part of your downtown landscape, you're contributing to positive economic
growth. We'll be able to showcase the new hospital as a bright development and
look forward to featuring the project as a win for our community in the next two
years," he said.

Leigh Morris, a former president and CEO of the hospital, said there should be a
significant cost savings from building at the current site because of utilities
like dual electrical feeds, water and sewer lines and oxygen delivery systems
already being in place.

''Adaptive reuse of those can save lots of money,'' said Morris.

More information and updates on the construction along with a place to submit
questions are available at newlaportehospital.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Bond Buyer

Bond Calls & Redemptions PENNSYLVANIA

                             June 17, 1997, Tuesday


       Allegheny County Hospital Development Authority (Pittsburgh),
hospital gross revenue bonds,   530,000   n/a   Jul 1, 01   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   TR
       1976 Series I-Hew (Montefiore Hospital Association of Western
Pennsylvania, Sublessee)
       Beaver County Housing Authority (Beaver), first mortgage guaranteed
section 8 housing revenue   155,000   n/a   Jul 1, 99   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   TR
       bonds, Series of 1980
       Charleroi Area School Authority (Washington), school building
revenue bonds, Series of 1964   110,000   n/a   Jul 1, 04   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   TR
       Chester County Hospital Authority, hospital revenue bonds, Series
of 1979 (Bryn Mawr   145,000   n/a   Jul 1, 09   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       Rehabilitation Hospital)
       Conrad Weiser Area School District (Reading), general obligation
bonds, Series 1992   n/a   n/a   Jul 1, 98 to 05   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   NA
       Horsham Township Sewer Authority, special obligation refunding
bonds of 1977   80,000   n/a   Jul, 1, 01   Jul 1, 97   Mellon Bk
SU
       Latrobe Municipal Authority (Greensburg), sewer revenue bonds,
Series of 1978   n/a   n/a   Jul 1, 98 & 08   Jul 1, 97   Mellon Bk
TR
       Montgomery County Higher Education & Health Authority (Norristown),
hospital revenue bonds,   n/a   n/a   Jul 1, 02 & 17   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   TR
       Series of 1987 (Jeanes Health System Project)
       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
economic development   100,000   n/a   Jul 1, 03   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       revenue bonds, 1990 Series D3
       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
economic development bonds,   100,000   n/a   Jul 1, 98   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       1990 Series D1 (Bitrek Corp. Project)
       Pennsylvania Economic Devlopment Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
economic development revenue   100,000   n/a   Jul 1, 11   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       bonds, 1990 Series D10 (Way-Beck Properities Project)
       Philadelphia Hospitals & Higher Education Facilities Authority,
hospital revenue bonds, Series   590,000   n/a   Jul 1, 98   Jul 1, 97
Mellon Bk   TR
       of 1993 (Jeanes Health System Project)
       Philadelphia Hospitals Authority, securing hospital revenue bonds,
Series fo 1977 (Graduate   1,175,000   n/a   Jul 1, 10   Jul
1, 97   Mellon Bk   SU
       Hospital)
       Terre Hill Authority (Lancaster), sewer revenue bonds, Series of
1963   7,000   n/a   Jul 1, 03   Jul 1, 97   Mellon Bk   SU
       Westmoreland County Municipal Authority (Greensburg), special
obligation bonds, Series of 1985   1,175,000   n/a   Jul 1, 10
Jul 1, 97   Mellon Bk   TR


SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 565 words

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 The Bond Buyer, Inc.


                              49 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    The Sedalia Democrat (Sedalia, Missouri)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 15, 2009 Sunday

Medical industry feeling some economic pain

BYLINE: Matthew Steingraber, The Sedalia Democrat, Sedalia, Mo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 985 words


Feb. 15--The slumping economy has had mixed effects on the medical industry.
Some medical providers are thriving while others are experiencing dropping
patient numbers and losing money treating uninsured patients.

The local medical industry has not been immune from the impact of the national
economic downturn. With an unstable labor market, providers across the board are
beginning to see greater numbers of uninsured people seeking treatment, a trend
many in the industry believe will only become more pronounced as the recession
continues.

Here's a closer look at the  challenges facing local medical and health centers:

Bothwell Regional Health Center

Bothwell Regional Health Center is working to rein in expenditures in response
to a drop in patient census and an increase in uncompensated care that has
lowered the hospital's overall revenue. When administrative or support positions
come open, the hospital now carefully evaluates whether to fill the position,
hospital spokeswoman Lisa Church said.

"We are holding the line on capital expenditures that do not affect patient
care. We are just watching our budgets very carefully," Church said.

Church said the medical industry is insulated from some of the economic trends
facing other industries because the service provided is essential.

"We are insulated from (the economic slump), but we are not totally immune from
the impact," said Church. "Even in poor economic times, people need health
care."

The number of patients coming to the hospital was down by about 400 in the last
quarter of its fiscal year, and most of that drop came in the last couple of
months, Church said. The hospital also is seeing more people delaying certain
procedures and foregoing treatments they consider elective. The reduction is a
"crisis that just about every hospital around the country is experiencing,"
especially those in urban centers, she said.

"With less people in the hospital, you generate less revenue, but we are
probably more fortunate than the metro hospitals," Church said.

Local employment instability has affected the hospital's revenue. People losing
their jobs and employers cutting back on increasingly expensive health care
benefits caused the number of uninsured patients receiving uncompensated care to
jump 10 percent in the past two years, Church said. That compares with the 20
percent to 25 percent increase in uncompensated care across the country during
the same period.

"While that sounds good, that 10 percent increase translates to about $1 million
loss for the hospital," Church said.

Katy Trail Community Health

Meanwhile, Katy Trail Community Health has seen a significant increase in both
patient visits and cases of uncompensated care. The federally qualified health
center offers a sliding fee program for services for people without health
insurance.

Executive Director Chris Stewart said the center experienced a 30 percent
increase in patients from 2007 to 2008. In both years, uninsured visits totaled
about 40 percent of the center's business. Accounting for the increase in
overall visits, the center treated about 800 more uninsured patients from 2007
to 2008. Stewart said the challenge for the center is encouraging people to take
advantage of preventive services the facility offers.

"In the last two months, the thing we have really been seeing is an increase in
the number of folks who have always had insurance, and are trying to navigate
the waters after losing their jobs and benefits," Stewart said.

An influx of patients does not result in more simple management for the center
because it operates largely off of grants it receives from the federal
government for providing treatment to uninsured patients.

"We have the same federal grant and more uninsured patients," Stewart said.

It costs the center an average of $525 annually for each uninsured patient
treated. In 2007, the federal grant covered $450 per patient, but that dropped
to $350 in 2008.

"We are still looking at a very challenging budget this year," Stewart said. "It
forces us to figure out other, creative ways to raise dollars."

Nursing homes

Nursing homes face other challenges in the slumping economy. Richard Shillcutt,
administrator of Four Seasons Living Center, said the patient census at the
long-term care facility "is as good as it has ever been." Instead, his focus has
been on making sure all the residents are able to afford their medications and
the facility is fully staffed.

"The key is people continue to get sick, continue to age and continue to have
some problems whether they have a job or not," Shillcutt said.

Shillcutt is concerned about possible cuts to state funding as lawmakers work to
reconcile state budget shortfalls. He said some of the residents at Four Seasons
have switched to generic prescription drugs in response to recent cuts to
Medicaid, but he is hopeful Gov. Jay Nixon will stick to his promise to restore
the cuts.

Lack of staffing across the board

An unusual problem facing Four Seasons, Bothwell and most medical providers
around the country is a lack of staffing. Church said Bothwell's ongoing hunt
for nurses, pharmacists and physicians has picked up in the past month, and
Shillcutt said Four Seasons is always looking to hire candidates to be trained
as nursing aides.

"If a good person comes in, I will find you a job," Shillcutt said.

"In an economy like this, you have to be really creative," Stewart said. "But it
is in everybody's best interest that folks receive the care they need."

To see more of The Sedalia Democrat or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.sedaliademocrat.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Sedalia Democrat,
Sedalia, Mo. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090215-SX-Medical-industry-feeling-some-economic-pain-0215

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SX


                      Copyright 2009 The Sedalia Democrat


                              50 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Telegraph (Alton, Illinios)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 24, 2015 Friday

AMH publicly opposes Rauner cuts

BYLINE: The Telegraph, Alton, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words


April 24--ALTON -- Saying they recognized the critical role that hospitals play
to ensure the health and economic well-being of their local communities and the
state, the board of trustees/directors of Alton Memorial Hospital has passed a
resolution urging State Sen. William Haine (D-Alton) and state Rep. Daniel
Beiser (D-Alton) to support hospitals and oppose drastic Medicaid cuts.

A press release issued by the hospital Thursday said the significant
contributions of Alton Memorial Hospital in providing high-quality,
cost-efficient care, transforming Medicaid and the health care delivery system
and strengthening the local economy, the board resolution warns of the dire
consequences of drastic Medicaid cuts as proposed by Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner.

The resolution reads:

"The Governor's budget proposal radically cuts Medicaid funding to Alton
Memorial Hospital and hospitals across the state by nearly $800 million. That
would result in the loss of more than 12,500 jobs and $1.7 billion in economic
activity statewide.

"These Medicaid cuts jeopardize access to health care services and good paying,
professional jobs for our community."

"We are urging our state legislators to work with us and the Illinois Hospital
Association to consider and enact workable and reasonable alternatives to these
devastating Medicaid cuts," said Dave Braasch, President of Alton Memorial
Hospital.

Alton Memorial Hospital employs 900 people, with an annual economic impact on
the local community of $76,568,986. Statewide, hospitals provide nearly 450,000
direct and indirect jobs, with an economic impact to the local and state
economies of more than $83 billion a year.

"We are deeply concerned that the proposed Medicaid cuts would undermine the
ongoing transformation of the state's Medicaid program and health delivery
system as well as jeopardize access to health care and the creation and
retention of good paying, professional jobs," said Braasch.

___ (c)2015 The Telegraph (Alton, Ill.) Visit The Telegraph (Alton, Ill.) at
www.thetelegraph.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150424-AI-AMH-publicly-opposes-Rauner-cuts-0424-20150424

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AI


                          Copyright 2015 The Telegraph


                              51 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday
                                 METRO EDITION

Hospitals defend their economic role in state

BYLINE: JACKIE CROSBY; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 495 words



HIGHLIGHT: As cutbacks loom, hospitals say they generate nearly 6 percent of
economic activity.


As the Legislature seeks to slash the amount the state spends on health care,
the Minnesota Hospital Association is fighting back with an economic argument.

Hospitals provide more than 4.4 percent of all jobs in Minnesota and nearly 6
percent of economic activity in the state, according to data the industry group
provided to the Star Tribune on Friday.

In many communities, hospitals are the largest employer. Not surprisingly, the
seven-county metropolitan area and the region surrounding the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester lead the state in economic output as well as numbers of hospital
-related employment.

"We want legislators to understand a big part of the economy is affected by the
hospital community," said Lawrence Massa, CEO of the Minnesota Hospital
Association.

In all, the state's 148 hospitals generated $27.2 billion and created 214,108
jobs in 2009, according to the most recent data available from the Minnesota
Department of Employment and Economic Development, which ran the numbers for the
Hospital Association.

About $11.2 billion came from wages and salaries, another $15.1 billion in
indirect contributions including purchases of beds, sheets, bandages and heart
stents. "Hospitals are a surprisingly larger portion of the state's economy than
the man on the street would suspect," said Paul Anton, an independent economist
and consultant who was not connected with the survey. "The economic health and
some of the jobs, especially in outstate areas, are going to be impacted
disproportionately by our policies on health care spending and reimbursements."

Health care spending accounts for about a third of the state's budget and is
projected to grow rapidly. With lawmakers facing a $5 billion budget gap, health
care spending has been under the knife.

Gov. Mark Dayton on Tuesday vetoed a bill passed in the House and Senate that
would have trimmed about $1.8 billion out of the Health and Human Services
budget.

The bill would have moved 95,000 poor adults without children onto state/federal
Medicaid programs; privatized MinnesotaCare for many low-income workers, and
eliminated general assistance to 20,000 Minnesotans. It also would have cut
hospital payments by $433 million.

"While we understand that cuts need to be made to balance the budget, draconian
cuts and disproportional cuts to health care providers will cost a lot of jobs
and will have unintended consequences with the economies in a lot of
communities," Massa said.

Rep. Jim Abeler, R-Anoka, who chairs the House Health and Human Services Finance
Committee, said he's heard it all before.

"The state is at a deficit; the federal government can't pay its bills," he
said. "Faced with record hospital profits ... you wonder how the world's going
to end.'' Abeler said he plans to meet with Human Services Commissioner Lucinda
Jesson on Thursday to try to resolve disputes that Dayton, DFLers and the
hospital industry group say would leave 140,000 people uninsured.

Jackie Crosby - 612-673-7335

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Thai doctor shortage poses big headache

                                October 23, 1997


Problem compounded by uneven distribution

BANGKOK -Thailand is facing a critical shortage of doctors -it needs more than
15,000 to meet a target doctor-patient ratio of 1:2,000 that will help the
country provide better and more adequate medical care for its people.

This is compounded by an uneven distribution of the doctors available at
present, resulting in Bangkok having one doctor per 909 people while the rest of
the country have ratios that exceed 1:5,000, The Nation newspaper said in a
special report last week.

The shortage is occuring even though Thailand, in several years of high GDP
growth before the economic crisis struck, has seen a big growth in its
private-health business.

The government has said that it plans to produce 1,500 doctors annually in the
next three years, up from 1,200. At this rate, it will take 10 years before the
proportion between doctors and the population hits 1:2,000, an improvement from
the present ratio of 1:4,000.

But the country is also plagued by uneven competition between the public and
private hospitals, both fighting for the same pool of doctors.

In 1992, at the beginning of the boom for private healthcare, many private
hospitals with big capacities were opened. Within a year, some 30 private
hospitals, or 8,000 beds, were established, mainly in Bangkok and the outskirts,
in addition to the 20 hospitals operating earlier.

As the number of beds increased in private hospitals, the number of doctors in
government-run hospitals decreased, even though their bed totals grew.

While between 8,000 and 10,000 private hospital beds are needed in Bangkok and
the outskirts for eight to 10 million people, more than 15,000 beds are
available. Most of the big hospitals are not operating at full capacity, with
only a quarter of the beds being occupied.

Dr Suwit Wibulpolprasert, vice secretary-general of the Medical Council, said:
"Doctors were drained from government-run hospitals to private ones. The
government hospitals would have gradually faced a doctor shortage, if the crisis
had not occurred."

The newspaper said that the current economic crisis seemed to have arrested the
boom of private hospitals.

According to Dr Suwit, 40 to 50 per cent of private hospitals might go bankrupt
during the crisis.

The doctor shortage in the government sector will ease within two years as a
result of the economic downturn, he said.

"As an effect of the economic downturn, there will be no more demand for doctors
in private hospitals, and no more investment in this business. Those who plan to
work in private hospitals will have to reconsider their decision," he said.

However, according to a report by the Thai Health Systems Research Institute,
the supply of doctors needs to be handled carefully and flexibly. Without any
direction in production, serious problems may result, it warned.

Quoting the report, Dr Suwit said: "It's better to run out of doctors than have
too many.

"Whenever the number of doctors is close to the needs of people, producers must
be aware of it. Otherwise, over-treatment may occur because of competition."

SECTION: South-East Asia; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 522 words

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1997 The Straits Times Press Limited


                              53 of 994 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright (c) 1994 Case Western Reserve University
                     Health Matrix: Journal of Law-Medicine

                                      1994

                              4 Health Matrix 325

LENGTH: 16681 words

ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING: YOUR MONEY OR YOUR LIFE!

NAME:  Brad Dallet +

BIO:



   + J.D. Candidate, Case Western Reserve University School of Law (1994).

 TEXT:
 [*325]

    The economic overhaul of health care in America is restructuring the
business of medicine, and with it the relationship between physician and
patient. Previously accustomed to thinking primarily about the best interests of
each patient, the physician now finds this traditional loyalty in conflict with
competing concerns, including those of government, business, and insurers who
watch with alarm the relentless rise in their health care expenditures. And
there are competing interests of hospitals, health maintenance organizations,
and other provider-institutions who find their survival threatened by
high-powered competition and increasingly stringent resource limits, and
interests of other physicians and their patients whose health needs compete for
limited health care dollars.  n1



    I. INTRODUCTION

    A HEART SURGEON at County Memorial Hospital recently had her hospital
privileges  n2 revoked by the hospital board. Revocation came after a routine
peer review  n3 by the hospital's medical staff. As a practicing physician at
County Memorial, this surgeon maintained a stellar success rate, her quality of
care was impeccable, her competence was unquestioned, and
 [*326]  her patients liked her. However, she had one problem: she did not
sufficiently contribute to the bottom line of the hospital.  n4 In other words,
the hospital decided that she was not making enough money for the hospital, and
for that reason alone, she is no longer permitted to admit patients there.  n5

    Due to the current rising costs of health care, the practice of medicine is
undergoing an economic overhaul.  n6 The economic difficulties which hospitals
are experiencing are evidenced by the fact that between 1980 and 1989, low
profits and high competition led to the closure of nearly 700 hospitals in this
country.  n7 These economic troubles have forced hospitals to behave more like
businesses  n8 and less like the charitable institutions they once were.  n9

    Furthermore, hospitals are being held liable for the wrongdoings that occur
within their facilities.  n10 This liability has led to the creation of the
medical staff peer review process to ensure the quality and competence of the
physicians practicing in a hospital. Through peer reviews, physicians are
reviewed based on various criteria to determine whether or not they will be
allowed privileges to admit and treat their patients in the hospital. In order
for a hospital to relieve itself of malpractice liability, it enforces these
peer review decisions to prevent incompetent physicians from obtaining
privileges.
 [*327]

    Since the primary focus of the peer review process always has been on the
quality of care, recent attempts to define a physician's qualifications for
hospital privileges based on economic factors unrelated to quality of care or
competency considerations, known as "economic credentialing," have been met with
substantial controversy.  n11 While economic credentialing considers the
financial impact a physician has on the hospital, it completely disregards the
competence, skill and quality of the physician's work. Under a policy of
economic credentialing, a physician could be excluded for treating too many poor
patients, for having privileges in a competing hospital, or for simply providing
complete and effective care. Although the hospital may have a financial
rationale for such a policy, economic credentialing ignores and interferes with
the public's interest.

    Although courts generally have upheld adverse peer review decisions based on
quality or competence concerns, whether a court would uphold a peer review
decision based solely on economic considerations is uncertain.  n12 As economic
credentialing has posed the latest threat to physicians receiving and renewing
their hospital privileges, it is sure to receive its share of litigation in the
future. These economic factors will add fuel to the fire in the already volatile
arena of physicians suing hospitals for the denial or revocation of hospital
privileges.
 [*328]

    This note argues that hospitals should not be allowed to use economic
credentialing in evaluating physicians because, by ignoring quality and
competency concerns, it goes against the grain of public policy and unreasonably
interferes with legitimate health care objectives. Furthermore, as disgruntled
physicians have challenged adverse peer review decisions with some success,
based on breach of hospital bylaws or antitrust violations, economic
credentialing will give physicians a stronger argument when attacking adverse
peer reviews on these grounds.

    Part II of this note discusses the hospital/physician relationship, explains
the peer review credentialing process, and provides a definition of economic
credentialing. Part III analyzes how hospital policies, such as economic
credentialing, have a significant impact on society and should be implemented
only in the public's interest. Finally, Part III analyzes how adverse peer
review decisions have been handled by the courts when challenged by physicians
and concludes that these challenges can be utilized to invalidate peer review
decisions that use economic credentialing.

    II. BACKGROUND

    A. The Hospital Structure

    A hospital is described as a "three-legged stool" consisting of the
administration, the governing board, and the medical staff.  n13 The hospital
administration consists of salaried employees who are responsible for the
day-to-day operations of the hospital.  n14 The hospital administration provides
"nonphysician patient care," such as nursing and operating rooms, and other
"institutional support services," such as accounting and data processing.  n15
 [*329]

    The governing board, consisting of the board of trustees and governors, has
the ultimate decision making authority in the hospital.  n16 It is important to
realize, however, that although the board has the ultimate authority it rarely
exercises it.  n17 In fact, the board typically acts as a "rubber stamp,"
usually deferring to the medical staff and approving their decisions.  n18

    The medical staff consists of the physicians who have been issued privileges
to admit their patients to the hospital for treatment.  n19 In return for these
privileges, physicians have various responsibilities to the hospital, such as
following the hospital bylaws and serving on various committees.  n20 One of the
most important of these responsibilities is participating in the peer review
process.  n21

    B. The Peer Review Process

    A physician may not simply take a patient, walk into a hospital, and begin
operating. The right of a physician to admit patients to a hospital for
treatment is known as hospital privileges.  n22 Privileges are crucial to most
physicians because physicians need the beds, equipment, staff, and supplies of a
hospital in order to effectively treat their patients.  n23 The process by which
the hospital determines which physicians will receive these privileges is known
as credentialing or peer review.  n24

    During physician credentialing, the members of the committee must decide
whether to issue or renew hospital privileges
 [*330]  to the physician under review.  n25 This decision is based on a variety
of factors such as the physician's competence, ability, experience and judgment.
n26 Any physician who is applying for privileges for the first time to a
particular hospital will undergo such a review.  n27 Furthermore, hospitals will
submit physicians currently holding privileges to the same review in order to
assure that all their physicians are competent and are providing high quality
care.  n28 Although the board has the final word on any credentialing decision,
most often they defer to the medical staff's decision.  n29 The board's
responsibilities to the credentialing of physicians, as well as other
responsibilities, are illustrated in statutes  n30 and common law,  n31 as well
as the accreditation regulations of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations ("JCAHO").  n32
 [*331]

    The result of the peer review may be a positive one; the physician under
review may obtain new privileges or have existing privileges renewed. On the
other hand, the decision may be an adverse one; the physician may be denied new
privileges or have existing privileges revoked. As would be expected, those
disgruntled physicians who receive adverse peer reviews turn to the courts for
redress. The following sections will discuss the rationale for the peer review
system and how peer reviews have been implemented.

    1. The Development of The Medical Staff Peer Review Process

    Today's system of medical staff peer review has evolved as the relationships
between physicians and hospitals have changed.  n33 In the early twentieth
century, hospitals were almshouses for the poor while wealthier patients were
treated by private physicians in the comfort of their homes.  n34 However, with
the growing concept of surgery in hospitals, physicians' interest in gaining
access to these hospitals also grew.  n35

    Momentum for hospital reform came about in the early part of the 20th
century with the development of state medical boards of licensure and improved
medical education.  n36 After a survey from the American College of Surgeons
("ACS")  n37 revealed substantial deficiencies in hospitals, the ACS established
a set of national standards for hospital accreditation.  n38 The ACS required
that physicians affiliated with hospitals must organize into a medical staff
n39 and that "medical staff member  [*332]  ship must be restricted to doctors
competent in their fields and worthy in character."  n40

    In 1952, the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals was created
collectively by the ACS, the American Medical Association, and others. After
initially adopting the standards created by the ACS,  n41 JCAHO eventually
expanded the requirements for medical staff peer review that were necessary for
hospital accreditation.  n42 As JCAHO has refined its standards over time, it
has dominated the shaping of hospital medical staffs and the development of
physician credentialing requirements.  n43

    2. The Implementation of The Peer Review Process

    Several rationales have been proposed for the development of the peer review
process. Some take a paternalistic view, asserting that "since the medical field
is so specialized, only physicians can protect patients from poor-quality
medical care."  n44 Others believe that the medical staff functions like
Consumer Reports, providing necessary consumer information to the patients.  n45
Medical staff reviews also are seen as a means to control the utilization of
medical services while internally monitoring the quality of care.  n46 Whatever
the rationale, the peer review process has been adopted as the process through
which accredited hospitals issue and renew privileges to physicians. Indeed,
common law, federal statutes, state statutes,
 [*333]  JCAHO regulations, and medical staff bylaws all have a hand in the
implementation of the peer review process. Common Law: At one time, the
perception was that hospitals did not act through their physicians, but rather
that they procured physicians who were responsible for their own actions.  n47
Under this view, the hospitals were not legally responsible for their
physicians' torts. However, in the landmark ruling of Darling v. Charlestown
Community Hospital,  n48 the Supreme Court of Illinois established that a
hospital may be held independently liable for negligently failing to monitor the
quality and competence of the physicians on its staff.  n49 The Darling court
stated,

    Certainly the person who avails himself of 'hospital facilities' expects
that the hospital will attempt to cure him, not that the nurses or other
employees will act on their own responsibility. The Standards for Hospital
Accreditation, the state licensing regulations and the [hospital's] bylaws
demonstrate that the medical profession and other responsible authorities regard
it as both desirable and feasible that a hospital assume certain
responsibilities for the care of the patients.  n50



    It was at this juncture that the common law first recognized that hospitals
could be held responsible for torts under a theory of corporate liability.

    Similarly, in Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hospital  n51 the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin further defined the hospital's duty. In Johnson, the court
held that "a hospital owes a duty to its patients to exercise reasonable care in
the selection of its medical staff and in granting specialized privileges."  n52
Here, the court specifically stated that this is to be accomplished via the peer
review process by investigating the physician's competence, education, training,
experience, adverse malpractice actions, and by determining whether the
physician
 [*334]  has lost privileges in any other hospital.  n53 Therefore, the Johnson
court made it clear that the objective of the peer review is to insure a high
quality of care in the hospital and failure to use the peer review process to
insure such quality may result in liability to the hospital.  n54 Federal
Statute: In attempting to deal with the medical malpractice crisis, Congress
enacted the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 ("HCQIA").  n55 The Act
establishes a two part program by which the medical profession can rid itself of
unsatisfactory physicians by: (1) providing limited immunity from legal
liability for physicians who engage in good-faith peer review activity  n56 and
(2) establishing a national data bank for reporting physicians' acts of
incompetence and malpractice.  n57

    Although Congress stated that the peer review system is critical in solving
the medical malpractice crisis,  n58 it realized that the peer review system
could be used as a ploy to eliminate the competition of perfectly good
physicians.  n59 Courts and commentators have grappled with this dilemma in
attempting to distinguish good faith peer reviewers from those who are oper
[*335]  ating in their own economic best interests.  n60 The HCQIA is Congress'
attempt to improve the quality of medical care by encouraging and protecting the
proper use of the peer review system.  n61

    The HCQIA grants antitrust immunity to physicians who participate in
good-faith peer review attempts to weed out incompetent physicians.  n62
Congress specifically stated that immunity will be provided to physicians who
participate in peer review activity based on "the competence or professional
conduct of an individual physician (which conduct affects or could affect
adversely the health or welfare of a patient or patients)."  n63 Congress
specifically excluded immunity for "any other matter that does not relate to the
competence or professional conduct of a physician."  n64 Therefore, in enacting
the HCQIA, Congress was anticipating that the peer review process would be
implemented effectively for maintaining quality health care and competent
physicians.  n65
 [*336]  State Statutes: While most state statutes institute requirements for
the hospital peer review process,  n66 there is a split as to the specificity of
the requirements. Some statutes only serve as a broad framework in which
hospitals should implement the peer review process.  n67 For example, Illinois
law allows generally flexible credentialing requirements that are consistent
with the institution's objectives.  n68 On the other hand, some states have more
detailed requirements.  n69 For example, Maryland law considers that the
credentialing process reviews the physician's education, clinical expertise,
licensure history, medical history,
 [*337]  claims history and professional experience.  n70 However, regardless of
specificity, states tend to require that the peer review process be based upon
some notions of quality and competence. JCAHO Regulations: The standards of the
Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations ("JCAHO") for the
peer review process are very specific.  n71 For example, they state that
although the governing board has the final authority on credentialing decisions,
the actual decisionmaking function is conducted by the medical staff.  n72
Furthermore, JCAHO requires that the medical staff maintain a set of bylaws that
includes their rules for self governance.  n73 JCAHO also mandates that each
staff member is to have privileges appointed to him or her  n74 and that these
privileges are to be awarded via a specific peer review process as included in
the bylaws.  n75 Finally, JCAHO requires that physicians have their privileges
reviewed every two years by this peer review process.  n76 Although these
standards are of a voluntary organization, arguably they have
 [*338]  the force of law.  n77 Thus, JCAHO requirements have greatly affected
the way hospitals run their peer review systems.  n78 Medical Staff Bylaws: Like
the JCAHO regulations, state law also requires the bylaws to include the rules
for the peer review process.  n79 Since medical staff bylaws constitute a
contract between the medical staff and the hospital, both parties must follow
the peer review rules and neither side unilaterally can change them.  n80
Therefore, the bylaws will force the medical staff to abide by the rules in
carrying out physician peer reviews.

    In summary, the state and federal laws, in addition to the JCAHO
regulations, set the standards for which hospital peer review will be
implemented. These rules and regulations are given life through the hospital and
medical staff bylaws. As evidenced by these rules, the chief factor of
evaluation under the peer review system is quality of care. Since the bylaws are
seen as a contract that cannot be unilaterally altered, an attempt to change the
criteria of the peer review would prove difficult.

    C. Economic Credentialing Defined

    As noted above, the peer review credentialing process evaluates physicians
based on quality and competence factors to ensure that the highest level of care
is being provided in the
 [*339]  hospitals.  n81 However, when the hospital reviews a physician and
bases its privileging decision upon economic factors  n82 rather than the
preferred quality and competency criteria, the hospital is using economic
credentialing. The two key elements necessary to identify economic credentialing
are: (1) a physician under review is only judged by economic criteria; and (2)
this economic criteria is the only factor directly tied to the decision of
whether or not to issue or renew the physician's privileges.  n83 Economic
credentialing "has nothing to do with professional quality and competence."  n84

    For a better understanding, the following are three illustrations of
economic credentialing in action. Although these illustrations may seem
different, all three are examples of economic credentialing being applied to
prevent a physician from obtaining privileges in a particular hospital.
 [*340]

    1. Economic Credentialing to Maximize DRG Payments

    With the current prospective payment system for reimbursement of hospital
services (based on a system of Diagnosis Related Groups, or "DRGs"), physicians
and hospitals are faced with competing incentives for providing health care.
Under the DRG system, the hospital is reimbursed a set fee for each patient
admitted -- each patient being entitled to one diagnosis.  n85 The diagnosis is
determined after the patient is treated and released from the hospital, thus
with the benefit of 20/20 hindsight.  n86 Regardless of how expensive the
patient was to treat or how long the patient spent in the hospital, the hospital
receives only the fixed DRG payment.  n87 Therefore, hospitals have an incentive
to keep costs down.

    As hospitals are attempting to keep expenses down for each diagnosed
patient, physicians are operating under competing incentives. The physicians are
responsible for diagnosing patients, ordering tests, and performing the medical
procedures.  n88 Furthermore, physicians are reimbursed a set fee for each
procedure performed and are under a perpetual threat of malpractice litigation
should he/she negligently fail to perform a procedure or test.  n89 Therefore,
when in doubt, the physician has an incentive to perform the extra test or
procedure. This incentive is clearly opposite the hospital's incentive to keep
expenses down. As hospitals want to treat the patient with minimal resources and
send him home, physicians want to treat the patient as effectively and
completely as possible.  n90 Hospitals
 [*341]  use economic credentialing to force physicians to concentrate on
lowering the expense of health care and improving profit margins.  n91

    2. Economic Credentialing to Avoid Competition

    In Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center,  n92 the only
economic credentialing case tried to date, Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical
Center  n93 ("TMRMC") denied Dr. Rosenblum privileges to its cardiac department
solely because he had a contract with a competing hospital, Tallahassee
Community Hospital ("TCH").  n94 Because of Dr. Rosenblum's contract with TCH to
establish and run its cardiac surgery unit, TMRMC concluded that he would
represent a business liability to their hospital.  n95 Although TMRMC admitted
that Dr. Rosenblum is a "reputable surgeon with superior skills" and that his
qualifications were never an issue,  n96 they denied him privileges.  n97
Rosenblum is a clear
 [*342]  case of a hospital using economic credentialing to avoid competition.

    3. Economic Credentialing to Ensure More Profitable Patient Mix

    Under economic credentialing, physicians who do not have what the hospital
considers a "profitable patient mix"  n98 may be in danger of losing their
privileges.  n99 For example, since a hospital is reimbursed for less than its
actual expenses for treating Medicaid patients,  n100 hospital's tend not to
look favorably on physicians with a large Medicaid practice.  n101 The
percentage of Medicaid patients or charity care a physician provides are factors
wholly unrelated to competence or quality of care.  n102 Therefore, when a
hospital decides against privileges to a physician based on patient mix, the
hospital is using economic credentialing.  n103

    From the above illustrations, it should be clear that economic credentialing
arises in different ways. However, in every application, economic credentialing
ties a physician's privileges directly to his or her economic performance for
the hospital, while ignoring all other criteria. Economic credentialing is
receiving increased attention in the 1990's.  n104 In some instances,
 [*343]  hospitals are so divided on the issue that physicians are leaving their
hospitals.  n105 In other instances, state medical societies are taking a stand
against such policies.  n106 However, the question remains: will hospitals be
permitted to exclude or expel physicians based solely on economic
considerations?

    III. CHALLENGES TO ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING

    Society and individual physicians are both directly affected by medical
staff peer reviews. As people place themselves in a physician's care with the
hope of being cured, they rely on the hospital to ensure a competent and
skillful medical staff. Since society has a vested interest in the competency
and quality of their treating physicians, hospitals should consider these
interests when creating a policy that determines on what criteria a physician
will be reviewed for privileges. In addition, if the hospital policy violates
the medical staff bylaws (considered a contract between the physician and the
hospital) or the federal antitrust laws (prohibiting unfair competition), legal
challenges may be brought to invalidate such policies.

    Since hospitals that use economic credentialing are not concerned with
quality or competence issues, such a policy should be considered against public
policy. Furthermore, unless economic criteria is provided in the bylaws as a
possible sole criteria for evaluating physicians, economic credentialing would
constitute a breach of contract by the hospital. Finally, since economic
credentialing is not protected from antitrust scrutiny, such a policy may
violate the federal antitrust laws.

    A. The Public Policy Challenge

    Imagine this: You are sitting in a hospital waiting room, before undergoing
a major surgical operation, reading the latest edition of Newsweek. While
flipping through the magazine,
 [*344]  you courageously scan an article regarding hospital care. In the
article, a physician is quoted as saying, "you learn the tricks, learn the
shortcuts, then hope you don't do anything wrong."  n107 Reading further, you
learn that this physician has been told that unless he becomes more profitable
to the hospital, he will lose his admitting privileges.  n108

    With the rising costs of health care, hospitals are in a situation where, in
adopting policies, they must balance their private management objectives with
those of public interest.  n109 In order for a hospital to maintain a policy
that furthers its management objectives, the policy also should further the
public's interests and certainly not interfere with that interest.  n110
However, if a policy does not further any public health care objective, or
unreasonably interferes with legitimate public health care objectives, such a
policy should be invalidated as against the public good.

    1. Hospital Policy For a Public Health Care Objective

    Hospitals are responsible for operating for the good of the public -- not in
their own private best interests.  n111 In light of this premise, the
reasonableness of hospital policy should be based on how the public health may
be affected by the particular policy.  n112 For example, in Redding v. St.
Francis Medical
 [*345]  Center,  n113 the California Court of Appeals affirmed the trial
court's finding that the hospital's decision to maintain a closedstaff policy
was in the interest of "improving patient care, and . . . reducing mortality
rates."  n114 In that case, the court determined that the hospital policy
decision was reasonable, even though it prevented independent physicians from
acquiring privileges, because it furthered the public health care objectives of
improving patient care and reducing mortality rates.  n115

    However, in Desai v. St. Barnabas Medical Center,  n116 the New Jersey
Supreme Court in determining the reasonableness of hospital policy reached the
opposite conclusion. In Desai, the hospital adopted a closed-staff policy of
issuing privileges to applying physicians.  n117 The policy, however, had six
exceptions -most importantly allowing privileges to an applying physician who
was "joining the medical practice of a current member of the hospital medical
staff."  n118 The court recognized that such a discriminatory policy only could
be upheld if it advanced a public health objective.  n119 The court concluded
that since it only benefitted those staff members who already were admitted and
was not in furtherance of the public interest, the exception was unreasonable.
n120

    When making staffing decisions, the hospital must consider not only public
health objectives, but also the interests of the hospital management. Hospitals
are given great discretion in their decisions, but only "to the extent that they
exert their efforts toward the elevation of hospital standards and higher
medical care."  n121 Therefore, in assessing hospital expenses and
quality-of-care concerns, hospitals always should remember
 [*346]  that "their existence is for the purpose of faithfully furnishing
facilities to the members of the medical profession in aid of their service to
the public."  n122

    Hospitals have grappled with creating reasonable credentialing policies that
further both the interests of the public and the interests of hospital
management.  n123 Since credentialing policies have such a broad impact on the
public welfare, hospitals should be required to adequately support the
reasonableness of their policy.  n124 Hospitals should support such policies
with information that "adequately demonstrates that a genuine health care
objective is reasonably and rationally served" by the policy.  n125 Without
"persuasive information" proving that the hospital needs such a policy to
improve patient care, such a policy should not be said to reasonably and
rationally advance a legitimate health care objective.  n126

    2. Economic Credentialing As Hospital Policy

    Since economic credentialing is a form of hospital policy, to be considered
reasonable it also should further a legitimate health care objective necessary
to improve the quality of care.  n127 However, since economic credentialing
"defines an individual's qualification . . . based on economic factors unrelated
to quality-of-care or competency considerations,"  n128 such
 [*347]  a policy should not be considered reasonably and rationally in
furtherance of a legitimate health care objective. With economic credentialing,
hospitals place the interests of managing the hospital before the interests of
the public -- usually not even considering the interests of the public.  n129
Such a policy not only has no legitimate public health care objective, it also
unreasonably interferes with several legitimate health care objectives.

    Access to Health Care: Most importantly, economic credentialing interferes
with the public's access to health care. Since physicians only may treat
patients in hospitals where they have privileges, denying privileges effectively
denies patients access to health care. For example, a hospital may not look
favorably upon a physician who has a large Medicaid practice, since Medicaid
typically reimburses the hospital less than Medicare or privately insured
patients.  n130 If that hospital maintains a policy of economic credentialing,
it would be able to revoke that physician's privileges, forcing his/her patients
to obtain health care elsewhere. This may not be a problem if the physician has
privileges in another nearby hospital; however, if the physician has privileges
in a far away hospital or in no other hospital at all, these patients will be
denied the ability to select their desired physician-hospital combination.  n131
Denial of such access
 [*348]  would not be considered acting for the public good.  n132

    A policy restricting access might be considered reasonable if it furthers
quality or competency concerns;  n133 however, economic credentialing removes
these issues from consideration, effectively eliminating any inference of
reasonableness. Since economic credentialing would allow a hospital to exclude a
physician without any legitimate health care reason while limiting patients'
access to health care, such a policy unreasonably would interfere with the
public health care objective of access to health care.

    Higher Quality Health Care: Economic credentialing also interferes with the
public health care objective of higher quality health care. Indeed, one of the
main goals of the HCQIA was to increase the quality of health care by
effectively removing incompetent physicians who provided a low level of care.
n134 Congress was so concerned about removing incompetent physicians that it
legally protected good-faith peer reviews which were based on competence or
quality concerns.  n135 However, under economic credentialing, the focus of
credentialing turns away from quality and competence, to concerns of economics
and profits. Congress specifically refrained from extending legal protection to
peer reviews that were not based on quality or competence concerns because "such
protection might be abused and serve as a shield for anti-competitive economic
actions under the guise of quality controls."  n136 Thus, Congress determined
that protecting such credentialing would interfere unreasonably with the public
objective of higher quality health care. Since economic credentialing, by
definition, is devoid of quality
 [*349]  or competence concerns, such a policy unreasonably interferes with this
public health care objective.

    Reduce Malpractice and Health Care Costs: Finally, in adopting an economic
credentialing policy, hospitals unreasonably interfere with the public health
care objective of reducing malpractice and health care costs.  n137 As already
discussed, hospitals have an incentive to minimize resources and expenses for
each admitted patient.  n138 Physicians, on the other hand, have an incentive to
provide the best and most complete care possible to cure their patients and
avoid malpractice.  n139 Under a policy of economic credentialing, physicians
will be forced to find shortcuts to keep their costs down in order to retain
their hospital privileges.  n140 However, if physicians become more concerned
with the cost of an additional test rather than the potential good the test may
do for the patient,  n141 clearly the quality of care would decline, increasing
the likelihood of malpractice litigation and the overall cost of health care.
n142 As the public has legitimate health care objectives to increase the quality
of care while reducing malpractice litigation and the overall cost of health
care, a policy of economic credentialing unreasonably interferes with these
objectives.

    Although hospitals may have a rationale for implementing economic
credentialing policies, such policies simply do not further any public health
care objective. And while hospitals may be given great deference in adopting
their policies, such discretion is not boundless.  n143 Unless the hospital's
policy is reasonably and rationally in furtherance of a public health care
objective, the policy should be held invalid as being against the public good.
n144 Since economic credentialing not only does not
 [*350]  further the public interest but also unreasonably interferes with
legitimate public health care objectives, such a policy should be held invalid
as being against the public good.

    B. The Breach of Bylaws Challenge

    As mandated by JCAHO and many state statutes, the rules for the peer review
process must be incorporated into the medical staff bylaws.  n145 Therefore,
when a physician receives an adverse peer review decision, he or she may attempt
to challenge the decision as not following the rules set up in the bylaws.  n146
The issues then become the extent of the legal significance of the medical staff
bylaws and upon what grounds a physician can substantiate a challenge.

    Of all the challenges brought by physicians against peer review decisions,
breach of bylaws has been recognized most widely as a challenge that will
overturn a peer review decision because the courts and JCAHO have determined
that medical staff bylaws constitute a binding contract between the hospital and
the medical staff physicians.  n147 For example, in Spencer v. Community
Hospital of Evanston,  n148 the court stated that when a physician's privileges
are revoked or reduced the hospital must follow its bylaws in the
decision-making process.  n149 And more recently, in Alfredson v. Lewisburg
Community Hospital,  n150 the court indicated that the medical staff bylaws must
be followed as "a hospital's bylaws are an integral part of its contractual
relationship with the members of its medical staff."  n151 Furthermore, some
courts have ruled that, in addition
 [*351]  to creating a contractual obligation, hospital bylaws must be followed
as a matter of public policy.  n152

    As discussed above, JCAHO specifically mandates that hospitals have bylaws
that incorporate the rules of self governance and that those bylaws are a
binding contract that neither party unilaterally may amend.  n153 Therefore,
JCAHO is consistent with the courts' decisions that hospital bylaws must be
upheld as legally binding contracts that cannot be altered unilaterally. Since
these bylaws are considered a binding contract between the physicians and the
hospital and required to include the rules for credentialing, a violation of the
rules would lead to a breach of contract claim. Therefore, in order to avoid a
breach of contract suit, these credentialing rules must be followed.

    Since its inception, peer review credentialing has been used as a mechanism
to keep out incompetent and poor quality physicians.  n154 However, as hospitals
are now considering the use of economic criteria in the decision-making process,
the bylaws must be inspected to find approval for the use of such criteria.
Since current bylaws reflect the original intent of the peer review process
(that is quality and competence concerns), finding such approval in the bylaws
may prove difficult. It would be especially difficult to find approval for
basing a credentialing decision solely upon economic criteria while ignoring all
quality and competence concerns. In order to receive such approval, medical
staff bylaws would have to be amended to include economic criteria. A special
provision must be implemented into the bylaws to uphold a decision based solely
upon economic considerations. Would a hospital attempt to unilaterally amend the
bylaws? If it did, it would not only run up against an array of legal precedent
but also the JCAHO regu  [*352]  lations that specifically forbid such an act.
Since medical staff bylaws cannot be unilaterally amended, such an alteration
would require not only the approval of the governing board, but the approval of
the medical staff as well. However, attempting to convince a medical staff to
agree with such amendments will be an arduous task. "Attempts by hospitals to
impose a system of economic credentialing will cause enormous stresses and
strains on an already tenuous relationship between medical staffs and hospital
boards."  n155 Physicians will not approve of amending hospital bylaws to
provide for economic credentialing because such factors are not in the best
interest of their patients or themselves.  n156 If the medical staff will not
support such amendments, economic credentialing will be prevented from being
introduced to hospital bylaws, effectively providing physicians with a legal
challenge to any such decision.

    However, some courts may interpret a hospital's bylaws as already allowing
economic credentialing with such phrases as "in pursuit of institutional
objectives" or "any other relevant factors." Even though these phrases allow the
use of economic factors in the decisionmaking process, they really amount to the
permissible use of utilization review.  n157 Since economic credentialing is
distinct from utilization review,  n158 such inclusive language in hospital
bylaws will not permit the exclusive use of economic criteria in the peer-review
process. Without a specific provision in the medical staff bylaws allowing for
the use of economic credentialing, such a policy will constitute a breach of the
hospital's contractual obligation.
 [*353]

    C. The Antitrust Challenge

    Federal antitrust laws are considered "fully applicable in the context of
the health care industry."  n159 Therefore, with the possibility of treble
damages, federal antitrust challenges have "posed the biggest threat" of all the
challenges brought by physicians in peer review litigation.  n160

    Although sometimes with considerable skepticism,  n161 the courts have
continued to entertain antitrust challenges to peer review decisions because
"abuse of the peer-review process is not just hypothetically possible but has
been found to have occurred in a small but significant number of cases."  n162

    The goal of the federal antitrust laws is to preserve competition in the
marketplace by forbidding certain anti-competitive conduct. In particular,
Section 1 of the Sherman Act  n163 renders unlawful "every contract, combination
in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade."  n164
Since by definition, peer review activity involves a form of concerted activity,
peer review decisions have great potential for antitrust vio  [*354]  lations.
n165 In order to prevail in a Section 1 action against peer review activity,
three elements must be proven. First, the physician must prove the peer review
affects interstate commerce. Second, the physician must prove the peer review
decision was made by a contract, combination or conspiracy. Finally, the
physician must prove the peer review decision produced an adverse and
anticompetitive effect on competition.

    1. Affecting Interstate Commerce

    To analyze a peer review decision under the Sherman Act, it must first be
determined whether or not the conduct (the peer-review activity) is in or
substantially affects interstate commerce.  n166 This had been seen as a
jurisdictional "stumbling block" to physicians who could not show that the peer
review decision had such an effect.  n167 To get over this jurisdictional hump,
the physician had to identify, with evidence beyond the pleadings, the relevant
part of interstate commerce affected.  n168

    However, in Summit Health, Ltd. v. Pinhas,  n169 the Supreme Court made this
jurisdictional requirement easier to meet. In Pinhas, an ophthalmologist with
privileges in a Los Angeles hospital alleged a conspiracy between the hospital
and its staff to revoke his hospital privileges.  n170 In alleging a violation
of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, Dr. Pinhas asserted that excluding his services
from the hospital had the required effect on interstate commerce to give the
court federal jurisdiction.  n171 The Court held that since ophthalmological
services are "regularly performed for out-of-state patients and generate
revenues from out-of-state sources,"  n172 their exclusion would have "a
sufficient nexus with interstate commerce to support federal jurisdiction."
n173 Since almost all hospital physicians treat out-of  [*355]  state patients
and receive out-of-state revenue, the Pinhas decision effectively allows
physicians excluded from health care entities as a result of the peer-review
process to almost always satisfy the jurisdictional requirement of affecting
interstate commerce.  n174

    2. Contract, Combination or Conspiracy

    Since Section 1 of the Sherman Act does not wholly forbid unilateral
conduct, the physician must prove that two or more distinct entities agreed to
take action against him.  n175 However, officers or employees of corporations or
divisions of corporations do not provide this required plurality.  n176
Therefore, in order for a physician to successfully sustain a Section 1
challenge against an adverse peer-review decision, it must be determined that
the medical staff has the capacity to perform such a concerted activity.

    The prevailing rule is established in Weiss v. York Hospital.  n177 In
Weiss, the court described the medical staff as:

    a group of doctors, all of whom practice medicine in their individual
capacities, and each of whom is an independent economic entity in competition
with other doctors in the . . . medical community. Each staff member, therefore,
has an economic interest separate from and in many cases in competition with the
interests of other medical staff members. Under
 [*356]  these circumstances, the medical staff cannot be considered a single
economic entity for the purposes of antitrust analysis.  n178



    Therefore, the Weiss court concluded that the medical staff's actions (which
would include peer review decisions) should be viewed as "actions of a
combination of the individual doctors who make it up."  n179 As Weiss and other
courts have noted,  n180 the medical staff of a hospital has the capacity to
conspire amongst itself, therefore, creating a concerted activity susceptible to
antitrust scrutiny. Furthermore, by definition, a peer review is a collective
decision of the medical staff members on the peer review committee. Therefore,
every peer review decision of the hospital medical staff has the potential for
an antitrust violation.

    3. Producing Adverse and Anti-Competitive Effects

    Once the physician has proven a conspiracy among the medical staff, it must
be further proven that the concerted action caused an unreasonable restraint of
trade.  n181 Although all commercial agreements may be said to somewhat restrain
trade, only unreasonable restraints violate Section 1.  n182 Judging the
reasonableness of the restraint depends upon "its impact on competition as a
whole within the relevant market."  n183 The courts have used two approaches in
assessing the reasonableness of such restraints: illegal per se and the rule of
reason.

    Illegal Per Se: A court will hold conduct illegal per se when the concerted
activity has a "pernicious effect on competition and lacks . . . any redeeming
virtue."  n184 Such agreements
 [*357]  are said to be so manifestly anticompetitive in nature that they can be
deemed illegal without close evaluation.  n185 However, the lines between the
per se rule and the rule of reason have been blurred as courts have overruled
previous per se cases and refused to expand the categories of cases subject to
the per se analysis.  n186 Furthermore, courts have "been slow to condemn rules
adopted by professional associations as unreasonable per se."  n187

    Rule of Reason: Under the rule of reason analysis, the test of legality is
"whether the restraint imposed is such as merely regulates and perhaps thereby
promotes competition or whether it is such as may suppress or even destroy
competition."  n188 This entails an analysis of "the facts peculiar to the
business, the history of the restraint, and the reasons why it was imposed."
n189 Furthermore, the restraint must be proven to have the potential to produce
"adverse, anticompetitive effects within relevant product and geographical
markets."  n190

    Which Approach to Use? Under the per se rule, "anticompetitive purposes and
anticompetitive effect are conclusively presumed to exist once the forbidden
conduct is proven, so that proof of the forbidden conduct is by itself proof of
an antitrust
 [*358]  violation."  n191 Such an approach would be inappropriate in evaluating
peer review decisions. The conduct being analyzed in credentialing cases is the
peer review decision of the medical staff. Under the per se rule, every
challenged peer review decision would have to be held invalid because that
conduct would be considered "unlawful in and of itself, without regard to the
effect of the conduct or the purpose of those engaging in it."  n192 Since the
peer review process is not so "inherently anticompetitive" this approach would
not be appropriate for determining anticompetitiveness.  n193

    Since the per se rule is inappropriate in evaluating the anticompetitiveness
of peer reviews, a rule of reason approach should be used. The rule of reason
approach is better suited to this evaluation because under this rule, "the
anticompetitive purpose or effect of the conduct" must be proven.  n194 Since a
peer review very often has no anticompetitive purpose, this case by case
approach will eliminate more accurately only the anticompetitive peer reviews.
n195 Therefore, in order for a physician to prove that an adverse peer review
decision violated Section 1, he must prove that the decision unreasonably
restrained trade by having an anticompetitive effect within the relevant market.
n196
 [*359]

    As mentioned above, Section 1 violations have been proven in several cases.
n197 The Supreme Court in Patrick v. Burget  n198 affirmed the circuit court's
decision that Oregon physicians violated the Sherman Act when they improperly
participated in peer review activity, resulting in the loss of Dr. Patrick's
hospital privileges.  n199 The events of this case occurred in Astoria, Oregon,
a town with a population of 10,000  n200 and with one hospital and one private
clinic.  n201 Patrick, who had privileges in the hospital as a general and
vascular surgeon, declined an offer to become a partner in the private clinic
and instead set up a private practice to compete with the clinic.  n202
Physicians of the clinic initiated and participated in a peer review evaluation
of Patrick, which resulted in the loss of his privileges at the community's one
hospital.  n203

    Patrick illustrates a classic example of a medical staff unreasonably
restraining trade by having an anticompetitive effect within the relevant
market. Since there was only one hospital in the area, the relevant market was
established.  n204 Furthermore, since the restraint on trade was contrary to the
legitimate purpose of the peer review process and had no procompetitive effects,
such evidence was sufficient to determine concerted activity in violation of
Section 1.

    4. Immunity To Antitrust Liability

    The Patrick decision also illustrates that the state-action doctrine  n205
of antitrust immunity will not protect peer review
 [*360]  activity.  n206 The Court recognized that "effective peer review is
essential to the provision of quality medical care" and the possible "chilling
effect" that could fall upon peer review if immunity is not granted.  n207
However, the Court concluded that unless Congress grants such immunity by law,
the only stateaction immunity that would be granted is where "the State
effectively has made this conduct its own."  n208

    Following Patrick, Congress provided limited antitrust immunity for
participants in medical staff peer reviews in the Health Care Quality
Improvement Act of 1986 ("HCQIA").  n209 The HCQIA is Congress's way of
"accurately and expeditiously distinguishing . . . legitimate peer review
activity" (that which is intended to improve the quality of care) from abusive
peer review activity.  n210 Therefore, in order to qualify for protection, the
peer reviewers must base their decision on "the competence or professional
conduct of an individual physician (which conduct affects or could affect
adversely the health or welfare of a patient or patients)."  n211

    In furthering its efforts to protect only good-faith peer reviews, the
drafters of the HCQIA specifically stated instances that would not be considered
based on competence or professional conduct. This list includes decisions based
on whether or not a physician joined a professional society, the fees or
advertising of the physician, the economic organization of the medical practice,
or the physician's activities with other health care professionals.  n212 Since
this list is not intended to be complete,
 [*361]  the Act states that immunity is excluded for "any other matter that
does not relate to the competence or professional conduct of a physician."  n213
Therefore, the above provisions conclusively support Congress' intent that
medical staff peer review is to be used legitimately to "improve the quality of
medical care in this country by encouraging the medical profession to rid itself
of bad doctors."  n214

    5. Another Obstacle For Economic Credentialing

    If an adverse peer review decision were based solely upon economic criteria,
a stronger antitrust case may be brought by a disgruntled physician.  n215
First, economic credentialing would not fall under the protection of the HCQIA
immunity provisions, because basing a credentialing decision solely upon
economic considerations does not relate to the competence or professional
conduct of a physician. As noted above, if a physician was affected adversely by
a peer review decision because he served poor patients, because he was an
economic threat to other physicians or because of some sort of "turf battle,"
the reviewers would not receive immunity.  n216

    Furthermore, from the discussions noted in the Congressional and House
Reports, it is evident that this immunity is to be construed narrowly. The main
purpose of this immunity is to "improve the quality of medical care in this
country by encouraging the medical profession to rid itself of bad doctors."
n217 Therefore, unless the economic criteria was somehow evidence of quality
concerns, the protection would not be provided.  n218 Certainly, in a case of
economic credentialing, where economics were the sole criteria, such immunity
would be inappropriate.
 [*362]

    Since antitrust immunity would not be available for economic credentialing,
participants in such peer review decisions would be subject to the federal
antitrust laws. As discussed above, challenges to peer reviews are said to have
met the jurisdictional requirement.  n219 Furthermore, the hospital medical
staff is considered to have the capacity to conspire.  n220 Additionally,
situations arise where the restraint on trade, via the peer review decision, is
within the relevant market.  n221 Therefore, if the restraint is unreasonable
and not pro-competitive, the peer review decision will violate Section 1 of the
Sherman Act.

    Economic credentialing can be an unreasonable and anticompetitive restraint
of trade.  n222 Under a rule of reason analysis, the court must consider the
reasons why the adverse peer review decision was imposed.  n223 If the reasons
are legitimate, that would evidence a reasonable restraint of trade. However, in
light of the lengthy discussions revolving around the HCQIA immunity provisions,
a peer review based solely on economic considerations may be an inappropriate
abuse of the peer review system. In a case such as Patrick, where there is only
one hospital, such a restraint significantly would reduce competition and might
affect drastically the quality and availability of care to the public. The fact
that a peer review decision was based solely on economic considerations would be
additional evidence that the restraint was unreasonable and anti-competitive.
Therefore, economic credentialing may enhance an already plausible antitrust
challenge of an adverse peer review decision.  n224
 [*363]

    IV. CONCLUSION

    The main goal of the peer review process is to provide patients with top
quality care by competent physicians. As introduced by the common law of
hospital corporate liability and further supported by JCAHO, as inscribed in
hospital bylaws and as protected by the HCQIA, the peer review system
effectively functions to rid the medical field of incompetent physicians. As
stated in such laws and policies, peer review decisions are to be evaluated
based on competence and quality concerns.

    Economic credentialing substitutes economic criteria for the required
quality concerns. The result is that a physician may be denied privileges or
have existing privileges revoked based solely upon economic criteria regardless
of the physician's competency and regardless of the impact on society. Such peer
review decisions do not serve the public's interest and run afoul of statutory
law, common law and hospital bylaws. Notwithstanding the hospital's concern for
its bottom line, society cannot tolerate the effects of economic credentialing.
Hospitals always must remember that they exist to serve the public's interest,
not their own private interests.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationAccreditationHealthcare
LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationHospital PrivilegesProfessional
ReviewHealthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationPeer ReviewStatutes

FOOTNOTES:




n1  E. Haavi Morreim, Economic Disclosure And Economic Advocacy: New Duties in
The Medical Standard of Care, 12 J. LEGAL MED. 275, 275 (1991).




n2  Hospital privileges (also known as clinical privileges) are defined as
"permission to provide medical or other patient care services in the granting
institution, within welldefined limits, based on the individual's professional
license and his/her experience, competence, ability, and judgment." Joint Comm'n
on Accreditation of Healthcare Orgs., THE ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS 53
(1993) [hereinafter JCAHO MANUAL]. Physicians must have such privileges in order
to use the beds, equipment and support staff within the facility. Id.




n3  Peer review (also known as credentialing) is where "the organization
establishes hospital-specific mechanisms for the appointment and reappointment
of medical staff members and the granting and renewal/revision of clinical
privileges." Id.




n4  There are a number of ways a physician negatively may affect the bottom
line. Her procedures may cost more than the Diagnostic Related Group ("DRG")
payment will reimburse, she may have many Medicaid patients who typically are
not as profitable as other patients, or she may be competing with the particular
hospital by also treating patients at another hospital. See infra notes 85-106
and accompanying text.




n5  This scenario could have been painted differently. Rather than having her
current privileges reviewed for renewal, the surgeon could have been attempting
to obtain privileges from the hospital for the first time. The same medical
staff could have reviewed her and decided that, although there is no question as
to the quality of care this physician would provide, she might not be the most
profitable physician for the hospital.




n6  See Morreim, supra note 1, at 275.




n7  John D. Blum, Hospital-Medical Staff Relations in The Face of Shifting
Institutional Business Strategies: A Legal Analysis, 14 PUGET SOUND L. REV. 561,
561 (1991).




n8  Morreim, supra note 1, at 275.




n9  See ROSEMARY STEVENS, IN SICKNESS AND IN WEALTH: AMERICAN HOSPITALS IN THE
TWENTIETH CENTURY 17 (1989) (noting that the hospitals of today grew out of
public and private welfare institutions for the poor of the nineteenth century).




n10  Darling v. Charleston Community Memorial Hosp., 211 N.E.2d 253, 258 (Ill.
1965), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966) (holding that a hospital may be held
independently liable for negligently failing to monitor the quality and
competence of the physicians on its staff).




n11  See, e.g., Jay Greene, Hospitals Eyeing Physicians' Practice Patterns:
Economic Credentialing Is Being Tested To Reduce Expenses And Improve Quality,
MODERN HEALTHCARE, Apr. 29, 1991, at 30, 30 ("Some physicians and experts
contend economic credentialing can lead to poor patient care by limiting
services, reducing access to care and interfering with the physician-patient
relationship."); Mary T. Koska, Hospital CEOs Divided on Use of Economic
Credentialing of Physicians, HOSPITALS, Mar. 20, 1991, at 42, 42 (describing the
policy at Haverford Memorial Hospital in which the hospital has "no qualms about
completely terminating [the physician's] hospital privileges if his financial
performance failed to improve."); Howard L. Lang, M.D., Curb Economic
Credentialing, MODERN HEALTHCARE, Apr. 29, 1991, at 28, 28 ("To enable
physicians to continue to advocate in the patient's interest, subversion of
quality patient care to economic motivations must be stopped."); Commentary,
Credentialing is a Fact of Life, MODERN HEALTHCARE, June 17, 1991, at 36, 36 ("
Economic credentialing is a fact of life, and it will serve in the future to
bond more closely the physician and the hospital.").




n12  As of the date of this writing, only one court in the country has ruled
explicitly on economic credentialing. See Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial
Regional Med. Ctr., No. 91-589 (Cir. Ct. Leon County, Fla. filed June 22, 1992)
(holding the denial of privileges to a physician based solely on economic
considerations is valid based on an interpretation of a Florida statute). This
case is of limited value, however, as the physician was planning to appeal the
decision but never did because the hospital eventually granted him privileges.




n13  STEVENS, supra note 9, at 241 (identifying the three primary power
structures within the hospital and noting the current difficulty in drawing
lines between a hospital's business and medical functions); Blum, supra note 7,
at 563. However, in spite of the recent economic changes that have forced
hospitals to be more concerned with business issues, the basic structure of the
hospital remains unchanged. Id.




n14  John J. Miles & Mary S. Philp, Hospitals Caught in the Antitrust Net: An
Overview, 24 DUQ. L. REV. 489, 501 (1985). For a more detailed list of the
duties of the hospital administrator, see JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 2, at 41-44.




n15  Thaddeus J. Nodzenski, Where Is The Quality in The Health Care Quality
Improvement Act of 1986?, 22 LOY. U. CHI. L.J. 361, 380 (1991). Hospital
administrators are barred from admitting patients or providing other patient
services without prior physician consent.  Id. at 379. Furthermore, while the
hospital bylaws delegate some authority to the hospital administration, it is
not authorized to supervise the manner in which physicians treat their patients.
Id. at 380.




n16  John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing: A New Twist In Hospital Appraisal
Processes, 12 J. LEGAL MED. 427, 459 (1991).




n17  STEVENS, supra note 9, at 244-45 (emphasizing that, although boards of
trustees have the legal right to dictate medical policy, they usually defer to
others).




n18  Id. (recognizing that decisions about new members of the medical staff are
normally based upon the recommendations of medical staff committees).




n19  Miles & Philp, supra note 14, at 501-02 (discussing hospital organization
and staff credentialing). See also JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 2, at 53 ("All
[medical staff] members have delineated clinical privileges that allow them to
provide patient care services independently within the scope of their clinical
privileges.").




n20  Miles & Philp, supra note 14, at 501. For a more detailed list of the
duties and responsibilities of the medical staff, see the JCAHO MANUAL, supra
note 2, at 53-73.




n21  Miles & Philp, supra note 14, at 501.




n22  See JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 2.




n23  Nodzenski, supra note 15, at 378 (discussing access to hospital resources
as essential to physician's ability to practice medicine).




n24  See JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 2.




n25  Id. at 53.




n26  Id.




n27  Miles & Philp, supra note 14, at 502.




n28  Since the granting or renewal of privileges are made for no more than two
years, a physician must have his/her current privileges reviewed every two years
to maintain them. JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 2, at 56.




n29  See STEVENS, supra note 9, at 244-45 (explaining that decisions about new
members of medical staff normally are based upon the recommendations of medical
staff committees).




n30  For example, under California law the board is expressly given the final
credentialing authority. CAL. CODE REGS. tit. 22, section 70701(a)(1)(A)-(F)
(1991). Furthermore, Illinois state law charges the board with the
responsibility for the hospital organization, management, control, operations,
and appointment of the medical staff. ILL. ANN. STAT. ch. 210, para. 85/10
(Smith-Hurd 1990).




n31  Most courts have held the governing board responsible "to evaluate,
counsel, and if necessary take action to prevent unreasonable risk of harm by
physicians to patients treated in their facilities." James F. Blumstein & Frank
A. Sloan, Antitrust and Hospital Peer Review, 51 LAW & CONTEMP. PROBS., Spring
1988, at 7, 17. The idea that hospitals are responsible for the quality of care
provided under their roof is known as hospital corporate liability.  Darling v.
Charleston Community Memorial Hosp., 211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill. 1965), cert. denied,
383 U.S. 946 (1966). This liability imposes a legal duty upon the hospital to
engage in the effective credentialing of its physicians. Blum, supra note 16, at
461. The role of the governing board has also been characterized as that of a
fiduciary of the public. Id. See also Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d
662, 668 (N.J. 1986) (stating that hospital powers that relate to the quality of
care must be exercised reasonably for the public good and must serve public
health objectives).




n32  Under the JCAHO standards, the authority to make the final credentialing
decision rests with the board. JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 2, at 26. The board must
act in a timely manner to the recommendations of the medical staff. Id. If there
is a dispute between the board and the medical staff, JCAHO standards require a
joint conference to resolve the issue in a timely manner. Id. The JCAHO
standards are implemented in medical staff bylaws which are binding on the
hospital. Id. at 58. For further explanation of the functions of JCAHO, see
infra notes 41-43, 71-78 and accompanying text.




n33  Blumstein & Sloan, supra note 31, at 10.




n34  See STEVENS, supra note 9, at 17-51 (discussing the public's initial
resistance to hospitalization and how wealthy patients were attracted by
offering luxurious amenities in the early twentieth century).




n35  Id. at 34 (linking an increase in physicians interest in hospitals to the
general acceptance of the germ theory).




n36  Blum, supra note 16, at 431.




n37  By the 1920's, the ACS had emerged as a private organization which
attempted to establish voluntary ethics standards for hospitals. STEVENS, supra
note 9, at 114. If a hospital conformed to the ACS standards it was certified;
this was similar to a "Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval," in that it assured
consumers that they could expect a certain level of quality and standardization.
Id.




n38  Id. at 114-15 (after inspecting hospitals with over 100 beds, the ACS found
that less than one-seventh met its minimal standards).




n39  Id. at 114 (organizing the doctors into a medical staff facilitated the
implementation of the ACS standards).




n40  Blum, supra note 16, at 431-32.




n41  STEVENS, supra note 9, at 247. JCAH (now JCAHO) was a private,
not-forprofit organization that became the only organization concerned with
hospital standardization. Id. There is no clear history of the establishment of
JCAH. Id. at 247 n.49. Like the ACS, compliance with JCAH's regulations was
voluntary. Id. at 248. Although this accreditation system was (and still is)
voluntary, it was a stable system that became an accepted bureaucratic process.
Id.




n42  Id. (creating and then revising hospital bylaws, JCAH modified the peer
review process relating to the granting and withdrawing of privileges);
Blumstein & Sloan, supra note 31, at 10. JCAHO accreditation is important to
hospitals because several states mandate it, and under certain circumstances,
accredited hospitals may be automatically eligible for Medicare reimbursements.
Id. at 11. Since accreditation is so important to hospitals, the JCAHO standards
for medical staff review are taken very seriously. Id.




n43  Timothy S. Jost, The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals:
Private Regulation of Health Care And The Public Interest, 24 B.C. L. REV. 835,
872-74 (1983).




n44  Blumstein & Sloan, supra note 31, at 12.




n45  Id. at 13.




n46  See id. at 12-13 (reviewing the battle between quality assurance of care
versus the conflict of interest with cost).




n47  Darling v. Charleston Community Memorial Hosp., 211 N.E.2d 253, 257 (Ill.
1965) cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966) (quoting Bing v. Thunig, 143 N.E.2d 3, 8
(N.Y. 1957)).




n48  211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill. 1965), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966).




n49  Id. at 258.




n50  Id. at 257 (quoting Bing, 143 N.E.2d at 8).




n51  301 N.W.2d 156 (Wis. 1981) (asserting duty of hospital to exercise
reasonable care in medical staff privileging and selection).




n52  Id. at 174.




n53  Id. (stressing that the credentialing committee does not relieve the
hospital of its duty to evaluate, monitor and admit only competent physicians).




n54  Although not all state courts have held hospitals corporately liable for
implementing the peer review process, the trend is sufficiently strong and
sufficient to lead one to conclude that under common law such peer reviews are
legally mandated. See, e.g., Bell v. Sharp Cabrillo Hosp., 260 Cal. Rptr. 886,
897 (Cal. Ct. App. 1989) (holding that a hospital is negligent if it doesn't
exercise reasonable care in selecting and reviewing the competency of its staff
physicians); Elam v. College Park Hosp., 183 Cal. Rptr. 156, 165 (Cal. Ct. App.
1982) (holding a hospital corporately liable for insuring the competency of its
medical staff); Insinga v. LaBella, 543 So. 2d 209, 214 (Fla. 1989) (holding
that the doctrine of corporate negligence imposes a duty upon a hospital to
select and retain competent physicians through the issuance of staff
privileges); Pedroza v. Bryant, 677 P.2d 166, 170 (Wash. 1984) (holding the
doctrine of corporate liability applicable to impose a duty on a hospital to
grant privileges only to competent physicians).




n55  42 U.S.C. sections 11101-11152 (1988).




n56  42 U.S.C. sections 11111-11115.




n57  42 U.S.C. sections 11131-11137.




n58  See 42 U.S.C. section 11101. ("The increasing occurrence of medical
malpractice and the need to improve the quality of medical care . . . can be
remedied through effective professional peer review."). See also Charity Scott,
Medical Peer Review, Antitrust, and the Effect of Statutory Reform, 50 MD. L.
REV. 316, 323 n.24 (1991) ("limiting the potential legal liability of
peer-review participants will result in more candid deliberation and effective
outcomes and improved quality of medical care").




n59  Scott, supra note 58, at 329 n.54 ("It is likely that the [peer review]
process will be abused for anticompetitive or antisocial purposes . . . .").




n60  See, e.g., Miles & Philp, supra note 14, at 505 ("Ways must be sought to
weed out meritless cases early on, but without doing injustice to appropriate
principles of antitrust jurisprudence.").




n61  But see Scott, supra note 58, at 321-22 ("The statutory reform effected by
the Act falls short of that heralded by its supporters, and . . . because the
Act does not change the substantive rules governing antitrust liability in peer
review cases, its much-touted 'immunity' is more imaginary than real.").




n62  See 42 U.S.C. section 11111(a) (1988) (stating that anyone involved in the
peer review process "shall not be liable in damages under the law of the United
States or of any State . . . with respect to the action" so long as it meets the
good faith standards of section 11112(a)). See also Decker v. IHC Hosps., Inc.,
982 F.2d 433, 436 (10th Cir. 1992) (concluding that the "HCQIA establishes
immunity from liability" only, not immunity from the suit); Austin v. McNamara,
979 F.2d 728, 737 (9th Cir. 1991) (holding that the HCQIA immunized the hospital
and its physicians from antitrust liability for suspending a neurosurgeon's
privileges because the peer review was based on quality concerns); Smith v.
Ricks, 798 F. Supp. 605, 610 (N.D. Cal. 1992) ("In order to prove that the
review actions . . . were taken in the reasonable belief that they were in
furtherance of quality health care, Defendants must show that 'with the
information available to them at the time of the professional review action,
Defendants would reasonably have concluded that their action would restrict
incompetent behavior or would protect patients.' " (quoting Austin v. McNamara,
731 F. Supp. 934, 940 (C.D. Cal. 1990))); Fobbs v. Holy Cross Health Sys. Corp.,
789 F. Supp. 1054, 1065 (E.D. Cal. 1992) ("The HCQIA provides immunity for
discrete professional review actions/decisions which meet particular standards,
i.e., reasonable belief that the action furthered quality health care . . . .");
Scott, supra note 58, at 331 & n.62 (the immunity provisions of the Act were
redrafted "to protect physicians who participate in a good-faith effort to weed
out their incompetent colleagues . . . .").




n63  42 U.S.C. section 11151(9) (1988).




n64  42 U.S.C. section 11151(9)(E).




n65  In order to be protected, the peer review must be:

    (1) in the reasonable belief that the action was in the furtherance of
quality health care, (2) after a reasonable effort to obtain the facts of the
matter, (3) after adequate notice and hearing procedures are afforded . . ., and
(4) in the reasonable belief that the action was warranted by the facts known .
. . . A professional review action shall be presumed to have met the preceding
standards necessary for the protection set out in Section 11111(a) of this title
unless the presumption is rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence.

    42 U.S.C section 11112(a) (1988).




n66  See, e.g., CONN. GEN. STAT. ANN. section 19a-17b (West Supp. 1993); FLA.
STAT. ANN. section 395.0193 (West 1993); GA. CODE ANN. section 31-7-15 (Michie
1992); HAW. REV. STAT. section 624-25.5 (1993); MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 11
section 203 (West 1993); MO. ANN. STAT. section 537.035 (Vernon 1988); OR. REV.
STAT. section 441.055 (1991); TX. CIV. STAT. ANN. art. 4495b (West 1994).




n67  See, e.g., MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 111 section 203(a) (West 1993) ("The
by-laws of every licensed hospital and the by-laws of all medical staffs shall
contain provisions for reporting conduct by a health care provider that
indicates incompetency in his specialty or conduct that might be inconsistent
with or harmful to good patient care or safety."); MO. ANN. STAT. section
537.035(1)-(2) (Vernon 1988) (the responsibility of the peer review committee is
responsible "to evaluate, maintain, or monitor the quality and utilization of
health care services or to exercise any combination of such responsibilities.");
OR. REV. STAT. section 441.055 (3)(d) (1991) ("The governing body shall: insure
that physicians admitted to practice in the facility are organized into a
medical staff in such a manner as to effectively review the professional
practices of the facility for the purposes of reducing morbidity and mortality
and for the improvement of patient care.").




n68  ILL. ANN. STAT. ch. 210, para. 85/10.4 (Smith-Hurd 1993) (providing that,
prior to renewing a staff member's privileges, a hospital must request
information from the state concerning the staff member's licensure status and
any disciplinary action taken against the staff member).




n69  See FLA. STAT. ANN. section 395.0193 (3)(a)-(g) (West 1993) (requiring that
the peer review committee find incompetence, habitual drug use, mental or
physical impairment, medical malpractice, large malpractice settlements, or
failure to follow hospital procedures, before altering a physician's
privileges); GA. CODE ANN. section 31-7-15 (a)(1)-(3) (Michie 1992) (requiring
peer reviews to include the "quality of the care provided," review of
"diagnostic and surgical procedures," and the physician's "qualifications and
professional competence"); TX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN. art. 4495b section
103(9)(A)-(E) (West 1994) (requiring the peer review committee to evaluate "the
qualifications of professional health care practitioners," specifically
including evaluation of "accuracy of diagnosis," "quality of the care rendered,"
"reports made to a medical peer review committee," and "reports made by a
medical peer review committee to others").




n70  MD. CODE ANN. HEALTH-GEN. section 19-319(e)(1) & (2)(i) (1990).
Furthermore, Maryland specifically requires that the reappointment process is to
be done every two years to review the physician's pattern of performance,
utilization, quality and risk data. Id. at section 19-319(e)(2)(ii) & (iii).




n71  See JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 2.




n72 " The governing body is responsible for the final decision, based on medical
staff recommendations, regarding an individual's appointment or reappointment to
the medical staff and granting of initial or renewed/revised clinical
privileges." Id. at 56. For the complete list of regulations relating to the
medical staff's responsibilities, see id. at 53-73.




n73 " The medical staff develops and adopts bylaws and rules and regulations to
establish a framework for self-governance of medical staff activities and
accountability to the governing body." Id. at 58.




n74 " All its members have delineated clinical privileges that allow them to
provide patient care services independently within the scope of their clinical
privileges." Id. at 53.




n75 " Medical staff membership and delineated clinical privileges are granted by
the governing body, based on medical staff recommendations, in accordance with
the bylaws, rules and regulations, and policies of the medical staff and of the
hospital." Id.

    Although the guidelines allow factors such as geography of the applicant,
malpractice insurance coverage, and necessity of institutional resources to be
considered, JCAHO requires the medical staff to primarily focus on clinical
qualification. "The criteria are designed to assure the medical staff and
governing body that patients will receive quality care." Id. at 54. "The
criteria pertain to, at the least, evidence of current licensure, relevant
training and/or experience, current competence, and health status." Id. "Board
certification is an excellent benchmark and is considered when delineating
clinical privileges." Id. at 56.




n76 " Appointment or reappointment to the medical staff and the granting or
renewal/revision of clinical privileges are made for a period of not more than
two years." Id. at 56. These reviews require an evaluation of the physician's
"professional performance . . . judgment and . . . clinical and/or technical
skills . . . ." Id. at 55.




n77  For example, the federal government relies on JCAHO accreditation when
certifying hospitals to participate in the Medicare program. Jost, supra note
43, at 843. Furthermore, many states have included JCAHO accreditation decisions
into their programs for licensing hospitals. Id. at 844. Finally, some private
institutions, such as Blue Cross, have required JCAHO accreditation to
participate in their programs. Id. at 845.




n78  See STEVENS, supra note 9, at 248-49 (describing how JCAHO has provided the
framework for establishing hospital peer review procedures).




n79  See, e.g., CONN. GEN. STAT. ANN. section 19a-17b (a)(iv) (West Supp. 1993)
(declaring "medical review committee shall include . . . a committee of any
health care institution established pursuant to written bylaws . . . engaging in
peer review, to gather and review information relating to the care and treatment
of patients . . . ."); HAW. REV. STAT. section 624-25.5(a)(2) (1993) (function
of the peer review committee is "to maintain the professional standards
established by the bylaws of the society, hospital, or clinic of the persons
engaged in its . . . hospital or clinic"); OR. REV. STAT. section 441.055(4)(e)
(1991) ("The bylaws shall include . . . procedures for insuring that the
facility's procedures for granting, restricting and terminating privileges are
followed . . . .").




n80 " Each applicant for medical staff membership is oriented to these bylaws,
rules and regulations, and policies and agrees in writing that his/her
activities as a member of the medical staff will be bound by them." JCAHO
MANUAL, supra note 2, at 53. "Neither body [the medical staff nor the governing
board] may unilaterally amend the medical staff bylaws." Id. at 58.




n81  See Lang, supra note 11, at 28 ("The credentialing process, as performed by
the medical staff, ensures the training and competence of the practitioners on
the medical staff.").




n82  For example, issuing privileges to a physician who has a more profitable
patientmix, or who does not have privileges in any competing hospital, or whose
costs are lower so as to make more money for the hospital -- may occur
regardless of how competent the physician is. With economic credentialing, a
top-quality, competent physician may be denied privileges simply for not
bringing in as much money for the hospital as other physicians.




n83  See Jay Greene, System Pioneers Credentialing, MODERN HEALTHCARE, Apr. 29,
1991, at 32, 32 (discussing the policies of two hospitals that review physicians
solely on economic factors and tie that review to the credentialing decision).




n84  Lang, supra note 11, at 28. A similar, but distinctly different practice is
used by some hospitals that monitor physicians' practice patterns to pinpoint
inefficient uses of resources. Greene, supra note 11, at 30. This practice,
known as "Utilization Review (UR), is a cost containment effort and quality
assurance strategy implemented . . . to ensure that the services provided are
both necessary and cost-efficient." Cheralyn E. Schessler, Liability
Implications of Utilization Review as a Cost Containment Mechanism, 8 J.
CONTEMP. HEALTH L. & POL'Y 379, 380 (1992). See also Lang, supra note 11, at 28
("Utilization review seeks to avoid the provision of unnecessary services based
on quality considerations, including services provided without good cause when
less expensive alternatives would suffice as determined by professional
judgment."). Such programs are used in hospitals to reduce expenses while
improving the quality of care. Greene, supra note 11, at 30.

    The distinct difference between UR and economic credentialing is that UR is
a quality issue -- not an economic issue. Id. "Overutilization, underutilization
and inappropriate utilization do not represent good-quality care . . . ." Id.
Furthermore, UR is not attached to the credentialing and decredentialing of
physicians. Id. However, in one instance economic credentialing is directly tied
to the credentialing and decredentialing of physicians and is not related to
quality of care issues. Koska, supra note 11, at 42. Physicians are not worried
about the use of economic criteria that may flag quality problems; they are
concerned about economic criteria -- unrelated to quality -- being used in
privileging decisions. Id. at 46.




n85  David M. Frankford, The Complexity of Medicare's Hospital Reimbursement
System: Paradoxes of Averaging, 78 IOWA L. REV. 517, 572 (1993).




n86  Id.




n87  Fred Bayles & Daniel Q. Haney, Doctors Feel Pressure to Keep Their
Hospitals Financially Healthy, L.A. TIMES, Nov. 4, 1990, at 26. For example: a
patient is admitted with chest pains which the physician thinks it is a heart
condition. The physician runs a series of tests and x-rays and concludes it was
only indigestion. The tests and x-rays were costly to the hospital. With the DRG
system, the hospital will only receive one payment -the payment for treating
indigestion. Even though the hospital incurred more expenses in the actual
treatment, it still receives the one amount. Therefore, by minimizing expenses,
the hospital would be able to make a larger profit from each DRG payment.




n88  See id. at 26 ("DRGs encourage the hospital to keep their costs down, and
yet the physician controls what the hospital bill will be.").




n89  See Schessler, supra note 84, at 379 (stating part of the increase in
health care costs is due to the retrospective nature of physician reimbursement
and the practice of defensive medicine to avoid malpractice litigation).




n90  See E. Haavi Morreim, Cost Containment and the Standard of Medical Care, 75
CAL. L. REV. 1719, 1720 (1987) ("Thus insulated from the economic costs of their
decisions and inspired by the societal value that each patient should receive
the best health care available, physicians and other providers have had powerful
incentives to deliver all indicated care, and virtually no incentives to hold
back.").




n91  Green, supra note 83, at 32. Hospitals who have implemented such programs
do not hide the fact that this is strictly an economic plan for the hospital.
They believe it is within the "fiduciary responsibility of the board to make
sure doctors don't bankrupt the hospital." Id. In one situation, a physician was
offered $ 1.2 million to practice at a hospital based on his profitability to
the hospital -- not his quality of care or competence. See Steve Sternberg,
Doctor's Hospital Pact Sparks Federal Inquiry: Kennestone Deal Worth $ 1.2
Million, THE ATLANTA CONSTITUTION, Nov. 19, 1992, at 1.




n92  No. 91-589 (Cir. Ct. Leon County, Fla. filed June 22, 1992).




n93  TMRMC is a 771-bed private, not-for-profit hospital. Howard Larkin, Judge
Upholds Hospital's 'Economic Credentialing,' AM. MED. NEWS, June 29, 1992, at 5.




n94  TCH is a 180-bed private, not-for-profit hospital. Id.




n95  Id. (stating that running a unit at one hospital makes the doctor a
business liability at another hospital).




n96  Id. (the administrator of TMRMC admitted that Dr. Rosenblum's
qualifications as a surgeon were not an issue in making credentialing
decisions).




n97  TMRMC said that it denied Dr. Rosenbaum cardiac privileges in order to
protect their cardiac program, since Dr. Rosenblum appeared in advertisements
for TCH, might refer uninsured patients to TMRMC, and might recruit nurses from
TMRMC's cardiac program. Id. The court upheld the economic credentialing
decision based on an interpretation of the Florida statute which said "such
other elements" may be use in the credentialing process. Id. Rosenblum's
attorney argued that "the hospital seized on ambiguous language in the law . . .
and used it to write a blank check for economic credentialing." Id. Although Dr.
Rosenblum planned to appeal the decision, the case will not be appealed because
he has since been granted cardiac privileges at TMRMC and maintains privileges
at both hospitals. No Appeal in Economic Credentialing Lawsuit, MANAGED CARE LAW
OUTLOOK, Nov. 24, 1992, at 11, 11.




n98  This refers to the proportions of a physician's patients who are private
paying, public paying (Medicare & Medicaid), and charity work. For example, a
patient mix that is mostly Medicaid patients would be less profitable because of
its low reimbursement rates. See Joan Beck, The Numbers Don't Add Up In
Clinton's Health Care Package, CHI. TRIB., Sept. 16, 1993, at N25.




n99  Greene, supra note 11, at 30.




n100  See Lisa Colosi, Wilder v. Virginia Hospital Association: Making the
Medicaid Reimbursement Rate Challenge a Federal Case, 12 PACE L. REV. 139, 146
(1992) ("Health care providers nationwide are experiencing financial troubles as
a result of inadequate reimbursement rates by state Medicaid agencies.").




n101  See e.g., Sternberg, supra note 91, at A17 (noting that a "hospital
administrator will not look kindly on an obstetrician who has a largely Medicaid
practice . . . .").




n102  Koska, supra note 11, at 46.




n103  When a hospital decides which physician to court and which to abandon
based only on prospective revenue generations for the hospital, the hospital is
using economic credentialing. Since a physician's patient mix directly
corresponds to the generation of hospital revenue, a decision based on revenue
generated is essentially a decision based on patient mix. See, generally,
Sternberg, supra note 91.




n104  A recent national survey, by professor John Blum of Loyola University,
shows "that most hospitals use economic criteria when reviewing physicians for
medical privileges." Jay Greene, Economics Widely Used in Reviewing Doctors,
MODERN HEALTHCARE, Nov. 16, 1992, at 10, 10. This survey is part of an ongoing
study that is attempting to define the credentialing process and determine how
hospitals use credentialing as a disciplinary tool. Id.




n105  See, e.g., Proposed Changes in Bylaws Upset Hospital's Medical Staff,
MODERN HEALTHCARE, Aug. 10, 1992 at 18, 18 ("Dennis Cavanaugh, M.D., a
43-year-old surgeon, said he won't practice at Huron Regional because 'the
hospital is going in a direction I cannot go.' ").




n106  See, e.g., This Week in Healthcare: For The Record, MODERN HEALTHCARE,
October 19, 1992, at 14 (stating that the Medical Society of the State of New
York and the California Medical Association have both issued formal policies
opposing economic credentialing).




n107  Larry Reibstein & Mary Hager, Physicians Cut Their Costs: Hospitals Get
Tough -- But How Far Should They Go?, NEWSWEEK, Dec. 23, 1991 at 41.




n108  Id. (reviewing the battle between hospitals and doctors over economic
credentialing and its consequences).




n109  See Berman v. Valley Hosp., 510 A.2d 673, 677 (N.J. 1986) ("Nevertheless,
because its exercise implicates the public welfare, as well as individual
interests, this kind of managerial discretion is not unbounded.").




n110  See Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 671 (N.J. 1986)
(stating that a hospital decision "predicated upon exclusionary policies
fostering only the well-being of those staff members who are already admitted
[to the hospital staff] . . . must be invalidated").




n111  See, e.g., Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 192 A.2d 817, 825 (N.J. Sup. Ct.
1963) ("Hospital officials . . . must never lose sight of the fact that the
hospitals are operated not for private ends but for the benefit of the public .
. . ."); Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533, 538 (N.J. 1984) ("No matter what
arrangement a hospital may have with doctors, its primary purpose remains to
serve the public."); Doe v. Bridgeton Hosp. Ass'n, 366 A.2d 641, 646 (N.J.
1976), cert. denied, 433 U.S. 914 (1977) (stating that reasonable hospital
decisions should be respected as long as they are consistent with the public
interest); Berman, 510 A.2d at 676 ("[The hospital's] health care powers are
deeply impressed with a public interest." (quoting Desai, 510 A.2d at 668)).




n112  See Desai, 510 A.2d at 665 (recognizing that the concern for the public
interest is significant in determining the reasonableness of hospital
decisions).




n113  255 Cal. Rptr. 806 (Cal. Ct. App. 1989).




n114  Id. at 810-11 (agreeing with the trial court's attachment of "great
importance to the public policy considerations involved, the societal, public
interest in the best possible medical care").




n115  Id. at 810.




n116  510 A.2d 662 (N.J. 1986).




n117  Id. at 664.




n118  Id. at 664 & n.1.




n119  Id. at 668. Public health objectives include patient's needs, a reasonable
opportunity to select physicians, and adequate access to hospital facilities.
Id.




n120  Id. at 671-72. The court stated that this exception not only discriminated
against physicians, it also limited access of health care to the patients.  Id.
at 670. See also Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 192 A.2d 817, 820 (N.J. Sup. Ct.
1963) (concluding that a hospital's policy which restricted a patient's ability
to select the desired physician-hospital combination was not acting reasonably
for the public good).




n121  Id. at 825.




n122  Id.




n123  See, e.g., Berman v. Valley Hosp., 510 A.2d 673, 676 (N.J. 1986) ("In
determining the validity of a managerial decision made by a hospital, courts
understand that the major concern is whether the public interest in health care
is reasonably and rationally advanced by the hospital's decision.").




n124  In Berman, the New Jersey Supreme Court stated that the reasonableness of
a hospital's physician credentialing policy will be reviewed by "considering the
nature and adequacy of the information that has been advanced in its support"
because such a policy "implicates the public welfare." Id. at 677. The court
further explained that "a hospital decision of this character will be viewed
favorably if it is reached in the normal and regular course of conducting the
affairs of the hospital, and is based on adequate information, regardless of
form, origin, or authorship, that is generally considered reasonable and
reliable by professional persons responsibly involved in the health care field."
Id. (quoting Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 669 (N.J. 1986)).




n125  Id. at 677. In Berman, the health care objective was reducing and
controlling hospital overcrowding and excessive patient-bed occupancy. Id. The
court stated that the evidence did not demonstrate that the hospital's
credentialing policy sufficiently related to that health care objective.  Id. at
680.




n126  Id. at 680. The court went on to say that it expected the plaintiffs to be
granted full staff privileges, absent any valid grounds for denial. Id.




n127  Id.




n128  Lang, supra note 11, at 28.




n129  See supra notes 92-97 and accompanying text. For instance, an emergency
room surgeon on duty decided that his emergency room would be overwhelmed by
attempting to care for all the victims of a car wreck. Bayles & Haney, supra
note 87, at 26. He ordered the ambulances to take the victims to three other
hospitals, aside from his own, so they would receive care more quickly; however,
since less victims were treated at his hospital the result was less business for
the hospital. Id. The hospital told him never to do that again. Id. See also id.
(keeping hospital costs down may require patients to be treated in a
non-individualized manner); Sternberg, supra note 91, at A17 (in which a
hospital attempted to jettison the chief of the pulmonary department -- who
netted the hospital less revenue -- in order to recruit a physician who later
became one of the hospital's "Top Five revenue generators").




n130  See supra notes 98-103 and accompanying text.




n131  See Greene, supra note 11, at 30 ("Economic credentialing can lead to poor
patient care by limiting services, reducing access to care and interfering with
the physicianpatient relationship.").




n132  See Desai v. St. Barnabus Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 666 (N.J. 1986) ("In
determining that the hospital's actions were not exercised reasonably for the
public good, the Court emphasized that the hospital's policy restricted the
patient's ability to select the desired doctor-hospital combination. (citing
Geisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 192 A.2d 817 (N.J. 1963)).




n133  See supra notes 113-115 and accompanying text.




n134  See supra notes 55-65 and accompanying text.




n135  See supra notes 55-65 and accompanying text.




n136  Scott, supra note 58, at 331 n.62.




n137  This public health care objective arises from Congress' intent under HCQIA
to encourage good-faith peer review in order to rid hospitals of incompetent
physicians. See supra notes 55-65 and accompanying text.




n138  See supra notes 85-91 and accompanying text.




n139  See supra notes 85-91 and accompanying text.




n140  See Reibstein & Hager, supra note 107, at 41 (noting that some doctors
fear that economic credentialing will lead to lack of health care for the
elderly and indigent).




n141  For example, the extra test may reveal an unforeseen problem. This test,
therefore, enhances the quality of care provided while eliminating any
malpractice suits.




n142  See Schessler, supra note 84, at 381 (stating that the current rise in
health care costs is in part due to an increase in malpractice liability).




n143  Berman v. Valley Hosp., 510 A.2d 673, 677 (N.J. 1986).




n144  See supra notes 111-26 and accompanying text.




n145  See supra note 79 and accompanying text.




n146  Blum, supra note 16, at 438.




n147  See, e.g., Miller v. Indian Hosp., 419 A.2d 1191, 1193 (Pa. Super. Ct.
1980) (hospital bylaws are binding contracts between a health care provider and
the hospital); Bhatnagar v. Mid-Maine Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 233, 234 (Me. 1986)
(stating that hospital bylaws "constitute an enforceable contract between [the
physician] and [the hospital]").




n148  408 N.E.2d 981 (Ill. App. 1980).




n149  Id. at 984 (quoting Jain v. Northwest Community Hosp., 385 N.E.2d 108, 112
(Ill. App. 1978)).




n150  No. 88-311- II, 1989 WL 134739 (Tenn. App. Nov. 8, 1989), rev'd in part on
other grounds, Lewisburg Community Hosp. v. Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn.
1991).




n151  Id. at 7 (citing Pariser v. Christian Health Care Sys., Inc., 816 F.2d
1248, 1251 (8th Cir. 1987); Adler v. Montefiore Hosp. Ass'n, 311 A.2d 634, 645
(Pa. 1973), cert. denied, 411 U.S. 1131 (1974)).




n152  See Balkissoon v. Capitol Hill Hosp., 558 A.2d 304, 308 (App. D.C. 1989)
("The Hospital's obligation to follow its bylaws does not arise only from a
contractual relationship with [the physician] . . . the public has a substantial
interest . . . ."). In Balkissoon, the court decided that the hospital was
obligated to follow its bylaws due to the public's interest in effectively
operated hospitals. Id. The court believed that the public had an interest in
seeing that hospitals follow their bylaws and do not act arbitrarily: "Thus,
while sharing the interest of hospitals that only qualified doctors be given
staff privileges, the public also has an interest in assuring that staff
decisions are not made arbitrarily. A hospital's failure to comply with material
procedures delineated in its bylaws is inherently arbitrary." Id.




n153  See supra notes 2, 80 and accompanying text.




n154  See supra notes 33-43 and accompanying text.




n155  Lang, supra note 11, at 28.




n156  See supra notes 88-91 and accompanying text (focusing on physicians'
disincentive to hold back on health care).




n157  See Greene, supra note 11 at 30. This is because these phrases commonly
are written to add to quality and competency factors already required in the
credentialing decision. For example: "Physicians will be reviewed on quality and
competency criteria and any other relevant factors," the "and" implies "in
addition to" -- still not allowing economic credentialing. If the bylaws read:
"quality and competency criteria or economic criteria," the "or" would imply the
ability to use exclusively economic criteria.




n158  See Greene, supra note 11 (discussing the differences between utilization
review and economic credentialing).




n159  Blumstein & Sloan, supra note 31, at 39 & n.222.




n160  Scott, supra note 58, at 332.




n161  See Scott, supra note 58, at 335 ("This sentiment is perhaps founded on a
lurking judicial suspicion that many, if not most, such cases are illegitimate .
. . ."); Blumstein & Sloan, supra note 31, at 37 ("As plaintiffs have sought to
have antitrust doctrine applied to hospital peer-review activity, it has become
clear that courts have, in general, been very wary of what they perceive to be a
questionable, if not illicit, relationship.").




n162  Scott, supra note 58, at 336. See, e.g., Patrick v. Burget, 486 U.S. 94
(1988), reh'g denied, 487 U.S. 1243 (1988) (holding that the medical staff
violated sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act by participating in peer reviews in
order to reduce competition); Oltz v. St. Peter's Community Hosp., 861 F.2d 1440
(9th Cir. 1988) (finding that a nurse was harmed by conspiracy of anesthesia
service providers that was designed to eliminate competition).




n163  Section 1 states:

    Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or
conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States, or with
foreign nations, is declared to be illegal. Every person who shall make any
contract or engage in any combination or conspiracy hereby declared to be
illegal shall be deemed guilty of a felony, and, on conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine not exceeding $ 10,000,000 if a corporation, or, if any other
person, $ 350,000, or by imprisonment not exceeding three years, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court.

    15 U.S.C.S. section 1 (Law. Co-op. 1994).




n164  Id. Section 1 does not apply to independent action. "An economic entity
'generally has a right to deal, or refuse to deal, with whomever it likes, as
long as it does so independently.' " Blumstein & Sloan, supra note 31, at 25
(quoting Monsanto Co. v. Spray-Rite Serv. Corp, 465 U.S. 752, 761 (1984)).




n165  Blumstein & Sloan, supra note 31, at 25. See also Scott, supra note 58, at
336 ("The denial or termination of medical staff privileges necessarily has the
effect of eliminating a competitor and thus . . . raises antitrust concerns.").




n166  See McLain v. Real Estate Bd., 444 U.S. 232, 242 (1980).




n167  Blumstein & Sloan, supra note 31, at 25 n.85 (citing McLain v. Real Estate
Bd., 444 U.S. 232, 241 (1980)).




n168  McLain, 444 U.S. at 242.




n169  111 S. Ct. 1842 (1991).




n170  Id. at 1844.




n171  Id.




n172  Id. at 1847.




n173  Id. at 1849. The Court stated that although only one physician was
excluded, there was still federal jurisdiction:

    Because the essence of any violation of section 1 is the illegal agreement
itself -rather than the overt acts performed in furtherance of it -- proper
analysis focuses, not upon actual consequences, but rather upon the potential
harm that would ensue if the conspiracy were successful . . . . Thus, respondent
need not allege, or prove, an actual effect on interstate commerce to support
federal jurisdiction.

    Id. at 1847-48.




n174  See Gale T. Miller, Antitrust Developments in 1990-91: U.S. Supreme Court
Decisions, 21 COLO. LAW. 235 (1992) ("The U.S. Supreme Court's decision [in
Pinhas] . . . makes it difficult to envision many health care cases that could
not be reached by the federal antitrust laws."); Diane Ruder, Antitrust and the
Credentialing and Decredentialing of Physicians, 19 N. KY. L. REV. 351, 353
(1992) (after Pinhas, "the common disputes over denial of hospital staff
privileges have become issues with a federal forum"); Einer Elhauge, Making
Sense of Antitrust Petitioning Immunity, 80 CAL. L. REV. 1177, 1196 n.105 (1992)
(stating that "because the interstate commerce requirement is so weak, as a
practical matter it excludes very few restraints").




n175  See Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp., 467 U.S. 752, 768 (1984)
(holding that, in order to find a section 1 violation, there must be concerted
activity).




n176  Id. at 770-71.




n177  745 F.2d 786, 816 (3d Cir. 1984) (holding that "a single entity made up of
independent competing economic entities satisfies the joint action requirement
of Sherman Act Section 1").




n178  Id. at 815.




n179  Id. at 816.




n180  See, e.g., Oksanen v. Page Memorial Hosp., 945 F.2d 696, 706 (4th Cir.
1991) ("When these actors [the physicians of the medical staff] join together to
take action among themselves, they are unlike a single entity and therefore they
have the capacity to conspire as a matter of law.").




n181  Id. at 708.




n182  See Northwest Wholesale Stationers, Inc. v. Pacific Stationery & Printing,
Co., 472 U.S. 284, 289 (1985) (stating that, although the "decision of the
cooperative members to expel Pacific was certainly a restraint of trade in the
sense that every commercial agreement restrains trade . . . , whether this
action violates section 1 of the Sherman Act depends on whether it is adjudged
an unreasonable restraint.").




n183  Oksanen, 945 F.2d at 708.




n184  Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. United States, 356 U.S. 1, 5 (1958).




n185  Oltz v. St. Peter's Community Hosp., 861 F.2d 1440, 1445 & n.1. (9th Cir.
1988) (examples of such agreements are boycotts, concerted refusals to deal and
price fixing).




n186  Blumstein & Sloan, supra note 31, at 54. See, e.g., FTC v. Indiana Fed'n
of Dentists, 476 U.S. 447, 458 (1986) ("Although this Court has in the past
stated that group boycotts are unlawful per se . . . the category of restraints
classed as group boycotts is not to be expanded indiscriminately, and the per se
approach has generally been limited . . . ."); Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No.
2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 9-14 (1984) (holding that, although tying arrangements
were traditionally deemed per se illegal, they are only per se illegal if the
seller has the ability "to force a purchaser to do something that he would not
do in a competitive market").




n187  Indiana Fed'n of Dentists, 476 U.S. at 458.




n188  Id. (quoting Chicago Bd. of Trade v. United States, 246 U.S. 231, 238
(1918)).




n189  National Soc'y of Professional Eng'rs v. United States, 435 U.S. 679, 692
(1978).




n190  Davis-Watkins Co. v. Service Merchandise, 686 F.2d 1190, 1195 (6th Cir.
1982), cert. denied, 466 U.S. 931 (1984). Commodities that are reasonably
interchangeable by consumers for the same purposes are considered within the
relevant product.  United States v. Du Pont, 351 U.S. 377, 395 (1956). The area
in which a potential buyer rationally may look for the goods and services he
seeks is considered within the relevant geographical area.  United States v.
Grinnell Corp., 384 U.S. 563, 570-71 (1966).




n191  Peter M. Gerhart, The Supreme Court and Antitrust Analysis: The (Near)
Triumph of the Chicago School, in THE SUPREME COURT REVIEW 319, 322 (Philip B.
Kurland et al. eds., 1982).




n192  Id.




n193  Peer reviews hardly can be seen as inherently anticompetitive in and of
themselves as they are mandated by JCAHO, hospital bylaws, state statutes and
protected by the HCQIA to further quality and competence concerns. See supra
notes 47-80 and accompanying text.




n194  Gerhart, supra note 191, at 322 (citing Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U.S. 1 (1911)).




n195  Courts have applied such an analysis to challenges of peer review
decisions. See Oksanen v. Page Memorial Hosp., 945 F.2d 696, 708-09 (4th Cir.
1991) (where the court used the rule of reason approach to evaluate a
physician's section 1 claim against the medical staff for revoking his
privileges).




n196  If the peer review decision has legitimate procompetitive value, it will
not be considered an antitrust violation. See Health Care Lawyers Probe
Antitrust Law Developments, 58 ANTITRUST AND TRADE REGULATION REPORT, Feb. 22,
1990, at 268 (including the following procompetitive reasons: inadequate skill,
experience, failure to carry malpractice insurance, disruptive personality and
unwillingness to take staff member responsibilities). Furthermore, the peer
review may be immune from antitrust litigation. See infra notes 205-14 and
accompanying text.




n197  See supra note 162.




n198  486 U.S. 94 (1988).




n199  Id. at 96-98.




n200  Id. at 95.




n201  Id. at 96.




n202  Id.




n203  Id. at 97.




n204  A similar finding occurred in Oltz v. St. Peter's Community Hosp., 861
F.2d 1440 (9th Cir. 1988). In Oltz, a nurse anesthetist was terminated following
an exclusive staff agreement between the hospital and the anesthesiologists.
Id. at 1443. Oltz sued the hospital and anesthesiologists for antitrust
violations.  Id. at 1444. On appeal, the hospital argued that there was no
injury to competition because the lower court improperly defined the relevant
market.  Id. at 1445. However, the Ninth Circuit determined that it was
"inescapable" to find that the one-hospital town was the relevant market for
finding antitrust injury.  Id. at 1446-47.




n205  The state-action doctrine, also known as the Parker defense, arose out of
the Supreme Court case Parker v. Brown, 317 U.S. 341 (1943). The Court held that
the Sherman Act did not intend "to restrain state action or official action
directed by a state." Id. at 351. This rationale subsequently was applied to
private parties whose challenged restraint was "clearly articulated as state
policy" and must be "actively supervised by the State itself." Patrick v.
Burget, 486 U.S. 94, 100 (1988).




n206  Patrick, 486 U.S. at 105.




n207  Id.




n208  Id. at 105-06.




n209  42 U.S.C. sections 11111-11115 (1988). The immunity is only from damages
in an antitrust suit. Id. at section 11111(a)(1) The immunity does not apply to
a suit for injunctive relief. See Scott, supra note 58, at 323 n.24, 332 n.69.




n210  Scott, supra note 58, at 321. See also id. at 330 (stating that "examples
of abuse of the peer review process include adverse peer review decisions made,
not because of any incompetence or misconduct on the physicians' part, but
because of their race or origin or the race or origin of their patients; because
the physicians served poor, uninsured, or underinsured patients; because they
posed an economic threat to other physicians; because of some other 'turf
battle' among medical specialists; or because they blew the whistle on other
colleagues who were incompetent.").




n211  42 U.S.C. section 11151(9) (1988).




n212  Id. at section11151(9)(A)-(D).




n213  Id. at section 11151(9)(E).




n214  Scott, supra note 58, at 318. See also H.R. REP. NO. 903, 99th Cong., 2d
Sess. (1986) (a favorable report by Mr. Dingel submitted to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce concerning H.R. 5540, 99th Cong., 2d Sess. (1986) which
sought to encourage physician peer review).




n215  This is assuming the physician could prove that a conspiracy existed.
Economic criteria will not make this part of the analysis any stronger, it only
strengthens the unreasonableness of the restraint.




n216  Scott, supra note 58, at 330 & n.55-60.




n217  Id. at 318.




n218  If the economic criteria were evidence of some quality concern, this would
be a legitimate use of the peer review process. See supra note 84 (discussing
utilization review).




n219  See supra notes 169-74 and accompanying text.




n220  See supra notes 175-80 and accompanying text.




n221  See supra note 204 and accompanying text.




n222  Courts have held that peer review itself can be viewed as pro-competitive.
See, e.g., Marin v. Citizens Memorial Hosp., 700 F. Supp. 354, 361 (S.D Tex.
1988) ("restricting staff privileges to doctors who maintain a basic level of
medical competency is ultimately pro-competitive not anti-competitive"); Quinn
v. Kent Gen. Hosp., 617 F. Supp. 1226, 1239 (D.C. Del. 1985) ("Peer review
process is arguably pro-competitive, for by monitoring the qualifications and
performance of physicians it may compensate for the relative lack of information
about these matters by consumers."). These cases illustrate that where peer
review is used to promote quality of care concerns, it will be considered
pro-competitive. Therefore, by excluding quality concerns and focusing solely on
economic criteria, the pro-competitive value noted by these courts arguably is
lost.




n223  National Soc'y of Professional Eng'rs v. United States, 435 U.S. 679, 692
(1978).




n224  Economic credentialing is not necessarily anticompetitive in every
instance. If that were the case, it would be possible to consider economic
credentialing as being inherently anticompetitive and a per se violation.
However, since it may be possible that economic credentialing may occur while
not being anticompetitive, the sole use of economic criteria in the peer review
process should provide additional support to an existing claim of an antitrust
violation.


                              54 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                           November 19, 2004, Friday

U.S. medical schools eye hospital in Incheon; University of Pennsylvania is
mostly likely candidate after signing MOU with government in May

BYLINE: By Sim Sung-tae

LENGTH: 567 words



The government is negotiating with the medical schools of four U.S. universities
to build one or two hospitals in the free economic zone in Incheon, a senior
government official said yesterday.

"We expect to open one or two foreign hospitals in the Incheon special zone in
2008 and many more in the three free economic zones by 2020," said Cho Sung-ik,
head of the Free Economic Zone Planning Team, a government agency working on
establishing zones.

Of the four, the University of Pennsylvania is the mostly likely candidate as it
signed a memorandum of understanding with the government in May to open a
500-bed hospital in the zone in 2008.

The other three, including Johns Hopkins University, Harvard University and
Columbia University, are also interested in a deal but have not made any
commitment, Cho said.

In the special zones, foreign doctors and pharmacists can work without obtaining
a local working license, he added.

The government also scrapped its plan to set a minimum foreign investment to
build a hospital in the nation's three free economic zones. It had considered a
50-percent requirement by foreigners to receive various tax and other benefits
in the special economic zones.

"We decided to set no such a limit on the foreign stake ownership. The basic
idea is to allow any foreign investor or company to build a hospital in the
zones," the official said.

The Ministry of Health and Welfare, however, will prepare the qualifications to
set up a foreign hospital in the zones, he added.

Cho also said the government is contacting several foreign theme parks to build
a theme park in the free economic zones, refusing to provide further details.

The Cabinet decided Monday to allow Koreans to use the foreign-invested
hospitals envisioned for the free economic zones. But foreigners-only pharmacies
operating in the zones will not be allowed to sell medicine to locals.

The government plans to soon submit the finalized bill to the Assembly to have
it approved by the end of this year, Cho said.

According to a recent poll, 80.7 percent of the general public said locals
should be allowed to use the foreign hospitals in the free economic zones. The
survey, jointly conducted by Korea Gallup and Kyung Hee University's medical
research center, also showed 68.6 percent of the general public want foreign
hospitals to be built in the zones.

The foreign hospitals issue has been a source of contention between the
government, which supports the move, and those in the medical profession and
civic groups who oppose the idea. The government says that over the long term,
bringing in foreign hospitals could help improve the quality of medical care in
Korea. However, many medical groups and civil organizations say it is unfair to
provide the proposed benefits only to foreign hospitals.

Korea is developing free economic zones in three port cities - Incheon, Busan
and Gwangyang - in the hope that they will become hubs of business, finance and
logistics for Northeast Asia.

In these special zones, foreign-invested companies and their employees are to
enjoy exceptional benefits and incentives compared with the rest of the country,
including tax breaks, expanded foreign-exchange circulation, language services,
labor flexibility, relaxation of greater-Seoul restrictions, and establishment
of foreign education and medical centers.

(saintsim@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2004 The Korea Herald


                              55 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                  July 5, 2010

1 in 9 jobs supported by hospitals, AHA says

BYLINE: By Victoria Stagg Elliott, amednews staff. Posted July 5, 2010.

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 747 words



HIGHLIGHT: The American Hospital Assn. and state hospital groups are releasing
data as part of an effort to argue against cuts to Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursements.


Hospitals are quantifying how much they contribute to the economy -- and how
much they're being adversely affected by it -- to argue against cuts to the
various government programs that support them.

"While the primary function of hospitals is providing care for millions of
people, we are also providing an economic benefit to the community," said
Elizabeth Baskett, the American Hospital Assn.'s associate director of policy.

On June 21, the AHA released its "Economic Contribution of Hospitals" report.
The AHA said the health care sector, of which hospital care is the largest
component, added $2.3 trillion to the U.S. economy in 2008, or 16.2% of gross
domestic product. Hospitals accounted for $718 billion of that total; employed
more than 5.3 million people, including physicians; and spent about $320 billion
on goods and services from other industries, according to AHA data. The Bureau
of Labor Statistics puts hospital employment figures at 4.7 million nationally
as of May 2010.

Overall, hospitals support one in nine jobs in the U.S., according to the AHA
report, based on a multiplier established at 2.8 jobs for every hospital job
created. The calculation includes additional jobs in the community that are
aided by the purchasing power of hospitals and their employees.

Before the report's release, the AHA, along with the Assn. of American Medical
Colleges, the Catholic Health Assn. of the United States and the Federation of
American Hospitals, on June 18 sent a letter to the Senate expressing support
for action to fix the Medicare sustainable growth rate formula for physician
payment, but not at the expense of hospitals. The letter argued against
preventing hospitals from re-filing underpaid claims, because the Congressional
Budget Office has estimated a ban on re-filing would cost hospitals $4 billion.

The 2.2% Medicare pay increase for physicians through November, signed June 25
by President Obama, did not include removing the language that prevents
hospitals from re-filing claims.

Reports about the economic state of the hospital industry also are being issued
at the state level, although these studies are independent of each other and
from the national report from the AHA.

The Michigan Health & Hospital Assn. released a report in March in conjunction
with the Michigan State Medical Society and the Michigan Osteopathic Assn. that
found that 526,700 jobs in the state during the 2008 fiscal year were in the
health care setting. Another 388,200 were indirectly connected to the industry.
The report has been issued annually for the past five years.

"Hospitals are really an economic engine for the state at a time when we are in
desperate need of one," said Brian Peters, executive vice president of
operations for the Michigan hospital association. "And if there is legislation
that is detrimental to the health care sector, we may not only be jeopardizing
access to health care but jeopardizing the state's economic growth as well."

Another report, "Pennsylvania Hospitals Strengthen Pennsylvania's Economy,"
released in March by the Hospital & Healthsystem Assn. of Pennsylvania, found
that hospitals contributed $89.8 billion to the state's economy in 2008.
Approximately 596,000 people were employed in the industry.

"Hospitals are major employers that offer jobs with above-average salaries and
benefits," said Martin Ciccocioppo, vice president of research for the
Pennsylvania organization.

Experts suspect that, although the health sector has not been unscathed in the
recent recession, it will continue to grow. The growth, however, may be muted.
An AHA report, also released in June, documented the continuing impact of the
recent recession and cuts to various public programs. Approximately 67% of
hospitals executives surveyed in March and April of this year said their
institutions were caring for more people insured through Medicaid, CHIP or other
public programs. In addition, 74% of hospitals were experiencing reduced
operating margins. Approximately, 53% reduced staff, and 89% had yet to hire
workers back or increase hours that had been cut.

"The economy is turning around, and we see improvements in all different
sectors," the AHA's Baskett said. "But hospitals are still feeling the impact of
the recession."

Weblink

For the American Hospital Assn. June reports, "The Economic Contribution of
Hospitals," and "Hospitals Continue to Feel Lingering Effects of the Economic
Recession" (www.aha.org/aha/research-and-trends)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      East Valley Tribune (Mesa, Arizona)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 31, 2009 Saturday

Banner's Pinal hospital opening still a mystery

BYLINE: Amanda Keim, The Tribune, Mesa, Ariz.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 523 words


Oct. 31--Banner Health plans to announce a timeline for opening its new Ironwood
location by the end of the year.

Meanwhile, Queen Creek and Banner are continuing talks on annexing the hospital
into the town, which Town Manager John Kross hopes will happen by the time the
facility starts accepting patients.

Banner hoped to open the $128 million first phase of the Banner Ironwood Medical
Campus, located at Gantzel and Combs roads in Pinal County, this November. But
the company announced last year that opening date would be pushed out due to
economic conditions.

Banner had originally said the date would be delayed a year. On Friday, Banner
spokeswoman Susan Gordon said an exact date is still being determined.

"We'll be making an announcement before the end of the year," Gordon said. "We
will open. It's just a question of when."

Construction is pretty much complete at this point, although some more work will
have to be done to install equipment once an opening date is set, Gordon said.

The hospital met with town representatives this week, which was the first time
the two sides had talked in a while, Kross said.

But both groups say they're still working to annex the hospital into the town.

Banner Ironwood was built in unincorporated Pinal County in an area that was
recently named San Tan Valley. Queen Creek annexed land near the hospital site
last September, but has yet to annex the hospital itself.

Kross would like the hospital to open with a Queen Creek address, although
Gordon said the hospital's timeline probably isn't as strong for annexation.

Having the hospital in Queen Creek instead of a couple of miles outside of its
border will serve as a catalyst for economic development in the southeastern
part of town, Kross said.

"From an economic development standpoint, it's extremely important," Kross said.
"When our economic development department goes to market the town to businesses,
we can tell them we have a major hospital in Queen Creek."

Access to emergency services and infrastructure is the hospital's primary
benefit to annexation, Gordon said.

Impact for things like medical support offices are also lower in Queen Creek
than they are in unincorporated Pinal County.

There are a few more hurdles Queen Creek will have to jump before it can annex
the hospital.

For instance, since there's a shopping center between the hospital and town
limits, that shopping center will have to be annexed with the hospital, Kross
said.

Kross said talks with Barclay Group, the shopping center's management company,
are going well.

The person at Barclay Group with information on annexation talks wasn't
available Friday because the office was in the process of moving.

Contact writer: (480)898-6574 or akeim@evtrib.com

To see more of The Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.eastvalleytribune.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Tribune, Mesa, Ariz.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091031-MZ-Banner-s-Pinal-hospital-opening-still-a-mystery-1031

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MZ


                       Copyright 2009 East Valley Tribune


                              57 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                         June 24, 1993, Thursday, ZONE

Hospital plans benefit Whitby

BYLINE: By Sterling Taylor TORONTO STAR

SECTION: SCARBOROUGH/DURHAM; Pg. SD5

LENGTH: 409 words


   Whitby is off to a flying start in the economic recovery race, Mayor Tom
Edwards says.

The $133.5 million redevelopment of Whitby Psychiatric Hospital, announced by
the province last week, will put lots of people back to work and ensure Whitby's
future as a centre for mental health care, he said.

It's the kind of spending that assures the town of 64,000 that more than 1,300
permanent jobs will be created directly or indirectly - good news when 60 per
cent of the country's construction workers are unemployed, Edwards said.

More than 700 people will also be employed over the next three years in the
construction project, which begins this autumn.

Replacing the 80-year-old collection of run-down buildings with a 325-bed
hospital to serve a population of 1.8 million in the eastern Metro region is
only the first step in Whitby's plans to beat the recession, Edwards says.

Edwards has invited provincial Health Minister Ruth Grier to become involved
with the town in the promotion. The town's directors of planning and marketing
are already working on the plan.

There are other plans to tie the town's economy into the hospital, which is
scheduled to open by Christmas 1996, and the 62.3 hectares (155 acres) of
provincial land that surrounds it beside Lake Ontario.

A planned system of regional waterfront trails will run through the area and the
land could be developed into attractive green space, Edwards says.

Last week's provincial announcement ended more than 15 years of speculation and
government promises about the future of the hospital.

While plans to rebuild the facility have been around for more than a decade, the
project awaited government plans to integrate the mentally sick with the
community.

Closing it like a similar hospital in Etobicoke was always a possibility, Grier
said during her announcement last week of the government's plans to rebuild the
Whitby facility.

Meanwhile, the 55 brick and concrete buildings that were built to house wounded
and shell-shocked veterans after World War I continued to deteriorate.

Cost of maintenance reached $725,000 a year, Grier noted.

Her announcement also ended years' of concern by the more than 700 employees,
who care for 300 in-patients and 1,000 out-patients that now use the hospital.

Employees had been afraid for some years that the hospital would close, said
Lorna Frank, assistant administrator of hospital services.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: Tom Edwards: Mayor sees economic boon in hospital redevelopment

                  Copyright 1993 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              58 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Private hospitals may face closure

                                 June 25, 1998


A depreciating ringgit and the need for imported drugs are already forcing
private hospitals to close some wards

KUALA LUMPUR -Private hospitals have closed many of their wards as a result of
rising medical costs because of the depreciating ringgit.

These hospitals had been hit hard by rising operating costs because of the need
to import certain drugs and disposable supplies, the Sun reported yesterday.

The president of the Association of Private Hospitals of Malaysia, Dr Chakr Sri
Na Nagara, was quoted as saying that fewer people were seeking treatment at
private hospitals because of the effects of the economic crisis.

"If the situation does not recover, many private hospitals may be forced to
close," he said at the opening of the 1998 National Healthcare Conference and
Exhibition. The exhibition was opened by Deputy Health Minister Datuk Dr Siti
Zaharah Sulaiman.

Dr Chakr said 36 private hospitals, of which 21 are in the Klang Valley, were
due to open this year, but most of them had deferred their plans.

He also cited the attitude of some patients who had started patronising public
hospitals after the economic downturn as another reason for the poor response to
private hospitals.

"Although they can afford to go to private hospitals for treatment, they now
prefer public hospitals as they know it is free or they pay a minimal fee," he
said.

To overcome the problem, Dr Siti Zaharah urged private hospitals to introduce a
fee package for certain ailments according to the ranking of hospitals so that
patients knew which treatment they could afford.

She admitted that public hospitals were now overburdened due to the drastic
increase in the number of patients.

SECTION: Malaysia; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 285 words

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1998 The Straits Times Press Limited


                              59 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    Quay County Sun (Tucumcari, New Mexico)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           August 15, 2007 Wednesday

City representatives in favor of hospital tax

BYLINE: Chelle Delaney, Quay County Sun, Tucumcari, N.M.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 628 words


Aug. 15--Members of the city's economic development arm voted Monday to support
the Dan C. Trigg's efforts to pass a hospital tax.

Quay County's hospital is critical to its economic development efforts and
residents' quality of life, members agreed.

Director of the Greater Tucumcari Economic Development Corp., Patrick
Vanderpool, outlined several reasons for approval by the board of the GTED,
including:

--Dan C. Trigg Hospital is one of the county's largest employers.

--A hospital's presence is critical in a company's selection process for a site
to start-up or relocate a business.

--The hospital is a major component of a company providing employee benefits.

GTED's board unanimously agreed at its Monday meeting that the GTED should
support and ask local businesses to support the renewal of an existing tax which
is 1/8 of one percent and the introduction of a new tax, 1/2 of one percent.

The hospital's tax proposal comes up for a vote on Sept. 18 in the county.

Hospital administrator Matt Posinski solicited the GTED's support. Posinski said
the funds generated from the two taxes are needed to:

--Purchase and install a fire suppression system to meet fire code requirements

--Repair the hospital's roof which is estimated to cost about $650,000

--Purchase of equipment for digital X-ray and similar images and an electronic
medical record keeping system so that these types of images and information can
be easily transmitted or accessed over the Internet to specialists or other
medical institutions.

--Development of a physicians center so that the hospital can recruit additional
physicians.

Hospital board member C.J. Wiegel said the county isn't able to support the
hospital.

However, the tax would come from many of the people who pass through Tucumcari,
and benefit from the hospital's care. For example, 19 percent of the people
treated in Trigg's Emergency annually are not residents of Quay County, Wiegel
said.

And, even though the hospital has sought help from the state Legislature, it has
not been that successful.

GTED member Will Cantrell suggested that the if the tax were passed that the
community and hospital would be demonstrating their support of the hospital,
which, in turn, could garner support from state legislators.

"Without it, economic development is not there," said Quay County manager and
GTED member Richard Primrose.

If a person spent $10,000 annually, the new 1/2 of one percent tax, would
generate $50, or if they spent half that amount, it would generate $25 per year,
Posinski said.

Other business before the GTED:

--David Buchen, director of the city's MainStreet organization, said the group
is working to complete its tax-exempt application, preparing applications to
seek grants to fund a downtown master plan and planning a downtown community
activity on Oct. 13, the first Six Shooter Siding Festival.

--Legal documents transferring title of land from the city, to the GTED to the
Mark Whetten and Tony Gabel have been signed.

--The GTED has responded to three leads from the stat's Economic Development
Partnership that cover businesses involved in power generation equipment,
plastic molding and medical transcription.

--An application for master planning, engineering and infrastructure
construction at the Tucumcari Industrial Park is to be submitted to the state's
Economic Development's Capital Fund.

To see more of The Quay County Sun or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.qcsunonline.com/. Copyright (c) 2007, Quay County Sun, Tucumcari,
N.M. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070815-QY-City-representatives-in-favor-of-hospital-tax-0815

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QY


                         Copyright 2007 Quay County Sun


                              60 of 994 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 1994 University of Maine School of Law
                                Maine Law Review

                                  Winter, 1994

                               46 Me. L. Rev. 67

LENGTH: 8894 words

TERMINATION OF HOSPITAL MEDICAL STAFF PRIVILEGES FOR ECONOMIC REASONS: AN APPEAL
FOR CONSISTENCY

NAME:  June D. Zellers * and Michael R. Poulin **

BIO:



   * Director, Skelton, Taintor & Abbott; B.A. Univ. of Southern Maine (1982);
J.D. Univ. of Maine School of Law (1986).


   ** Director, Skelton, Taintor & Abbott; B.S. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
(1973); J.D. Univ. of Maine School of Law (1982).

 TEXT:
 [*67]

    I. INTRODUCTION

    The relationship between physicians and hospitals is undergoing significant
change. Historically, a physician maintained a private practice in the community
and looked to the local hospital for ancillary support when his or her patients
were too ill to remain at home. This community-based physician gained access to
the hospital by obtaining medical staff privileges. These privileges allowed the
physician to admit patients to the hospital, treat patients while they were
there, and use the hospital's staff and equipment. The physician generally
enjoyed the use of the privileges throughout his or her active career, losing
them only if found incompetent. Today, not all physicians maintain a
community-based practice. Instead, many are employed by hospitals to staff
various departments. Others enter into exclusive contracts, either individually
or as part of a practice group, to provide certain services for hospitals.

    Although these "hospital-based" physicians have a different economic
relationship with the hospital than traditional communitybased physicians, they
usually have similar medical staff privileges. Unlike community-based
physicians, however, they may not enjoy the use of their privileges throughout
their active careers. Instead, these physicians face the actual or constructive
termination  n1 of their privileges whenever their contractual relationship with
the hospital changes.

    Physicians who lose or cannot use their privileges for this reason are suing
hospitals with increasing frequency. The case law, however, has failed for the
most part to articulate the legal principles that govern these controversies.

    This Article analyzes those cases arising from the loss of medical staff
privileges in private hospitals due to changes in the contractual relationship
between the hospital and the physician. It does not in  [*68]  clude cases
arising from the loss of privileges for incompetence or other disciplinary
reasons or cases decided on antitrust grounds.  n2

    The Article identifies four kinds of economic relationships between
hospitals and physicians.  n3 Using these classifications, the Article compares
a recent case from Maine, Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Center,  n4 and its
precedents, with recent conflicting authority from Tennessee, Lewisburg
Community Hospital v. Alfredson.  n5

    The Article posits that the courts have reached opposite results on similar
facts for two reasons. One, the parties have neglected to set forth clearly
their agreement with respect to privileges. Consequently, courts have been
presented with contracts and bylaws that are ambiguous, silent, or contradictory
on the issue of privileges. For instance, the contract between the parties may
not address the issue of privileges  n6 or may conflict with the hospital
bylaws,  n7 which usually have not been updated to reflect the contract between
the parties. Two, when faced with ambiguous or conflicting evidence, the courts
have overlooked a significant and often controlling fact: the economic
relationship between the physician and the hospital. This Article suggests that
courts should rely on the economic relationship between the parties as the best
extrinsic evidence of the parties' intent with respect to privileges, including
the physician's right of access to the hospital's equipment and personnel. The
Article concludes with a discussion of how hospitals can modify their contracts
and bylaws to minimize the risk of unfavorable decisions in these cases.
 [*69]

    II. RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN PHYSICIANS AND HOSPITALS: PRIVILEGES AND ECONOMICS

    Hospitals may be organized as private for-profit corporations, private
not-for-profit corporations, or public not-for-profit corporations. Regardless
of the nature of corporate organization, a physician generally has no automatic
right to practice in either a public hospital or a private hospital.  n8

    Medical staff privileges are the method by which physicians gain access to
the hospital, and the hospital controls the quality and number of physicians who
are permitted to practice within its facility.  n9 The procedure for granting
and revoking privileges as well as the applicable standards of conduct for
physicians are embodied in the medical staff bylaws.  n10

    Medical staff privileges, however, are only part of the modern relationship
between hospitals and physicians. There is also an economic relationship between
the hospital and the physician. This economic relationship may be viewed as a
continuum of dependency. At one end is the community-based physician. At the
other is the physician-employee of the hospital. In between are non-employee
hospital-based physicians.

    The most economically independent is the community-based physician. The
primary basis of a community-based physician's practice is his or her office. It
is there the physician sees and evaluates patients and decides what treatment is
necessary. The physician's office practice is separate from the hospital and
constitutes his or her own private professional practice. The physician is free
to reap the benefits of this practice, including income, but is also responsible
for the burdens of the practice, including office management, overhead, and
fluctuations in cash flow.

    The community-based physician's relationship with the hospital revolves
around patient care, particularly the quality of care provided by the physician.
"Economic" decisions by the hospital, such as the organization of the hospital,
the services it offers, or the equipment it provides, influence the decisions of
a physician to which hospital he or she will admit patients but otherwise have
only a marginal effect on the community-based physician's practice, unless the
physician is located in a one-hospital area.  n11
 [*70]

    In contrast to the community-based physician, the hospital-based physician
is not truly an independent private practitioner. This physician has exchanged
the freedom to reap all the economic advantages of practice for certain benefits
provided by the hospital such as office management and stable cash flow.

    There are three types of hospital-based physicians: (1) the
physician-employee; (2) the "dependent" physician, whose services are billed by
the hospital; and (3) the "quasi-independent" physician, who bills his or her
services directly but who must have access to hospital equipment and staff in
order to render such services.

    The physician-employee and the dependent physician have a similar economic
relationship with the hospital. In both cases, the hospital has a direct
economic interest in the cost/price structure of the physician's practice. The
more the hospital has to pay the physician, the less revenue will be available
for the hospital. If the hospital decides to change the method of providing
services or to terminate a service, these physicians may see their positions
diminished or even eliminated.

    Quasi-independent physicians, such as radiologists and anesthesiologists,
have a less direct economic impact on the hospital's bottom line. They are,
however, highly dependent on the hospital for access to equipment and staff and
rarely maintain an office practice separate from the hospital. For these
physicians, an inability to use the hospital's equipment renders their medical
staff privileges meaningless.

    Clearly, a hospital's relationship with a physician is much broader than the
relationship created by medical staff privileges alone. The distinction between
the parties' economic relationship and the relationship created by the granting
of privileges is crucial to understanding the physician's right to exercise his
privileges by having access to the hospital's equipment and staff.

    The hospital must control access by all physicians on the basis of quality
of care.  n12 The hospital exercises this control through the credentialing and
privilege revocation procedures in its medical staff bylaws, which must include
a peer review process and notice and
 [*71]  opportunity for a hearing.  n13 The hospital may also control access to
its equipment and staff on the basis of its own economic interests. The hospital
exercises this control not through the credentialing process but through its
contracts with physicians for certain services.  n14

    III. CONFLICTING APPROACHES BY COURTS

    As the following analysis of the case law demonstrates, hospitals have often
neglected to articulate in contracts with physicians or in their bylaws the
scope of their discretion to control access for economic reasons. A hospital has
a strong economic interest in controlling the access of its employee and
dependent physicians and a far weaker economic interest in controlling the
access of quasi-independent and independent physicians. The distinction between
these economic interests has gone virtually unnoticed by some courts. As a
result, some courts have failed to appreciate the difference between the
hospital's control of access on the basis of quality of care and the hospital's
control of access on the basis of its own economic interests.

    Courts have historically taken one of three approaches to cases involving
termination of medical staff privileges. If the hospital is a private hospital,
the courts usually employ an express contract analysis based on the hospital
bylaws.  n15 In some jurisdictions, the courts view hospitals as quasi-public
entities and employ an approach similar to a review of an administrative
proceeding.  n16 If the hospital is a public hospital, the courts also analyze
the physician's property and, or alternatively, liberty interests in the
privileges granted and the
 [*72]  corresponding constitutional due process requirements.  n17

    Most hospital-physician litigation today arises from the termination or
expiration of an exclusive contract arrangement,  n18 or the termination of an
employment relationship.  n19 For example, the hospital may enter into a
contract or employment relationship with a physician or group of physicians,
giving the physician or group the exclusive right to provide certain services at
the hospital. The hospital also grants the physician or physicians privileges.
The hospital later decides, for economic or other reasons, to terminate the
contract or employment, oftentimes giving the exclusive rights to a different
entity. The hospital may or may not attempt to terminate the physician's
privileges. Once another entity obtains the exclusive right to provide services,
the hospital denies the physician access to the hospital's facilities and staff.
The physician finds himself both without the contract and without the ability to
exercise privileges at the hospital.

    Turning to the courts for assistance, the physician seeks to reassert or
reinstate his or her medical staff privileges as the method of continuing to use
the hospital's facilities and staff and thus preserve the economic value of his
relationship with the hospital. Sometimes the physician can point to express
provisions of the bylaws providing that her privileges are not contingent on
employment contracts. If, however, the contract does not address the issue of
privileges or if the bylaws have not been updated to reflect the effect of the
additional contractual relationship, hospitals find themselves in the anomalous
position of appearing to have violated the bylaws each time they terminate a
contractual relationship. In addition, if the hospital allows the physician
continued access to its equipment and staff, the hospital may violate the
exclusive contract it has now
 [*73]  given to someone else.

    The physician who loses the right to use his or her privileges at a private
hospital for economic reasons may therefore present two different contracts for
interpretation and enforcement: (1) the employment or exclusive contract between
the hospital and the physician; and (2) the contract created by the medical
staff bylaws.  n20 Often one or both of these contracts do not reflect
accurately the understanding between the physician and the hospital with respect
to the exercise of privileges. If the bylaws or any separate contract clearly
delineate the scope of the privileges granted, the courts need look no further
than these documents and may apply contract principles to the facts. If the
contract and bylaws are silent, ambiguous, or contradict each other, the
rationale for the courts' decisions has been less understandable. Courts appear
to be rewriting rather than enforcing the bargain struck by the parties. The
result is a body of law that undermines the contractual bargain of the parties
and offers little legal guidance to practitioners in drafting agreements and
advising clients.

    A. The Law Court Fails to Recognize the Economic Relationship Between the
Physician and the Hospital in Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Center

    1. The Case

    Representative of courts' confusion in this area is a recent decision of the
Maine Supreme Judicial Court, sitting as the Law Court, Bartley v. Eastern Maine
Medical Center.  n21 The plaintiffs in Bartley were four emergency physicians
employed by a group practice that had an exclusive contract with Eastern Maine
Medical Center to provide physician services in the emergency department. When
the group practice lost its exclusive contract, the hospital denied the
physicians access to its emergency department. The physicians sued, relying on
the rights granted them in the medical staff bylaws.  n22 The case reached the
Law Court on the physicians' appeal of a grant of summary judgment to the
hospital.

    The issue before the court in Bartley was whether the hospital
 [*74]  had breached the contract created by the medical staff bylaws by denying
the physicians access to the hospital's equipment and staff without providing
notice and hearing as required by those bylaws. The physicians relied on two
separate provisions of the bylaws. The first was an express provision that
privileges were not contingent on employment contracts.  n23 The second was that
privileges could not be reduced without notice and hearing.  n24 The court found
that these two provisions did not prevent the hospital from denying the
physicians access to the hospital's equipment and staff and held that the
hospital did not breach the contract created by its bylaws.  n25

    The court gave essentially two grounds for its decision. First, it found
that the medical staff bylaws were "subject to the authority of the hospital
board of trustees,"  n26 which, being vested with the general management of the
affairs of the hospital, had the power to enter into new contracts for the
staffing of the emergency department and otherwise manage the hospital's
departments.  n27

    Second, the Law Court found that the physicians were not entitled to the
notice and hearing provisions of the bylaws because these provisions were
applicable only to "major corrective action."  n28 As defined by the bylaws,
corrective action occurs when there is a recommendation that a physician's
privileges be reduced.  n29 The court reasoned, however, that the physicians'
privileges were not reduced because a grant of privileges did not include the
right to use the privileges.  n30 Since the physicians' privileges were still
intact, the court found the notice and hearing provisions inapposite.  n31
 [*75]

    2. Analysis

    Bartley contains no mention of the terms of the exclusive contract between
the physicians and the hospital. This omission leaves the reader to assume that
the contract addressed neither termination of privileges nor access to
facilities and staff once the contract was terminated. Further, the reader is
not given a complete understanding of the terms of the bylaws. This prevents the
reader from determining the economic relationship between the parties, although
the hospital's brief pointed out that the physicians were hospital-based
physicians whose services were billed by the hospital.  n32 In the end, the
reader is left with the impression that the court redefined, without attention
to the bylaws or the contract, the concept of medical staff privileges and used
this new definition, in combination with its expansive reading of the discretion
granted the hospital's board of trustees, to undermine the notice and hearing
rights granted under the bylaws.

    a. The Bartley Court's Treatment of the Grant of Privileges v. The Right to
Exercise Privileges

    The Bartley court defined hospital medical staff privileges to mean only
that the physicians were qualified to practice at the hospital not that the
physicians had the right to exercise the privileges.  n33 The court then said
that in order to use the privileges, something else was necessary for hospital
-based physicians but not for community-based physicians.  n34 The court,
however, did not identify any language in the bylaws that differentiated between
the grant of privileges and the exercise of privileges or between privileges
granted to hospital-based physicians as distinguished from other physicians.
n35 Nor did the court identify anything in the exclusive contract that supported
these distinctions.

    If the court had explained the distinction between hospital-based
 [*76]  physicians and general practitioners in terms of their different
economic relationships with the hospital, the court's basis for the distinction
between the grant of privileges and the right to use privileges would be more
understandable. In addition, these differences could have been used to analyze
properly the cases relied on by the court.

    i. The Basis for the Distinction Between the Grant and the Exercise of
Privileges

    Two seminal cases, cited by the Bartley court, have recognized the
distinction between the grant and the exercise of hospital privileges. The first
case is Engelstad v. Virginia Municipal Hospital,  n36 decided by the United
States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in 1983. Dr. Engelstad was an
employee-at-will of the hospital.  n37 When he lost his job as the director of
the pathology department, Dr. Engelstad sued for damages alleging that the
hospital had failed to provide him appropriate notice and hearing.  n38 The
court held that Dr. Engelstad was not entitled to a hearing under the bylaws.
n39 The court noted that the bylaws granted physicians the right to treat
patients. This right, however, did not apply to Dr. Engelstad who, as a
pathologist, did not treat patients. In the case of pathologists, the bylaws
provided that their privileges were defined by the medical staff executive
committee.  n40 The court also found that Dr. Engelstad's staff privileges had
not been reduced since he had been offered an arrangement with the hospital to
continue as a staff pathologist.  n41

    In other words, the physician in Engelstad was an employee whose privileges
under the bylaws were expressly distinguished from the privileges granted to
independent physicians. The contract created by the bylaws accurately reflected
the parties' economic relationship. Moreover, the physician had declined other
employment that would have allowed him to exercise his privileges. The court's
decision was consistent with the parties' contract and their economic
relationship. These facts show that Engelstad is clearly distinguishable from
Bartley.

    The other case relied on by the Bartley court was Holt v. Good
 [*77]  Samaritan Hospital and Health Center.  n42 Dr. Holt held an exclusive
contract with the hospital that entitled him to provide emergency room services.
Dr. Holt lost the exclusive contract and subsequently refused to work for the
physicians who were awarded the new contract.  n43 And, like the physician in
Engelstad, Dr. Holt had the opportunity to exercise his privileges but chose not
to.  n44

    Dr. Holt was, in all likelihood, a dependent hospital-based physician whose
services were billed by the hospital.  n45 Holt does not appear to be factually
distinguishable from Bartley.

    Both Engelstad and Holt conclude that having privileges at a hospital does
not confer the unimpeded right to exercise those privileges.  n46 Lost in the
analysis is the distinguishing fact that the right to exercise privileges is
related to the economic relationship between the parties and in these cases was
limited to dependent hospitalbased physicians. This distinction was controlling
in the seminal case to address this issue, Adler v. Montefiore Hospital
Association of Western Pennsylvania.  n47 ii. Origin of the Distinction Between
the Grant and the Exercise of Privileges

    The genesis for the distinction between the grant of privileges and the
ability to exercise privileges is found in Adler v. Montefiore Hospital
Association of Western Pennsylvania. Dr. Adler was a cardiologist who lost his
part-time employment as the Director of the Cardiology Lab at Montefiore
Hospital. In addition to this part-time
 [*78]  employment, Dr. Adler maintained a private practice with two offices,
and had privileges at three other hospitals.  n48 As the part-time Director of
the Cardiology Lab, Dr. Adler was the only physician authorized to perform
certain procedures using hospital equipment.  n49

    The Adler court found that Dr. Adler's right to perform these procedures
using the hospital's equipment arose solely from his employment as Director of
the Laboratory and not from any grant of staff privileges.  n50 Since Dr. Adler
continued to enjoy the right and authority to admit and treat patients at the
hospital, and since his rights to perform certain procedures using hospital
equipment did not arise from his privileges, the court held that Dr. Adler had
no right to a hearing under the hospital bylaws.  n51 In other words, the
contractual basis for Dr. Adler's access to equipment was not the contract
formed by the bylaws but the contract formed through his employment. Since the
hospital had not breached his employment contract, he had no right to relief for
the loss of access to the hospital's equipment.

    In short, Dr. Adler was a dual-status physician. He gained the right to use
certain equipment because he was employed by the hospital. The loss of access to
such equipment, however, did not have a major effect on Dr. Adler's practice
because in all other respects he was an independent community-based physician
who maintained a private practice and continued to admit and treat patients at
the hospital. iii. Distortion of the Distinction Between the Grant and the
Exercise of Privileges

    Over time the reasoning of Adler has become divorced from its unique
underlying facts. One reason arises from a failure to understand or articulate
the underlying economic relationship between the hospital and the physician. An
example of this failure is Williams v. Hobbs.  n52

    In Williams, the complaining physician was fired from the group practice
that held the exclusive contract to provide radiology services to the hospital.
The court found that the physician's privileges were indeed terminated. The
court found that no breach of the hospital's medical staff bylaws arose from the
termination.  n53 Instead, the court held that employment by the exclusive
contractor was one of the qualifications for hospital staff privileges in the
department of
 [*79]  radiology. Once the physician lost this employment relationship, he was
no longer qualified to hold privileges. Although the court quoted liberally from
the bylaws, it identified no bylaw provision that imposed employment as a
condition of privileges.  n54

    The court in Williams did not discuss the economic relationship between the
radiologist and the hospital. Radiologists are quasi-independent physicians who
bill for their own services. Unlike Dr. Adler who gained access to the
hospital's equipment through his employment relationship with the hospital,
radiologists maintain a certain independence from the hospital. The hospital's
economic interest in restricting a radiologist's access to its equipment and
staff is no greater than its economic interest in restricting a surgeon's access
to its operating room. Also, unlike Dr. Adler, without access to a hospital's
equipment and staff, radiologists are not able to exercise any of their
privileges. The court in Williams erred by adopting an analysis based on the
employment relationship between the physician and the hospital. Since the
radiologist in Williams was economically independent from the hospital, the
analysis found in Adler is inapposite.

    The analysis in Adler is appropriate when the physician is not independent
from the hospital, and his economic relationship with the hospital does
determine the nature of his privileges. For instance, in Collins v. Associated
Pathologists, Ltd.,  n55 a dependent hospital-based pathologist, whose services
were billed by the hospital, lost his employment with the holder of the
exclusive provider of pathology services to the hospital.  n56 Like the court in
Williams, the Collins court held that the physician's ability to exercise his
privileges was dependent on his employment relationship with the exclusive
contract holder.  n57 The court in Collins stated that it could not compel the
hospital to enter into a contractual relationship with Dr. Collins in derogation
of its exclusive contract with another provider.  n58

    One must look to the trial court opinion in Collins, however, to understand
the basis for this conclusion. When Dr. Collins lost his job with the exclusive
provider, he asked the hospital to employ him. The hospital refused.  n59 The
trial court found that the grant of privileges did not entitle a physician to an
employment contract with the hospital.  n60 In other words, in order to exercise
pathology
 [*80]  privileges it was necessary to have a second contract or financial
arrangement with the hospital. This was necessary because the hospital, not the
physician, billed the patient for pathology services. Without the second
contract, there was no way for the pathologist to be paid. Therefore, the
reasoning of Collins should be applied only to employee and dependent hospital
-based physicians.

    The courts in Collins and Williams struggle to articulate the relationship
between the grant of privileges and the exercise of privileges but fail to
recognize that the relationship is governed by the economic relationship between
the physician and the hospital. In the ideal case, the relationship between the
exercise of privileges and any contract between the parties is defined in both
the hospital's bylaws and the physician's separate contract with the hospital.
Sometimes the court can infer this relationship from the facts presented. In
most cases, however, this relationship is ignored. Unless the economic
relationship between the parties is recognized as the distinguishing fact in
these cases, any physician whose practice relies heavily on continued access to
the hospital's equipment and personnel may be without legal recourse when his or
her privileges are constructively terminated by a denial of that access.

    b. Recognition of the Economic Relationship Between the Physician and the
Hospital

    The economic relationship between the hospital and the physician and its
effect on the physician's privileges was recognized in Lewisburg Community
Hospital v. Alfredson.  n61 Dr. Alfredson was the sole provider of radiological
services to the hospital under two consecutive contracts. In his second contract
with the hospital, he negotiated the deletion of a clause providing that his
clinical privileges would terminate if the contract was canceled without cause.
n62 Eventually, Alfredson's contract was canceled. Technically, he retained his
privileges, but the hospital denied him access to its equipment and staff.  n63
Alfredson then sued the hospital.  n64

    The hospital made the same arguments raised in Bartley. The Tennessee court,
however, found them unpersuasive for three reasons. First, the court
painstakingly reviewed the medical staff bylaws but found no support in their
language for differentiating between the grant of privileges and the ability to
exercise them.  n65 The court concluded that the grant of privileges must embody
the ability
 [*81]  to exercise those privileges, based on the absence in the bylaws of any
provisions to the contrary.

    Second, the court implicitly recognized the economic relationship between
the hospital and the physician when it explained that, "with hospital-based
specialties such as radiology, the inability to use the hospital facilities and
staff would have rendered the clinical privileges meaningless."  n66 As a
radiologist, Alfredson was most likely a quasi-independent physician who billed
separately for his own services. In order to do so, however, he required access
to the hospital's equipment and staff.

    Finally, the court concluded, based on the unique facts of the case, that
the hospital had made an economic decision when it agreed to delete the
automatic termination of privileges provision from the physician's contract.
n67 The hospital was bound by that decision just as it was bound by its decision
to enter into a different exclusive contract. The court's finding--that the
hospital had reduced the physician's privileges by denying him access to
equipment and staff  n68 --is an implicit recognition of the underlying economic
relationship.

    The court in Alfredson used the economic relationship between the physician
and the hospital to bolster its conclusion regarding the effect of changes in
the physician's contractual relationship with the hospital. This evidence is not
needed, however, to construe exclusive contracts that either expressly address
the issue of privileges  n69 or are
 [*82]  consistent with the scope of privileges granted under the bylaws.  n70

    The confusion seen in these cases arises from a failure to explore the
economic relationship between the parties as the most reliable extrinsic
evidence of the parties' intent regarding privileges if the documents themselves
are unclear. If the limitations on privileges are clear from the plain language
of the contract, this extrinsic evidence is not needed and should not be used to
override the actual bargain of the parties.  n71 If the contractual language is
ambiguous or
 [*83]  contradictory, this evidence gives the courts a reasoned basis upon
which to determine the scope of a physician's right of access to a hospital's
equipment and staff.

    c. The Hospital's Discretion to Make Economic Decisions

    The second aspect of the Bartley opinion that deserves clarification is the
breadth of the hospital's power to impose ad hoc restrictions on privileges. The
Bartley court found the hospital had broad discretion to enter into contracts
and otherwise manage the hospital. This recognition of the hospital's broad
discretion is in accord with the conclusion reached by most courts in evaluating
a hospital's ability to enter into exclusive contracts.  n72

    The Bartley decision is unclear with respect to how the hospital's
discretion to manage its business relates to the specific rights and obligations
granted under the medical staff bylaws. The confusion may be due in part to an
inadequate discussion of the significance of the bylaw provision that provided,
"continuation of staff membership shall not be made contingent on the
continuance of an employment contract."  n73 The Bartley decision can be read to
mean that the hospital's general managerial discretion to enter into contracts
provides the unilaterally legal entitlement to overrule express provisions of
the medical staff bylaws.

    The discretion to enter into a contract, however, is not synony  [*84]  mous
with the unilateral right to terminate a contract. The hospital has the same
discretion to terminate a contract according to its terms as it has to decide to
breach a contract. It is the terms of the contract that dictate the conditions
under which it may be terminated without a breach occurring. Thus, a hospital
cannot ignore or override the express requirements of a contract without
breaching it.

    Although the Law Court correctly analyzed the breadth of a hospital's
discretion in making economic decisions, it failed to apply this analysis to the
facts presented. An explanation of the economic relationship between the
hospital and the physicians was needed. Otherwise, there is no reasoned basis
why the hospital, in the exercise of its discretion, could not restrict or
reduce for economic reasons any physician's access to the hospital without
providing notice or opportunity to be heard as required by the bylaws. For
quasiindependent and independent physicians, restriction or reduction of the
physician's access to the hospital is a constructive reduction of the
physician's privileges.

    If the physicians in Bartley were indeed dependent hospital-based
physicians, then it was the hospital's economic interest in the profitability of
the services it rendered that would provide the limiting principle for the
exercise of this discretion. Absent a showing of a similar economic interest in
the profitability to the hospital of services rendered by other physicians, the
hospital's discretion may not provide unfettered power to deny other physicians
access to the hospital's equipment and staff for economic rather than competency
reasons.

    The Bartley decision also fails to analyze the significance of the provision
in the medical staff bylaws that prohibits making the continuation of privileges
contingent on continued employment with the hospital.  n74 Although the
physicians relied on this provision to support their right to relief, the court
does not explain why it is inapplicable to the facts presented.

    The court could have explained that the physicians in Bartley were not
employed by or under contract with the hospital, but by an entity that had
contracted with the hospital. Apparently their employment with this entity
continued. Consequently their employment status had no relevance to their
privileges, nor did they have a direct contractual relationship with the
hospital.  n75 Therefore, even without the distinction drawn by the court
between the grant of
 [*85]  privileges and the exercise of privileges, the cited provision of the
medical staff bylaws can be construed to offer no protection to the physicians
in Bartley. Consequently, the board of trustees did not override this express
provision of the medical staff in refusing the physicians' access to its
equipment and staff. Conversely, with the distinction drawn by the court between
the grant and the exercise of privileges, this portion of the holding seems
unnecessary.

    Bartley should not be read for the proposition that hospitals have
unfettered discretion to override the express provisions of medical staff bylaws
without risking an action for breach of contract. A careful review of the
factual underpinning of the court's holding shows that this discretion is not
unlimited. Like any other business entity, a hospital may choose to breach any
of its contractual obligations. But if it does, it may be liable for damages for
breach of contract.

    IV. A CALL FOR CLARITY

    The confusion surrounding these disputes and the resulting litigation could
be reduced, if not eliminated, by amending hospital and medical staff bylaws and
by ensuring that all hospital-based physicians have written contracts with
clearly defined termination clauses. Hospitals should take the lead in
redesigning their bylaws to eliminate many of the problems outlined above. The
mutual understandings and expectations of the hospital and the physicians should
be set forth in plain language. The issue is one of reasonable notice to the
physician of the scope and limitations of his or her rights to use the
hospital's facilities, equipment, and staff.

    Medical staff bylaws should define the rights of the physician who has been
granted privileges. For instance, they should state to what extent the
privileges include the right to use hospital equipment, facilities, and staff
necessary to provide services. If these rights vary, the bylaws should
distinguish between physicians who are community-based and physicians who are
hospital employees or who are otherwise hospital-based.

    In addition, the hospital and medical staff bylaws should expressly reserve
to the hospital governing board the right to terminate any health service or
change any method of delivering such services, including exclusive contracting
and directly employing physicians. The bylaws should make clear that this
authority supersedes the grant of privileges to a physician.

    Next, bylaws should distinguish between termination of privileges for
competence or disciplinary reasons and termination of privileges for business or
economic reasons, by providing notice, an opportunity to be heard, and peer
review for the former, but only a reasona  [*86]  ble period of advance notice
for the latter.  n76

    The bylaws should also provide that employment and other contracts with
physicians that provide for the withdrawal of privileges will supersede
applicable bylaw provisions regarding privileges. Hospitals should bargain for
contracts that provide for automatic withdrawal of privileges when the contract
expires or is terminated. Where the contract is with a physician group or
corporation, the contractor should be required to maintain employment agreements
with its physician employees that provide for automatic resignation from the
hospital upon termination of employment.

    Finally, substantive changes in the bylaws should coincide or become
effective with the physicians' biannual renewal of privileges.  n77 Since
privileges are granted for a specific term, arguably they are not subject to
unilateral modification during that term. Making such changes effective upon
renewal gives physicians fair notice and is consistent with contract law
principles.

    The case law in this area need not be confusing. What is needed is clear
draftsmanship, updated bylaws, and litigants who provide the courts with an
understanding of the economic relationships between the hospitals and
physicians.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationHospital
PrivilegesRestrictionsLabor & Employment LawEmployment RelationshipsEmployment
at WillGeneral OverviewLabor & Employment LawEmployment RelationshipsEmployment
ContractsConditions & TermsGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Constructive termination of privileges occurs when the physician is denied
access to the hospital's equipment or facilities without having his privileges
revoked. See infra Part III.




n2  For a discussion of antitrust issues, see generally Robert J. Enders,
Federal Antitrust Issues Involved in the Denial of Medical Staff Privileges, 17
LOY. U. CHI. L.J. 331 (1986).




n3  See infra Part II.




n4  617 A.2d 1020 (Me. 1992).




n5  805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).




n6  See, e.g., Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1020.




n7  An example of the contract being inconsistent with the bylaws is Hospital
Corp. of Lake Worth v. Romaguera, 511 So. 2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1987). In
this case, a pathologist's exclusive contract provided for termination of his
privileges upon termination of the contract. Subsequent to entering into this
contract, the hospital amended its bylaws to provide that termination of a
physician's contract would not affect his or her medical staff privileges. Id.
at 560. Apparently, this provision was added to the bylaws in response to the
Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (hereinafter
JCAHO) Standards which provide that physicians with contractual relationships
with the hospital will have their privileges defined through the medical staff
bylaws. Standard MS.2.16.6, Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare
Organizations 1994 ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS, at 70 (hereinafter 1994
JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL). The court ruled that the subsequent amendment of
the bylaws modified the exclusive contract but only because it expanded rather
than restricted the physician's rights. Hospital Corp. of Lake Worth v.
Romaguera, 511 So. 2d at 560.




n8  E.g., Hayman v. City of Galveston, 273 U.S. 414, 416-17 (1927); see
generally Barbara Cray, Due Process Considerations in Hospital Staff Privilege
Cases, 7 HASTINGS CONST. L.Q. 217 (1979).




n9  Sheree Lynn McCall, A Hospital's Liability for Denying, Suspending and
Granting Staff Privileges, 32 BAYLOR L. REV. 175 (1980) (hereinafter McCall).




n10  Standards MS.2-MS.3, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 7, at
66-72.




n11  The primary concern of the community-based physician faced with a
suspension, reduction, or revocation of his or her privileges is a full and fair
opportunity to explore the charges presented. The peer review and hearing
requirements of medical staff bylaws are a result of this concern. Peer review
is also required by the MedicareMedicaid program, 42 C.F.R.  482.1-482.66, and
may be required by state statute and regulations, see, e.g., ME. REV. STAT. ANN.
tit. 24, 2503 (West 1990); 6 Code of Maine Regulations, ch. 112, VI, XIX, and is
a condition of accreditation by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations, Standards ES.1, GB.1, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL,
supra note 7, at 105-06, 113-16. In addition, medical staff committee members of
a professional review body are provided with immunity from antitrust actions if
the procedures comply with the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42
U.S.C.  11101-11152 (1988).




n12  Standards MS.2-MS.3, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 7, at
66-72.




n13  Standard MS.2.12, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 7, at 68.




n14  See, e.g., John D. Blum, Evaluation of Medical Staff Using Fiscal Factors:
Economic Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 65 (Mar. 1993); Kevin E. Grady,
Current Topics in Medical Staff Development and Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH &
HOSP. L. 193 (July, 1993).




n15  Medical staff bylaws constitute an enforceable contract between a hospital
and its staff physicians. See, e.g., Bhatnagar v. Mid-Maine Medical Ctr., 510
A.2d 233, 234 (Me. 1986); see also Pariser v. Christian Health Care Sys., Inc.,
816 F.2d 1248, 1251 (8th Cir. 1987); Posner v. Lankenau Hosp., 645 F. Supp.
1102, 1106 (E.D. Pa. 1986); Robinson v. Magovern, 521 F. Supp. 842, 925 (W.D.
Pa. 1981), aff'd, 688 F.2d 824 (3d Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 971
(1982); Lawler v. Eugene Wuesthoff Memorial Hosp. Ass'n, 497 So. 2d 1261, 1264
(Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1986); Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, 149
A.2d 456, 458 (Pa. 1959); St. John's Hosp. Medical Staff v. St. John Regional
Medical Ctr., Inc., 245 N.W.2d 472, 474 (S.D. 1976). See generally Barbara Cray,
Due Process Considerations in Hospital Staff Privileges Cases, 7 HASTINGS CONST.
L.Q. 217, 251-54 (1979) (hereinafter Cray); McCall, supra note 9, at 183-86.




n16  McCall, supra note 9, at 186-88; Cray, supra note 8, at 238-46. California
takes this approach. It is similar to the approach taken in the New Jersey case
of Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 192 A.2d 817 (N.J. 1963), which created a common
law right to due process in medical staff decisions. Contra Hottentot v.
Mid-Maine Medical Ctr., 549 A.2d 365 (Me. 1988).




n17  See Carolyn Quinn, Comment, Procedural Due Process Rights of Physicians
Applying for Hospital Staff Privileges, 17 LOY. U. CHI. L.J. 453, 453-65 (1986).
Only in cases regarding public hospitals is the term "due process" used in its
constitutional sense. In all other cases where government action is not
implicated, the use of the term "due process" denotes notice and opportunity to
be heard.




n18  E.g., Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-973 (Cir.
Ct. Leon Cty, Fla., Apr. 29, 1991); Palm Beach-Martin County Medical Ctr. v.
Panaro, 431 So. 2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1983); Szczerbaniuk v. Memorial
Hosp. for McHenry County, 536 N.E.2d 138 (Ill. App. 2d 1989); Bartley v. Eastern
Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020 (Me. 1992); Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp., Inc. v.
O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483 (Md. 1981); Lewisburg Community Hosp., Inc. v. Alfredson,
805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991). Cases may potentially arise, however, from a
variety of economic decisions made by hospitals. For instance, a hospital may
decide to close a particular unit, may decide not to replace or update certain
equipment, or may decide to discontinue certain procedures.




n19  E.g., Collins v. Associated Pathologists, Ltd., 844 F.2d 473 (7th Cir.
1988); Engelstad v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983); Williams
v. Hobbs, 460 N.E.2d 287 (Ohio App. 1983); Adler v. Montefiore Hosp. Ass'n of W.
Pa., 311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973).




n20  One way to sidestep physicians' claims under hospital bylaws is to declare
that such bylaws do not create an enforceable contract. That approach was
recently taken in St. Mary's Hosp. v. Radiology Prof. Corp., 421 S.E.2d 731, 736
(Ga. App. 1992).




n21  617 A.2d 1020 (Me. 1992). For a criticism of the Bartley case, see Chenen,
Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Center: Cost Containment Prevails Over
Physician's Rights, 7 MEDICAL STAFF COUNSELOR 67 (1993).




n22  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1021. The Law Court
began its analysis on a tentative note, indicating that the medical staff bylaws
"may constitute an enforceable contract between the medical center and its staff
physicians." Id. (emphasis added). The court did not, however, pursue this line
of reasoning. See supra note 20.




n23  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1022 (citing Art. III,
C(5) of the bylaws which provides: "Physicians who are employed or are under
contract to the Medical Center shall be appointed through the same procedure
used for all members of the medical staff. Continuation of membership shall not
be made contingent on continuance of such employment or contract.").




n24  Brief for Appellants at 9, Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d
1020 (Me. 1992) (No. PEN-92-211) (citing Art. III, E(1)(a) of the bylaws). The
exclusive contract was apparently silent on the issue of privileges as no
mention was made of its terms.




n25  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1023.




n26  Id. at 1022.




n27  Id.




n28  Id. at 1023.




n29  Id. The bylaws provided that "privileges may be reduced or terminated only
when it is found, after a substantial notice and hearing process, that "the
activity or professional conduct of any medical staff member . . . is . . .
lower than the standards or aims of the Medical Center.' " (emphasis in
original). Brief for Appellants at 9 (citing Art. III E(1)(a) of the bylaws).




n30  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1023 (citing Engelstad
v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d 262, 268 (8th Cir. 1983); Holt v. Good
Samaritan Hosp. & Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d 1318, 1323 (Ohio App. 1990)).




n31  Id. at 1023.




n32  Generally, hospitals include in their billings the fee generated by their
emergency physicians, which would make these physicians "dependent" physicians
as that term is used in this Article. This classification may be inferred from
the court's noting that the new contract contained a "compensation arrangement
more favorable to the hospital." Id. at 1021. The hospital's brief on appeal
pointed out that the hospital controlled the physicians' pricing and billing
practices under which the physicians received 80.8% of the professional charges
billed through the emergency department. Brief for Appellee at 4, 7, Bartley v.
Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020 (Me. 1992) (No. PEN-92-211). In
addition, the hospital eventually adopted an employment relationship with its
emergency room physicians, thus increasing the hospital's economic control.




n33  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1023.




n34  Id. The court referred to these physicians as "general practitioners."




n35  See infra text accompanying notes 40, 54 & 65 for a discussion of cases in
which the courts analyzed the specific provisions of the bylaws to support their
decision regarding the meaning of privileges.




n36  718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983).




n37  Id. at 266.




n38  Because the hospital was a public hospital, Dr. Engelstad relied on both 42
U.S.C.  1983 and the hospital bylaws for his right to a hearing. Engelstad v.
Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d at 263. On the civil rights claim, the court found
that because Dr. Engelstad did not have a property interest in his employment
with the hospital, he had no protected interest sufficient to require a due
process hearing. Id. at 266.




n39  Engelstad v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d at 269.




n40  Id. at 264.




n41  Id. at 269.




n42  590 N.E.2d 1318 (Ohio Ct. App. 1990).




n43  Id. at 1319.




n44  Id. The court in Holt relied primarily on four cases, rather than an
analysis of the economic relationship between the parties, to support its
holding. These cases are all distinguishable. First, the court relied on Lewin
v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892 (Ct. App. 1978), a case that employed
the administrative law analysis to hospital privileging issues. See supra note
16 and accompanying text. Second, the court relied on Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp.,
Inc. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483 (Md. Ct. Spec. App. 1981). In that case, however,
the physician was granted privileges for a limited period of time only; the
physician's privileges and contract expressly terminated at the same time. See
infra note 69. The court also relied on Collins v. Associated Pathologists,
Ltd., 844 F.2d 473 (7th Cir. 1988). Collins, however, is an antitrust case. The
contractual issues are dismissed in one paragraph at the end of a lengthy
decision. See infra text accompanying notes 55-60. Collins is factually similar
to Holt, though, in that both physicians were dependent, hospital-based
physicians whose services were billed by the hospital. Finally, the Holt court
relied on Williams v. Hobbs, 460 N.E.2d 287 (Ohio Ct. App. 1983). Williams is
similar to Holt in that the issue turned on the employment status of the
physician. Williams, unlike Holt, involved a quasi-independent physician.




n45  Unlike the court in Engelstad, the court in Holt did not address the
economic relationship between the parties.




n46  Engelstad v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d at 262, 267-69; Holt v. Good
Samaritan Hosp. and Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d at 1319-21.




n47  311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973), cert. denied, 414 U.S. 1131 (1974).




n48  Id. at 636.




n49  Id. at 637.




n50  Id. at 644-45.




n51  Id. at 638.




n52  460 N.E.2d 287 (Ohio Ct. App. 1983).




n53  Id. at 292.




n54  Id. at 291-92.




n55  844 F.2d 473 (7th Cir. 1988).




n56  Id. at 475.




n57  Id. at 481.




n58  Id.




n59  Collins v. Associated Pathologists, Ltd., 676 F. Supp. 1388, 1392-93 (C.D.
Ill. 1987).




n60  Id. at 1410.




n61  805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).




n62  Id. at 757.




n63  Id. at 757-58.




n64  Id. at 758. Alfredson sued on multiple grounds, all of which were disposed
of by summary judgment. The only issue addressed on appeal was the breach of
contract issue.




n65  Id. at 760.




n66  Id. at 761. Of course, this reasoning should be applied only to
quasi-independent physicians. The hospital privileges of dependent physicians
are similarly meaningless without access to the hospital's equipment and staff.
These latter physicians cannot, however, gain access without some additional
contract with the hospital.




n67  Id. at 759.




n68  Id. at 762.




n69  For instance, in Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp., Inc. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483
(Md. Ct. Spec. App. 1981), a professional association of radiologists, headed by
Dr. David A. O'Brien, enjoyed an exclusive contract entitling them to provide
radiology coverage to the hospital. Id. at 485. The contract and the
radiologists' medical staff privileges expired on the same date. Id. When the
contract was not renewed, but instead was awarded to another radiology group,
O'Brien's group sued the hospital on a variety of theories, including breach of
contract, equitable estoppel, interference with business relationship, violation
of federal and state antitrust laws, fraud, and violation of due process. Id. at
484. The trial court ordered the hospital to provide the O'Brien group a "due
process" hearing under the hospital's bylaws. The appellate court reversed,
finding that the O'Brien group's rights under both their contract and the
medical staff bylaws expired by agreement. Id. at 490. It is unclear from the
O'Brien decision whether the bylaws permitted termination of privileges for
economic reasons such as the expiration of an exclusive contract. At least one
court has found that privileges cannot be terminated for economic reasons if the
bylaws do not expressly authorize the termination. Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial
Regional Medical Ctr., (No. 91-973), slip op. at 4 (Cir. Ct. Leon Cty, Fla.,
Apr. 29, 1991).

    The O'Brien court also did not discuss whether the contract itself indicated
that privileges would be terminated upon its expiration. The absence of this
discussion arises from the peculiar facts of the case. Usually, medical staff
privileges are granted for a specific term such as one or two years. For the
O'Brien group, however, the hospital departed from its usual practice by
limiting the appointments to approximately five months. Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp.,
Inc. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d at 486. The hospital notified each radiologist in the
O'Brien group of the expiration date of his or her appointment, and each
radiologist signed an acceptance letter. As the court noted, "none objected to
or appealed from the appointment of limited duration." Id. Thus, the court went
no further than holding the parties to the terms of their bargain. Although the
physicians were presumably quasi-independent physicians, they had failed to
protect the value of their economic relationship with the hospital by agreeing
to a limitation on their ability to exercise their privileges.




n70  E.g., Szczerbaniuk v. Memorial Hosp. for McHenry County, 536 N.E.2d 138
(Ill. App. Ct. 1989). As in O'Brien, the hospital in Szczerbaniuk contracted
with a radiologist to provide exclusive services to the hospital. The contract
provided that it could be canceled by either party for cause by giving 180 days'
written notice. The contract also expressly provided that membership on the
medical staff was terminated if the contract was terminated. Id. at 139.

    The physician alleged that termination of his privileges was a breach of the
medical staff bylaws because the medical staff bylaws formed part of his
contract with the hospital. Id. at 140. The trial court dismissed this part of
the complaint, and the appellate court affirmed the dismissal. Id. at 140, 143.
The appellate court found the exclusive contract between the parties controlling
for four reasons. First, the exclusive contract expressly addressed the issue of
medical staff privileges. Second, the exclusive contract did not expressly
incorporate the medical staff bylaws. Third, the contract recited that it was
the entire agreement of the parties. Finally, the contract contained procedures
for resolving problems that were inconsistent with the bylaws. Id. at 143. In
other words, the exclusive contract both defined and governed the economic
relationship between the parties and overrode inconsistent provisions in the
bylaws. Again, the quasi-independent physician had failed to protect the
economic value of his contract with the hospital.




n71  An example of the misuse of such extrinsic evidence is Palm Beach-Martin
County Medical Ctr. v. Panaro, 431 So. 2d 1023 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1983), which
involved an exclusive contract for anesthesiology services. There the medical
staff bylaws provided that loss of a contractual relationship with the hospital
was cause for termination of privileges. The bylaws also required a
recommendation of "cause" from the medical staff in order to revoke privileges.
Dr. Panaro's privileges were revoked when his contract was terminated; however,
no recommendation was made by the medical staff. Id. at 1024.

    The court correctly found that the hospital had not complied with the
procedural requirements of the bylaws in revoking Dr. Panaro's privileges. The
court, however, also found a substantive breach of the bylaws by holding that
the bylaws were internally inconsistent. Id.

    The court compared the above-referenced portion of the bylaws that required
cause for termination with the provision of the bylaws that required the grounds
for termination not be arbitrary, unreasonable, or capricious. Although the
bylaws defined loss of a contract as "cause" for termination of privileges, the
court found that the termination was not "arbitrary, unreasonable, or
capricious" and therefore no cause existed for the termination. Id.

    Anesthesiologists are generally quasi-independent physicians who bill
separately for their services. The court apparently recognized this economic
relationship between the parties. It noted that the loss of privileges would
prevent Dr. Panaro from practicing anesthesiology and that he would have no
means of support. Id.

    Despite the parties' economic relationship, the bylaws permitted termination
of privileges on the grounds asserted. Consequently, the court had no need to
look beyond the documents in order to decide the case. What should have been a
simple case of breach by the hospital caused by procedural error was complicated
needlessly by an analysis that disregards the basic terms of the parties'
contract. Had the bylaws not defined cause as including the loss of a contract,
the court's exploration of this issue may have been justified. But the parties
had provided for this eventuality in their contract; it was not for the court to
disregard it.




n72  See, e.g., Tomlinson v. Humana, Inc., 495 So. 2d 630 (Ala. 1986); Dattilo
v. Tucson Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1975); Redding v. St. Francis
Medical Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806 (Cal. Ct. App. 1989); Radiology Professional
Corp. v. Trinidad Area Health Ass'n, 577 P.2d 748 (Colo. 1978); Rush v. City of
St. Petersburg, 205 So. 2d 11 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1967); Brandon v. Combs, 666
S.W.2d 755 (Ky. Ct. App. 1983); Hottentot v. Mid-Maine Medical Ctr., 549 A.2d
365 (Me. 1988); Benell v. City of Virginia, 104 N.W.2d 633 (Minn. 1960); Holt v.
Good Samaritan Hosp. and Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d 1318 (Ohio Ct. App. 1990);
Williams v. Hobbs, 460 N.E.2d 287 (Ohio Ct. App. 1983); Adler v. Montefiore
Hosp. Ass'n of W. Pa., 311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973).




n73  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020, 1022 (citing Medical
Staff Bylaws Art. III, C(5)).




n74  See id. at 1022.




n75  Compare with supra text accompanying notes 36-46. In both Engelstad and
Holt, the physicians refused to continue their employment relationship,
Engelstad with the hospital and Holt with the exclusive contract holder.
Similarly, in Collins (see supra text accompanying notes 55-60), the physician
had been fired from his employment with the exclusive contract holder. None of
these cases, however, cites a bylaws provision similar to the provision in
Bartley.




n76  This is analogous to the distinction between an employer discharging an
employee for cause and an employer eliminating a position through layoff or
reduction in force. Generally even where employment contracts or collective
bargaining agreements provide "due process" protection, it does not apply to a
layoff.




n77  Medical staff privileges are typically granted for two-year periods. In
fact, JCAHO standards require that privileges be granted for not more than two
years. MS.2.13, JCAHO, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 7, at 68.


                              61 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            March 24, 2016 Thursday

Health system helps propel regional economic engine

BYLINE: Lindsey Adkison, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 464 words


March 24--It's long been known Southeast Georgia Health System contributes a
great deal to the local economy, but a recent study defines just how significant
that impact is in Glynn and Camden counties.

The Georgia Hospital Association, the state's largest hospital trade
organization, said in 2014 the system's two locations generated more than $574
million in revenue for the local and state economies.

The health system maintained 1,800 full-time jobs, excluding employees at the
health system's two senior care centers and its strategic affiliates.

The report also found that in 2014, the Brunswick and St. Marys hospitals
provided approximately $31 million in uncompensated care and had direct
expenditures of more than $251 million.

To calculate the economic impact, the expenditure total was combined with an
economic multiplier developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of
Economic Analysis. The output multiplier factors in the ripple effect of direct
hospital expenditures on other sectors of the economy, including related
industries such as medical supplies, medical equipment and pharmaceuticals.

Michael Scherneck, president and chief executive officer of the health system,
said the report validates the important role the Southeast Georgia Health System
has in the community.

"We are very appreciative of our communities for their unwavering support of our
health system and will continue to work hard to ensure that the residents of our
communities have access to the best and safest health care services available,"
he said.

While Southeast Georgia Health System has proven to be a strong economic engine
for the local economy, hospital leadership is concerned about a wide array of
economic challenges.

First and foremost is the fear that a fast-growing uninsured population, coupled
with inadequate payments from Medicare and Medicaid, will make providing
services more difficult. Many hospitals struggle with that. Some 41 percent of
all state hospitals are operating within negative margins.

Scherneck said the health system remains committed to the community and will
continue to offer top quality care.

"We're extremely concerned about the current operating environment for our
health system hospitals," Scherneck said.

"We've made a commitment to every citizen of our communities to be there for
them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. However, our ability to do so is being
compromised when so many of our patients are either uninsured or severely
underinsured."

Reporter Lindsey Adkison writes about business and other local topics. Contact
her at ladkison@thebrunswicknews.com or at 265-8320 ext. 346.

___ (c)2016 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160324-GE-Health-system-helps-propel-regional-economic
-engine-0324-20160324

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2016 The Brunswick News


                              62 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 4, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

BRIEFLY

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports; Bloomberg News

SECTION: BUSINESS; BRIEFLY; EARNINGS; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 772 words



ECONOMIC INDICATORS FLAT: The index of leading economic indicators was
unchanged in September for the second month in a row, a sign economic growth
will moderate in the coming months. The Conference Board's index, intended to
project economic activity over the next six months, follows the movement of 10
indicators each month. Of those, four made a positive contribution in
September, five made a negative contribution and one was unchanged.

SECOND WHISTLE-BLOWER CLAIMED: Lawyers for indicted Columbia/HCA HealthCare
Corp. executives suggested in a motion there is at least one more
whistle-blower in the criminal investigation of the nation's largest hospital
chain. The motion comes as the Nashville, Tenn., hospital chain tries to  settle
the government investigation into whether it overbilled Medicare and  other
government health insurance programs. Four mid-level executives have  been
charged in the case. A lawsuit brought by a whistle-blower was unsealed  last
month after the Justice Department got involved in the case.

HUGHES SUPPLY TO BUY TAMPA COMPANY: Hughes Supply Inc., an Orlando distributor
of construction and industrial materials, said it will acquire Florida
Electrical Supply Inc. of Tampa, an electrical distributor, for an undisclosed
sum. Hughes chairman and chief executive David Hughes said the transaction  will
boost the purchasing and administrative muscle of both companies. The  deal is
expected to close next week.

FEDEX PREPARED TO DRIVE: Federal Express chief executive Ted Weise says the  air
cargo company is prepared to become a ground carrier if pilots strike. In  a
letter to the company's 3,500 pilots, Weise said labor troubles already have
prompted several major clients to shift business away from FedEx. Leaders of
the FedEx Pilots Association say Weise's letter was an attempt to scare the
union into accepting an unfair contract. FedEx pilots have voted to stop
working overtime as of Monday. They vote this month on whether to give union
leaders the authority to call a strike during the busy holiday delivery  season.



ZAPATA TO BUY BACK SHARES: Zapata Corp., a fish-protein and food-packaging
concern which last month halted its ambitious expansion plan, will stop paying
quarterly dividends and will use the savings to buy back stock. The Houston
company run by Avram Glazer, son of Tampa Bay Bucs owner Malcolm Glazer, last
paid a quarterly dividend of 7 cents a share on Aug. 17. Last month, Zapata
called off all its planned acquisitions of Internet companies as well as the
spinoff of its Internet operations, blaming volatile global markets and the
recent battering of Internet stocks. Shares of Zapata closed up 81 1/4 cents  at
$ 8.62 1/2.

CHRYSLER SETS OCTOBER SALES RECORD: Chrysler Corp. sold 20 percent more cars
and light trucks in October than it did a year ago, setting a record. The
226,179 vehicles sold topped Chrysler's previous record of 205,393 in October
1996. Chrysler's merger with Daimler-Benz AG is expected to be completed  during
the week of Nov. 16.

TV STATIONS ACQUIRED: Hicks Muse Tate & Furst Inc. said its television
broadcasting affiliate, STC Broadcasting, acquired five stations in North
Dakota for $ 63.8-million from closely held Meyer Broadcasting Co. STC
Broadcasting is a subsidiary of Sunrise Television Corp., a closely held
television-broadcasting concern based in St. Petersburg.

TREASURY AUCTION: Yields on five-year Treasury notes fell in Tuesday's auction
to the lowest level on record. The yield was 4.340 percent, down from 5.327
percent at the last auction Aug. 11. The notes will carry a coupon interest
rate of 4 1/4 percent. A total of $ 16-billion in notes were sold out of bids
totaling $ 28.8-billion.

Earnings

Information Management Resources Inc.

The Clearwater information technology provider reported record results for its
third quarter.

           3rdQtr    Year Ago

Revenue       $ 42-mil   $ 23-mil

Net Income    $ 7.4-mil  $ 3.5-mil

Per Share     20 cents  10 cents

Equitable Cos.

The life insurer's third-quarter earnings fell 23 percent as declines in the
stock market hurt business at its investment units. Net profits includes  $
3.4-million in losses from the sale of securities.

           3rdQtr      Year Ago

Net Income    $ 138.3-mil  $ 181.2-mil

Per Share     62 cents    81 cents

- Compiled from Times staff, wire and Bloomberg News reports.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              63 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Picayune Item (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 18, 2011 Monday

Community growth begins with major construction project for Highland Community
Hospital and surrounding development

BYLINE: Jodi Marze, Picayune Item, Miss.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 618 words


July 18--PICAYUNE -- Highland Community Hospital held a "Topping Off" ceremony
last Monday onsite of the new hospital location, which is currently under
construction off of Hwy 11. The event marked the conclusion of framing for the
structure in a project that has brought this community a much needed economic
boost and is predicted to be the catalyst for major growth upon completion.

Project Manager, Steven Moore of Brice Building Company, says, "We have anywhere
from 150 to 200 workers at a time onsite. We will continue with this number of
people throughout the next 8 to 10 months.

"We have several subcontractors out here and the larger ones are hiring local
workers as much as possible. It is good for the local people and less expensive
for the contractors when they hire folks that already live here.

"The workers that are from out of town are staying in local hotels and renting
houses here. They are getting involved in the community. One of the plumbing
foremen has joined the local bowling league. They have found the restaurant and
really getting some local flavor."

Many of these workers attended the ceremony on Monday and signed the final beam
to be placed along with other members of the community just prior to placement.

Mr. and Mrs. Carle Cooper and their son, Andy, were on hand for the ceremony.
The Cooper family donated the land for the new hospital and own the land for the
surrounding development which will be called Highland Commons.

The information released on the development indicates that Highland Commons will
be comprised of districts: The Outer Commercial District, which is dedicated for
larger, big-box type businesses; the Market District, described as the community
town center of Highland Commons which will feature smaller businesses and loft
apartments; and the Residential District will have single family homes,
condominiums and townhouse units. There will also be the Highland Professional
Park District, and the Special District which will provide hospitals, office
space and an athletic club.

Carle Cooper said, "I am optimistic about the economic impact this newly
constructed hospital will have in our community. I believe that it will attract
good citizens and boost our local economy. We are preparing for it with a solid
infrastructure, including new roads, to support the growth this hospital and
surrounding development will bring."

County Administrator, Adrain Lumpkin, said, "This is the first new hospital to
be built in Picayune since Crosby Hospital (now Highland Community Hospital).
This facility will be a great asset to our community for economic growth, but
also because it will mean that senior community members needing certain types of
medical care will not have to leave Picayune to receive treatment somewhere
else. This also means that family care givers will not have to leave their homes
and spend extra money for gas and accommodations to be with their loved ones
receiving treatment. This will be large help to all concerned."

Highland Hospital Administrator, Mark Stockstill, says, "This will set the stage
for economic growth in the community. Health care is in the top-tier criteria
for companies in choosing locations when it comes time to either relocate or
expand. We now have much to offer in that arena."

The hospital project is expected to be completed in spring of 2012 and fully
operational by mid-year.

To see more of the Picayune Item or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://picayuneitem.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, Picayune Item, Miss. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the
content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110718-YP-Community-growth-begins-with-major-construction-project-for-Highland
-Community-Hospital-and-surrounding-development-0718-20110718

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YP


                          Copyright 2011 Picayune Item


                              64 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                August 23, 1998

Fewer patients able to pay steep bills; Recession threat to hospitals

BYLINE: Ruth Mathewson

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 477 words


SOME private hospitals could collapse as patients tighten their belts and go
public during the recession, doctors say.

The proportion of patients admitted to public hospitals has climbed to 93 per
cent - the highest rate yet recorded - up from 85 per cent in 1991 and 92 per
cent in 1995.

This leaves private hospitals with just seven per cent of patients - less than
half of their market before the Hospital Authority was set up in 1991.

The loss of patients, compounded by the economic crisis, meant some hospitals
were now in "very bad shape" to ride out the recession, said Medical Association
chairman Dr So Kai-ming.

"Some of them have good financial support and good attendances, but some of the
less-prepared or worse-organised hospitals are on the verge of collapsing," Dr
So said. "I won't be surprised if some go down."

Professionals in the industry feared "one or two" hospitals could close down, he
said.

Canossa Hospital superintendent Dr Arthur Langenberg said the loss of patients
must impact on private hospitals.

"For example, Japanese patients have been very few and far between. We used to
have more, but a lot have been sent back to Japan now," Dr Langenberg said.

"There are concerns that many hospitals are struggling and some might go under."

The taxpayer-funded Hospital Authority's move to capture more of the private
market - by introducing private rooms and semi-private wards - made no sense,
doctors said.

"I think the authority is probably going to come crashing to the ground soon,"
Dr Langenberg said. "They've been very busy, in the past few years, building up
these services. They've spent time and money building their image to attract
patients from private hospitals. It doesn't make any sense."

An authority spokesman said a bed in a public ward, including all meals, drugs,
doctors and operations, cost SAR residents just $ 68 a day.

But taxpayers subsidised each bed to the tune of 97 per cent - leading to a
Hospital Authority budget this year of $ 26 billion.

Union Hospital medical director Dr Anthony Lee Kai-yiu said the authority's
private rooms and semi-private wards could spell disaster for private hospitals.

"If this is expanded, it will be detrimental for private hospitals - we won't
have any breathing space, at all," Dr Lee said.

Private hospitals had been gaining slightly before the economy stalled last
year.

"Before the economic downturn, things were going in favour of private hospitals
for 12 months or so, because of misadventures in public hospitals, waiting lists
and congestion," Dr Lee said.

"But since the economic downturn they (the Hospital Authority) have had another
percentage-point gain."

Most private hospitals should be able to "battle on for a while" by reorganising
themselves and working with lower margins, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1998 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              65 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             Arizona Capitol Times

                                January 16, 2009

Commentary: Hidden health care tax: Businesses beware

BYLINE: Tom Dickson and John Rivers

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 748  words


In Arizona, policymakers have encouraged economic growth by keeping taxes low
and sweeping the field of unnecessary regulations. It seems a direct approach,
but in reality, it can be a mine field.

In the coming months, legislators will search for ways to restore our state's
economic health and address its enormous budget deficits. Further cuts in
Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System (AHCCCS) provider payments and
reducing eligibility as well as services will appeal to some as a way of
shrinking the state's deficit. Such decisions, however, would be the equivalent
of setting off a mine in the field that our state is committed to clearing for
business.

The state currently pays hospitals 82 percent of their total costs for providing
services to AHCCCS patients. That figure has dropped three points since October
2008, when a payment rate freeze - instituted during the previous legislative
session - went into effect.

Cuts in AHCCCS hospital payments are not just painful for hospitals and the
patients we serve - they hurt Arizona's economy. Hospitals are a unique blend of
economic catalyst and community benefactor. Historically, hospitals have
weathered economic ups and downs better than other industries. For example,
since 2000 Arizona hospital building projects have created more than 4,440
construction jobs each year and infused $1.7 billion into Arizona's gross
economy, according to a study conducted by the W.P. Carey School of Business at
Arizona State University's L. William Seidman Research Institute.

Arizona's hospitals also generate a total of 192,100 Arizona jobs, create
high-paying jobs (employees earn an average of $54,400 annually, compared to the
state average $46,200) and contribute $11.5 billion to Arizona's gross state
product.

Even during these difficult economic times, health care is one of the only
sectors that continue to positively impact the economy. In its January 2009
report, the Bureau of Labor Statistics noted that health care employment -
hospitals and ambulatory services - continued to grow in December 2008.

Like all industries, however, hospitals are tightening their collective belts in
this economy. They have slowed construction, eliminated physician training
programs and, in some cases, even implemented hiring freezes. These necessary
actions coupled with AHCCCS payment cuts only impede the positive role that
Arizona's hospitals could play in the state's economic recovery.

Beyond their direct impact on hospitals' economic activity, cuts in AHCCCS
payments increase the "hidden health care tax" on businesses and make it more
difficult for them to perform in these already challenging times. Arizona's
business leaders understand that cutting AHCCCS hospital payments is equivalent
to imposing a tax on business. If the state does not pay its share of the health
care tab, then private payers-businesses and consumers that purchase commercial
health insurance-foot the bill and we all pay in the form of higher healthcare
premiums. Consider that a recent study by Milliman, Inc., showed government
underpayment for health care services adds 10.6 percent, or $1,512 annually, to
the average health insurance premium for a family of four. Of this, employers
pay an average of $1,115 while the employees' share is $397. Additionally, this
hidden healthcare tax adds $276 to coinsurance and deductibles.

It's information like this that has brought together Arizona's chambers of
commerce, business organizations and healthcare providers to form Arizonans
Against the Hidden Healthcare Tax (AAHHT). This coalition opposes cuts in
AHCCCS, KidsCare and KidsCare Parents, which add to our uninsured population and
increase hospitals' uncompensated care. The group also supports lifting the
AHCCCS hospital payment rate freeze imposed during the 2008 legislative session.
They believe such cuts are bad for business and only will exacerbate the hidden
health care tax as well as hamper their ability to survive, much less thrive, in
this economy.

As legislators begin their very difficult discussions about the state's budget
and scan the field before them for possible cuts, we urge them to recognize that
an AHCCCS cut is a tax on business.

The field is treacherous. We urge lawmakers to step carefully.

- Tom Dickson is the chairman of the Arizona Hospital and Healthcare Association
and CEO of Banner Thunderbird Medical Center in Glendale.

- John Rivers is president and CEO of Arizona Hospital and Healthcare
Association of Phoenix.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 7, 2015 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Virginia's rural hospitals aren't healthy

BYLINE: Patrick Hope

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 695 words


As we discuss government's role in health care in this country, one problem
increasingly stands outneeding immediate attention: the state of medical care in
our rural areas, including in Virginia.

Rural hospitals play a unique role in the communities they serve. They are not
just crucial to the well-being and health-care needs of local residents; they
also are among the leading economic drivers in their regions. According to the
Virginia Hospital and Healthcare Association (VHHA), in 82 percent of Virginia's
rural counties, health care is among the top five largest employers .

Virginia's rural hospitals directly employ more than 17,000 workers, the VHHA
reports. These are jobs that pay well above average wages and have historically
offered stable employment and advancement up the economic ladder.

Beyond their own economic activity, rural hospitals enhance the ability to
develop economically. When choosing a community, employers view the presence of
a hospital as a signal of the area's strength and rely on hospitals to help them
maintain a healthy and productive workforce.

Despite their outsize importance, both medically and economically, rural
hospitals are battling the toughest fiscal environment they have ever
encountered. According to the North Carolina Rural Health Research and Policy
Analysis Center, almost 50 rural hospitals have closed nationally in just the
past four years. Here in Virginia, one of our rural facilities closed in 2013.
The financial outlook for our other hospitals is daunting.

Nearly half of Virginia's rural hospitals had negative operating margins in
2012, the VHHA says, and more than 20 percent have a negative net worth. Our
rural hospitals expect to be paid in full by only 1 in 5 patients they see. Most
patients at our rural hospitals are covered by Medicare , which already pays
only about 90 percent of a hospital's cost of care.

Now, our hospitals face nearly $1 billion in direct cuts to Medicaid and
Medicare in 2015 and 2016, with no end in sight to such reductions. For
Virginia's rural hospitals, the situation is serious, and it is only growing
more difficult by the day. The VHHA estimates that with these cuts operating
margins at our rural hospitals will fall to zero by the year 2022.

In the face of these challenges, rural hospitals continue to faithfully adhere
to their solemn obligation to provide service to anyone who comes through their
doors. That care is provided regardless of whether the person can pay. They
strive to meet the needs of their communities and, as a result, nearly every
Virginian is within 20 miles of a fully functional hospital that is open 24
hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year.

Of course this commitment creates very real financial pressures that other
businesses do not confront. But that care is crucial to the success of economic
development and job creation in the commonwealth. Businesses simply cannot be
expected to open in communities that lack health-care infrastructure. If we are
serious about ensuring the economic vitality of our rural communities, a major
component of that effort must be ensuring they retain excellent hospitals that
are accessible and affordable.

While Virginia has many different regions, and those regions have many specific
needs, we cannot stand by and watch some areas move forward as others fall back.
Our rural hospitals face the same challenges as their counterparts nationally,
and it is incumbent on those of us in state government to find the policy
solutions necessary to address these challenges.

While we can argue about specific policy details, the reality is our rural
hospitals need serious, immediate financial help. They face a situation that is
only growing worse. Medicaid expansion would be the simplest and most
financially sensible course. I continue to advocate strongly for it. But I also
continue to urge all lawmakers to look for any means by which we can provide the
financial support our rural health-care providers need to continue to serve the
Virginians who depend upon them every single day, in every single community.

The writer, a Democrat, represents Arlington in the Virginia House of Delegates.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2015 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            October 24, 2010 Sunday

S&P: US Healthcare Costs Rise 7.32% Over the 12-Months Ending August 2010

LENGTH: 727  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Oct. 24 -- Data released today by Standard & Poor's for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicates that the average per capita cost
of healthcare services covered by private insurance and Medicare programs rose
7.32% over the 12 months ending August 2010. Hospital and physician claims for
patients covered under commercial health plans were the hardest hit, as claim
costs associated with commercial health plans rose 8.66%, as measured by the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index. Medicare claim costs for services rendered
by hospitals and physicians rose a more modest 5.08%, as depicted by the S&P
Healthcare Economic Medicare Index.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the index levels
versus the same month of the prior year.

"Healthcare costs continued to rise in the month of August. The annual rates of
change for the Composite, Commercial and Medicare Indices were +7.32%, +8.66%
and +5.08%, respectively. August data shows that the most significant rise in
healthcare costs was those covered by commercial health insurance plans," says
David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at Standard & Poor's. "If you
look at these data by service provider, the annual change in hospital claims
costs, at +7.41%, are only slightly above those for professional services,
+7.01%. This is far different than what we witnessed in the middle of 2009, when
hospital claims costs were rising close to 8.0% per year, while professional
services were growing at a more modest 6.0%.

"Looking across the family of S&P Healthcare Indices, we have seen a trend of
moderation in the annual growth rates, particularly in the last 12 months. This
is most prominent with Medicare claims costs. In November 2009 those costs were
rising at an annual rate of 7.94%. With August's report we see that the rate has
fallen to +5.08%.

"Two caveats to these figures: first Medicare is subject to different regulatory
and market effects than the Commercial Index. Second, these data, which are
through August 2010, do not reflect any impact of the recently passed federal
health care legislation. As the cost of healthcare is a daily topic of
discussion, we expect many to use these indices to understand changes in
healthcare costs for the insured population in the U.S., by both service
provider and by benefits coverage."

The S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index is a weighted average of the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare
Index. Alternatively, it is a weighted average of the S&P Healthcare Economic
Hospital Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index, as
each of these indices has the analogous Commercial and Medicare component.

The table below summarizes the year-over-year change in the S&P Healthcare
Economic Indices for the 12-month period ending August 2010. With each monthly
release, the index levels, including the 12 month moving averages, are
recalculated for the full history of the indices, whenever there are revisions
to an underlying data used in the models. The entire revised history, as well as
full results for the underlying S&P Healthcare Economic Indices are available
from Standard & Poor's as a subscription service.

S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

(12-Month Moving Average)

Index

1-Year Change (%)

S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index

7.32%

S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index

8.66%

S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index

5.08%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Index

7.41%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Medicare Index

4.48%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Commercial Index

9.66%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index

7.01%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Medicare Index

5.62%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Commercial Index

7.60%

Source: Standard & Poor's

Data through August 201 Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                           October 23, 2010 Saturday

S&P: US Healthcare Costs Rise 7.32% Over the 12-Months Ending August 2010

LENGTH: 727  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Oct. 23 -- Data released today by Standard & Poor's for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicates that the average per capita cost
of healthcare services covered by private insurance and Medicare programs rose
7.32% over the 12 months ending August 2010. Hospital and physician claims for
patients covered under commercial health plans were the hardest hit, as claim
costs associated with commercial health plans rose 8.66%, as measured by the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index. Medicare claim costs for services rendered
by hospitals and physicians rose a more modest 5.08%, as depicted by the S&P
Healthcare Economic Medicare Index.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the index levels
versus the same month of the prior year.

"Healthcare costs continued to rise in the month of August. The annual rates of
change for the Composite, Commercial and Medicare Indices were +7.32%, +8.66%
and +5.08%, respectively. August data shows that the most significant rise in
healthcare costs was those covered by commercial health insurance plans," says
David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at Standard & Poor's. "If you
look at these data by service provider, the annual change in hospital claims
costs, at +7.41%, are only slightly above those for professional services,
+7.01%. This is far different than what we witnessed in the middle of 2009, when
hospital claims costs were rising close to 8.0% per year, while professional
services were growing at a more modest 6.0%.

"Looking across the family of S&P Healthcare Indices, we have seen a trend of
moderation in the annual growth rates, particularly in the last 12 months. This
is most prominent with Medicare claims costs. In November 2009 those costs were
rising at an annual rate of 7.94%. With August's report we see that the rate has
fallen to +5.08%.

"Two caveats to these figures: first Medicare is subject to different regulatory
and market effects than the Commercial Index. Second, these data, which are
through August 2010, do not reflect any impact of the recently passed federal
health care legislation. As the cost of healthcare is a daily topic of
discussion, we expect many to use these indices to understand changes in
healthcare costs for the insured population in the U.S., by both service
provider and by benefits coverage."

The S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index is a weighted average of the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare
Index. Alternatively, it is a weighted average of the S&P Healthcare Economic
Hospital Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index, as
each of these indices has the analogous Commercial and Medicare component.

The table below summarizes the year-over-year change in the S&P Healthcare
Economic Indices for the 12-month period ending August 2010. With each monthly
release, the index levels, including the 12 month moving averages, are
recalculated for the full history of the indices, whenever there are revisions
to an underlying data used in the models. The entire revised history, as well as
full results for the underlying S&P Healthcare Economic Indices are available
from Standard & Poor's as a subscription service.

S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

(12-Month Moving Average)

Index

1-Year Change (%)

S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index

7.32%

S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index

8.66%

S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index

5.08%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Index

7.41%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Medicare Index

4.48%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Commercial Index

9.66%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index

7.01%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Medicare Index

5.62%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Commercial Index

7.60%

Source: Standard & Poor's

Data through August 2010 Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      East Valley Tribune (Mesa, Arizona)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 1, 2009 Sunday

Banner's Pinal hospital opening date still mystery: Queen Creek negotiating
plans to annex the medical facilities' land

BYLINE: Amanda Keim, The Tribune, Mesa, Ariz.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 558 words


Nov. 1--Banner Health plans to announce a timeline for opening its new Ironwood
location by the end of the year.

Meanwhile, Queen Creek and Banner are continuing talks on annexing the hospital
into the town, which Town Manager John Kross hopes will happen by the time the
facility starts accepting patients.

Banner hoped to open the $128 million first phase of the Banner Ironwood Medical
Campus, located at Gantzel and Combs roads in Pinal County, this month. But the
company announced last year that opening date would be pushed out due to
economic conditions.

Banner had originally said the date would be delayed a year. On Friday, Banner
spokeswoman Susan Gordon said an exact date is still being determined.

"We'll be making an announcement before the end of the year," Gordon said. "We
will open. It's just a question of when."

Construction is pretty much complete at this point, although some more work will
have to be done to install equipment once an opening date is set, Gordon said.

The hospital met with town representatives this week, which was the first time
the two sides had talked in a while, Kross said.

But both groups say they're still working to annex the hospital into the town.

Banner Ironwood was built in unincorporated Pinal County in an area that was
recently named San Tan Valley. Queen Creek annexed land near the hospital site
last September, but has yet to annex the hospital itself.

Kross would like the hospital to open with a Queen Creek address, although
Gordon said the hospital's timeline probably isn't as strong for annexation.

Having the hospital in Queen Creek instead of a couple of miles outside of its
border will serve as a catalyst for economic development in the southeastern
part of town, Kross said.

"From an economic development standpoint, it's extremely important," Kross said.
"When our economic development department goes to market the town to businesses,
we can tell them we have a major hospital in Queen Creek."

Access to emergency services and infrastructure is the hospital's primary
benefit to annexation, Gordon said.

Impact for things like medical support offices are also lower in Queen Creek
than they are in unincorporated Pinal County. There are a few more hurdles Queen
Creek will have to jump before it can annex the hospital. For instance, since
there's a shopping center between the hospital and town limits, that shopping
center will have to be annexed with the hospital, Kross said. Kross said talks
with Barclay Group, the shopping center's management company, are going well.
The person at Barclay Group with information on annexation talks wasn't
available Friday because the office was in the process of moving.

CONTACT WRITER:

(480) 898-6574

or akeim@evtrib.com

NEARING COMPLETION: Banner Health's Ironwood location, shown in an earlier stage
of construction, is pretty much complete at this point and awaiting an opening
date, Banner spokeswoman Susan Gordon said. SUBMITTED

To see more of The Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.eastvalleytribune.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Tribune, Mesa, Ariz.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091101-MZ-Banner-s-Pinal-hospital-opening-date-still-mystery-1101

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MZ


                       Copyright 2009 East Valley Tribune


                              70 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                     Western Kansas World (Wakeeny, Kansas)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               February 27, 2014

Importance of Kansas Hospitals

BYLINE: Western Kansas World staff

LENGTH: 801  words


As the fifth largest producer of total income and sales in the state, the Kansas
health sector is a powerful economic force. The contributions of the health care
systems to the state's economy are often overlooked, including the number of
people employed, the impact of hospital and health system purchases and the
impact of employees' spending and tax payments.

A January 2014 report entitled The Importance of the Health Care Sector to the
Kansas Economy, produced by researchers at the Office of Local Government,
K-State Research and Extension, estimated the "gross" impacts associated with
the health care sector on economic activity in the State of Kansas. The report
identified three general areas of health care's importance to the state's
economy: 1) health care attracts and retains business and industry; 2) health
care attracts and retains retirees; and 3) health care creates jobs in the local
economy.

"Hospitals and health services truly represent an economic anchor in our state,"
said Tom Bell, president and CEO of the Kansas Hospital Association. "This
report documents the relative importance of the health care sector to the Kansas
economy. While the estimates of economic impact are substantial, they are only a
partial accounting of the benefits that health care in general, and community
hospitals in particular, provide to the state. Kansas community hospitals help
to not only stabilize the population base, but also invigorate their communities
and contribute significantly to the quality of life."

According to the report, Kansas hospitals employ 81,303 people or 4.3 percent of
all job holders in the state. The report calculated economic multipliers and
estimated that hospitals account for nearly 60,000 additional jobs throughout
all businesses and industries in the state. Thus, the hospital sector employment
had a total impact on state employment of more than 140,000 jobs. This means
that for each job created in the hospital sector, another 0.73 jobs were
supported in other businesses and industries in Kansas.

Furthermore, the entire health sector in Kansas employs nearly 224,000 people or
12 percent of all job holders in the state. This puts Kansas ahead of the
national average of 10 percent of all job holders in the United States working
in health care services. The total employment impact of the health services
sector in Kansas resulted in an estimated 349,000 jobs in the Kansas economy.
The health care sector is the fourth largest aggregate employer in the state.

The study found that Kansas hospitals generate approximately 5.2 billion in
direct labor income to the Kansas economy each year. For every one dollar of
income generated in the hospital sector, another $0.46 was generated in other
business and industry. Thus, the hospital sector had an estimated total impact
on income throughout all business and industry of nearly $7.6 billion.

The impact of health care services in Kansas will grow even more if Kansas can
develop a solution to expand the KanCare program. The ability to cover more than
169,000 low-income Kansans has the potential to inject $800 million in federal
dollars into the Kanas economy over three years. In addition, a recent study
conducted by researchers at Regional Economic Models, Inc. and George Washington
University shows that KanCare expansion could create approximately 4,000 new
jobs by 2020.

Jobs are an essential part of the economic impact, but funds spent to buy goods
and services flow from hospitals to businesses and then ripple throughout the
economy as well. The impact of hospitals on area retail sales generates more
than $2.5 billion to the Kansas economy each year. Additionally, it is estimated
that the hospital sector generates nearly $154 million in sales tax for the
state, which is largely used to fund state programs.

"While these raw numbers indicate the importance of community hospitals and
health services to the Kansas economy, they also make it clear that the
challenges faced by our state cannot be met by those directly responsible for
health care administration alone," said Bell. "These challenges require a
community-wide response involving government, business and civic leaders. They
also require supportive state- and federal-level policies and programs that
don't take for granted the access to care provided by the community hospital."

The Kansas Hospital Association is a not-for-profit association of health care
provider organizations and individuals that are committed to the health
improvement of their communities. KHA membership includes 215 member facilities,
of which 128 are full-service community hospitals. Founded in 1910, KHA
maintains its vision of "an organization of hospitals working together to
improve access, quality and the affordabil-ity of health care for all Kansans."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WKW

                      Copyright 2014 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                      Copyright 2014 Western Kansas World


                              71 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

Health care remains state economic driver

BYLINE: Bobby Harrison, Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 603 words


Sept. 29--JACKSON -- The health care industry is not only important to the
overall physical wellness of Mississippians, but also is vital to their
financial well-being.

That was one of the messages from the annual Mississippi Economic Outlook
Conference conducted Wednesday by the Institutions of Higher Learning Policy and
Research Planning division.

The overall theme was that the national economy had slowed and that some believe
there is a 40 percent chance of another recession. And closer to home, the state
economy continues to underperform the national economy.

Marcella McKay, chief operating officer for the Mississippi Hospital
Association, said in many communities the local hospital is the area's largest
employer and primary economic engine.

"Often the economic importance of hospitals is overlooked in the communities
they serve," McKay told the about 50 policy experts and others who attended the
conference at the IHL complex in Jackson.

She said 60,140 people are employed in hospitals across the state with an
average annual salary of $42,193 -- $9,000 above the overall state average.

While the health care industry is in some ways recession-proof, McKay said there
are ongoing factors also affecting health care in Mississippi.

For instance, the amount of uncompensated care hospitals perform has risen
during the current economic woes since more people are unemployed and without
health insurance. Mississippi hospitals are not compensated for 9 percent of the
care they provide.

Overall, 41 percent of all hospital services in the state are paid for through
Medicare, a federal program for the elderly, while 16 percent are paid through
Medicaid, a federal-state program primarily for poor pregnant women and their
children, the disabled and the elderly. Insurance and self-pay account for the
other 34 percent.

McKay said the downturn in the economy, leading to less state tax revenue, also
is a concern for hospitals because of state budget cuts. She said cuts to
universities and colleges have the potential of impacting the programs that
train their employees.

"These programs are labor intensive and costly to run. We get concerned about
budget cuts to universities and colleges," she said.

National health care reform and other federal changes also will impact
Mississippi hospitals. As part of the reform package, McKay said providers will
move toward "bundled billing" where a person does not receive separate bills
from the treating physicians and the hospital.

In other news from the conference, Mary Beth Wilkerson, the state tourism
director, said Tupelo's hotel/motel occupancy was up 23.1 percent during the
first seven months of the year. She attributed the jump to business travel
surrounding the opening of the $1.3 billion Toyota manufacturing plant later
this year in nearby Blue Springs.

Several speakers said one of the biggest issues currently facing the economy is
that consumers are not spending money.

"We really think there is a lot of pent-up demand," said Marty Milstead,
director of the Mississippi Homebuilders Association.

The number of people needing housing is growing, even though sales of new and
existing homes remain sluggish.

"People are staying at home longer, staying with parents longer," he said. "The
divorce rate is actually going down. We don't think people are loving each other
more ... The signs show people are staying together for business reasons."

bobby.harrison@journalinc.com

___ (c)2011 the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) Visit the
Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) at www.nems360.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110929-TP-HLT-Health-care-remains-state-economic-driver-0929-20110929

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TP


               Copyright 2011 Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal


                              72 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Moultrie Observer (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 18, 2013 Wednesday

Colquitt Regional Medical Center has $149 million impact

BYLINE: The Moultrie Observer, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 635 words


Sept. 18--MOULTRIE -- In 2011, Colquitt Regional Medical Center in Moultrie
generated more than $149 million in revenue for the local and state economy,
according to a recent report by the Georgia Hospital Association (GHA).

The GHA is the state's largest hospital trade association. During that same time
period, the report also found that Colquitt Regional provided more than $8
million in uncompensated care while sustaining 738 full- and part-time jobs.

The report revealed that Colquitt Regional had direct expenditures of more than
$65 million in 2011. When combined with the economic multiplier developed by the
United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total
economic impact of those expenditures was more than $149 million. This output
multiplier considers the "ripple" effect of direct hospital expenditures on
other sectors of the economy, such as medical supplies, durable medical
equipment and pharmaceuticals. Economic multipliers are used to model the
resulting impact of a change in one industry on the "circular flow" of spending
within an economy as a whole.

"This new report shows that, even in difficult economic times, Colquitt Regional
has an enormous positive impact on our local economy," said Jim Matney,
president and CEO of Colquitt Regional. "We thank the Colquitt County community
for their unwavering support of their local hospital. We will continue to work
hard to ensure that the citizens of this community have access to health care
services that are second to none in quality and affordability."

Matney continued, "It is the hospital's strategy to shop locally and boost our
community's economy. This includes moving our financial accounts to local banks
and using local vendors as much as possible."

He continued, "With our renovation construction project, we are using many local
businesses in all trades to complete the work. From floor installation to
electrical engineering, our goal is to utilize and stimulate our local economy.
We are a community hospital and we want as much partnership with the community
as possible."

While Colquitt Regional remains a major component of the area's economic engine,
the hospital's leadership, like the rest of the Georgia hospital community, is
concerned about a wide array of economic challenges that have made it
increasingly difficult to meet the community's health care needs, including
continued cuts in Medicare and Medicaid payments and a fast-growing uninsured
population. Presently, more than a third of all hospitals in Georgia are
operating with negative margins, Matney said.

"We are extremely concerned with the current operating environment for
hospitals," said Matney. "We have made a commitment to every citizen of this
community to be on call for them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. But our
ability to do so is being compromised when, in many cases, we're seeing an
increasing number of uninsured patients while the state is paying us far less
than what it actually costs to treat Medicaid patients."

According to Matney, state lawmakers must work to protect the state's health
care system with the same fervor that they do other initiatives like education
and public utilities.

"Our local health care system is indispensable," said Matney. "It is the primary
guardian of health in our community and is the key building block for everything
else in our community including education and economic vitality. It is our hope
that, even in these challenging economic times, our elected lawmakers will do
what is necessary to protect our local health care system and preserve access to
health care for every resident of Colquitt County."

___ (c)2013 The Moultrie Observer (Moultrie, Ga.) Visit The Moultrie Observer
(Moultrie, Ga.) at www.moultrieobserver.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130918-GJ-Colquitt-Regional-Medical-Center-has-149-million-impact-0918-2013091
8

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GJ


                      Copyright 2013 The Moultrie Observer


                              73 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday
                                  City Edition

Integris begins construction ;
EDMOND;
$90M HOSPITAL PROJECT CALLED SIGN OF CONFIDENCE IN COMMUNITY

BYLINE: JIM STAFFORD, Business Writer <br> jstafford@opubco.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 333 words


Integris Health celebrated the start of construction Wednesday on a $90 million
Edmond hospital along Interstate 35 that is expected to spark a wave of economic
development across the area.

Edmond Mayor Dan O'Neil, one of the speakers at a ceremony at Henderson Hills
Baptist Church, predicted that more than 200,000 square feet of office space
will be built in the surrounding area.

"And that's just phase one," O'Neil said. "There are always meetings involving
doctors, so that would cause more requirements for places to meet such as
offices."

Plus, there will be hotels and other businesses built to support the hospital in
an area of Edmond exploding with growth.

"You can look at a hospital as being a creator of what I call primary jobs,"
said Ken Moore, president and chief executive of the Edmond Area Chamber of
Commerce. "Having good primary jobs provides more income for the service sector
jobs that are created as the result of the primary jobs."

How big an impact?

To appreciate the potential economic impact that the Integris Health Edmond
hospital will have on the I-35 corridor in Edmond, consider the city of Yukon,
said Stan Hupfeld, Integris Health chief executive.

Integris opened the Integris Canadian Valley Medical Center in Yukon in 2001,
and it has become a magnet for economic development in that Canadian County
community, Hupfeld said.

"If you look at a picture of the surrounding area before we built that hospital
and you go look at it today, it is unbelievable the development that has
happened," Hupfeld said. "It's just spectacular."

An 'economic engine'

Similar development is anticipated once the 40-bed Integris Health hospital is
completed in 2010.

"Clearly hospitals are an economic engine," Hupfeld said.

"It's an economic engine because it's a sign of confidence that someone has in
this economy and community, and it brings, obviously, a payroll that is highly
educated. There is something magical about it. I think the same thing is going
to happen here."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A giving community

BYLINE: Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 356 words


This has been a tough year - so far - in Ottawa. The city's biggest employer,
the federal government, is undergoing a major downsizing and doing it in a way
that spreads the uncertainty beyond those who will eventually lose their jobs.

Government layoffs, especially at a time when the world economic news is grim,
mean the city's economy is depressed. Throughout Eastern Ontario, the economic
news has also been bad lately. That makes what happened last weekend at the
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario telethon all the more worth celebrating.

The annual telethon, which collects and tallies donations and pledges to help
the children's hospital provide a number of pediatric programs as well as
helping to assist families, support research, offer medical education and buy
equipment, raised a record-setting amount of money: $6,448,260. That record
comes at a time when many families throughout the region are reducing their
spending at home.

The achievement is a strong signal that community support for the hospital,
rather than diminishing during economic-ally rough times, has strengthened. And
that should make even those who never use the hospital feel good about their
community.

Philanthropy has long played an important role in health care, and that role is
perhaps more important now than ever. That philanthropy takes many forms. There
are the big donations that help hospitals and health centres expand. In re-cent
years, local philanthropists Dan and Roger Greenberg, for example, have each
donated $1 million to cancer centres at Queensway Carleton and Ottawa hospitals.
There are other such big-ticket donations that help build new wings and clinics
and purchase state-of-the-art equipment.

But there are smaller charitable acts as well, and each is important to the
functioning of hospitals and health centres. From groups who knit hats for
preemies and small babies to those who pledge a small amount of money, they all
ensure that, not only is quality health care available, but it is also an
intrinsic part of the community.

And, no matter what the economic indicators say, that sup-port is a sign of a
healthy community.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times (Munster, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 19, 2011 Wednesday

Report shows economic impact of Munster hospital

BYLINE: Kathleen Quilligan, The Times, Munster, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 309 words


Jan. 19--MUNSTER -- A local, for-profit hospital contributed 240 jobs and a
total economic impact of more than $44.8 million in 2009, according to an
economic vitality report released Tuesday.

Franciscan Physicians Hospital, 701 Superior Ave., is a 63-bed facility
partially owned by physicians and partially owned by the Franciscan Alliance
Northern Indiana Region, formerly known as the Sisters of St. Francis Health
Services. The report released by the hospital Tuesday was created by the Indiana
Hospital Association, said hospital spokesman Andrew Mullins.

"Being in such a competitive area, we wanted to show, aside from our medical
services, what our impact is," he said.

According to the report, the hospital employs 169 health care professionals, who
earn $11 million. Its total payroll is $18.4 million. Spending by hospital
employees supported an additional 111 jobs in the community, according to the
report.

The hospital paid $588,429 in real estate taxes in 2009 and spent $1.4 million
on buildings and equipment, the report said.

Mullins said it's important for the impact of the hospital to be disclosed
because funding is an important piece of the health care puzzle. The report
urges state legislators, members of Congress and community leaders to see the
role the hospital plays in community for the continued investment in state
health care dollars. He said if hospitals don't follow the guidelines of health
care reform legislation, they won't be reimbursed, and reimbursement affects the
work the hospital does.

To see more of The Times or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.nwitimes.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Times, Munster, Ind.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110119-MU-Report-shows-economic-impact-of-Munster-hospital-20110119

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MU


                            Copyright 2011 The Times


                              76 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Meridian Star (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 12, 2010 Friday

New hospital breaks ground in Kemper County

BYLINE: Byron Wilkes, The Meridian Star, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 393 words


Mar. 12--MERIDIAN -- DeKalb and Kemper County will get to enjoy the benefits of
modern health care right next door, thanks to the efforts of several civic and
economic organizations in the area.

The Kemper County Economic Development Authority, Rush Health Systems, and other
local and state officials broke ground for the future John C. Stennis Memorial
Hospital in DeKalb Thursday.

"We didn't have a facility and actually one of the first things we looked at was
just emergency facility, common triage facility," said Brian Henson, executive
director for the Kemper County Economic Development Authority. "As we got to
talking... Rush made contact with us and was interested in possibly building a
hospital."

The hospital, which will include state-of-the-art facilities and a helipad, is
part of a 20-acre site that Henson said hopefully will attract doctors' offices
and clinics, increasing the economic outlook of the area in a crucial time.

"We're talking about 88 job opportunities, well-paying job opportunities for
this area," Henson said.

Henson also spoke on the various agencies that came together to make the
hospital a reality, including board of supervisors, mayors of both Scooba and
DeKalb, East Mississippi Community College and various civic groups.

"It's very humbling from my standpoint to see a community come together like
they did for this," Henson said. "This is a hospital that the people can not
just be thankful they've got; they can feel some sense of ownership in my
opinion."

Henson said he expects the hospital to be built in about 10 to 12 months.

"A hospital is a very difficult building to build," Henson said.

"It's very code-driven. It's a little more detailed work than your typical
building, so it'll take a little longer than most buildings."

When the hospital is finished, however, residents of DeKalb and the nearby area
will be able to enjoy not only its economic benefits, but most likely a higher
quality of life.

To see more of The Meridian Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.meridianstar.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Meridian Star, Miss.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100312-ZG-New-hospital-breaks-ground-in-Kemper-County-0312

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZG


                        Copyright 2010 The Meridian Star


                              77 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            December 20, 2010 Monday

S&P: US Healthcare Costs Rise 6.70% Over the 12-Months Ending October 2010

LENGTH: 757  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Dec. 20 -- Data released today by Standard & Poor's for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicates that the average per capita cost
of healthcare services covered by commercial insurance and Medicare programs
rose 6.70% over the 12-months ending October 2010. This is a deceleration from
the 7.08% reported for the 12-months ending in September 2010.

Claim costs associated with hospital and professional services for patients
covered under commercial health plans rose 8.21% over the year ending in
October, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index. Looking at
the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index, Medicare claim costs for services
rendered by hospitals and physicians rose at roughly half that growth rate, up
4.18%. This is the lowest annual growth rate for Medicare claims costs since
January 2008, when it was +4.02%. These two indices both saw growth deceleration
versus their September reports of 8.53% and 4.68%, respectively.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the monthly
index levels versus the same month of the prior year.

"The annual growth rate of Medicare and commercial insurance costs has slowed
significantly in the last five months and substantially dropped in the month of
October," says David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at Standard &
Poor's. "In the 12 months ended in October, the composite index rose 6.70%,
which is 1.7 percentage points less than our recorded peak of 8.40% in May 2010.
Expenditures associated with commercial health insurance plans continue to
significantly outpace expenditures for Medicare; the commercial increase over
the 12 months to October was 8.21% vs. 4.18% for Medicare.

"We are seeing two patterns in these data. The first is the large and growing
difference between commercial and Medicare annual growth rates, and the second
is the across-the-board deceleration in these rates in 2010. Since May, 2010,
most of the indices annual growth rates have declined month-to-month. Indeed,
the slowdown in annual expenditure growth continued with this release. Comparing
the 12-months-to-October with the 12-months-to-September, the Hospital Medicare
Index showed the most moderation in costs, up 3.33% versus +3.96% reported for
September; while the Professional Services Medicare Index showed the slightest
decrease in the growth of expenditures, up 5.13% versus +5.41% in September.
Both the Hospital and Professional Services Commercial Indices annual rates
decelerated by about 0.3% in October."

The S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index is a weighted average of the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare
Index. Alternatively, it is a weighted average of the S&P Healthcare Economic
Hospital Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index, as
each of these indices has the analogous Commercial and Medicare component.

The table below summarizes the year-over-year change in the S&P Healthcare
Economic Indices for the 12-month period ending October 2010. With each monthly
release, the index levels, including the 12-month moving averages, are
recalculated for the full history of the indices, whenever there are revisions
to underlying data used in the models. The entire revised history, as well as
full results for the underlying S&P Healthcare Economic Indices, are available
from Standard & Poor's as a subscription service.

S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

(12-Month Moving Average)

Index

1-Year Change (%)

S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index

6.70%

S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index

8.21%

S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index

4.18%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Index

6.68%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Medicare Index

3.33%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Commercial Index

9.30%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index

6.51%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Medicare Index

5.13%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Commercial Index

7.09%

Source: Standard & Poor's

Data through October 2010 Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Chronicle of Philanthropy

                                  May 29, 2011

A $15-Million Pledge Benefits a Texas Hospital's Outpatients

BYLINE: Caroline Bermudez

SECTION: NOTABLE GIFTS; News

LENGTH: 187  words

ABSTRACT

Lester and Sue Smith, a Houston couple, donated money to help a local
health-care institution better serve its outpatients.

FULL TEXT

How much: $15-million pledge

Who gave it: Lester and Sue Smith, through their foundation. Mr. Smith is head
of Smith Interests, a Houston company that owns gas, minerals, oil, and timber
businesses.

Who got it: Harris County Hospital District Foundation, in Houston, the
fund-raising arm for the public hospital.

Purpose: An ambulatory-care center for outpatients that will be named after the
couple.

Why the donor gave: Mr. Smith, a cancer survivor, says that his Jewish faith
guides his giving. The sluggishness of the economic recovery also prompted his
donation. "These are hard economic times," he says. "There are people who had
health coverage and lost it, and now they don't have anything." With his gift,
he says, more poor people "can go and still get great medical care. Now, that's
a neat deal."

For details about other new gifts, including $20-million to the South Dakota
Community Foundation, go to http://philanthropy.com/topdonors. Send gift news to
gifts@philanthropy.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lester Smith, a cancer survivor, pledged with his wife, Sue, to
supporta Houston hospital.
Gittings
A Public Hospital Gets $15-Million 1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Chronicle of Philanthropy
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    Jacksonville Journal-Courier (Illinois)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 26, 2014 Wednesday

Report says state's hospitals have $83.4 billion impact

BYLINE: Jacksonville Journal-Courier, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 736 words


March 26--Illinois' more than 200 hospitals and nearly 50 health systems
generate a total annual impact of $83.4 billion on the state's economy,
according to a new report by the Illinois Hospital Association that examines the
statewide economic impact of the state's hospitals and health systems.

"Clearly, hospitals and health systems continue to be critical job creators for
their communities," said Illinois Hospital Association President Maryjane A.
Wurth. "Hospitals and health systems are not only vital to the fiscal health of
their communities, they are also essential to ensuring the health and well-being
of all Illinoisans."

In Illinois, one out of every 10 jobs is in healthcare, with the state's
hospitals and health systems employing more than a quarter of a million people,
generating nearly 450,000 direct and indirect jobs. Illinois' hospitals and
health systems have a total economic impact on the local and state economies of
$83.4 billion a year.

Hospitals provide excellent jobs and substantial benefits for a wide range of
workers and spur additional economic activity through their spending on goods,
services and capital improvements. They are a key cornerstone of the local and
state economy.

The report's key findings emphasize the significant number of jobs created by
Illinois hospitals and health systems:

-- One out of every 10 jobs in Illinois is in healthcare;

-- Illinois hospitals and health systems employ more than a quarter of a million
people and expend $16.3 billion a year on wages and benefits, resulting in a
total of 449,868 direct and indirect jobs;

-- The economic impact from hospital/health system payrolls alone is $38.6
billion;

-- Illinois hospitals spend $14.6 billion on goods and services, resulting in
$20.2 billion in other spending in the state economy, for a combined impact of
$34.8 billion;

-- Illinois hospitals also invest in capital improvements, spending $4.2 billion
on buildings and equipment, which generated an additional $5.8 billion for a
total of $10.0 billion;

-- Illinois hospitals generate a total economic impact to the state of $83.4
billion;

-- Each Illinois hospital job generates an additional 1.25 Illinois jobs;

-- Every dollar spent by Illinois hospitals on goods, services and payroll
generates an additional $1.38 in spending throughout the local and state
economy;

Between 2000 and 2013, Illinois health care employment grew by 23.6 percent or
115,600 jobs. In contrast, overall Illinois employment declined by 3.7 percent
or lost 217,300 jobs.

Healthcare is a consistent source of employment for the state. From 2000 to 2013
health care employment grew by an average of 1.6 percent each year while
Illinois statewide employment dropped by an average of 0.3 percent each year
during the same time.

In the last five years, health care employment in Illinois grew by 7.2 percent
(41,200 jobs). During the same time, total employment statewide grew by just 3.7
percent.

The IHA report noted that Illinois hospitals and health systems provide enormous
benefits to their communities with their charity care and uncompensated care;
subsidization of high-cost services such as emergency and trauma care; medical
research; education and training of physicians, nurses and other highly-skilled
health care professionals; and underpayments for services to Medicare and
Medicaid patients that they absorb. Overall community benefits provided by the
more than 100 Illinois hospitals that file annual community benefit reports with
the state is now more than $5.2 billion annually, including $704 million in
charity care, an increase in charity care of 182 percent since 2005.

"We realize that the state and federal governments face fiscal challenges.
However, any further Medicare and Medicaid cuts will undermine hospitals and
health systems as they create jobs and transform health care delivery," Wurth
said. "Illinois' hospitals and health systems have already been hit by
substantial state and federal funding cuts."

Illinois hospitals are absorbing more than $11 billion in Medicare payment
reductions over ten years under health care reform and other federal legislative
and regulatory actions, as well as more than $380 million in state Medicaid
reductions since 2011.

___ (c)2014 Jacksonville Journal-Courier (Jacksonville, Ill.) Visit the
Jacksonville Journal-Courier (Jacksonville, Ill.) at www.myjournalcourier.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140326-JJ-Report-says-state-s-hospitals
-have-83.4-billion-impact-20140326

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JJ


                  Copyright 2014 Jacksonville Journal-Courier


                              80 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                The Wayne County Outlook (Monticello, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

Hospital provides economic lifeline

BYLINE: Casey Tolliver, The Wayne County Outlook, Monticello, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 836 words


Dec. 01--Hospitals are seen as a sanctuary for the sick, a place of treatment

and recovery, but seldom are hospitals seen as an economic boon.

However, certain data demonstrates how the Wayne County Hospital has

proven to be a local economic juggernaut.

"We realize smaller hospitals are a major factor in the local

economy," Wayne County Hospital (WCH) CEO Joe Murrell said.

"Basically, we're neighbors and friends and realize how important we

are. We're just delighted to be here and happy to serve the community

in that capacity."

According to the most recent data available from the Kentucky

Hospital Association (KHA), WCH spent nearly $8.1 million on employee

wages and salaries and purchases of supplies and services in 2013.

Jobs and payroll created by hospitals across the state produce a

significant chunk of employment opportunities.

Locally, that chunk may be even more significant, according to local

officials.

"It (WCH) employs 132 full time and 181 total staff. This of course,

provides occupational taxes to the county. Those salaries and wages

create a trickle down impact to groceries, gas stations, car sales

and much more," Wayne County Judge-Executive Mike Anderson said.

Last year, overall employment by the state's hospitals rose due to

greater community needs for inpatient and outpatient services,

according to the KHA.

Jobs and payroll generated by Kentucky's hospitals supply tax

revenue to state and local governments, and support other Kentucky

businesses through the purchase of goods and services, the KHA said

in a report.

Statewide, hospitals rank eighth highest among other industries in

Kentucky, when it comes to providing full-time jobs.

Not only does the hospital provide a large number of jobs in smaller

communities, more often than not, those jobs are higher paying jobs

when compared to other industries, due to the fact that most hospital

employees are highly trained.

According to KHA data, the average hospital employee wage is 24

percent higher than the average wage of all other private employers

of the state.

Locally, the $5.5 million in wages and salaries Wayne County

Hospital pays their employees consists of nearly four percent of all

wages and salaries in the entire county.

In addition, the local hospital's capital projects created

additional jobs in the community.

In 2013, WCH spent nearly $800,000 on capital projects, which in

turn created jobs in the local construction industry.

Tax payments are another typically unseen way the hospital beefs up

the local economy.

WCH generated nearly $800,000 in state and local tax revenue through

taxes paid directly and tax revenue derived from employees and nearly

$50,000 in local occupational taxes, according to the KHA.

On top of that, the hospital paid nearly $280,000 in provider taxes

to the state, which helps support the Kentucky Medicaid program.

Coupled with matching federal funds, the Wayne County Hospital's

provider tax supported nearly $930,000 in state Medicaid spending,

the KHA said.

In total, the state receives $465,000 in income and sales taxes

linked to wages and salaries of Wayne County Hospital employees.

Besides the payroll numbers, the hospital is a proven powerhouse in

local spending.

WCH is responsible for generating approximately $4.8 million in

local economic activity from purchases it made and those made by its

employees.

Wayne County Hospital purchased many goods and services and generated

nearly $2.5 million annually in purchases from local businesses

Spending by hospital employees alone nearly matched that, after

hospital employees spent nearly $2.3 million in local purchases.

"As you can see the economic impact of the local hospital is vital

to our

community. They have a very skilled workforce dedicated to saving

lives and

providing excellent health care," Anderson said.

Rural hospitals have been the subject of intense speculation recently

Kentucky Auditor Adam Edelen released a scathing report earlier this

year that painted a dreadful financial outlook for many rural

hospitals in the state.

According to Edelen's report, as many as one-third of Kentucky's

rural hospitals are in poor financial shape, despite the economic

boon they present to smaller communities.

In his report, Edelen warned those hospitals, including WCH, were in

danger of closing due to their poor financial condition.

WCH Board of Directors Chairman Larry Bates responded to Edelen's

report in a letter to the Wayne County Outlook.

In that letter, Bates said like other rural hospitals put on notice

by Edelen, WCH's struggles stem from Medicaid Managed Care

reimbursement issues, as well as a variety of complex regulations

surrounding those managed care plans.

Despite those economic woes, WCH has proven sustain its fair share

of the local economy.

"We're well aware that we're an integral part of the community.

We're delighted to be here and glad to be such a big part of the

local economy," Murrell said.

___ (c)2015 The Wayne County Outlook (Monticello, Ky.) Visit The Wayne County
Outlook (Monticello, Ky.) at www.wcoutlook.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151201-OZ-Hospital-provides-economic-lifeline-1201-20151201

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OZ


                    Copyright 2015 The Wayne County Outlook


                              81 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Jamestown Sun (North Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday

Hospital could help the area's economy

BYLINE: Katie Ryan-Anderson, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1063 words


July 12--Aside from the implications for regional health care, the Jamestown
Regional Medical Center may affect the amount of money earned and spent in
Stutsman County. Experts say the economic effects may surprise even the
hospitals' top advocates.

After a decade in development, the Jamestown Regional Medical Center opens July
31.

The money comes in three categories: direct, indirect and induced, according to
Lance Brower, Stutsman County Extension agent for North Dakota State University.
Direct spending refers to money the hospital generates. Indirect spending refers
to spending other businesses do. So, if a hospital contractor purchased lumber
from a local lumberyard, it would be considered indirect spending. Induced
spending is the amount of money employees spend on personal living.

According to Brower's calculations, the new medical center will result in a
$33.7 million economic effect specifically in Stutsman County. This only
includes money spent in Stutsman County and would not include money spent in
surrounding counties like Cass or Burleigh.

The hospital will employ about 239 full-time employee equivalents. But the
business of the hospital itself results in about 28 indirect full-time
equivalents (the contractor and his crew, for example) and about 54 induced
full-time equivalents (like a teacher at the school or barista at a coffee
shop).

"It's actually a boost to the economy," Brower said, saying the medical center
affects everybody.

Funding for the $52 million medical center stems from the $6 million the
hospital raised itself and $46 million in direct and guaranteed funding from
U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development. The USDA loaned the hospital
$31 million in a "tremendous financing package" according to Alan O'Neil,
Jamestown Regional Medical Center chief financial officer.

The USDA guaranteed a $15 million loan, meaning it partnered with Jamestown
Regional Medical Center and essentially co-signed for the loan from a
third-party bank.

The funding comes from President Barack Obama's stimulus package, said Jasper
Schneider, state director for USDA Rural Development in North Dakota. It means
the taxpayers loaned the medical center the money and will earn it back with
interest.

The project was important to USDA because the organization is committed to the
future of small towns and rural areas, Schneider said.

"Health care is so vitally important to the success of our rural communities,"
Schneider said.

One of the short-term economic impacts of the project, which was the largest his
office has ever financed, Schneider said, is the 700 construction jobs it
created in building the facility. Long-term implications include a
state-of-the-art health care center for Jamestown and its surrounding counties,
he said.

Long-term implications also include its economic effect to the community.

Of the $33.7 million per year economic effect, $25 million is hospital operating
costs, $3.5 million is indirect costs (the construction crew's salary and
expenses) and $5.2 million is induced (the teacher's salary and what hospital
employees spend on their needs and wants).

Some Jamestown residents have criticized the new medical center, saying its
location is an added expense to the city in new roads, sewer system, water
infrastructure, etc.

The medical center has paid those costs, said Marty Richman, Jamestown Regional
Medical Center president and CEO. The hospital also footed the bill for the
roadway entrance to the hospital and its lighting as well as a circular water
line, switch line, gas lines and power lines.

The community is the beneficiary to those assets, Richman said, saying they
total approximately $2 million.

Brower said he was unsure how the economic effect of the new hospital will
compare to the current economic effect of Jamestown Hospital, but he did say the
new medical center will want to hire people.

It already has.

Already, Richman has hired a new orthopedic surgeon, which, with the physician's
salary as well as his or her staff, creates a $2.3 million economic effect in
salaries alone. It looks to hire another orthopedic surgeon, doubling the
economic effect. The hospital also looks to add a neurologist, oncologist and
urologist, bringing the total of new physician and staff salaries and benefits
to $8.6 million per year.

But like Brower said, economic effect is more than salaries. It's how and where
those employees spend that money too.

"Where you go for your health care, that's where you tend to shop," Richman
said, saying the hospital, in its green space location in southwest Jamestown
could be the catalyst for new retail, restaurant or lodging facilities.

That, however, hasn't been the case for the city of Staples, Minn., population
3,000. At least not yet.

The Jamestown Regional Medical Center modeled some of its relocation efforts
after the Lakewood Health System there.

In Staples, the previous facility was located in a primarily residential area.
It moved to a green space area 1.2 miles outside the city limits in January
2007, said Gerel Nelsen, community development director for the city of Staples.

Nelsen said he's had inquiries from employers seeking to locate near the health
center, but the health center owns much of the neighboring land rather than a
public entity like in the case of the Jamestown Regional Medical Center.

Nelsen did say Lakewood Health System added about 250 positions since its move,
many of them professional-level jobs. Its additional jobs have contributed to
the increase in population of the greater Staples area, he said.

"I attribute quite a bit of it (population increase) to the growth of the health
care system," Nelsen said.

Brower said the new medical center may induce an increase in population to the
Jamestown area as well. For every three new jobs created at the hospital, one is
created in Stutsman County, he said.

"I think the scope of the hospital is going to surprise everybody," Brower said.

Sun reporter Katie Ryan-Anderson can be reached at 701-952-8454 or by email at
kryan-anderson@jamestownsun.com

To see more of The Jamestown Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.jamestownsun.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110712-QJ-Hospital-could-help-the-area-s-economy-0712-20110712

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QJ


                        Copyright 2011 The Jamestown Sun


                              82 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 29, 2014 Sunday

EDITORIAL: Hospital sale as economic development project questionable

BYLINE: The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 276 words


June 29--The nearly yearlong saga of attempting to sell Natchez Regional Medical
Center may soon be coming to an end -- one way or another.

Friday the Mississippi Development Authority considered the request of NRMC to
allow the sales process to receive special MDA recognition as an economic
development project.

Doing so would allow the company interested in buying the hospital to pre-pay
property tax as part of an unusual purchase agreement. Many people near the
discussion suggest the designation is a shoo-in, but such a decision seems a far
stretch of the intended purpose of the Regional Economic Development Act.

At the moment the only company publicly interested in purchasing county-owned
Natchez Regional is the parent company of cross-town rival hospital Natchez
Community Hospital.

The idea for both entities is to simply merge together and become more
efficient.

We agree that having a single hospital in Natchez likely means the business of
health care would operate more efficiently and perhaps ultimately result in a
better quality of care.

However, contending that the sale of a public asset to a private one is an
economic development project still seems a bit of a stretch.

In the world of business, "efficient" often means doing the same work with less
people -- that likely won't result in job creation.

We would have hoped -- if creating new jobs or maintaining current ones wasn't
an option -- the hospital could have been sold for real dollars that paid off
the facility's debt.

___ (c)2014 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140629-YY-EDITORIAL-Hospital-sale-as-economic
-development-project-questionable-0629-20140629

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2014 The Natchez Democrat


                              83 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                  May 11, 2009

Hospitals follow through on cost trimming, job cuts

BYLINE: By Victoria Stagg Elliott, AMNews staff. May. 11, 2009

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1273 words



HIGHLIGHT: An industry report suggests job growth is flat and more CEOs are
getting requests from doctors for financial help.


With a growing number of people losing employer-sponsored insurance, the
belt-tightening moves hospital executives talked about in the fall as possibly
necessary to survive the recession have become reality. Demand for subsidized or
free services is increasing, but budgets are being slashed. The hospital job
sector, which has long been buffered from economic swings, is feeling the pinch.

Those are among the conclusions of a report issued April 27 by the American
Hospital Assn., based on a survey taken in March.

"Community need for care remains high and, in these tough times, communities
turn to their local hospital," said AHA President and CEO Rich Umbdenstock. "
Hospitals are walking a tightrope, trying to balance the growing needs of their
communities with today's economic challenges."

The AHA last queried chief executive officers of its member institutions on this
subject in November 2008, and plans to survey them quarterly to determine the
impact of the recession on hospitals.

The organization's first inquiry of 736 CEOs revealed 59% were considering or
already cutting administrative costs and 27% were looking at or actually
reducing staff. This more recent questionnaire filled out by 1,078 CEOs
indicated that 90% made some sort of change, such as cutting administrative
expenses, reducing staff, eliminating some services, debating a merger or
divesting assets.

The prior survey also found that 56% were reconsidering spending money on
expanding capacity or other renovations. Approximately 45% were questioning
whether to invest in clinical technology or equipment.

In March, 77% actually did reduce capital spending and 46% scaled back ongoing
projects.

The more recent survey also found 65% had a moderate or significant decrease in
total margins, which includes investment income, and 57% had a moderate or
significant drop in operating margins, a ratio that involves only revenue and
expenses associated with patient care.

The concern is that hospitals may not be able to serve their communities either
because they don't have the most up-to-date technology, or they are forced to
close their doors.

"The impact of the economic downturn is increasing on hospitals," said Caroline
Steinberg, AHA's vice president for trends analysis. "We could see increases in
closures and more mergers, and hospitals definitely won't be investing as much
in modernizing their facilities."

The economy is also affecting employment in this setting. An analysis of data
from the Dept. of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics revealed that job growth at
hospitals may have stopped. In January 2008 this sector grew 0.2% while the
larger economy lost 0.1% of its jobs. Preliminary data from March indicate that
hospitals did not add a significant number of jobs while the broader economy
lost 0.5% of positions. The number of hospital mass layoffs also grew.

In addition, economic issues are affecting the kind of relationship physicians
seek with hospitals. The November 2008 survey revealed that 56% of hospital CEOs
were receiving more requests from physicians for increased pay for on-call or
other provided services, for a job, to sell a practice or to partner on
purchasing equipment. That number jumped to 65% in the more recent report.

This situation is believed to be a result of rising unemployment in the country
as a whole. This means larger numbers of uninsured patients are reporting for
emergency department care. In November 2008, 23% of hospital CEOs noted a
moderate or significant increase in emergency department usage. The March survey
found that 58% were saying the percentage of visits to this part of the hospital
by those without insurance had grown at least moderately.

Requests for elective procedures also declined. Approximately 31% of CEOs said
in November 2008 that their institutions were experiencing a moderate or
significant decline in these types of procedures. This number jumped to 59% in
the March survey. Demand for subsidized services grew for 37% of institutions in
the November 2008 survey. This number increased to 53% in the March one.
Charitable contributions to pay for these services went down for 37% of
institutions in November 2008 and for 39% in March of this year.

This content was published online only.

Belt tightening, asking for help

The American Hospital Assn. surveyed CEOs of community hospitals in November
2008 and March of this year. A total of 736 completed the first questionnaire on
the changes being taken or considered to maintain fiscal viability; 1,078 CEOs
responded to the second survey, which focused on action taken. Both surveys also
asked the CEOs about the numbers of physicians seeking monetary help.
Respondents came from all over the country, and represented small and large
institutions in urban and rural settings.
CEOs considering          November 2008              March 2009
Cutting administrative    59%                        80%
costs
Reducing staff            53%                        48%
Eliminating services      27%                        22%
A merger                  8%                         9%
Divesting assets          12%                        8%
Taking other action       21%                        39%
Physicians seeking
Any form of financial     56%                        65%
backing
Increased pay for on-call 83%                        79%
or other services
A hospital job            69%                        71%
To sell their practice    31%                        37%
A partner on an equipment 23%                        22%
purchase
Some other form of        11%                        14%
financial relationship
CEOs considering          November 2008              March 2009
Cutting administrative    59%                        80%
costs
Reducing staff            53%                        48%
Eliminating services      27%                        22%
A merger                  8%                         9%
Divesting assets          12%                        8%
Taking other action       21%                        39%
Physicians seeking
Any form of financial     56%                        65%
backing
Increased pay for on-call 83%                        79%
or other services
A hospital job            69%                        71%
To sell their practice    31%                        37%
A partner on an equipment 23%                        22%
purchase
Some other form of        11%                        14%
financial relationship

Sources: American Hospital Assn., "The Economic Crisis: Impact on Hospitals,"
November 2008 and "The Economic Crisis: The Toll on the Patients and Communities
Hospitals Serve," April 27 (www.aha.org/aha/research-and-trends)

Stalled job growth

The growth of health-related jobs has long outpaced that of many other
industries. But the most recent numbers from the Dept. of Labor's Bureau of
Labor Statistics indicate that, while the hospital job sector is still doing
better than the economy as a whole, the number of positions appears no longer to
be increasing. Here are seasonally adjusted percentage changes in hospital
industry employment compared with that of all sectors. Numbers for February and
March are preliminary.
                          All non-farm industry jobs Hospital jobs
January 2008              -0.1%                      0.2%
February 2008             -0.1%                      0.3%
March 2008                -0.1%                      0.3%
April 2008                -0.1%                      0.2%
May 2008                  -0.1%                      0.4%
June 2008                 -0.1%                      0.1%
July 2008                 -0.1%                      0.3%
August 2008               -0.1%                      0.3%
September 2008            -0.2%                      0.2%
October 2008              -0.3%                      0.3%
November 2008             -0.4%                      0.2%
December 2008             -0.5%                      0.2%
January 2009              -0.5%                      0.1%
February 2009             -0.5%                      0.1%
March 2009                -0.5%                      0.0%

Source: American Hospital Assn., "The Economic Crisis: The Toll on the Patients
and Communities Hospitals Serve," April 27 (www.aha.org/aha/research-and-trends)


Passing out pink slips

The number of times hospitals laid off at least 50 people at once is growing,
according to data from the Dept. of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics. Here is
how the number of times hospitals had mass layoffs compares with the health care
sector in general.
                          Health care sector         Hospitals
January 2008              18                         9
February 2008             13                         5
March 2008                11                         6
April 2008                6                          4
May 2008                  18                         7
June 2008                 27                         10
July 2008                 22                         11
August 2008               27                         13
September 2008            45                         18
October 2008              29                         11
November 2008             23                         13
December 2008             17                         5
January 2009              29                         13
February 2009             23                         12

Source: American Hospital Assn., "The Economic Crisis: The Toll on the Patients
and Communities Hospitals Serve," April 27 (www.aha.org/aha/research-and-trends)


Weblink

American Hospital Assn. on the economic impact on hospitals and their
communities   (www.aha.org/aha/news-center/map)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                              July 8, 2005 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

ECONOMY WILL NOT BE WELL WITHOUT HOSPITAL

BYLINE: By Adrian Burns Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 468 words


If St. Joseph Hospital shuts down, then the local economy is out nearly $70
million.

That's the estimated annual impact of the facility, which is slated for a
closure, downsizing or sale.

In total, Augusta's hospital systems contributed more than $1.2 billion toward
the local economy during 2003, according to a June report by the Georgia
Hospital Association.

The economic impact of local hospitals is roughly equal to that of Fort Gordon.

"What the study attempts to point out is that people often think of hospitals as
just being medical providers, but they often fail to think about the economic
impact that these facilities provide," said Kevin Bloye, a spokesman for the
Georgia Hospital Association.

Although Augusta's economy has grown 9 percent during the past 11 years, the
sector that includes mainly health care workers grew by 33 percent during the
same period, said Jeff Humphreys, the director of the Selig Center for Economic
Growth at the University of Georgia.

The boom in the health care industry since the mid-1990s has accounted for
nearly 6,000 of the 18,000 new jobs, he said.

"These tend to be high-wage jobs, the type every community wants," Mr. Humphreys
said.

The growth of Augusta's medical industry is particularly beneficial to the
economy because of the area's status as a regional medical center, which means
patients and their money come to Augusta from other locations.

Not only do they spend on medical care here, Mr. Humphreys said, but they and
their families also eat and stay in Augusta.

"The success of the hospitality industry owes a debt of gratitude to the medical
service sector," he said.

The high-paying jobs also generate disposable income, which helps the area
flourish, Mr. Humphreys said. Doctors Hospital, for instance, pays its 1,400
employees a total of $58 million per year.

"The majority of this money stays in the community, which is spent on housing,
clothes, food and entertainment," Doctors Chief Financial Officer Kelly Penton
said.

An aging population, better technology and more treatment options will continue
to expand the medical industry, Mr. Humphreys said.

But the sector is facing hurdles, Mr. Bloye said.

Issues such as the reduction of Medicaid and Medi-care reimbursements for
hospitals and the growing number of uninsured patients is putting a severe
strain on hospitals, he said.

"It's a huge challenge for hospitals just to stay in the black; unfortunately
many of them aren't doing that right now," Mr. Bloye said.

He said St. Joseph Hospital is an example of a small facility endangered by the
tough climate.

But Mr. Humphreys said he expects demand will keep the sector growing.

"It's going to outdo the overall economy by leaps and bounds despite those
challenges," he said.

Reach Adrian Burns at (706) 823-3352

or adrian.burns@augustachronicle.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Andrew Davus Tucker/STaff Sonographer Mary Walden (right) administers
an echocardiogram to patient Bill Nelson of Augusta at the Medical College of
Georgia's Cardiovascular Center. Augusta's economic sector that includes health
care workers has increased by 33 percent in the past 11 years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation


                              85 of 994 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright (c) 2004 Temple University of the Commonwealth
                           System of Higher Education
                               Temple Law Review

                                   Fall, 2004

                              77 Temp. L. Rev. 705

LENGTH: 25429 words

ARTICLE: AN EXAMINATION OF THE RIGHT OF HOSPITALS TO ENGAGE IN ECONOMIC
CREDENTIALING

NAME: Beverly Cohen*

BIO: * Professor of Law, Albany Law School at Union University. The author
wishes to thank Mirelle Varnovitsky for research support and both Theresa
Colbert and Donna Parent for technical support.

TEXT:
 [*705]

   Introduction

 Hospitals have historically engaged in the practice of "credentialing"
physicians before granting them staff privileges. The process of credentialing
entails examining the professional record of a physician to ensure that the
[*706]  physician is competent to practice. n1 This protects both the hospital
and its patients by assuring that the physicians with staff privileges have met
the quality standards that the hospital has established. n2 More recently,
however, some hospitals have begun to consider not only criteria related to
quality of care in credentialing physicians, but also criteria related to the
economic performance of the physicians. This practice has become known as "
economic credentialing." n3

   The recent filing of several court cases challenging economic credentialing
signals a renewed focus on this practice. In each of these new cases, hospitals
terminated physicians' staff privileges because the physicians had ownership
interests in competing facilities. The terminations followed the hospitals'
adoption of a "conflict of interest policy," whereby the hospitals declared that
they will consider such competing interests when they grant or renew staff
privileges. The plaintiff physicians assert variously that their terminations
violate state or federal antitrust laws, breach the hospitals' bylaws, violate
the physicians' rights to due process, and offend notions of public policy. n4
In one of these cases, the plaintiff physicians assert that the hospitals'
termination of the physicians' practice privileges due to the physicians'
investments in a competing facility violates the fraud and abuse laws. These
physicians argue that the hospitals are, in effect, conditioning staff
privileges upon referrals, which the physicians contend violates the federal and
state anti-kickback statutes. n5

   Parts I through IV of this Article will review the issue of economic
credentialing and provide an update on recent activity related to this
controversial practice. These introductory Parts will define the term "economic
credentialing" and discuss the polarized views toward it by physicians and
hospitals. These Parts of the Article will also examine market trends that may
have contributed to the practice, and look at the most recent form of economic
credentialing, known as "competitive credentialing."

    [*707]  Next, Part V of the Article will examine the cases wherein
physicians challenged hospitals' use of economic credentialing. This Part will
look at three categories of cases: (1) where the hospitals utilized economic
criteria related to quality (generally the overutilization cases), (2) where the
hospitals used economic criteria related to the hospitals' administrative needs
(generally the exclusive contracting or closed staff cases), and (3) where
hospitals utilized economic criteria related to competitive concerns (the
conflict of interest cases). This examination of the case law will reveal that
on the judicial front, the hospitals have fared much better than the physicians.
Whether the physicians' claims were stated in terms of antitrust, breach of
contract, or public policy, courts have allowed the physicians to block the
hospitals' use of economic credentialing only in narrow circumstances.

   This Article will next examine two additional factors that facilitate
hospitals' ability to engage in economic credentialing. Part VI will examine
instances where states have passed laws that address economic credentialing,
observing that none of these laws flatly prohibits the practice. More often,
these laws sanction the practice, either generally or when the economic
credentialing complies with the factors set forth in the particular statute.
Part VII will address two reports on specialty hospitals, recently published by
the United States General Accounting Office ("GAO"), which tend to show that
specialty hospitals admit only the most profitable surgery cases. This finding
supports concerns that general hospitals have expressed over "economic dumping,"
whereby physician owners of competing facilities retain the profitable cases and
refer only the less profitable cases to general hospitals.

   Finally, Part VIII of this Article will focus on the most recent challenge to
economic credentialing - that it violates the fraud and abuse laws. This Part
will examine the recent solicitation of comments on the issue by the Office of
the Inspector General ("OIG"), and will analyze whether a hospital's use of
competitive criteria in credentialing violates the federal anti-kickback
statute. Ultimately, this Article will conclude that, like the other legal
challenges to economic credentialing, competitive credentialing has a potential
to violate the fraud and abuse laws only in narrow circumstances.

   Based upon all of the above, the picture that emerges is that, to a large
extent, there are few legal impediments to hospitals' use of economic criteria
in credentialing and that courts even tolerate competitive credentialing in the
form of conflict of interest policies. The only three areas of risk appear to be
(1) antitrust claims asserted against a hospital with market power, where the
hospital's use of economic credentialing forecloses competition or harms
consumers; (2) breach of contract claims asserted against a hospital where the
hospital's application of a conflict of interest policy to current staff members
breaches the credentialing procedures guaranteed by the medical staff bylaws;
and (3) fraud and abuse claims asserted against a hospital where the hospital
has expressly conditioned staff privileges upon a mandated volume or value of
[*708]  referrals. If these risk areas are avoided, hospitals are generally able
to consider economic criteria when they make credentialing decisions.

   I. A Definition of "Economic Credentialing"

 There are various definitions of what it means to engage in economic
credentialing. The American Hospital Association ("AHA") has adopted a broad
definition of economic credentialing as the consideration of any factors that
are not related to quality. n6 Others have refined the term, referring to
"mixed" or "hybrid" economic credentialing as the consideration of economic
criteria that are intertwined with quality considerations. n7 These would
include such indicators as malpractice experience, which can indicate higher
costs due to findings of liability for negligent care, and also has a direct
relation to the quality of the physician's performance. n8 Some have referred to
the average length of stay, which is the average number of days that a physician
recommends that an inpatient with a particular diagnosis remain hospitalized, as
another hybrid criterion. n9 Longer lengths of stay raise the costs of the
hospitalization, thereby relating to economy. But longer lengths of stay may
also indicate overutilization, or the rendering of unnecessary medical care, if
physicians are recommending lengths of stay that far exceed the norm for similar
admissions by other like physicians practicing in the area, thereby relating to
quality. n10 Other suggested hybrid criteria, which potentially indicate both
inefficient practice as well as quality concerns, are excessive and redundant
testing, excessive denial letters from third party payers, and excessive
outpatient service utilization. n11

    [*709]  In contrast to hybrid economic indicators that relate to both
economy and quality, the term "pure" economic credentialing refers to
considerations of economic factors that have no relation to quality at all. n12
Some have suggested that criteria indicative of pure economic credentialing
include the dollar value of ancillary services a physician orders from the
hospital, compared to the dollar value of such services ordered by other
physicians with staff privileges. n13 Another example of a pure economic
indicator is whether the physician's patient mix is beneficial to the hospital,
in other words, whether the physicians' patients are primarily covered by
Medicaid, where reimbursements to the hospital are typically low, or primarily
covered by private insurance, where reimbursements to the hospital are generally
higher. n14

   While there appears to be agreement on which credentialing criteria have an
economic component, there is no consensus on which criteria are indicative of
pure economic credentialing. Both the Medical Society of the State of New York
("MSSNY") and the California Medical Association ("CMA") have developed lists of
economic criteria that are also indicative of quality versus criteria that are
purely economic. n15 However, the associations do not agree on how to classify
some of the criteria. For example, while the CMA believes that length of stay is
clearly pertinent to measuring quality, MSSNY believes that this criterion could
be purely economic in certain circumstances. n16

[*710]

   II. The Debate over Economic Credentialing

 Hospitals and physicians clearly have taken opposite sides in the debate over
whether hospitals should be permitted to engage in economic credentialing.
Physicians have become accustomed to having access to their patients no matter
which hospitals the patients select, and to obtaining staff privileges from the
hospitals in their geographic practice area upon satisfactorily completing the
necessary credentialing applications. n17 In fact, hospitals have encouraged
physicians to become staff members and have freely granted staff privileges, due
to the increased likelihood that the hospitals would benefit from a larger
number of physician referrals. n18 Not only did hospitals make it comparatively
easy to fulfill the credentialing requirements, but also many courts held that
as "quasi-public" institutions, hospitals were obligated to grant staff
privileges to physicians, as long as the physicians met the baseline quality
requirements. n19 And in a real sense, physicians needed to be affiliated with
the hospitals in their practice area in order to provide complete care to their
patients in need of inpatient services. n20

   Accordingly, most physicians are very concerned when new limitations are
placed upon their ability to obtain hospital privileges. With regard to economic
credentialing, physicians generally believe that it is unethical for hospitals
to put their economic "bottom lines" before patient care and that it is
inappropriate to deny staff privileges to physicians for purely economic
reasons. n21 Moreover, physicians assert that being denied staff privileges can
amount to a foreclosure of their rights to practice medicine in a given area and
restricts the patients' freedom to choose their attending physicians when they
become inpatients. n22  [*711]  MSSNY has argued on behalf of its membership
that purely economic criteria should not be used in credentialing decisions.
MSSNY asserts that credentialing "should be based solely on issues of
competency, training and quality of patient care" and that there is a "need to
prevent economic considerations from affecting medical determinations regarding
quality care." n23

   Physicians also have expressed concerns over hospitals' decisions to enter
into exclusive contracts with providers for particular services and decisions by
hospitals to close their staffs to additional doctors. The basis for physicians'
concerns is that these practices automatically foreclose certain physicians from
obtaining or retaining staff privileges at the hospitals. n24 Physicians have
most vehemently opposed such staff limitations where the decisions were driven
by financial, as opposed to quality, considerations. n25

   Not surprisingly, hospitals take the opposite view of economic credentialing.
They contend that, as competition for lower cost medical care has intensified
over the past two decades, n26 hospitals have been forced to consider economic
criteria in selecting the physicians who will treat hospital inpatients. n27
Managed care plans ostensibly select the hospitals that will participate in the
plans' networks based upon both quality and efficiency. n28 As the physicians
practicing  [*712]  in the hospitals largely influence the economics of the
hospitals, n29 hospitals contend that they are compelled to consider the
economics of the physicians with whom the hospitals will affiliate. n30 In fact,
some commentators have even suggested that a hospital's board of directors that
fails to consider the economics of its staff physicians might be in derogation
of the board's fiduciary duty to prudently manage the financial well-being of
the hospital. n31

   III. Factors That Have Led to the Practice of Economic Credentialing

 More recent changes in the healthcare marketplace have intensified the debate.
Probably the most compelling difference between the markets for hospital
services that existed twenty years ago and those markets today is the fact that
many physicians have begun to compete directly with hospitals. As physicians'
reimbursement became controlled largely by managed care plans, either through
physician fee schedules developed by the plans or by the plans' requirements
that physicians assume economic risk, n32 physicians have sought to establish
other means of retaining or increasing their income levels. n33 This has led to
the increased development of physician-controlled ventures to perform  [*713]
services that hospitals exclusively used to provide; these ventures include
physician-owned freestanding cardiac catheterization labs, diagnostic centers,
and ambulatory surgery centers. n34 The latest, most controversial, entrants to
the marketplace are physician-owned specialty hospitals, which perform a limited
range of surgeries, both inpatient and outpatient. n35 The existence of these
physician-controlled facilities means that certain physicians seeking to obtain
or renew staff privileges at a hospital may have an ownership interest in a
facility that is competing directly with the hospital. The competition is
intensified because the procedures that the physician-controlled facility
performs often are the most lucrative procedures that the hospital performs. n36
As the physician-owned facility draws the more profitable cases away from the
hospital, the hospital may find itself unable to subsidize the less profitable
aspects of its services, such as pediatrics or emergency care, which are
exceedingly important from a community service point of view. n37 Also, this
competition sharpens a hospital's concerns over extending staff privileges to
physicians with inefficient practice patterns.

   At the same time that hospitals perceived the need for economic
credentialing, the technological capability to perform economic credentialing
was also developing. The American Hospital Association found, in a 1989 survey
of 3,400 hospital CEOs, that most of the surveyed hospitals already had the
capability to do economic credentialing and that virtually all of those surveyed
CEOs anticipated that their hospitals would develop the capability to merge
physicians' clinical and financial data within the next five years. n38 Some
speculate that hospitals currently have available to them a number of computer
software packages that enable the hospitals to link physicians' clinical
outcomes  [*714]  with cost or charge data, thereby enabling economic
credentialing. n39

   But certainly the most compelling change in the healthcare marketplace, felt
by both physicians and hospitals alike, is the revolutionary growth of managed
care and its focus on cost along with quality. n40 Managed care plans typically
select participating providers and facilities based upon the providers' and
facilities' demonstrated ability to deliver high quality patient services while
controlling cost. n41 Thus, the predominance of managed care plans, which are
the gatekeepers to patients and reimbursement dollars, has ratcheted up the
intensity of hospitals' efforts to curb costs. n42

   Interestingly, under the federal antitrust law, physicians who form their own
joint ventures have found themselves required to track the efficiencies of the
ventures' participating physicians, either as a consequence of assuming
financial risk to achieve antitrust "safe harbor" status, or as a critical
component of "clinical integration" to allow the joint venture participants to
cooperate lawfully in setting prices for the joint venture. n43 Absent such
tracking of costs and cooperation in creating practice efficiencies,
physician-owned joint ventures risk violating the antitrust price fixing
prohibition when physicians set prices for the ventures collectively. n44 The
fact that physicians themselves are required to engage in a form of economic
credentialing demonstrates the pervasiveness of controlling healthcare costs in
today's largely managed care market.

   IV. The Appearance of "Competitive Credentialing"

 A more recent form of pure economic credentialing has even further  [*715]
polarized the debate. As stated above, hospitals performing pure economic
credentialing attempt to assess the fiscal impact upon the hospitals' grant of
staff privileges to physicians with particular practice patterns. n45
Competitive credentialing, whereby a hospital grants or denies privileges to a
physician based upon competitive criteria, is a narrower species of pure
economic credentialing. n46 For example, a hospital practicing competitive
credentialing may refuse to grant or renew staff privileges to any physicians
who have ownership interests in a competing ambulatory surgery center or
specialty hospital. n47

   Physicians contend that competitive credentialing is nothing less than a
blatant attempt to thwart competition by discouraging physicians from creating
competing ventures. n48 Physicians argue that these ventures have the potential
to draw patients away from hospitals due to the better patient-service quality
and lower rates of the ventures, n49 benefits to which healthcare consumers are
entitled.

   Hospitals counter with what they believe are valid business justifications
for competitive credentialing. The two most often cited justifications are that
competitive credentialing is necessary for the hospital (1) to combat "economic
dumping" and (2) to protect against conflicts of interest. Economic dumping
occurs when physicians who have ownership interests in competing facilities
retain the more profitable, i.e., less sick and less complex, cases for
themselves, and direct the sicker, more expensive cases to the hospital. n50
This disadvantages the hospital due to the fact that Medicare reimbursement n51
is paid pursuant to a  [*716]  diagnosis related group ("DRG") methodology,
whereby the reimbursement is, more or less, n52 a set dollar amount that
corresponds to a particular coded diagnosis. The reimbursement amount is derived
as an average reimbursement for all of the services that a patient with the
particular diagnosis is expected to receive from the hospital as treatment for
the particular condition. n53 But generally, the DRG payment is not adjusted
within a particular DRG value for differences in severity of the illness. n54
Therefore, sicker patients assigned to a particular DRG generate more cost and,
consequently, produce less profits for the hospital, because the reimbursement
is a set amount. Less sick patients assigned to the same DRG generate less cost
and consequently yield higher profit for the hospital. Over the entire
population of patients that fall within a particular DRG, the expectation is
that the reimbursement will even out and, ultimately, yield an average
acceptable margin of profit for an efficiently operated hospital. n55 Economic
dumping, however, disrupts the standard operation of this reimbursement
methodology. n56 If all of the less costly cases within a given DRG are skimmed
off and sent to a competing ambulatory service center ("ASC") or specialty
hospital, then the general hospital is left with only those cases that are the
most expensive within the DRG to treat, so that the hospital would earn little
or no profit, or even experience a loss, on those cases. Referring physicians
would have an incentive to engage in economic dumping when they have an
ownership interest in a competing facility, in order to maximize their profits
from the self-owned venture. n57

    [*717]  Hospitals also assert another competitive concern about granting
staff privileges to physicians who directly compete with the hospitals. Hospital
staff physicians are often privy to the hospitals' business plans, marketing
initiatives, protocol development, and practice patterns. n58 The hospitals
argue that this "inside information" gives the physicians' competing joint
venture a competitive advantage, as it allows the joint venture to target the
hospitals' weaknesses when the joint venture develops its own business plans and
marketing strategies. n59 Hospitals contend that it is contrary to sound
business sense to grant staff privileges to physicians who not only have no
loyalty to the hospital, but also, in fact, have the goal to draw patients away
from the hospital. n60

   V. A Legal Analysis of the Cases That Have Challenged Economic Credentialing

 After discussing the antitrust hurdles inherent in a Sherman Antitrust Act
claim in Part V.A, this Article will proceed to examine the three types of cases
wherein physicians have challenged economic credentialing:



   (1) Part V.B discusses challenges to hospitals' consideration of economic
factors related to quality (the quality of care cases);



(2) Part V.C looks at challenges to hospitals' consideration of economic factors
related to administrative or managerial concerns (the exclusive contracting and
closed staff cases); and



(3) Part V.D examines challenges to hospitals' consideration of economic factors
related to competition (the competitive credentialing cases).

 Parts V.B, V.C, and V.D will address the various types of legal claims that
have been raised in each of these categories of cases:



   (1) that the credentialing practices violated the antitrust laws,



(2) that the credentialing practices were inconsistent with the hospitals'
bylaws or other contract provisions between the physicians and hospitals, and



(3) that the credentialing practices offended public policy because the
practices were inconsistent with the hospital's public health goals.

 Ultimately, these cases show the extreme difficulties that physicians have
faced when challenging economic credentialing. Under the above-mentioned legal
theories that have been raised in cases to date, the plaintiff physicians were
successful only in very limited circumstances.

   A. The Antitrust Hurdles

 Under both sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, n61 the plaintiff
[*718]  physicians have encountered difficulties in proving the required
elements when they have challenged economic credentialing. Section 1 of Title 15
of the United States Code prohibits conspiracies in restraint of trade. Proving
a section 1 claim against a hospital's use of economic indicators in
credentialing has proven difficult for physicians due to four reasons.

   First, the conspiracy element requires the plaintiff to prove that the
hospital agreed with another entity to restrain trade. Because a hospital's
decision to deny staff privileges is usually an independent decision, there
often is no conspiracy, and a section 1 claim is foreclosed. n62 Even when
members of the medical staff make the decision collectively, as long as they do
not compete directly with the physician applying for privileges, the staff
members are typically deemed to be acting, collectively, as agents of the
hospital, and not as entities independent from the hospital. n63

   Second, in order to restrain trade, the defendant hospital must have market
power that will enable the hospital to harm the hospital services market by, for
example, successfully restricting consumer access, impairing patient-service
quality, or raising prices, without the defendant hospital is losing business.
n64 A hospital that denies staff privileges for economic reasons, but does not
have market power, will simply lose business, as the physicians and their
patients will relocate to other hospitals where the doctors have privileges, so
that the market itself will correct the abuse. n65 Therefore, market power of
the hospital is a prerequisite to any section 1 violation. The problem is that
such market power is difficult to prove when there are multiple hospitals
providing comparable services in a given geographical area. n66

   Third, as it is "trade" that must be restrained, a finding that a single
physician was damaged by a denial or termination of staff privileges from a
single hospital is usually insufficient. n67 The plaintiff physician must show
that the denial or termination of privileges impaired competition in the
healthcare market as a whole, i.e., restricted the availability of healthcare
choices, impaired patient-service quality, or raised prices for consumers.
Therefore, where a single physician is denied privileges, but there are other
hospitals in the region where  [*719]  the physician has or can obtain
privileges, trade is not restrained, because the physician's patients can simply
go to an alternate hospital to obtain services where the plaintiff physician can
attend to the patients. n68

   Fourth, the plaintiff physicians are typically unable to sustain a per se
finding of illegality in healthcare antitrust cases. n69 A practice is per se
illegal under the antitrust laws where the restraint is "manifestly
anticompetitive" and without redeeming pro-competitive qualities. n70 Most
healthcare antitrust claims are relegated to "rule of reason" treatment, where
the anticompetitive impacts of the hospital's practice are weighed against their
pro-competitive justifications. n71 Under the rule of reason, physicians are
usually unable to overcome the hospital's proffered justifications of quality of
care, efficiency, and economy, which are often deemed to outweigh the economic
harm to a single plaintiff physician. n72

   Similar antitrust hurdles exist under section 2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust
Act, which prohibits monopolization or attempts to monopolize. n73 As with
section 1, monopolization claims against a hospital require, as a threshold
matter, that the hospital possess monopoly (market) power and that the harm
alleged be to the overall market, not just to the individual plaintiff. n74
Without control of the market to enable the hospital to effectively reduce
consumer choices or raise prices, the hospital's allegedly unfair practices
merely would drive customers away and would not restrain trade in the overall
market.

   B. The Credentialing Cases Where Hospitals Considered Economic Factors That
Furthered Quality Goals

 The first foray by hospitals into economic credentialing was the hospitals' use
of economic factors that also related to quality ("hybrid criteria"). When
economic criteria have been linked to quality concerns, the cases have  [*720]
consistently held that hospitals have the authority to apply such criteria when
making credentialing decisions.

   Because of the difficulty in overcoming the above antitrust hurdles, most
physician plaintiffs failed to sustain a section 1 claim challenging hospitals'
use of hybrid economic criteria. n75 One example of such a failure is Friedman
v. Delaware County Memorial Hospital, n76 where the plaintiff, Dr. Friedman,
asserted, inter alia, Sherman section 1 claims against the hospital for revoking
his staff privileges following a detailed review of his practices at the
hospital. n77 The revocation followed charges by the hospital's Medical
Executive Committee that Dr. Friedman had inappropriately overutilized
bronchoscopies, had ordered inappropriate intravenous hyperalimentation, had
been disciplined repeatedly for delinquent record keeping, and had openly
announced that he would not follow hospital protocols for bronchoscopies in the
future. n78 The District Court ruled that there was no per se violation of
section 1, because the hospital had successfully established that the revocation
was justified by the hospital's goal of promoting quality patient care. n79
Under the rule of reason, the court held that the hospital's actions to increase
efficiency and maintain its competitive position with regard to quality were
pro-competitive, not anticompetitive. n80 The court declared that the hospital's
adoption of bronchoscopy criteria was for the protection of the hospital's
patients and to protect the hospital from the realistic threat of malpractice
claims. n81 Further, the court held that Dr. Friedman could not establish the
conspiracy element, because the physicians on the Medical Executive Committee
who recommended the revocation of Dr. Friedman's privileges did not compete with
Dr. Friedman and, thus, were acting as agents of the hospital, not separate
entities, when the committee made the credentialing decision. n82

   Dr. Friedman had no better success in proving his Sherman section 2
monopolization claim. In Friedman, there were seven hospitals in the immediate
vicinity of the defendant hospital and approximately thirty-five hospitals
within ten miles. n83 The plaintiff possessed staff privileges at one of these
alternate facilities, so that the revocation by the defendant hospital did not
completely  [*721]  foreclose Dr. Friedman's ability to continue to practice in
the region. n84 Under these facts, the court found, as a matter of law, that the
plaintiff could not establish that the defendant hospital had market power to
exclude competition. This foreclosed the section 2 claim. n85

   The plaintiff physicians have not met with much greater success with claims
that hospitals violated contractual provisions when the hospitals considered
economic criteria related to quality when denying or terminating staff
privileges. Courts have expressed extreme reluctance to review the substance of
hospitals' credentialing decisions related to quality and generally have limited
judicial review to whether the procedures used by the hospital violated the
express terms of the hospital's bylaws or other contractual arrangements. n86
Moreover, such contract claims are generally foreclosed to the plaintiff
physicians who do not already have staff privileges with the hospital. n87

   For example, Knapp v. Palos Community Hospital n88 demonstrates the narrow
basis for review on contractual grounds when a defendant hospital denies renewal
of staff privileges using economic criteria related to quality. In Knapp, the
defendant hospital denied the plaintiff physicians' applications for
reappointment after finding that the plaintiffs' inappropriate use of lung scans
and medications and their excessive use of diagnostic tests, pacemakers, and
pulmonary angiograms, as well as other issues of inappropriate care and
overutilization, had resulted in hospitalizations that were fifty percent longer
and costs that were thirty-one percent greater than those of other staff
physicians. n89 The court declared its "unwillingness to substitute its judgment
for that of private hospital authorities" making credentialing decisions, except
that the court would engage in "limited review" where the hospital violated its
own bylaws. n90 Because the defendant hospital had complied with the procedures
set forth in its bylaws, the court declared that the dispute was "beyond the
scope of  [*722]  judicial review" and held that the trial court had abused its
discretion in granting a preliminary injunction in favor of the plaintiffs. n91

   The case law, thus, demonstrates that when hospitals utilized hybrid economic
criteria to make credentialing determinations, the hospitals were generally
successful in defending against antitrust claims raised by the excluded
physicians. Further, as long as the hospitals did not violate their own
procedural bylaws, courts have been reluctant to review hospitals' refusals to
renew privileges where the hospitals were able to assert a nexus to quality
concerns.

   C. The Credentialing Cases Where Hospitals Considered Economic Factors
Related to Administrative Goals

 The cases dealing with credentialing restrictions or denials based upon a
hospital's administrative decision to operate in a more efficient manner, such
as decisions to close staff in a particular department or to enter into an
exclusive contract for specialty services, are the transition cases between
using hybrid criteria related to quality and engaging in competitive
credentialing. Where exclusive contract or closed staff decisions were linked to
quality, courts easily found that the hospitals were authorized to make those
decisions. But, for the first time, some of these cases involved decisions by
hospitals to enter into exclusive contracts or to close their staffs for purely
economic reasons. Nevertheless, as with the quality cases, courts have generally
upheld these decisions by hospitals, as long as the hospitals were able to prove
a legitimate business justification for their decisions. The only two potential
bases upon which to strike the hospitals' determinations that the courts have
articulated are (1) where the hospitals' actions were not reasonably related to
their stated efficiency goals and (2) where the hospitals breached procedural
requirements mandated by their medical staff bylaws or other contracts.

   As with the quality cases, courts found the same deficiencies with the
plaintiff physicians' claims under the federal antitrust laws, i.e., lack of
conspiracy, lack of harm to the overall healthcare market, rule of reason
balancing in favor of the hospital's legitimate business justifications, and
failure to prove the hospital's market power. Only in very narrow circumstances
have these antitrust claims been successful against the defendant hospitals.

   The landmark case, Jefferson Parish Hospital District No. 2 v. Hyde, n92
conclusively demonstrated the difficulties of proving antitrust claims against a
hospital that denied staff privileges based on the hospital's decision to enter
into  [*723]  an exclusive contract with a particular provider group for
specialty services. In Jefferson Parish, the plaintiff physician alleged Sherman
section 1 claims against the hospital when the hospital denied his application
for anesthesiology privileges on the ground that the hospital had an exclusive
contract with an anesthesiology group. n93 Reversing the Fifth Circuit's
judgment against the hospital, the United States Supreme Court found that the
hospital, one of at least twenty in the New Orleans metropolitan area and
servicing only about thirty percent of the patients living in Jefferson Parish,
did not have market power. n94 In addition, the Court held that there had been
no showing of injury to the market as a whole, as there was no evidence that the
exclusive contract had affected price, quality, or availability of
anesthesiology services. n95

   After Jefferson Parish was decided, plaintiff physicians generally were not
successful in their attempts to establish antitrust claims challenging
hospitals' decisions to enter into exclusive contracts or to close staffs due to
overcrowding. In Beard v. Parkview Hospital, n96 the Sixth Circuit Court of
Appeals held that the hospital's exclusive contract for radiological services
did not violate Sherman sections 1 and 2 because the plaintiff physician had
failed to rebut the hospital's legitimate business reasons for adopting the
exclusive contract. n97 The court declared that the contract was "necessary to
enhance the quality of care its patients receive as well as improve the
efficiency of the hospital." n98

   Courts have made findings similar to Jefferson Parish and Beard when
analyzing the legality of exclusive hospital contracts under state antitrust
laws. n99  [*724]  And, where a plaintiff physician group has challenged a
hospital's termination of the group's exclusive contract for specialty services
and the hospital's replacement with an exclusive contract with another group,
courts have generally held that there is no injury to the market overall,
because "merely changing exclusive contractors ... cannot constitute a violation
of the antitrust laws." n100

   Oltz v. Saint Peter's Community Hospital n101 is one of the few cases in
which a court found against a hospital on a Sherman section 1 claim, based upon
the hospital's entrance into an exclusive contract, here for anesthesiology
services. n102 Oltz is a unique case, however, because the defendant hospital
entered into the exclusive anesthesiology arrangement not for efficiency
reasons, but because an anesthesiology group providing services to the hospital
was threatening to boycott the hospital altogether unless the group was made the
exclusive provider, and exclusivity was sought with the express intent of
ousting the plaintiff, a competing nurse anesthetist who offered a fuller range
of services at a lower price. n103 Since two independent entities - the hospital
and the anesthesiology group - collaborated in adopting the exclusive
arrangement, the court was able to find the conspiracy element satisfied. n104
In addition, after the plaintiff's ouster from the hospital, the prices of
anesthesia services and the incomes of the exclusive anesthesiology group
members rose dramatically, n105 thereby demonstrating harm to the local market
for anesthesiology services. And, because the hospital was the only facility
equipped to perform general surgery in Helena, Montana, enjoying a market share
of eighty-four percent of general surgical services, n106 the hospital arguably
possessed market power for anesthesiology services. n107 Finally, because the
predominant reason for the exclusive arrangement was to foreclose competition
from the plaintiff, not a  [*725]  valid business reason, the rule of reason
balancing test weighed in favor of the plaintiff. n108 In sum, the unique facts
in Oltz overcame the antitrust hurdles discussed earlier, n109 making Oltz one
of the few cases where a hospital's exclusive contract was successfully
challenged on antitrust grounds.

   Plaintiff physicians asserting contract challenges n110 to hospitals'
decisions to enter into exclusive provider contracts or to close staffs have not
fared much better. Lister v. Methodist Medical Center of Oak Ridge n111
exemplifies the difficulties in succeeding with a contractual challenge where
there is anything less than a clear and unequivocal breach. In Lister, an
excluded anesthesiologist alleged that the hospital's termination of his
anesthesiology privileges by virtue of the hospital's entrance into an exclusive
anesthesiology arrangement violated the hospital's medical staff bylaws. The
hospital conceded that it had entered into the exclusive contract because the
contract was more economical for the hospital. The plaintiff contended that the
elimination of his ability to practice at the hospital conflicted with bylaw
provisions giving staff members the right to a hearing when the hospital
decreased their staff privileges for reasons of competence. n112 The appellate
court disagreed, finding that the termination of the plaintiff's privileges in
the interest of economy did not constitute a termination related to competence.
Therefore, the plaintiff's hearing rights under the bylaws had not been
triggered. n113

   The situation may be quite different where the bylaws give hearing rights to
physicians whose staff privileges are terminated or reduced for any reason. In
[*726]  Lewisburg Community Hospital, Inc. v. Alfredson, n114 the hospital's
bylaws afforded hearing rights to staff physicians whenever their staff
privileges were reduced. n115 Accordingly, the court held that the hospital's
termination of the defendant's exclusive radiology contract and the hospital's
refusal to give the defendant access to the hospital's radiological equipment
and staff constituted a reduction in privileges that triggered the hearing
rights. n116

   Courts examining closed staff or exclusive contract arrangements on public
policy grounds n117 also have generally upheld the hospitals' decisions where
they were undertaken to improve the hospital's finances. n118 Denying a
plaintiff physician's motion to enjoin a hospital from enforcing an exclusive
radiology contract, the District Court for the Northern District of Georgia in
Mays v. Hospital Authority of Henry County, n119 declared that where the
hospital's exclusive arrangement had decreased the hospital's losses for the
radiology department by nearly $ 230,000 over about two and a half years,
bringing the department "closer to solvency ... serves the public interest."
n120

   The companion New Jersey cases n121 of Desai v. Saint Barnabas Medical Center
n122 and Berman v. Valley Hospital n123 illustrate a pitfall for the defendant
hospitals that defend closed staff decisions on public policy grounds: when
hospitals state a public health goal underlying a closed staff policy, the
policy must be rationally related to accomplishing the stated public health
goals. n124 In Desai, the hospital adopted a closed staff policy in response to
bed overcrowding and overutilization of the hospital's resources. Under the new
policy, applications for staff privileges would be denied, unless the applicant
satisfied one or more of six exceptions. The most important exception was that
the applicant had to be associated with another physician who already had staff
privileges at the hospital. n125 While the court recognized the right of the
hospital  [*727]  to "take some steps" in reasonable response to the perceived
overcrowding, n126 the court struck the hospital's preference for doctors who
practiced with doctors already on staff. The court held that the hospital had
not sufficiently demonstrated that the preference genuinely served the
hospital's stated objectives - that the affiliated staff members would be able
to help cover the patients of the doctors with existing privileges and that the
new staff members were unlikely to require many new patient admissions to the
hospital. n127 The court struck the preference as discriminatory because the
hospital offered no data or other competent evidence to support its rationale
and because the preference did not advance the pubic health goal asserted. n128

   In Berman, the hospital similarly adopted a closed staff policy in response
to overcrowding but granted an exception for newcomers to the region. Here, as
in Desai, the court recognized the hospital's right to implement staff
restrictions to remedy overcrowding. n129 But the court held that the exception
for doctors who had been practicing in the area for less than two years failed
to advance the hospital's stated objectives. n130 The hospital had asserted that
the exception would address overcrowding by eliminating doctors with established
patient bases, while allowing the admission of new doctors who possessed
knowledge of the latest techniques. n131 As in Desai, the court found that the
newcomer exception lacked any empirical support; the exception excluded
experienced doctors who might have small patient bases and admitted newcomer
doctors who might have no knowledge of new techniques. n132 Because the hospital
had failed to show that the exception was "sufficiently related to a genuine and
legitimate health-care objective," the court held that the exception was
unenforceable. n133

   Thus, the cases upholding a hospital's decision to close staff or enter into
an exclusive arrangement far outnumber those cases reversing such decisions.
Under the antitrust laws, the plaintiff has the greatest chance of success on a
Sherman section 2 claim, where the conspiracy element is not required. But to
establish monopoly, the plaintiff faces the twin hurdles of proving that the
hospital has market power and demonstrating a detrimental impact to the overall
market, not just to the excluded physicians.

    [*728]  Outside of the antitrust realm, courts appear to have struck
exclusive arrangements for only two reasons: (1) the hospital failed to follow
its own bylaws in implementing the restriction, or (2) the exclusive
arrangements did not effectuate the goals asserted by the hospital and, thus,
were irrational on public policy grounds. Indeed, the cases striking the
hospitals' credentialing decisions serve only to demonstrate how easy it is for
a hospital to withstand challenge on contractual or public policy grounds. Where
a hospital establishes a legitimate economic or efficiency rationale for its
exclusionary conduct, and where it follows its own internal procedural rules,
economic credentialing for administrative reasons largely is upheld by courts.

   D. The Credentialing Cases Where Hospitals Considered Economic Factors
Related to Competition

 A relatively recent development in economic credentialing is the denial or
termination of physicians' staff privileges by hospitals in order to achieve
competitive goals. Typically, hospitals have engaged in competitive
credentialing by promulgation, through the hospitals' boards of trustees, of a
"conflict of interest policy" that bars staff privileges to physicians who have
investment interests in competing institutions. n134 Cases challenging such
competitive credentialing have met many of the same difficulties as those cases
where the credentialing decisions were based on economic criteria related to
administrative needs. In the antitrust context, plaintiff physicians have
encountered difficulties in proving the elements of conspiracy, market power,
and injury to competition. n135 In antitrust cases in which the hospital
replaced one exclusive specialty provider with another because the original
provider had entered into direct competition with the hospital, plaintiffs have
typically met with no success, because the courts have found that the mere
substitution of exclusive providers has "no detrimental effect on competition."
n136 In challenges  [*729]  to competitive credentialing alleging breach of
bylaws or arbitrary action, the courts generally have upheld the authority of
hospital boards to make decisions relating to competition and have affirmed the
hospitals' consideration of competitive factors as rational n137 and valid. n138
Not only have most courts ruled against plaintiffs' claims, but several courts
have affirmatively declared that it is perfectly legitimate for a hospital to
decide not to affiliate with physicians who are directly competing with the
hospital.

   In the antitrust context, the court in Williamson v. Sacred Heart Hospital of
Pensacola n139 denied Sherman section 1 claims asserted by the plaintiffs, a
physician and her solely owned outpatient radiology clinic, against two
hospitals that had denied the physician's staff privileges on the grounds that
her clinic competed directly with the hospitals. Not only did the court find
that the plaintiffs had failed to establish the hospitals' market power, n140
but the court also found that the plaintiffs' claims failed to recognize the
realities of competition:



   In light of [the] plaintiff's position in the market, granting her any type
of privileges while she still operated her own clinic would put Sacred Heart in
the position of supporting its main competition. Essentially, Sacred Heart would
be competing with itself. Faced with this possibility, it clearly had a
rational, pro-competitive reason for acting independently to deny [the plaintiff
physician's] request for privileges. n141

 Based on its finding that the hospitals had acted to protect their "legitimate
economic interests," the court awarded summary judgment to the defendants. n142

   In one of the most recent antitrust competitive credentialing cases, Surgical
Care Center of Hammond v. Hospital Service District No. 1 of Tangipahoa Parish,
n143 the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district court's
denial of the plaintiff's Sherman section 1 and 2 claims against the hospital
for responding to the establishment of the plaintiff's competing ambulatory
surgery center by entering into exclusive outpatient contracts with managed care
[*730]  companies. n144 The appellate court affirmed that the antitrust claims
were foreclosed by the plaintiff's failure to prove market power of the
hospital. n145 Further, the court declared that the "predatory conduct" alleged
by the plaintiff was more appropriately characterized as having "a permissible
business justification." n146

   Potters Medical Center v. The City Hospital Ass'n n147 is the rare case where
competitive credentialing by a hospital was deemed potentially violative of the
antitrust law. n148 As such, Potters provides useful instruction on the unusual
set of market conditions that must coalesce in order for a court to rule in the
plaintiff's favor on antitrust claims. Potters involved federal and state
antitrust claims brought by a 39-bed hospital and its affiliated corporations
against a much larger 275-bed hospital, the only other hospital in East
Liverpool, Ohio. n149 The plaintiffs alleged that in an attempt to crush their
ability to compete for inpatient, outpatient pathology, and diagnostic imaging
services, the defendant hospital, inter alia, refused to grant staff privileges
to doctors with privileges at the plaintiff hospital, pressured the hospital's
affiliated doctors not to seek staff privileges with the plaintiff hospital, and
entered into restrictive contracts with the hospital's staff physicians to
prohibit the staff physicians' dealings with the plaintiffs. n150 While the
Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals denied the Sherman section 1 claims due to lack
of the conspiracy element, n151 it reversed summary judgment to the defendant
hospital on the section 2 monopolization claims, finding that the district court
had failed to identify the relevant markets or determine whether the hospital
had market power n152 and that facts alleged by the plaintiffs demonstrated a
conceivable intent to foreclose competition. n153 Accordingly, the court
remanded, for a determination by the district court of whether City Hospital was
a monopolist in certain markets, as alleged by the plaintiffs. n154

    [*731]  A decision denying in part the defendant hospital's motion to
dismiss antitrust claims in the pending case of Rome Ambulatory Surgical Center,
LLC v. Rome Memorial Hospital, Inc., n155 is the only current positive judicial
sign for plaintiff physicians seeking to raise antitrust claims against
hospitals engaging in competitive credentialing. The plaintiff surgery center
("RASC") contends that it was forced out of business through a pattern of
anticompetitive behavior by the defendant hospital, the only other provider of
ambulatory surgery in the city of Rome, New York. n156 RASC alleges that it was
shut out as a referral source when the hospital entered into exclusive
ambulatory surgery contracts with area health plans. n157 Also, the hospital
allegedly harassed staff surgeons who used RASC facilities n158 and amended its
bylaws to allow consideration of physicians' ownership interest in competing
facilities when it considers applications for staff privileges. n159 While the
court granted defendants' motions for summary judgment on some of the antitrust
claims, n160 it refused to dismiss plaintiff's claims for illegal contracts
brought under Sherman section 1, and for attempted monopolization and conspiracy
to monopolize brought under Sherman section 2. n161

   In the non-antitrust context, courts also have affirmatively declared the
validity of competitive credentialing. The most widely cited case for this
[*732]  proposition is Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical
Center, Inc. n162 Dr. Rosenblum sued the hospital when it denied him cardiac
surgical privileges because he was the developer and chairman of the heart
surgery program at a competing hospital. n163 The court granted summary judgment
to the hospital on two grounds. First, the court held that consideration of Dr.
Rosenblum's ostensible conflict of interest was permitted by chapter 395.011(5)
of the Florida Statutes, n164 which allows hospitals to establish criteria for
staff privileges, including training and medical qualifications and "such other
elements as may be determined by the governing board." n165 The court found that
the economic criteria utilized in Dr. Rosenblum's case constituted valid "other
elements" that the hospital could take into account. n166

   Second, the Rosenblum court determined that the hospital's economic criteria
had not been applied to Dr. Rosenblum in an arbitrary or capricious manner. The
court declared:



   In the area of fair and clean competition, Dr. Rosenblum has contractual
responsibilities to TCH [the competing hospital] that I think are validly [sic]
considerations of TMRMC [the defendant hospital] as to whether they will grant
medical privileges in the field of heart surgery to the program chairman and
developer of a competing hospital. And the competition between hospitals, not
only in Tallahassee but apparently on a national scale, is intense. It is real.
It is not imaginary and not pretextual.



 Accordingly, I find the Hospital not to be liable. I find it validly denied Dr.
Rosenblum medical privileges on factors and considerations that were
economically valid ... . n167

 While the case ultimately settled pretrial, when the defendant hospital
extended privileges to Dr. Rosenblum once his competing contract expired, the
case is noteworthy in its open declaration that competition is a valid
consideration in determining staff privileges. n168

    [*733]  In Mahan v. Avera Saint Luke's, n169 the court upheld competitive
credentialing against breach of contract claims. n170 In Mahan, the defendant
hospital closed its staff to physicians performing particular types of spinal
surgeries in order to assure that there were sufficient patients for its newly
recruited neurosurgeon, who needed to supplement his practice by performing
spinal surgeries. n171 The closure was also precipitated by the hospital's loss
of surgery business due to the creation of a competing orthopedic surgery
outpatient center. n172 A physician group challenged the closure on the grounds
that the closure breached the hospital's staff bylaws which, the plaintiffs
argued, required the hospital to consult with the medical staff on closure
decisions. n173 In ruling that the hospital's action did not violate its bylaws,
the Mahan Court found that the hospital's Board had the unilateral authority to
make business decisions, as opposed to decisions evaluating the professional
competence of staff members, which under the bylaws required consultation with
staff. n174

    [*734]  Further, the court declared that there was little basis on which to
challenge decisions that the hospital had made to preserve its economic
viability:



   By preserving the profitable neurosurgical services at ASL [the hospital],
the Board also insured that other unprofitable services would continue to be
offered in the Aberdeen area... . ASL cannot continue to offer unprofitable, yet
essential services including the maternity ward, emergency room, pediatrics and
critical care units, without the offsetting financial benefit of more profitable
areas such as neurosurgery. The Board responded to the effect the OSS hospital
[competing surgery center] would have on the economic viability of ASL's
hospital and the health care needs of the entire Aberdeen community. These
actions were within the power of the Board. It surely has the power to attempt
to insure ASL's economic survival. n175



 ... .



 ... How can a doctor who is a part owner of the for-profit OSS be expected to
fulfill his or her duties towards his or her co-owners and in the same instance
fulfill the duties towards the principal, ASL, who is a not for profit hospital?
This does not imply ill-will on the part of the doctor, it simply faces
fundamental medical issues such as at which institution does the doctor place
his or her patients, OSS or ASL? We have often stated that an agent cannot serve
two masters. This rule applies to medical professionals as well. n176

 In the above competitive credentialing cases, admittedly only a few, illustrate
that the balance appears to be tipping decidedly in favor of the hospitals. n177
Moreover, no case has gone so far as to find, or even to suggest, that  [*735]
hospitals do not have the right to consider competitive issues when they make
credentialing decisions.

   However, the cases also demonstrate the importance of a hospital's avoidance
of procedural challenges by examining the hospital's medical staff bylaws prior
to adopting a conflict of interest policy to determine whether the bylaws
require medical staff approval of the policy or require hearing rights when the
policy is applied. If the bylaws require medical staff approval before staff
privileges can be terminated or substantially reduced for any reason, then a
conflict of interest policy presumably could not be applied without involvement
of medical staff. n178 In contrast, medical staff bylaws would not interfere
with adoption or application of a conflict of interest policy if the bylaws
clearly apply only to credentialing decisions based on quality of care or
professionalism. n179

   E. New Cases Challenging Competitive Credentialing

 Three new case filings have brought the issue of competitive credentialing to
center stage. In each case, the plaintiff physicians challenge a conflict of
interest policy, adopted by one or more hospitals, which resulted in termination
of the plaintiffs' practice privileges due to the plaintiffs' ownership interest
in a competing facility.

   In the first filing, on February 24, 2004, in Arkansas state court, six
cardiologists in Murphy v. Baptist Health n180 challenged a conflict of interest
policy implemented by the defendant, Baptist Health, a non-profit corporation
providing medical care through hospitals and clinics throughout the state. n181
The plaintiffs were principals in a cardiology clinic that owns a substantial
interest in  [*736]  Arkansas Heart Hospital, which specializes in treatment of
heart disease. n182 The conflict of interest policy challenged in Murphy
mandates denial of initial or renewed staff privileges to any practitioner who
acquires an ownership or investment interest in a competing hospital. n183 The
plaintiffs alleged that because Baptist Health is the preferred hospital
provider for Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield in central Arkansas, the state's
largest provider of health coverage, Baptist Health's termination of the
physician plaintiffs' privileges deprives many patients of the cardiac
physicians of the patients' choice. n184 The plaintiffs asserted claims based on
state anti-kickback law, state false claims law, state deceptive trade practices
law, and common law tortious interference with doctor/patient relationships.
n185

   By a March 22nd order, the Murphy court granted a preliminary injunction to
the plaintiffs, enjoining Baptist Health from terminating the plaintiffs' staff
privileges via application of its conflict of interest policy. n186 The court
declared that the primary reason for the injunction was to prevent irreparable
harm to the plaintiffs' patients, whose insurance plans required treatment at
Baptist Health. n187 The court declared that the potential "fracture of the
doctor-patient relationship is paramount, and, therefore, the equities and
public policy weigh in favor of the doctors." n188 No trial date has yet been
scheduled. n189 The case has been reported as "being closely watched for
possible precedent." n190

   Counterbalancing the injunction issued in Murphy is the recent denial of a
temporary restraining order against the defendant hospitals in Berasi v. Ohio
Health Corp., n191 a competitive credentialing case filed in Ohio state court on
March 2, 2004. n192 Dr. Berasi and eight other physicians sued three affiliated
hospitals when the hospitals terminated the plaintiffs' staff privileges on the
basis that the plaintiffs were founding investors of a competing specialty
hospital. n193  [*737]  The plaintiffs contended, inter alia, that the
hospitals' new conflict of interest policy violated the plaintiffs' rights to
due process, breached the medical staff bylaws, and had been applied in an
arbitrary and unreasonable manner. n194 The conflict of interest policy provides
that staff members with ownership interests in competing hospitals are deemed to
have voluntarily withdrawn or terminated their staff privileges with the
defendant hospitals. n195 While the hospitals implemented "fair hearing"
procedures for such terminations, the procedures limit a physician's evidence to
showing that the policy has been "incorrectly applied to the Practitioner based
upon inaccurate facts." n196 Shortly after the judge denied the plaintiffs'
application for a temporary restraining order to reinstate their privileges
during the pendency of the litigation, the plaintiffs withdrew their action,
n197 reportedly to "weigh their options." n198

   Finally, a third competitive credentialing case, Biddulph v. HCA Inc., n199
was filed in Idaho state court on March 3, 2004. In Biddulph, five physicians
are suing the Eastern Idaho Regional Medical Center for terminating their
practice privileges due to the physicians' ownership interest in a competing
specialty hospital. n200 The Board for the medical center unilaterally
promulgated and applied a "Medical Staff Development Plan ... and Policy," which
authorizes the Board to consider competitive concerns in physician credentialing
decisions. n201 The Board is alleged to have applied three criteria against the
plaintiffs that resulted in the plaintiffs' ouster: whether they had an
investment interest in a competing facility; whether the number of the
physicians' inpatient admissions to the medical center had decreased by twenty
percent from the prior year; and whether the percentage of the physicians'
Medicare or Medicaid inpatient admissions to the medical center had increased by
ten percent from the prior year. n202 The plaintiffs have charged the medical
center with breaching its medical staff bylaws and restraint of trade and
monopolization under the state's antitrust laws. n203 The plaintiffs sought
injunctive relief, but the defendant hospitals rendered the injunctive issue
unripe by voluntarily deferring the effective date of the plaintiffs'
terminations until June 30, 2004. n204

    [*738]  Each of the two cases still pending, Murphy and Biddulph, raises
issues which hold the promise of making new law regarding circumstances under
which hospitals may or may not promulgate and apply conflict of interest
policies. The Murphy case raises substantial policy questions concerning
patients' rights and the impact that managed care arrangements with hospitals
will have on the legal analysis of such hospital policies. By granting the
plaintiffs' motion for preliminary injunction on the basis of preventing
irreparable harm to the doctor-patient relationship, the Murphy court has
demonstrated at least an initial partiality for the patient rights issue.

   The claims made in the Biddulph case, in contrast, raise issues of the due
process rights applicable to staff physicians terminated due to competitive
credentialing. Central questions in this case likely will be whether application
of the conflict of interest policy to staff physicians is permissible under the
medical staff bylaws and whether the hospital's criteria to detect patient
dumping reasonably affect the hospital's goal. The outcome in the Biddulph case
hopefully will provide guidance on the interplay between medical staff bylaws
and conflict of interest policies, and how hospitals can lawfully identify and
terminate privileges of physicians who engage in economic dumping.

   VI. State Laws on Economic Credentialing

 While several states have adopted laws restricting a hospital's ability to
consider economic factors in making credentialing decisions, n205 it is
significant  [*739]  that none of these statutes prohibit outright consideration
of economic criteria. The most prevalent forms of these laws prohibit hospitals
from restricting physicians' freedom to maintain staff privileges at other
hospitals n206 or from restricting patient referrals to other hospitals. n207
Moreover, most states that have passed laws dealing with economic credentialing
sanction the practice. n208

   Section 2801-b of the New York Public Health Law is a prime example of such a
statute that endorses economic credentialing. Section 2801-b, in pertinent part,
declares that:



   It shall be an improper practice for the governing body of a hospital to
refuse to act upon an application for staff membership or professional
privileges or to deny or withhold from a physician, podiatrist, optometrist or
dentist staff membership or professional privileges in a  [*740]  hospital, or
to exclude or expel a physician, podiatrist, optometrist or dentist from staff
membership in a hospital or curtail, terminate or diminish in any way a
physician's podiatrist's optometrist's or dentist's professional privileges in a
hospital, without stating the reasons therefore, or if the reasons stated are
unrelated to standards of patient care, patient welfare, the objectives of the
institution or the character or competency of the applicant. n209

 The application of section 2801-b of the New York Public Health Law by the New
York courts demonstrates how that statute, rather than serving as a restriction
on competitive credentialing, instead serves to legitimize the practice. In
Jackaway v. Northern Dutchess Hospital, n210 the plaintiff physician challenged
the defendant hospital's decision to transfer him from "active" staff to
"courtesy" staff, n211 alleging that this curtailment of the physician's
privileges violated section 2801-b. n212 The plaintiff's change in status was
mandated by the hospital's rule that granted appointments to "active" staff only
to physicians who had admitted at least twenty-five patients to the hospital
during the prior calendar year. n213 The rule had been adopted by the hospital
on the reasoning that medical policy decisions, permitted only for active staff
members, should be made by physicians who admitted "patients to the hospital on
a regular, rather than occasional, basis." n214 Applying section 2801-b to the
challenged decision, the court explained that the law had been promulgated to
"soften" the "harsh rule" allowing hospitals "unfettered discretion" in making
staff decisions. n215 Nevertheless, the court dismissed the complaint, holding
that because the hospital's asserted reasons for the denial were "authentic and
not pretenses," n216 the reasons ostensibly were related to the objectives of
the hospital, so that the requirements of section 2801-b were fulfilled. n217

    [*741]  Thus, even physicians in states that have enacted laws to restrict
hospitals' use of economic credentialing criteria cannot rely on the statutes as
a basis to reverse the credentialing decisions if the hospitals have not
violated the letter of the law. At best, physicians in the most restrictive
states, like California and Colorado, can utilize their statutes to prohibit
hospitals from engaging in the more aggressive forms of economic credentialing:
exclusive credentialing requirements that prohibit staff privileges elsewhere or
express referral mandates.

   VII. Recent GAO Reports on Specialty Hospitals

 Adding weight to physicians' burdens in challenging economic credentialing are
recent reports by the United States General Accounting Office ("GAO") on the
topic of "specialty hospitals." Specialty hospitals are hospitals that limit
their services to a relatively narrow band of inpatient and outpatient
procedures n218 and that are often owned, at least in part, by physicians. n219
Physicians have championed their rights to establish and refer the physicians'
own patients to specialty hospitals, emphasizing specialty hospitals' allegedly
improved quality, efficiency, and scheduling over general acute care hospitals.
n220 General hospitals counter that the specialty hospitals draw out of the
general hospitals the most profitable cases, n221 thereby impairing the ability
of the general hospitals to  [*742]  subsidize other, less profitable
departments, such as pediatrics and emergency services, which are nevertheless
critically important to the community. n222

   It was likely this sharp divide in opinion that influenced Congress n223 to
request the GAO to gather information on specialty hospitals. The GAO's April
18, 2003 report found that while specialty hospitals still constitute only a
small percentage of all hospitals, their number is growing. n224 The GAO also
reported that patients at specialty hospitals tended to be less sick than
patients with the same diagnoses at general hospitals. n225 This finding tends
to support the general hospitals' allegation that specialty hospitals are
"cherry-picking" the most lucrative cases.

   The GAO's follow-up October 22, 2003 Report n226 offers further support for
the general hospitals' position. This Report states that specialty hospitals
were less likely:



   (1) to have emergency departments, n227 significant because the Emergency
Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act ("EMTALA") n228 imposes costly staffing
and treatment requirements on emergency departments of hospitals; n229



(2) treated smaller percentages of Medicaid patients, n230 significant because
reimbursements for Medicaid cases tend to be the lowest  [*743]  program
reimbursements under the DRG system; and



(3) treated fewer inpatients proportionally, n231 relevant because outpatient
procedures, which do not require an overnight stay, tend to generate more
profit.

 Significantly, the Report confirms that specialty hospitals appear to
outperform general hospitals financially, when costs from all lines of business
and revenues from all payers are considered. n232 Once again, these GAO findings
buttress the general hospitals' allegations that specialty hospitals may be
"cherry-picking" the most profitable DRGs, and the most profitable cases within
those DRGs, to the detriment of general hospitals that have a community
commitment to provide less profitable forms of care that, nevertheless, are
necessary to the health of a community.

   The GAO Reports, therefore, are useful tools for hospitals to justify
credentialing criteria that include consideration of a physician's ownership
interest in a competing entity because the reports add legitimacy to the
business concerns that hospitals have articulated. n233 When added to courts'
declarations that competition is a valid credentialing consideration and that
conflicts of interest may be evaluated, n234 the support for competitive
credentialing is  [*744]  building.

   VIII. The New Challenge to Competitive Credentialing: That It Violates the
Fraud and Abuse Laws

 The most recent legal challenge to competitive credentialing clearly breaks
from the more traditional antitrust, contract, and public policy claims and
suggests that at least certain types of economic credentialing may violate
federal fraud and abuse laws, including the Anti-Kickback Law, n235 the Stark
Law, n236 and the False Claims Act. n237 This part of the article will explain
the theory behind this relatively new challenge to competitive credentialing and
will examine whether certain types of competitive credentialing can be deemed to
violate the fraud and abuse laws.

   A. The OIG Questions Whether Competitive Credentialing Constitutes a Kickback


 The federal anti-kickback provisions prohibit the knowing payment or receipt of
remuneration, in cash or in kind, in return for referring patients for services
paid for in whole or in part by federal healthcare programs. n238 The purpose
behind the law is twofold: first, to preclude providers from attempting to
recapture kickbacks that providers pay for patient referrals by performing extra
treatments that are not medically necessary or by raising their prices for
necessary treatments, which will inflate costs throughout the healthcare
delivery system, n239 and second, to avoid economic motives from interfering
with medical judgment when physicians make patient referrals. n240 Violators of
the anti-kickback law are guilty of a felony and can be fined up to $ 25,000 per
offense, or imprisoned up to five years, or both. n241 The Department of Health
and Human Services Office of Inspector General ("OIG") also may impose civil
money penalties n242 and exclude the violators from participating in federal
healthcare  [*745]  programs. n243 Courts have applied the statute very broadly,
where any purpose of the payment is to induce referrals. n244 In order to
protect commercial healthcare transactions that are deemed to pose little risk
of encouraging overutilization or unlawfully inflating healthcare payments, the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") n245 promulgated a series of
regulations describing "safe harbors," business practices that will not be
treated as criminal offenses or result in administrative penalties. n246
Applying the statute and regulations together, a practice may violate the
anti-kickback law if one purpose of reimbursement paid or received is to induce
referrals, and if the practice does not fall within a safe harbor.

   On December 9, 2002, the OIG, at the urging of the American Medical
Association ("AMA"), published in the Federal Register n247 a solicitation of
public comments to the following questions regarding the possible link between
certain competitive credentialing practices and the anti-kickback law: n248



   A. Are hospital staff privileges "remuneration"? ... Under what circumstances
do staff privileges have monetary value? n249



B. What are the implications of a hospital's denial of privileges to a physician
who competes with the hospital? ... How should such physicians be defined:
ownership? employee or contractor? staff leadership position?



 ...



D. Can privileges ever be conditioned on referrals, other than minimums
necessary for clinical proficiency? ... Guaranteeing a patient volume sufficient
to support offering a critical service not otherwise available ... ? n250

  [*746]  The OIG utilized the notice to indicate that it considered certain
competitive credentialing practices to be at either low risk or high risk of
violating the anti-kickback law. In the low risk category, the OIG referred to
only one practice: that the OIG does not believe that an across-the-board
hospital policy of refusing privileges to physicians with "significant conflicts
of interest" violates the anti-kickback law "in most situations." n251 The OIG
did not indicate situations where such categorical policies might be
problematic.

   In the "suspect" or high risk category, the OIG pointed to several
credentialing practices. The OIG indicated concerns over any hospital policies
that give the hospital discretion to evaluate a physician's conflict of interest
and to permit privileges subject to periodic reviews, as opposed to categorical
policies that flatly prohibit privileges once conflicts are identified. n252 The
OIG indicated that it suspects that under such discretionary arrangements, the
hospitals will allow physicians to retain privileges only when the physicians
make a sufficient volume or value of referrals to the hospitals. n253 In
addition, the OIG declared, assuming that privileges constitute remuneration,
that policies whereby hospitals condition privileges upon a physician's referral
of a specific level of referrals are "suspect." n254 Commentators, as well, have
suggested that a hospital's conditioning of staff privileges upon the hospital's
receipt of all or a given level of a physician's referrals violates the
anti-kickback law. n255

   Although the OIG's notice referred only to the anti-kickback law, the
potential exposure for hospitals that violate the anti-kickback law through the
hospitals' competitive credentialing policies is broader. Some courts have held
that, when remuneration is paid for referrals, the claims submitted to federal
healthcare programs for those referrals might be false for purposes of the False
Claims Act. n256 Moreover, if privileges are deemed to constitute remuneration
[*747]  for anti-kickback purposes, then a physician's referral of patients to
hospitals where the physician has privileges could also violate the Stark Law,
n257 which generally prohibits physicians from making referrals for designated
services payable by Medicare to entities with which the physicians have a
financial relationship. n258

   Testing this new fraud and abuse theory, the six cardiologist plaintiffs in
Murphy v. Baptist Health n259 allege that the conflict of interest policy
implemented by the defendant hospitals violates the federal anti-kickback law.
n260 The case initially was filed in federal district court n261 but dismissed
on the basis that there is no private right of action under the federal
anti-kickback law, so that there was no basis for federal jurisdiction. n262 The
plaintiffs immediately refiled in state court, again asserting the federal
anti-kickback claim, but only as a basis for seeking an injunction against
Baptist Health's application of its conflict of interest policy to the
plaintiffs. n263 While the Murphy court has granted a preliminary injunction to
the plaintiffs enjoining Baptist Health from terminating the plaintiffs' staff
privileges through application of its conflict of interest policy, n264 the
court did not rely on the plaintiffs' fraud and abuse  [*748]  argument as a
basis for the injunction. n265 However, the anti-kickback law is still at issue,
as the plaintiffs raise essentially similar claims under the Arkansas Fraud Act
and the Arkansas Medicaid Fraud False Claims Act. n266

   Although the substantive Murphy claims have not yet been heard in the state
court, dismissal of the case in the federal forum illustrates a drawback of
potential application of the federal anti-kickback law to hospital credentialing
practices. The injured parties, the excluded physicians, cannot themselves bring
such a claim. n267 Thus, the only way that excluded physicians could utilize the
federal anti-kickback law to force hospitals to abandon conflict of interest
policies is to convince the federal enforcement agencies to pursue the offending
hospitals. This may well prove to be a less than satisfactory tool for
physicians, because the enforcement agencies may be unable to act immediately on
every complaint that the agencies receive, and time is of the essence for the
excluded physicians to prevent any break in their credentialing status. n268
However, anti-kickback theories may be pursued by the plaintiffs under state
law, to the extent that such state laws confer private rights of action. n269

   B. Determining Whether Competitive Credentialing is a Kickback

 It is well established that a hospital's payment of money outright to
physicians for referrals or requirement of physicians to pay, via money or
services, the hospital as a condition of receiving referrals (through an
exclusive specialty services contract or otherwise) violates the anti-kickback
law. n270 A hospital lawfully may accept payments from exclusive providers for
services furnished to the providers by the hospital, but when such payments are
not tied to discrete services that the hospital is performing for the
physicians, or when the payments exceed fair market value for the services, then
the anti-kickback law is implicated. Where payments are made for referral
business, the fraud  [*749]  enforcement agencies theorize that the payer is
incentivized to recapture the payments by raising prices for healthcare services
or by performing additional services that are not medically necessary, key fraud
concerns. n271

   But in the typical case of competitive credentialing, where staff privileges
may be conferred or denied based upon whether the applicant competes with the
hospital or agrees to send all of his or her referrals, or a certain volume of
referrals, to the hospital, there is no express payment of money or goods by the
hospital to the applicant. Therefore, a threshold hurdle to overcome in order to
establish that competitive credentialing may violate the anti-kickback law is to
demonstrate that the grant of staff privileges by a hospital constitutes the
requisite "remuneration." If staff privileges are not deemed to be remuneration,
then there is no way that granting staff privileges for competitive reasons
could constitute the payment of remuneration, a necessary element of an
anti-kickback violation.

   Broadly characterizing staff privileges as remuneration has numerous
difficulties. Historically the OIG has taken the position that the grant of
staff privileges does not always constitute remuneration. The OIG's Management
Advisory Report "Financial Arrangements Between Hospitals and Hospital-Based
Physicians" announced that staff arrangements potentially violate the fraud and
abuse laws only where the hospital requires physicians to make payments to the
hospital in return for hospital business or charges physicians more than fair
market value for services furnished by the hospital. n272 This Report thereby
implies that the OIG's position is that the mere grant of staff privileges,
unaccompanied by such improper payments or charges, does not incur anti-kickback
risk. n273 Also, because hospitals lose referrals when the hospitals  [*750]
deny staff privileges to physicians, such denials would appear to contraindicate
fraud exposure, which typically occurs when hospitals induce referrals by paying
remuneration. n274 Finally, if the grant of staff privileges were deemed to be
remuneration in all cases, and assuming that at least one, not incidental,
purpose of a hospital's grant of staff privileges is to induce referrals, then
all grants of staff privileges would violate the anti-kickback law, n275 because
they would all constitute the payment of remuneration to induce referrals. n276
This is clearly inconsistent with past practices because the OIG has never
enforced the anti-kickback law against hospitals for the mere act of
credentialing physicians, and CMS has never seen fit to promulgate an
anti-kickback safe harbor for credentialing. n277

   Thus, the question is narrowed to whether the grant of staff privileges can
constitute remuneration in some cases but not in others. The OIG suggested, in
its recent solicitation for comments, that only certain staff privilege policies
potentially create fraud risk, i.e., only when hospitals condition the grant or
retention of staff privileges on a sufficient flow of referred business. n278
Deeming the grant of staff privileges to constitute remuneration only in these
cases can be justified for the reason that the hospital is treating the grant of
privileges as  [*751]  remuneration. It can be argued that privileges are being
used as a "trade-off" for referrals, which ostensibly imbues the privileges with
remunerative value. n279 Moreover, such a trade of privileges for referrals
raises key fraud concerns. Referrals might be made by physicians based not on
the physicians' medical judgment of the most appropriate hospital to treat
particular patients, but upon referral mandates imposed by the hospital. Such
referral mandates could result in referrals being made to hospitals that have
not achieved competitive levels of quality or efficiency, thereby interfering
with sound and independent medical judgment and impairing free market
competition based on quality and cost. n280 Conversely, staff privileges would
not constitute remuneration when they are inchoate, that is, when the privileges
confer upon a physician the mere ability (but not the requirement) to admit
patients, and will not necessarily result in any patient admissions. n281

    [*752]  Acceptance of the position suggested by the OIG's solicitation of
comments - that only those grants of staff privileges that are conditioned upon
referrals constitute remuneration and potentially violate the anti-kickback law
- leads to the following conclusions. First, there would appear to be only a
relatively narrow band of high-risk, competitive credentialing practices:
conditioning staff privileges upon receiving a given volume or value of
referrals. Conversely, any forms of competitive credentialing that do not
require referrals in return for the grant of staff privileges would not
implicate the fraud and abuse laws. This means that credentialing policies by
which hospitals consider, and potentially deny, staff privileges based on
conflicts of interest or any other legitimate competitive or business concerns
would not violate the anti-kickback statute. n282 Moreover, credentialing
policies requiring that a minimum number of procedures be performed at the
hospital to assure proficiency or sufficient physician familiarity with the
facility's operations would not violate the fraud and abuse laws since these
requirements are intended to achieve quality or administrative/business goals,
not to induce referrals. n283 Hospitals that  [*753]  implement these types of
competitive credentialing policies could rest assured that these practices would
be free from scrutiny under the fraud and abuse laws. n284

   Conclusion

 Looking at all of the activities related to economic credentialing - judicial
decisions, state laws, the GAO reports on specialty hospitals, and OIG fraud
enforcement activities - the most significant observation is not the limited
circumstances under which economic credentialing is prohibited, but all of the
circumstances in which it is not. Courts have found decidedly that competitive
credentialing by hospitals has a potential to violate antitrust n285 or contract
law, or to constitute arbitrary administrative action, only in very limited
circumstances. n286 State laws reinforce that most types of economic
credentialing are permissible. n287 Finally, it appears likely that only a
narrow type of competitive credentialing policy, i.e., where privileges are
expressly conditioned upon referrals, will be deemed to violate the
anti-kickback law. n288

   Although there are multiple indicators that conflict of interest policies are
generally permissible, that status could change in the near future based on the
collection of key pieces of information that are still missing. First, the
[*754]  moratorium on use of the Stark "whole hospital exception" for new
specialty hospitals remains in place while the issue is being examined and
reports are being prepared. n289 Second, the OIG has not yet taken action based
upon its solicitation of comments on application of the fraud and abuse laws to
competitive credentialing, and it is uncertain whether the OIG even contemplates
taking action on this issue. n290 Movement on any one of these pending matters
has the potential to change the overall picture of competitive credentialing.

   But it is probably the claims related to patient rights raised in the Murphy
n291 case that have the greatest potential to create new policy on the issue of
competitive credentialing. The Murphy case showcases the issue of patient rights
by alleging that the state's predominant managed care plan has contracted with
the defendant hospitals as the plan's preferred hospital providers, n292 so that
termination of staff privileges by the defendant hospitals is a very heavy club
wielded by the hospitals to discourage the formation of competing
physician-owned facilities. Termination of staff privileges could effectively
cut physicians off from access to the majority of patients who are plan members.
But, more importantly, as found by the court when awarding a preliminary
injunction to the plaintiffs, n293 termination of staff physicians cuts off the
patient plan members from their physicians of choice, because the plan members
are either required or encouraged to use the preferred hospitals in order to
minimize cost sharing. n294 It was this interference in doctor-patient
relationships that convinced the Murphy court to issue the injunction. n295

   Comparison of the outcomes of the plaintiff physicians' motions for
injunctive relief in the Murphy and Berasi n296 cases illustrates the importance
of the patient rights issue. In Berasi, the challenge to competitive
credentialing involved only two competing professionals - the physicians versus
the hospitals. n297 The courts, to date, have not been very sympathetic to the
physicians' plights and largely have ruled against the physicians based on
[*755]  traditional principles of business and competition. n298 Murphy is the
first competitive credentialing case where the plaintiff physicians assert that
large numbers of patients in the practice area are affected by the physicians'
termination. This is the aspect of proof in prior competitive credentialing
cases that has been most lacking. We generally have not seen, in these prior
cases, testimony on behalf of the patient community, or from patients directly,
that patient access to high quality, economical medical treatment from the
patients' choice of providers is being curtailed.

   Not surprisingly, the credentialing practices that are most at risk under the
antitrust laws and the fraud and abuse laws are also those which are potentially
most harmful to consumers. Credentialing policies that substantially foreclose
choice of providers for consumers in need of hospital services are most likely
to exist where a hospital has market power. Concomitantly, it is the existence
of market power that may well cause the hospital's conduct to be contrary to the
antitrust laws. n299 Even where a hospital does not have market power, express
referral mandates still threaten to interfere in the physician-patient
relationship, by requiring the physician to refer a patient to a hospital that
the physician might not otherwise select based upon the patient's needs,
quality, cost, or managed care contracting arrangements. And it is precisely
these credentialing practices that likely will be most subject to challenge
under the fraud and abuse laws. n300

   Ultimately, it is likely that the issue of competitive credentialing will be
decided not by physicians or hospitals, but by their patients. n301 Hopefully,
the fact-finding regarding specialty hospitals, which is currently being
completed, will focus on whether these forms of physician-owned facilities offer
better healthcare choices that consumers have a right to access n302 or whether,
in the end, specialty hospitals or physician-owned ventures threaten consumers
by duplicating already existing facilities and, thereby, driving up costs or by
potentially depriving communities of necessary forms of care that general
hospitals can no longer afford to provide. Even if specialty hospitals and other
forms of physician-owned joint ventures are deemed to be valuable contributors
in the spectrum of healthcare providers, that does not necessarily mean that
physicians who own such facilities should either be permitted to make referrals
[*756]  to them or be entitled to hospital privileges from the general hospitals
with which they compete. n303

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawAntitrust ActionsFacilitiesHealthcare LawBusiness Administration &
OrganizationHospital PrivilegesRestrictionsMergers & Acquisitions
LawAntitrustJoint Ventures

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  The grant of staff privileges after the applicant provider successfully
completes the credentialing process authorizes the provider to practice in the
hospital when his or her patients are admitted to the hospital. The provider,
however, is not an employee of the hospital. See, e.g., Engelstad v. Va. Mun.
Hosp., 718 F.2d 262, 267 (8th Cir. 1983) (explaining that "staff privileges do
not establish an employment contract with the hospital"); Craig W. Dallon,
Understanding Judicial Review of Hospitals' Physician Credentialing and Peer
Review Decisions, 73 Temp. L. Rev. 597, 605 (2000) (commenting that hospital
staff membership does not create an employment relationship with the hospital).
Although the provider has the ability to attend and treat his or her patients in
the hospital, the hospital does not control the treatment aspects of the
provider's practice. Id. The hospital merely opens its facilities for use by the
provider and imposes certain professional and administrative rules. Id. at
605-06. The provider renders medical care independent of the hospital and bills
patients or their insurers directly for that care. Id. at 606.





n2.  E.g., Dallon, supra note 1, at 599.





n3.  Id. at 622.





n4.  Complaint P 14-23, Berasi v. Ohio Health Corp. (C.P. Ct. of Franklin
County, Ohio Mar. 2, 2004) (No. 04CVA03-02406); Complaint P 64-112, Biddulph v.
HCA Inc. (Dist. Ct. 7th Jud. Dist. Bonneville County, Idaho Mar. 3, 2004) (No.
CV-2004-1219). See infra Part V.E for a discussion of both Berasi and Biddulph.





n5.  Murphy v. Baptist Health, No. CV2004-2002 (Cir. Ct. Ark. Mar. 22, 2004)
(order granting preliminary injunction). See infra Part V.E for a discussion of
Murphy.





n6.  See American Medical Association ("AMA"), Economic Credentialing - Issues
and Answers (2003), available at http://www.assn.org/ama/pub/category/10919.html
[hereinafter AMA Economic Credentialing] (defining economic credentialing as the
"use of economic criteria unrelated to quality of care or professional
competence in determining a physician's qualifications for initial or continuing
hospital medical staff membership or privileges"); accord Medical Society of the
State of New York ("MSSNY"), Economic Credentialing and Exclusive Contacts:
MSSNY Policy Paper 21, 24 (1992) [hereinafter MSSNY Policy Paper] (describing
economic credentialing as the use of economic criteria unrelated to quality to
ascertain whether a physician qualifies for medical staff membership or
privileges); California Medical Association ("CMA"), Exclusive Contracts and
Economic Credentialing: Potential for Abuse in the Quality Assurance System 4
(1991) [hereinafter CMA Economic Credentialing] (defining economic credentialing
as the use of economic criteria unrelated to quality to determine a physician's
eligibility for medical staff membership or privileges).





n7.  E.g., Marc S. Raspanti & David M. Laigaie, When Does Economic Credentialing
Violate the Anti-Kickback Statute?, in Health Law Handbook 307, 313-314 (Alice
G. Gosfield ed., 2002) (explaining the distinction between "hybrid" economic
credentialing and "pure" economic credentialing).





n8.  Id.





n9.  Id.





n10.  See id. at 319-20 (noting upholding of a hospital's refusal to extend
privileges to a physician whose admissions exceeded the average length of stay
and who allegedly performed unnecessary diagnostic tests) (citing Edelman v.
John F. Kennedy Mem'l Hosp., No. C-2104-80 (N.J. Super. Ct. Ch. Div. 1982),
cert. denied, 475 A.2d 585 (N.J. 1984)).





n11.  See Richard A. Feinstein, Economic Credentialling and Exclusive Contracts,
9 A.B.A. Health L. Sec.: The Health Law. 1, 5 (1996) (classifying excessive,
redundant testing and excessive denial letters as hybrid criteria); Raspanti &
Laigaie, supra note 7, at 314 (listing outpatient service utilization as a
hybrid criterion); see also Deborah S. Kolb et al., Economic Credentialing, 19
Topics in Health Care Fin. 58, 60-63 (1993) (detailing a range of hybrid
criteria).





n12.  Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 7, at 314.





n13.  Id.





n14.  See, e.g., Kolb et al., supra note 11, at 62 (noting that a physician's
refusal to conform to Medicare reimbursement requirements led to the termination
of that physician's contract with a hospital) (citing Alonso v. Hosp. Auth. of
Henry County, 332 S.E.2d 884 (Ga. Ct. App. 1985)).





n15.  MSSNY Policy Paper, supra note 6, at 25; CMA Economic Credentialing, supra
note 6, at 8-10.





n16.  Strictly economic criteria that appear on both the New York and California
lists are: hospital fiscal viability; patient demographics; payor mix;
Medicare/Medicaid participation status; HMO/PPO/IPA or other third party
contracting status; resource utilization in dollars; charges comparison; use of
facilities in order to maximize current, projected, or desired hospital market
share; physician profit by reimbursement; physician profit by cost; market need
for particular specialty physician; malpractice risk exposure; commercial payor
profiles; allocation of hospital resources; staff development plans; admission
rates; comparative utilization of resources; physician diagnosis related group
("DRG") profiling comparing profitable DRG categories to non-profitable DRG
categories; and number of hospital-owned outpatient services utilized. The New
York list also includes the following criteria that do not appear on the
California list: membership on other medical staffs; faculty appointment at a
medical school; and office location. The California list includes the following
criteria that do not appear on New York's list: personal referral patterns; age
as a (staff) development rather than health status criterion; concurrent DRG
review; reimbursement based on ICD-9 or CPT-4 code; comparison of "alternative"
DRGs; operating room underutilization; low census; hospital-owned ambulatory
facility underutilization; and facility equipment maintenance. See also
Feinstein, supra note 11, at 5 (noting differences between the California and
New York classifications of economic credentialing criteria); John D. Blum,
Evaluation of Medical Staff Using Fiscal Factors: Economic Credentialing, 26 J.
Health & Hosp. L. 65, 66 (1993) (discussing factors the California Medical
Association believes should not be used in economic credentialing).





n17.  Dallon, supra note 1, at 612-13.





n18.  Id. at 616.





n19.  See, e.g., Berman v. Valley Hosp., 510 A.2d 673, 676 (N.J. 1986), (stating
that hospitals are quasi-public entities designed to serve the public (citing
Doe v. Bridgeton Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 366 A.2d 641 (N.J. 1976), cert. denied, 433
U.S. 914 (1977))); see also Howard L. Lang, Economic Credentialing - Why It Must
Be Stopped, 5 Med. Staff Couns. 19, 24 (1991) (noting that the powers of
hospital governing boards are "deeply embedded in public aspects" and that "
hospitals are operated not for private ends, but for the benefit of the
public").





n20.  See, e.g., MSSNY Policy Paper, supra note 6, at 25 (noting that economic
credentialing can impair patient care); Lang, supra note 19, at 22 (stating that
"without hospital privileges, a physician loses the opportunity to practice the
medical profession to the fullest extent").





n21.  See MSSNY Policy Paper, supra note 6, at 24 (commenting that there is a
critical need to prevent economic considerations from affecting medical
decisions concerning the quality of patient care); Lang, supra note 19, at 24
(stating that "subversion of quality patient care to economic motivations must
be stopped"); see also Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 7, at 311 (noting that the
economic credentialing inquiry is always whether the granting or renewing of a
physician's privileges will positively or negatively impact the bottom line).





n22.  See Lang, supra note 19, at 22 (noting that the exclusion of certain
physicians from privileges denies patients a choice of practitioners); Raspanti
& Laigaie, supra note 7, at 311 n.1 (citing various ways that economic
credentialing can have a negative impact on patients and physicians).





n23.  MSSNY Policy Paper, supra note 6, at 24; see also CMA Economic
Credentialing, supra note 6, at 5 (stating that "economics cannot be permitted
to dictate medical decisions"). But see Kevin E. Grady, Current Topics in
Medical Staff Development and Credentialing, 26 J. Health & Hosp. L. 193, 209
(1993) (concluding that a hospital can consider economic factors if its primary
focus is on better serving patients and the majority of the medical staff);
Michael J. Baxter, Exclusive Contracting: The Original Economic Credentialing,
26 J. Health & Hosp. L. 97, 102 (1993) (approving the use of exclusive
contracting, with its economic credentialing aspects, as long as quality of care
is not ignored in the search for ways to improve efficiency in medicine).





n24.  See MSSNY Policy Paper, supra note 6, at 26 (noting that some otherwise
qualified physicians may be excluded from hospitals due to exclusive contracts);
CMA Economic Credentialing, supra note 6, at 12 (explaining that exclusive
contracts foreclose the possibility of some physicians working in certain
hospital departments).





n25.  See, e.g., CMA Economic Credentialing, supra note 6, at 11 (recognizing
that California courts have upheld exclusive contracting arrangements when the
action was necessary to provide quality care).





n26.  See John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing: A New Twist in Hospital
Appraisal Processes, 12 J. Legal Med. 427, 429 (1991) (commenting that economic
credentialing is timely because of increased competition in the healthcare
market).





n27.  See John D. Blum, The Evolution of Physician Credentialing into Managed
Care Selective Contracting, 22 Am. J.L. & Med. 173, 180 (1996) (noting that
changes in hospital markets have necessitated that hospitals operate more
efficiently and, thus, consider economic factors); Dallon, supra note 1, at
622-23 (stating that "hospitals who operate under substantial economic pressures
have a strong incentive to consider economic factors at all levels of their
operations including credentialing decisions").





n28.  See Blum, supra note 26, at 472 (noting that hospital administrators
believe that third-party payers select hospitals based on the efficiency of each
hospital's medical staff); Dallon, supra note 1, at 622-24 (noting that
hospitals rely on economic and quality of care considerations in making
credentialing decisions).





n29.  Blum, supra note 26, at 430 (noting hospitals' "increasing awareness ...
that it is the medical staff that accounts for the most significant portion of
institutional revenues"); Donovan Riley, Economic Credentialing Survey of
University Teaching Hospitals, 47 Healthcare Fin. Mgmt. 42, 44 (1993) (noting
hospitals' "increased understanding of a physician's influence over utilization
of hospital resources and, therefore, a hospital's economic viability").





n30.  Blum, supra note 26, at 430; Riley, supra note 29, at 44; see also Blum,
supra note 16, at 71 (stating that "the notion that physicians will be judged
solely on the basis of clinical quality is unrealistic in the current climate of
health care"); Feinstein, supra note 11, at 4 (stating that "the marketplace is
exerting tremendous pressure on hospitals and other organizations to cut costs
and participate in integrated delivery systems in order to remain competitive,
particularly in the fierce competition for managed care contracts which control
an increasing percentage of patient "lives'").





n31.  Anita J. Slomski, Hospitals Wield a Heavy Club Against High-Cost Doctors,
68 Med. Econ. 57, 69 (1991) (quoting Robert H. Rosenfield, a partner at
McDermott, Will & Emery: "It would be reckless for trustees to be completely
unaware of how physicians are using hospital resources... . If board members
don't protect the assets of the hospital, they can be held personally liable by
the bond holders.").





n32.  A physician fee schedule typically is comprised of a list of every type of
medical treatment the physician could perform and assigns a set dollar amount to
be paid in reimbursement for each listed service. In contrast to fee schedules,
other forms of reimbursement methodologies require physicians to assume
financial risk. The most prevalent is capitation, whereby the physicians are
paid a set dollar amount per month per patient who is a plan subscriber.
Accordingly, each physician receives the set monthly amount per patient
subscriber, regardless of whether the patient requires extensive services from
the physician or none at all. The physician thereby is incentivized to practice
efficiently - to produce high quality care and healthy patients and not to
render unnecessary services. Otherwise, the physician's costs would increase,
but his reimbursement would not.





n33.  Elizabeth A. Weeks, The New Economic Credentialing: Protecting Hospitals
from Competition by Medical Staff Members, 36 J. Health L. 247, 247-48 (2003)
(stating that "physicians...argue that entrepreneurial activities are necessary
for them to meet the economic challenges posed by declining reimbursements and
rising insurance costs").





n34.  E.g., Letter from Beth Schermer, on behalf of the Arizona Hospital and
Healthcare Association, to Janet Rehnquist, Inspector General, Department of
Health and Human Services 3 (Feb. 5, 2003) (on file with the Office of the
Inspector General ("OIG")) (submitting comments in response to the OIG's request
for comments on the development of possible guidance concerning the application
of the anti-kickback statute to certain hospital credentialing arrangements for
physicians).





n35.  See United States General Accounting Office, Specialty Hospitals:
Geographic Location, Services Provided, and Financial Performance 1, 2 (2003),
available at http://www.gao.gov/cgi-bin/getrpt?GAO-04-167 [hereinafter
Geographic Location] (describing the origins and characteristics of specialty
hospitals).





n36.  See United States General Accounting Office, Specialty Hospitals:
Information on National Market Share, Physician Ownership, and Patients Served
1, 1 (2003), available at http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d03683r.pdf [hereinafter
Information on National Market Share] (stating that "representatives of general
hospitals contend that specialty hospitals concentrate on the most profitable
procedures"). Common types of specialty hospitals are cardiac and orthopedic,
the procedures for which tend to be "disproportionately high." Cara S. Lesser,
Specialty Hospitals: Market Impact and Policy Implications (2003), available at
http://www.ftc.gov/ogc/healthcarehearings/docs/lesser.pdf (presented at the
FTC/DOJ Hearings on Health Care and Competition Law and Policy, Mar. 27, 2003).





n37.  See Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 4 (stating that
""cherry-picking' erodes the general hospital's ability to support essential
community services, such as obstetrical, pediatric and emergency care").





n38.  Riley, supra note 29, at 52.





n39.  Blum, supra note 26, at 430-31. See also Riley, supra note 29, at 42, 44
(noting the availability of computerized databases able to capture
physician-specific practice data).





n40.  See Riley, supra note 29, at 44 (noting "the introduction of competition
and cost containment as simultaneous principles of public and private policy in
hospital reimbursement" as a factor causing industry professionals to focus on
the economic credentialing of physicians).





n41.  Blum, supra note 26, at 472.





n42.  See id. at 429-30 (noting that managed care plans have forced hospitals to
contract with plans that have discounted rates below cost).





n43.  See United States Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission,
Statements of Antitrust Enforcement Policy in Health Care, Statement 8 (Aug.
1996) [hereinafter Statement 8] (describing the antitrust safe harbor),
available at http://www.usdoj.gov/atr/public/guidelines/0000.pdf; see also
Feinstein, supra note 11, at 10 (stating that "physicians ... are increasingly
imposing a form of economic credentialling upon themselves through groups and
networks that include shared economic risk as condition of participation").

   The antitrust "safe harbor" for physician network joint ventures imposes
requirements for substantial financial risk sharing plus limits on the numbers
of participating physicians. Statement 8, supra, at 75-77. Joint ventures that
fall within the safe harbor will not be challenged by the antitrust enforcement
agencies "absent extraordinary circumstances." Id. at 76-77.

   Even if safe harbor status is unavailable, and a physician network joint
venture does not engage in economic risk sharing, the venture will not be deemed
to be illegal per se if it engages in "clinical integration." Generally,
clinical integration requires the physicians in the network to develop
cooperative practice patterns, to monitor utilization and outcome, and to
control costs to produce high quality, efficient care. Id. at 72-73.





n44.  Id. at 89-92.





n45.  Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 7, at 314-15.





n46.  Weeks, supra note 33, at 248-49. See also Ken Terry, Hospital Hardball:
Maine Physicians Are Being Pressured to Pick Sides in a Nasty Fight Over
Economic Credentialing, 79 Med. Econ. 72, 77 (2002) (reporting that the American
Medical Association is receiving more complaints from physicians who have been
excluded for hospital staffs because they practice at a competing institution).





n47.  See Weeks, supra note 33, at 249-50 (contending that hospitals implement
policies limiting or prohibiting physicians' economic conflicts of interest to
ensure physician loyalty and maintain economic viability); Terry, supra note 46,
at 77 (reporting that a group of cardiologists stopped receiving referrals from
a heart clinic after merging with another cardiovascular group).





n48.  See Weeks, supra note 33, at 263-64 (describing competitive credentialing
as "inherently anticompetitive because they force physicians to limit or forego
certain entrepreneurial or investment activities in order to maintain full staff
privileges at a general, acute-care facility, which arguably are essential for
most physicians' practices").





n49.  See, e.g., Rome Ambulatory Surgical Ctr., LLC v. Rome Mem'l Hosp., Inc.,
No. 5:01-CV-23 (N.D.N.Y. Dec. 22, 2004) (order granting in part and denying in
part defendants' motion for summary judgment and denying plaintiff's motion for
summary judgment). See infra Part V.D for a discussion of Rome Ambulatory
Surgical Center, LLC.





n50.  Report on Medicare Compliance, 12 Atlantic Info. Servs., Inc. 6, (Feb. 6,
2003) (stating that "if medical staff physicians with outside financial
interests in competing facilities refer the simpler patient cases that cost loss
to treat to their own facilities ... while referring the sicker patients to the
hospital, physicians will maximize their profits by spending less to treat
patients while forcing hospitals to eat the losses involved with sicker
patients").





n51.  The reimbursement rates developed by state Medicaid programs and private
payers, as well, may be based on a DRG reimbursement methodology. Robert F.
Blomquist, Health Maintenance Organizations and State DRG Hospital Cost Control
Programs: The Need for Federal Preemption, 10 Am. J.L. & Med. 1, 13 (1984).





n52.  The DRG rate is subject to certain adjustments to ameliorate the potential
for unfairness of using a standard rate for all similar diagnoses. Id. at 12-13.
For example, where a particular patient requires additional hospitalization
beyond the standard inpatient stay, cases known as "outliers," the methodology
allows the rate to be increased to compensate the hospital for its added costs
of treatment. Id. at 13.





n53.  See id. at 12-13 (describing how 383 DRGs were created to "aggregate wide
differences in patient length of stay within DRG categories").





n54.  The DRG reimbursement methodology was designed to promote efficiency and
to discourage hospitals from overextending patient stays in order to receive
greater reimbursement under the prior reimbursement system, which paid a fixed
sum per day of inpatient hospitalization (the "per diem rate"). Id. at 12.





n55.  Report on Medicare Compliance, supra note 50, at 6 (stating that the DRG
system is "designed to ensure reimbursement is fair when spread out over a case
mix with varying severity of illness").





n56.  See id. (asserting that economic dumping "distorts a payment system
designed to ensure reimbursement is fair when spread out over a case mix with
varying severity of illness").





n57.  Catholic Healthcare Partners is reported to have stated in a letter to the
OIG that the threat to hospitals is from "potentially predatory self-referrals
by physicians that artificially manipulate the DRG population served by each
facility, to the clear detriment of the community safety net hospital and the
clearly unfair economic benefit of the specialty or boutique facility." Report
on Medicare Compliance, supra note 50, at 6. See also Letter from Rick Pollack,
on behalf of the American Hospital Association, to Janet Rehnquist, Inspector
General, Department of Heath and Human Services 5 (Feb. 5, 2003) (on file with
OIG) (stating that "hospital policies that protect those vital community
obligations [the provision of necessary medical care by hospitals without regard
to ability to pay] from being undermined by the narrow economic interests of a
specialty provider are both legitimate and appropriate").





n58.  Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 5.





n59.  Id.





n60.  Id.





n61.  15 U.S.C. 1-2 (1997).





n62.  E.g., Friedman v. Del. County Mem'l Hosp., 672 F. Supp. 171, 190-91 (E.D.
Pa. 1987), aff'd, 849 F.2d 600 (3d Cir. 1988). See infra Part V.B for a
discussion of Friedman.





n63.  Friedman, 672 F. Supp. at 190-91.





n64.  Clark C. Havighurst & Nancy M. P. King, Private Credentialing of Health
Care Personnel: An Antitrust Perspective, 9 Am. J.L. & Med. 263, 298 (1983)
(stating that "nondominant organizations ... should be free from antitrust
scrutiny altogether").





n65.  See, e.g., Ball Mem'l Hosp., Inc. v. Mut. Hosp. Ins., Inc., 603 F. Supp.
1077, 1080 (S.D. Ind. 1985) (stating that if the defendant insurer, held by the
court to lack market power, raised its premiums above prevailing market levels,
customers would simply abandon this insurer and contract with an alternate
carrier), aff'd, 784 F.2d 1325 (7th Cir. 1986).





n66.  See, e.g., Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 26-27
(1984) (stating that the percentage of an area's residents who are patients at a
particular hospital is not a dispositive indicator of market power). See infra
Part V.C for a further discussion of these issues.





n67.  See, e.g., Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533, 538 (N.J. 1984) (holding in
part that courts will refrain from interfering with a hospital's decision to
change staff privileges, as long as the hospital's decision furthers its
healthcare mission).





n68.  See, e.g., Balaklaw v. Lovell, 14 F.3d 793, 798-99 (2d Cir. 1994) (holding
that a hospital's termination of an exclusive anesthesiology contract with the
plaintiff did not significantly impair the market for anesthesiology services).





n69.  See, e.g., Koefoot v. Am. Coll. of Surgeons, 652 F. Supp. 882, 888 (N.D.
Ill. 1986) (applying the rule of reason analysis to facially legitimate non-
economic professional ethical rules).





n70.  See, e.g., Kreuzer v. Am. Acad. of Periodontology, 735 F.2d 1479, 1490
(D.C. Cir. 1984) (quoting from N. Pac. Ry. Co. v. United States, 356 U.S. 1, 5
(1958), that per se agreements are "presumed to be unreasonable" and "manifestly
anticompetitive," because of their ""pernicious effect on competition and lack
[of] any redeeming virtue ... .'").





n71.  Kreuzer, 735 F.2d at 1492-94; see Blum, supra note 27, at 179 (stating
that majority of antitrust violations are decided under a rule of reason
analysis).





n72.  See, e.g., Friedman, 672 F. Supp. at 190-91 (dismissing a claim under the
rule of reason because the plaintiff physician negatively impacted the
hospital's efficiency and competitiveness). See infra Part V.B for a further
discussion of Friedman.





n73.  15 U.S.C. 2 (1997). "Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to
monopolize, or combine or conspire with any person or persons, to monopolize any
part of the trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations,
shall be deemed guilty of a felony ... ." Id.





n74.  Friedman, 672 F. Supp at 194; McKenzie-Willamette Hosp. v. Peacehealth,
No. 02-6032-HA, 2003 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 16203, at 9-10 (D. Or. Aug. 15, 2003). See
infra Part V.B for a further discussion of these issues.





n75.  See Blum, supra note 27, at 179 (stating that hospitals have successfully
characterized their staffing decisions "legitimate operational considerations");
Leonard A. Hagen, Comment, Physician Credentialing: Economic Criteria Compete
with the Hippocratic Oath, 31 Gonz. L. Rev. 427, 454 (1995/1996) (noting that
when economic credentialing is properly applied it does not result in an
antitrust violation); Weeks, supra note 33, at 255-56 (asserting that most
challenges to medical staff determinations brought under section 1 of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act have failed).





n76.  672 F. Supp. 171,174 (E.D. Pa. 1987), aff'd, 849 F.2d 600 (3d Cir. 1988).





n77.  Friedman, 672 F. Supp. at 173.





n78.  Id. at 178-79, 190.





n79.  Id. at 188-90.





n80.  Id. at 189-90.





n81.  Id. at 190.





n82.  Friedman, 672 F. Supp. at 190-91 (stating that "since a hospital cannot
conspire with itself, there can be no conspiracy as a matter of law").





n83.  Id. at 175, 194.





n84.  Id. at 194-95.





n85.  Id.; see also Kerth v. Hamot Health Found. Inc., 989 F. Supp. 691, 704-05
(W.D. Pa. 1997) (holding that the hospital's termination of the plaintiff
physician's staff privileges for the physician's failure to attain the minimum
number of open heart surgeries per year that the hospital deemed to be
sufficient to maintain technical proficiency withstood the plaintiff's Sherman
section 1 claims because the plaintiff failed to prove the conspiracy element),
aff'd mem., 159 F.3d 1351 (3d Cir. 1998); Hassan v. Indep. Practice Assocs.,
P.C., 698 F. Supp. 679, 691-97 (E.D. Mich. 1988) (finding that an HMO's
termination of and refusal to readmit the plaintiff physicians as network
members, due to their overutilization of allergy tests, withstood Sherman
section 1 claims because the HMO's policy to prevent excessive use of costly
tests was a procompetitive cost containment measure; because the HMO, with only
a twenty percent market share, did not possess market power; and because there
was no detrimental impact on competition overall).





n86.  See Dallon, supra note 1, at 639 ("Courts increasingly have relied on a
contract theory to allow limited judicial review of hospital credentialing and
peer review decisions. Under this view, medical staff bylaws constitute a
contract between a physician who enjoys medical staff privileges and the
hospital.").





n87.  Id.





n88.  465 N.E.2d 554 (Ill. App. Ct. 1984).





n89.  Knapp, 465 N.E.2d at 560-61.





n90.  Id. at 563.





n91.  Id. at 565; see also Rao v. St. Elizabeth's Hosp. of the Hosp. Sisters of
the Third Order of St. Francis, 488 N.E.2d 685, 697 (Ill. App. Ct. 1986)
(limiting its review of the hospital's permanent suspension of the plaintiff's
staff privileges due to, inter alia, overutilization of glucose tolerance tests
to whether the hospital's procedures violated its bylaws); Edelman v. John F.
Kennedy Mem'l Hosp., No. C-2104-80 (N.J. Super. Ct. Ch. Div. 1982) (upholding
the hospital's denial of the plaintiff physician's staff reappointment on the
basis of utilization review data that indicated excessive lengths of stay and
use of unnecessary diagnostic tests, which the hospital argued had resulted in
excessive costs to the hospital).





n92.  466 U.S. 2 (1984).





n93.  Jefferson Parish Hosp., 466 U.S. at 5.





n94.  Id. at 7, 26-27.





n95.  Id. at 31.





n96.  912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990).





n97.  Beard, 912 F.2d at 145.





n98.  Id. See also Redding v. St. Francis Med. Ctr., 208 Cal. App. 3d 98, 102,
104-06 (Cal. Ct. App. 1989) (upholding the hospital's right to change its
open-staffing heart surgery program to a closed exclusive program, thereby
restricting the plaintiff's right to perform independent bypass surgery at the
hospital, in order to improve quality and finding that the hospital's interest
in fostering higher standards, teamwork, and dedication, which hopefully would
lead to lower mortality rates, was not "substantively irrational, unlawful,
contrary to established public policy, or procedurally unfair" and outweighed
the potential adverse economic impact on the plaintiff). Similarly, plaintiffs
have not been successful in asserting antitrust claims against non-hospital
healthcare entities for exclusive contracting practices. See, e.g., Capital
Imaging Assocs. v. Mohawk Valley Med. Assocs., Inc., 996 F.2d 537, 547 (2d Cir.
1993) (finding that a plaintiff's exclusion from an independent practice
association's ("IPA") network did not violate Sherman section 1, because the IPA
did not possess market power); U.S. Healthcare, Inc. v. Healthsource, Inc., 986
F.2d 589, 598-99 (1st Cir. 1993) (finding that an exclusive contract between an
HMO and its participating physicians did not violate sections 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act because the plaintiff had not established that there had been any
harmful impact to the market as a whole).





n99.  See, e.g., Bellam v. Clayton County Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488, 1493
(N.D. Ga. 1990) (denying Sherman sections 1 and 2 claims challenging a
hospital's exclusive anesthesiology contract because the hospital's legitimate
quality goals rebutted the plaintiff's antitrust conspiracy allegations and the
plaintiff failed to establish that the hospital had market power); Belmar, 475
A.2d at 544 (upholding an exclusive anesthesiology contract against state
antitrust claims because the plaintiff had failed to prove harm to the market as
a whole and no per se illegality because an exclusive arrangement "permits more
efficient hospital administration"); Dattilo v. Tucson Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700,
703-05 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1975) (concluding that the benefits of efficiency and
economy of the hospital's exclusive nuclear medicine contract outweighed the
harm to an excluded physician).





n100.  Bocombo v. Radiology Consultants of South Jersey, No. 02-1697(JEI), 2004
U.S. Dist. LEXIS 2733, at 12-13 (D.N.J. Feb. 25, 2004) (denying the plaintiff's
Sherman sections 1 and 2 and state law antitrust claims, which arose from the
plaintiff's loss of business, premised upon his displacement when the defendant
hospitals changed their exclusive radiology provider arrangements because the
court found no evidence that the plaintiff's exclusion had a negative impact on
competition in the relevant market); Steuer v. Nat'l Med. Enter., Inc., 672 F.
Supp. 1489, 1511, 1515-18 (D.S.C. 1987) (denying the plaintiff's Sherman section
1 claim, challenging the hospital's substitution of its sole pathology provider,
for failure to establish that the hospital had market power, to prove the
conspiracy element, and to show that the overall market had been harmed).





n101.  861 F.2d 1440 (9th Cir. 1988).





n102.  Oltz, 861 F.2d at 1446-47.





n103.  Id. at 1443-44.





n104.  Id. at 1451.





n105.  Id. at 1448.





n106.  Id. at 1442.





n107.  However, the court held that, in view of this clear showing of market
injury, a detailed market analysis was unnecessary, "because market definition
and market power are merely tools designed to uncover competitive harm, proof of
"actual detrimental effects, such as a reduction of output, can obviate the need
... [for] elaborate market analysis.'" Oltz, 861 F.2d at 1448 (citing F.T.C. v.
Ind. Fed'n of Dentists, 476 U.S. 447, 460-61 (1986)).





n108.  The recent case of Sisters of Providence in Washington v. A.A. Pain
Clinic, Inc., 81 P.3d 989 (Alaska 2003), like Oltz, is one of the few cases in
which an excluded physician successfully challenged, on an antitrust claim, an
exclusive contract between a hospital and an anesthesiology group. Id. at 1003.
In Sisters of Providence, the excluded plaintiff demonstrated that the hospital
had market power by noting "around sixty to sixty-five percent of hospital
patients in Anchorage "run through Providence.'" Id. at 1001. In addition, the
plaintiff demonstrated harm to the market because the exclusive anesthesiology
provider was so understaffed that, due to the restrictions of the exclusive
arrangement, hospital inpatients were unable to obtain the necessary pain
management services. Id. at 1003-04.





n109.  See supra Part V.A for a discussion of the difficulties in sustaining a
Sherman Anti-Trust Act claim.





n110.  Most courts have accepted the proposition that a hospital's medical staff
bylaws constitute an enforceable contract between the hospital and its staff
physicians. Accordingly, if the hospital takes an action, with regard to a staff
member, that is inconsistent with the bylaws, the staff member may challenge the
action as a breach of contract. See, e.g., Lewisburg Cmty. Hosp., Inc. v.
Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756, 759-61 (Tenn. 1991). See also Dallon, supra note 1,
at 640 n.288 (citing numerous examples of judicial findings that bylaws
constitute contracts).





n111.  No. 03A01-9305-CH-186, 1993 WL 481402 (Tenn. Ct. App. Nov. 18, 1993).





n112.  Lister, 1993 WL 481402, at 1.





n113.  Id. at 2. See also City of Cookeville v. Humphrey, 126 S.W.3d 897, 902-03
(Tenn. 2004) (upholding, as permissible under state law and under medical staff
bylaws, the hospital's decision to enter into an exclusive contract for
radiological services); Alonso v. Hosp. Auth. of Henry County, 332 S.E.2d 884,
887 (Ga. Ct. App. 1985) (upholding the termination of a contract between a
hospital and its chief pathologist, finding that the plaintiff's refusal to
abide by new Medicare/Medicaid reimbursement rules, and the hospital's
consequent inability to recover approximately $ 25,000 in reimbursements over
six months constituted just cause for the hospital to terminate the contract).





n114.  805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).





n115.  Lewisburg Cmty. Hosp., Inc., 805 S.W.2d at 759.





n116.  Id. at 761.





n117.  See Dallon, supra note 1, at 663 (observing that a number of courts allow
judicial review of credentialing decisions based on public policy grounds).





n118.  E.g., Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 905-06 (Cal. Dist.
Ct. App. 1978) (holding that a hospital's decision to operate its hemodialysis
unit on a closed basis to "provide the best patient care at the lowest cost" was
not "substantively irrational, arbitrary, capricious or wholly lacking in
evidentiary support").





n119.  582 F. Supp. 425 (N.D. Ga. 1984).





n120.  Mays, 582 F. Supp. at 429.





n121.  These are referred to as companion cases because they presented similar
issues and were decided in similar fashions by the same court on the same day.





n122.  510 A.2d 662 (N.J. 1986).





n123.  510 A.2d 673 (N.J. 1986).





n124.  Berman, 510 A.2d at 676 (stating that restrictive admissions policies
must serve a legitimate public health objective); see also Desai, 510 A.2d at
668 (stating that a closed-staff admissions policy "will be upheld if the
public-health objective is rationally advanced by the hospital's staff
admissions policy").





n125.  Desai, 510 A.2d at 664.





n126.  Id. at 669-70. The Desai court stated that its authority to review the
hospital's closed staff decision was derived from the principle that hospitals'
"health-care powers are deeply impressed with a public interest and are
fiduciary in nature," so that the court had a right of review to determine
whether that fiduciary authority was "exercised reasonably for the public good."
Id. at 668.





n127.  Id. at 670-71.





n128.  Id.





n129.  Berman, 510 A.2d at 677.





n130.  Id. at 679-80.





n131.  Id. at 679.





n132.  Id. at 680.





n133.  Id. See also Kessel v. Monongalia County Gen. Hosp., 600 S.E.2d 321, 333
(W. Va. 2004) (finding that a quasi-public hospital was not justified in
entering into an exclusive contract for cardiac anesthesia services when the
hospital could have adopted a less extreme measure, such as a preferential
contract that designated a primary provider for the services but also allowed
access to other providers upon patient request, although the court acknowledged
"that the weight of authority appears to support the right of hospitals to
execute exclusive contracts").





n134.  See, e.g., Complaint at 2, Murphy v. Baptist Health, 2004 U.S. Dist.
LEXIS 12080 (D. Ark. Feb. 24, 2004) (No. CV2004-2002); Complaint at 2, Berasi v.
Ohio Health Corp. (C.P. Ct. of Franklin County, Ohio Mar. 2, 2004) (No.
04CVA03-02406); Complaint at 2, Biddulph v. HCA Inc. (Dist. Ct. 7th Jud. Dist.
Bonneville County, Mar. 3, 2004) (No. CV-2004-1219). See infra Part V.E for
further discussions of Murphy, Berasi, and Biddulph.





n135.  See, e.g., Tarabishi v. McAlester Reg'l Hosp., 951 F.2d 1558, 1567-71
(10th Cir. 1991). In Tarabishi, after the hospital opposed the plaintiff's
development of an outpatient surgical clinic because the clinic would compete
with a new outpatient surgical department established by the hospital, the
hospital initiated several investigations into the plaintiff's patient care at
the hospital and, ultimately, revoked the plaintiff's staff privileges. Id. at
1562. Despite the fact that the hospital was the only hospital in McAlester,
Oklahoma, the court held that the plaintiff had failed to present any evidence
of market power, had failed to prove the existence of a conspiracy, and had
failed to show any impact upon competition as a whole, defeating the plaintiff's
Sherman sections 1 and 2 claims. Id. at 1561, 1568, 1571. But see Weeks, supra
note 33, at 263-64 (commenting that hospitals' conflict of interest policies
"are inherently anticompetitive because they force physicians to limit or forego
certain entrepreneurial or investment activities in order to maintain full staff
privileges at a general, acute-care facility, which arguably are essential for
most physicians' practices").





n136.  Coffey v. Healthtrust, Inc., 955 F.2d 1388, 1393 (10th Cir. 1992); see
also Howerton v. Grace Hosp., Inc., No. 4:90CV187, 1995 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 21123
(W.D.N.C. July 7, 1995) (holding that the plaintiffs failed to show harm to
market when the hospital terminated the plaintiffs' exclusive radiology contract
and contracted with another exclusive provider after the plaintiffs established
a freestanding radiology facility that directly competed with the hospital),
aff'd mem., 96 F.3d 1438 (4th Cir. 1996); Univ. Emergency Physicians, P.C. v.
Richmond County Hosp. Auth., No. CV182-143, 1982 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 17227, at 20
(S.D. Ga. Nov. 11, 1982) (holding that to require the hospital to continue an
exclusive contract with the plaintiffs for operation of the hospital's emergency
room, when the plaintiffs sought to open competing freestanding emergency
clinics in the immediate area, would "seriously impair the hospital
administration's decision-making process").





n137.  See Cobb County-Kennestone Hosp. Auth. v. Prince, 249 S.E.2d 581, 588
(Ga. 1978). See infra note 168 for a discussion of Cobb County.





n138.  Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Mem'l Reg'l Med. Ctr., No. 91-589, slip. op. at
3 (Cir. Ct. Fla. June 18, 1992). See infra notes 163-69 and accompanying text
for a discussion of Rosenblum.





n139.  No. 89-30084-RV, 1993 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 20853 (N.D. Fla. May 28, 1993).





n140.  Williamson, 1993 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 20853, at 127.





n141.  Id. at 105.





n142.  Id. at 154, 156.





n143.  309 F.3d 836 (5th Cir. 2002).





n144.  Surgical Care Ctr. of Hammond, 309 F.3d at 841.





n145.  Id. at 842.





n146.  Id. at 843.





n147.  800 F.2d 568 (6th Cir. 1986).





n148.  Potters Med. Ctr., 800 F.2d at 581.





n149.  Id. at 570. The plaintiffs also sued Jackman S. Vodrey, attorney for the
defendant hospital and a member of its Board of Trustees, and J. W. Schoolnic,
M.D., a senior member of the defendant hospital's medical staff and chairman of
its Department of Internal Medicine. Id.





n150.  Id. at 571.





n151.  Id. at 573. The court found that, as a matter of law, the defendants
Vodrey and Schoolnic lacked the capacity to conspire with the defendant hospital
as "it is well settled that "officers or employees of the same firm do not
provide the plurality of actors imperative for a section 1 conspiracy.'" Potters
Med. Ctr., 800 F.2d at 573 (quoting Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp.,
467 U.S. 752, 769 (1984)).





n152.  Id. at 574. From the few facts concerning market power that the opinion
states, it appears at least conceivable that the defendant was a monopolist,
because the plaintiff and the defendant hospitals were the only two hospitals in
East Liverpool, Ohio, and the defendant hospital outsized the plaintiff hospital
in terms of number of inpatient beds by a ratio of more than seven to one. Id.
at 570.





n153.  Id. at 575-76, 580.





n154.  Id. at 581. See also Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 843 F.2d 139, 140, 144-45
(3d Cir. 1988) (reversing a grant of summary judgment to the defendant hospital
and reinstating the plaintiff's federal and state antitrust claims on the basis
that the hospital's stated justification for terminating the plaintiff's staff
privileges could be a sham and that the termination might actually be
retaliation for the plaintiff's establishing a medical office building located
two miles from the hospital, which competed against the hospital for laboratory
and radiology services and which the plaintiff planned to expand into a
comprehensive family-oriented medical center); cf. Reazin v. Blue Cross & Blue
Shield, Inc., 635 F. Supp. 1287, 1327-28, 1332-33 (D. Kan. 1986) (denying
summary judgment to the defendant health plan and finding that its termination
of the plaintiff hospital as participating provider supported the plaintiff's
Sherman sections 1 and 2 claims, where the plaintiff had asserted proof of the
defendant health plan's conspiracy, market power, and detrimental impact on
competition and where the defendant had failed to assert any legitimate business
reasons for the termination), aff'd, 899 F.2d 951 (10th Cir. 1990); Blue Cross
of Wash. and Alaska v. Kitsap Physicians Serv., No. C81-918V, 1981 WL 2198, at
4-6 (W.D. Wash. Oct. 28, 1981) (awarding a preliminary injunction to the
plaintiff health insurer based upon the insurer's allegations that the defendant
health insurer had entered into exclusive provider contracts with all but three
of the physicians in a three-county area, foreclosing the plaintiff's ability to
establish a physician network to service the plaintiff's subscribers, because
the defendant could meet its competitive goals in a manner that would be less
harmful to competition).





n155.  No. 5:01-CV-23, slip op. at 52 (N.D.N.Y. Dec. 22, 2004).





n156.  Rome Ambulatory Surgical Ctr., LLC, slip op. at 1-3.





n157.  Id. at 4. The Federal Trade Commission reportedly is investigating, on
alleged antitrust violations, the Eastern New Mexico Medical Center in Roswell
for attempting to exclusively contract with local payers to shut out competing
hospitals, in apparent response to an announcement by the Center for Ambulatory
Surgery & Endoscopy of Southeastern New Mexico that it planned to break ground
later this year on a twenty-six-bed acute care hospital in Roswell that would
compete directly with the medical center. Late News: FTC Investigates N.M.
Hospital, 34 Mod. Healthcare, Apr. 12, 2004, at 4.





n158.  Rome Ambulatory Surgical Ctr., LLC, slip op. at 10.





n159.  Id. at 10. However, the bylaw was later removed. Id.





n160.  Id. at 52.





n161.  Id.





n162.  No. 91-589, slip op. at 4-5 (Fla. Cir. Ct. June 18, 1992).





n163.  Rosenblum, slip op. at 4.





n164.  Fla. Stat. Ann. 395.011(5) (2002) (renumbered as 395.0191(4) and amended
1992, ch. 92-289, 11, effective Oct. 1, 1992).





n165.  Rosenblum, slip op. at 3-4.





n166.  Id.





n167.  Id. at 4.





n168.  Id. at 3. Some commentators have suggested that the Rosenblum case is of
limited precedential value because the plaintiff was applying for appointment,
not renewal (where greater procedural protections are typically afforded through
the medical staff bylaws), and because the Florida statute granted wide
credentialing discretion to hospitals. See Hagen, supra note 75, at 452
(explaining how Rosenblum has been interpreted in different ways; some argue it
was decided on narrow facts, while others argue that the decision shows
"judicial tolerance" for economic credentialing); Terese Hudson, Factoring in
the Financials: Court Gives Nod to Economic Credentialing, 67 Hosp. & Health
Networks 36, 36 (1993) (describing Rosenblum as a case that was decided on
"unusual facts" which may be "difficult to apply in other situations"); Jane C.
Taber & Janna P. King, Caught in the Crossfire: Economic Credentialing in the
Health Care War, 1994 Detroit C. L. Rev. 1179, 1210 (1994) (noting that
Rosenblum has limited precedential value since it was a lower court opinion and
was largely dependent on Florida statutory law); see also Cobb County, 249
S.E.2d at 583, 588 (upholding a hospital rule requiring patients to have their
brain scans performed on the hospital's scanner, a rule that the hospital had
adopted in response to the establishment of a competing freestanding brain scan
facility, as "a reasonable and rational administrative decision" reflecting "a
well intentioned effort by the [Hospital] Authority to deal with the intricate
and complex task of providing comprehensive medical services to the citizens of
our state").





n169.  621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001).





n170.  Mahan<cedil> 621 N.W.2d at 155-56.





n171.  Id. at 152-53.





n172.  Id.





n173.  Id. at 154-55.





n174.  Id. at 155-56. See also Lister v. Methodist Med. Ctr. of Oak Ridge, 1993
WL 481402, at 2 (Tenn. Ct. App. Nov. 18, 1993) (finding that its medical staff
bylaws did not prevent a hospital from affecting anesthesiology privileges by
entering into an exclusive anesthesiology contract, because the bylaws related
only to actions that affected staff privileges related to competence, not to
actions that affected staff privileges due to the hospital's business
considerations). But see Lewisburg Cmty. Hosp., Inc., 805 S.W.2d at 756-57
(holding that termination of an exclusive radiological services contract without
hearing breached the bylaws, because the bylaws constituted a contract between
staff and the hospital, the termination significantly reduced the defendant
radiologist's staff privileges, and the bylaws required notice and hearing
whenever the board took unilateral action to reduce privileges).

   Some commentators have suggested that economic credentialing policies
unilaterally implemented by a hospital's board may run afoul of Joint Commission
on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations ("JCAHO") standards, which require
that professional criteria for credentialing be specified in the medical staff
bylaws. JCAHO standard M.S.4.2.2. See Lang, supra note 19, at 23. However, a
strict reading of the JCAHO standards shows that they appear to apply
exclusively to quality assessments, see M.S.4.2.2.1 ("the criteria are designed
to assure the medical staff and governing body that patients will receive
quality care"), so that financial and business concerns are appropriately the
exclusive province of the board, and the JCAHO standards do not require that
competitive rules be incorporated into the staff bylaws or that competitive
decisions be approved by medical staff. Harold Bressler, general counsel for
JCAHO, is reported to have declared that "JCAHO standards are intended to ensure
competency of care ... . Once an institution has demonstrated competence among
its physicians, JCAHO standards do not care whether hospitals require physicians
to have green hair or stand on their heads ... ." After Federal Judge Finds No
Jurisdiction, Cardiologists File State Action on Kickbacks, 13 Health L. Rep.
(BNA) 315, 316 (2004) [hereinafter After Federal Judge].

   Concerns also have been raised that economic credentialing threatens the loss
of antitrust immunity under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act ("HCQIA"),
42 U.S.C. 11101-11152 (2000). E.g., Hagen, supra note 75, at 455-56 (noting that
pure economic credentialing could nullify HCQIA immunity, except possibly where
"the decision was made to further a state mandate of affordable access to
care"). HCQIA offers immunity to physicians who participate in peer review
decisions when the physicians act under "the reasonable belief that the action
was in the furtherance of quality health care." 42 U.S.C. 11112(a)(1). However,
purely economic credentialing is more likely to be performed by hospital
managers than staff physicians, so that HCQIA immunity for staff physicians is
unlikely to be applicable.

   Finally, the Medicare Conditions of Participation do not appear to prohibit
hospitals from considering economic criteria when the hospitals determine
medical staff appointments. 42 C.F.R. 482.12(a)(1-7) (2003).





n175.  Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 156. See also Walborn v. UHHS/CSAHS-Cuyahoga, Inc.,
No. CV-02-479572, slip op. at Conclusions of Law P 23 (C.P. Cuyahoga County,
Ohio 2003) (finding that a conflict of interest policy adopted by the hospital
was "a reasonable means of protecting [the hospital's] continued viability"),
appeal dismissed per stipulation (2003).





n176.  Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 161 n.8.





n177.  These cases are in keeping with other healthcare cases that have enforced
do-not-compete agreements, as long as the agreements are reasonable and not
harmful to the public. See, e.g., Woman's Clinic, Inc. v. St. John's Health
Sys., Inc., 252 F. Supp. 2d 857, 871-72 (W.D. Mo. 2002) (finding a covenant
not-to-compete for a five-year duration and for a twenty-five-mile radius to be
reasonable to protect interest of healthcare network); Murfreesboro Med. Clinic,
P.A. v. Udom, No. M2003-00313-COA-R9-CV, 2004 Tenn. App. LEXIS 77, at 13-14
(Jan. 30, 2004) (upholding a non-compete agreement by a clinic against a
formerly employed physician, finding that it was reasonable in time (eighteen
months) and scope (twenty-five-mile radius), and did not harm the public, but
remanding on the reasonableness of the buy-out dollar amount). See also Cogan v.
Harford Mem'l Hosp., 843 F. Supp. 1013, 1020 (D. Md. 1994) (ruling against the
plaintiff's Sherman sections 1 and 2 challenge to the defendant hospital's
requirement that an exclusive radiological contract include a do-not-compete
clause due to the plaintiff's failure to prove that the hospital had market
power and that its policy had injured trade). But see Weeks, supra note 33, at
285 (stating that conflict of interest policies "inherently restrict
competition" and that courts' decisions that such policies are reasonable
business decisions by hospitals to maintain economic viability are "questionable
under traditional antitrust policies").





n178.  See Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 157 (stating that where the corporate bylaws
delegate certain duties to the staff, including the assignment and curtailment
of privileges, the medical staff has a right to make recommendations regarding
those decisions); Lister, 1993 WL 481402, at 1 (noting that the hospital's
corporate bylaws provide that a decrease in clinical privileges for reasons of
clinical competence gives rise to a right of hearing by a staff member). See
supra notes 169-77 and accompanying text for a discussion of Mahan and notes
111-13 and accompanying text for a discussion of Lister.





n179.  See City of Cookeville, 126 S.W.3d at 903 (stating that the hospital
board's decision to enter into an exclusive contract for radiological services
did not breach the medical staff bylaws because the bylaws provided that the
medical staff's input into such decisions was "advisory only"); Lewisburg Cmty.
Hosp., Inc., 805 S.W.2d at 761-62 (holding that a hospital board breached the
bylaws when the hospital board reduced a radiologist's clinical privileges
without following the hearing procedures described in the bylaws).





n180.  Complaint, Murphy v. Baptist Health (Cir. Ct. Pulaski County, Ark. Mar.
22, 2004) (No. CV2004-2002).





n181.  Complaint P 4, Murphy (No. CV2004-2002).





n182.  George Wells, Baptist Health Temporarily Enjoined From Using Economic
Credentialing Policy, 13 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 455, 456 (2004).





n183.  Complaint P 5, Murphy (No. CV2004-2002).





n184.  Id. PP 22-24.





n185.  Id. PP 34-52. See infra Part VIII.A for a discussion of the fraud and
abuse claims raised in Murphy.





n186.  Murphy v. Baptist Health, No. CV2004-2002, at 5 (Cir. Ct. Pulaski County,
Ark. Mar. 22, 2004) (order granting preliminary injunction).





n187.  Id. at 3-4.





n188.  Id. The court also interpreted section 5(A)(10) of the Arkansas
Department of Health Rules and Regulations for Hospitals and Related
Institutions as requiring hospitals to permit otherwise qualified physicians to
treat inpatients if the inpatients express a choice of treating physicians, as
long as the hospitals accept the patient's insurance coverage for any part of
the inpatient treatment. Id. at 3-4.





n189.  Wells, supra note 182, at 456.





n190.  After Federal Judge, supra note 174, at 315.





n191.  Berasi v. Ohio Health Corp., No. 04CVA03-02406 (C.P. Ct. of Franklin
County, Ohio Mar. 8, 2004) (order denying temporary restraining order).





n192.  Complaint, Berasi v. Ohio Health Corp. (C.P. Ct. of Franklin County, Ohio
Mar. 2, 2004) (No. 04CVA03-02406).





n193.  Id. P 8.





n194.  Id. PP 14-36.





n195.  OhioHealth Corporation/Doctors OhioHealth Corporation Board of Directors,
Resolution Regarding Restrictions on Medical Staff Appointments P 3, at 2 (Oct.
1, 2002) (on file with the Office of the General Counsel).





n196.  OhioHealth Corporation/Doctors OhioHealth Corporation, Physician Conflict
of Interest Fair Hearing Manual 5 (B), at 2.





n197.  Notice of Dismissal, Berasi v. Ohio Health Corp. (C.P. Ct. of Franklin
County, Ohio Mar. 8, 2004) (No. 04CVA-03-02406).





n198.  Doctors Who Sued Ohio Hospitals Over Revocation of Privileges Drop Suit,
13 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 363, 364 (2004).





n199.  Complaint, Biddulph v. HCA Inc. (Dist. Ct. 7th Jud. Dist. Bonneville
County, Idaho Mar. 3, 2004) (No. CV-2004-1219).





n200.  Complaint P 51, Biddulph (No. CV-2004-1219).





n201.  Id. PP 34-48.





n202.  Id. P 57.





n203.  Id. PP 65-75, 97-103, 105-112.





n204.  Id. P 3. The defendants have indicated that they will apply the same
criteria, but over a longer evaluation period. Complaint PP 3, 63, Biddulph (No.
CV-2004-1219). On August 6, 2004, the Biddulph court dismissed the plaintiffs'
claim under the Idaho Consumer Protection Act but allowed claims of tortious
interference and unlawful monopoly to proceed. The court stayed other issues
relating to the contemplated termination of the plaintiffs' staff privileges as
unripe due to the hospital's deferral in terminating the privileges. Counsel for
the plaintiffs announced that "the guts of this lawsuit remain intact." Suit by
Competing Physicians Allowed to Proceed Against Hospital, 13 Health L. Rep.
(BNA) 1240 (2004).





n205.  See Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code 14087.28(a) (2001) (prohibiting a hospital
from considering "the existence of a contract with the hospital or with others"
in making credentialing decisions); Colo. Rev. Stat. 25-3-103.7 (2003) (stating
that a hospital shall not "discriminate with regard to credentials or staff
privileges on the basis of whether a physician is an employee of, a physician
with staff privileges at, or a contracting physician with, the hospital"); R.I.
Gen. Laws 23-17-53 (2003) (stating that a hospital "may not refuse or fail to
grant or renew medical staff membership or staff privileges, or otherwise limit
or restrict medical staff membership or staff privileges, based in whole or in
part on the fact that the physician or a partner, associate, or employee of the
physician is providing medical or healthcare services at a different hospital,
hospital system, or on behalf of a health plan"); Tenn. Code Ann. 68-11-205(a),
(b) (2001) (limiting the ability of hospitals to restrict physicians' referral
decisions); Tex. Health & Safety Code 241.1015 (2004) (stating that a hospital
may not make credentialing decisions "based in whole or in part on the fact that
the physician or a partner, associate, or employee of the physician is providing
medical or health care services at a different hospital or hospital system").
While title 210, section 85/2(b)(1) of Illinois Compiled Statutes prohibits "the
inappropriate use of economic criteria in determining an individual's
qualifications for initial or continuing medical staff membership or privileges
[at hospitals]," the statute does not spell out which uses of economic criteria
are appropriate or inappropriate. (2000). The Massachusetts statute is similarly
vague. Mass. Gen. Laws Ann. Ch. 111, 51C (2003) (requiring hospitals to consider
applications for clinical privileges "solely on the basis of the individual
training, current competence, experience, ability, personal character and
judgment of the applicant," thereby raising questions as to whether the
consideration of economic criteria is prohibited or whether it might fall within
the ambit of "experience," a permissible consideration). But see Raspanti &
Laigaie, supra note 7, at 317 n.7 (characterizing section 41-3920 of the Idaho
Code, which prohibits hospitals from excluding physicians due to the physicians'
participation or employment with managed care organizations, as a statute that
restricts hospitals from engaging in economic credentialing).





n206.  See Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code 14087.28(a) (prohibiting a hospital from
considering "the existence of a contract with the hospital or with others" in
making credentialing decisions); R.I. Gen. Laws 23-17-53 (prohibiting a hospital
from "limiting a physician's participation or staff privileges...at a different
hospital, hospital system, or health plan"); Tex. Health & Safety Code Ann.
241.1015(b) (2004) (stating that a hospital may not "refuse or fail to grant or
renew staff privileges, or condition staff privileges" because the physician
provides medical or health care services to a different hospital).





n207.  See Colo. Rev. Stat. 25-3-103.7(3) (2003) (stating that "nothing in this
section shall be construed to allow any hospital which employs a physician ...
to refer exclusively to the hospital or the hospital's employed physicians").
See also Tenn. Code Ann. 68-11-205(b)(1)(B)(i)-(iii) (prohibiting hospitals from
interfering with the referral decisions of employed physicians).





n208.  See Fla. Stat. Ann. 395.0191 (2002) (permitting hospitals to consider
"such other elements as determined by the governing board"); supra Part V.D
(discussing Rosenblum and the court's interpretation of Florida law); Ga. Code
Ann. 31-7-7(a) (2002) (permitting hospitals to consider "the appropriate
utilization of hospital facilities"); Ind. Code Ann. 16-21-5(3)(C) (2004)
(allowing hospitals to set credentialing standards "that recognize the efficient
and effective utilization of hospital resources"); Iowa Code Ann. 135B.7 (2004)
(requiring written criteria to include "the necessity to grant privileges to a
practitioner authorized to provide ... cost-effective services"); N.Y. Pub.
Health Law 2801-b(1) (2002) (permitting hospitals to deny privileges consistent
with "the objectives of the institution"); N.C. Gen. Stat. 131E-85(a) (2003)
(providing that privileges shall be based upon "the reasonable objectives ... of
the hospital" and "appropriate utilization of hospital facilities"); Tenn. Code
Ann. 7-57-502(c) (found in City of Cookeville, 126 S.W.3d at 902, to permit
private act hospitals to enter into exclusive contracts "regardless of the
competitive consequences"); and Va. Code Ann. 32.1-134.1 (2004) (requiring that
reasons for denial be related to "the objectives or efficient operations of the
institution"). See also La. Rev. Stat. Ann. 1301 (2003) (authorizing hospitals
to consider the applicant's "experience"); Mo. Ann. Stat. 197.700 (West 2003)
(requiring applicants for medical staff privileges to be evaluated by "objective
criteria"). But see Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 7, at 317 n.7 (characterizing
the statutes from Louisiana, which permit a hospital to consider the applicant's
"experience," and Virginia, which permit denials for reasons that are related to
the "efficient operations" of the hospital, as restricting, rather than
facilitating, the ability of hospitals to engage in economic credentialing). See
also id. at 317 n.8 (asserting that section 65-431 of the Kansas Annotated
Statutes (2003), which prohibits licensing agencies from interfering in
hospitals' selection of staff members, allows hospitals to engage in economic
credentialing).





n209.  N.Y. Pub. Health Law 2801-b (2002) (emphasis added).





n210.  139 A.D.2d 496 (N.Y. App. Div. 1988).





n211.  Jackaway, 139 A.D.2d at 496. While members of both "courtesy" and
"active" staffs were able to admit and treat patients in the hospital, only
members of the "active" staff could serve on committees, hold positions on the
medical staff, or vote on medical policy. Id.





n212.  Id.





n213.  Id.





n214.  Id.





n215.  Jackaway, 139 A.D.2d at 497.





n216.  Id.





n217.  Id. See also Maltz v. New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 121 A.D.2d 323 (N.Y. App.
Div. 1986). In Maltz, the plaintiff challenged the hospital's decision to deny
him staff privileges because the hospital had sufficient staffing in oncological
gastroenterology, the plaintiff's area of specialization. Id. The court found no
violation of section 2801-b of the New York Public Health Laws because the
hospital's actions were related to the hospital's objectives. Id. at 324. But
see Wee v. City of Rome, 233 A.D.2d 876, 877 (N.Y. App. Div. 1996) (finding a
cause of action for improper practices under section 2801-b based upon the
plaintiff's allegations that hospital had restricted his privileges as
retaliation for charges he levied against certain physicians); Lipsztein v.
Mount Sinai Hosp., 170 A.D.2d 285, 285-86 (N.Y. App. Div. 1991) (granting
temporary injunctive relief to the plaintiff on his claim that the hospital
violated section 2801-b by requiring the plaintiff to sever completely his
affiliation with the hospital and to apply anew for privileges if he left his
full time staff position because the court found a "serious question of fact" as
to whether the hospital had notified the plaintiff of this new policy).





n218.  The GAO, for purposes of its studies of specialty hospitals, has defined
a specialty hospital as one where "two-thirds or more of its inpatient claims
were in one or two major diagnosis categories" or where "two-thirds or more of
its inpatient claims were for surgical diagnosis-related groups." Information on
National Market Share, supra note 36, at 16.





n219.  Id. at 8-11.





n220.  Peter J. Hammer & William M. Sage, Critical Issues in Hospital Antitrust
Law: Ensuring That Hospital Competition Produces Social Benefits Depends Much
More on Regulators and Legislators Than on Courts, 22 Health Affairs 88, 93
(2003) (stating that "proponents of specialty hospitals argue that they are
better suited to use new technology and that they provide higher-quality care");
Dennis I. Kelly, Statement presented at FTC/DOJ Hearings on Health Care and
Competition Law and Policy 1, 7-8, 10 (2003), available at
http://www.ftc.gov/opa/2003/03/030326hcagenda.htm (stating that MedCath cardiac
hospitals offer more efficient scheduling of patient procedures, physicians and
staff with enhanced professional skills, a family friendly atmosphere with
unlimited visiting hours and sleeping arrangements for family members, better
patient care staffing ratios, and less moving of patients, all resulting in
patients' shorter lengths of stay and lower mortality rates).

   The AMA supports the right of physicians to refer patients to facilities in
which the physicians have ownership interests, as long as the physicians are
directly rendering the care to the patients. The AMA contends that a conflict of
interest exists only when the physicians are not personally involved in
rendering the care at the self-owned facilities. AMA, Conflicts of Interest:
Health Facility Ownership by a Physician, Formal Op. E-8.032 (last updated
1994), available at http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/category/8472.html.





n221.  Certain case-based rates tend to outpace the hospitals' costs more than
others. For example, outpatient procedures, which do not require the hospital to
expend the additional costs of an overnight stay, tend to be more profitable
than inpatient procedures under the DRG system. Therefore, competing day surgery
centers tend not only to draw ambulatory surgery cases away from hospitals, but
also to draw away from hospitals the most profitable cases. E.g., Hammer & Sage,
supra note 220, at 94 (stating that "critics argue that specialty hospitals are
simply the latest scheme of cherry-picking high-end consumers").

   The differences in profitability among various DRGs suggests that the
potential for surgery centers to cherry-pick the most profitable cases might be
alleviated by adjusting the DRG values to provide a more even profit per case.
On point, as part of the recently enacted Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, Congress has asked the Medicare
Payment Advisory Commission ("MedPAC") to study "how the current
diagnosis-related group [DRG] system should be updated to better reflect the
cost of delivering care in a hospital setting." Pub. L. No. 108-173,
507(c)(1)(D), 117 Stat. 2066, 2297 (2003).





n222.  Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 4.





n223.  Congressional requesters were Honorable Bill Thomas, Chairman, Committee
on Ways and Means, House of Representatives, and Honorable Jerry Kleczka, House
of Representatives. Geographic Location, supra note 35, at 1.





n224.  Information on National Market Share, supra note 36, at 5-8. The GAO
reported, at the time of publication, that an additional twenty specialty
hospitals were under development. Id. at 6.





n225.  Id. at 11-13.





n226.  Geographic Location, supra note 35, at 17-23.





n227.  Id. at 17-20.





n228.  42 U.S.C. 1395dd (2004).





n229.  EMTALA requires that when patients come to a hospital emergency
department and make a request for treatment, the hospital must provide a medical
screening exam to determine whether an emergency medical condition exists. Id.
1395dd(a). If an emergency condition is identified, then the hospital must
provide stabilizing treatment if such treatment is within the hospital's
capability, or transfer the patient to another facility that can provide such
treatment. Id. 1395dd(b).

   Hospitals have observed that because specialty hospitals are not required to
provide emergency departments (and the GAO Report confirmed that many do not),
specialty hospitals are free from the cost of EMTALA obligations. Letter from
Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 3. See also Hammer & Sage, supra note 220, at
94 (characterizing the ability of specialty hospitals to sidestep EMTALA
mandates as a "regulatory discrepancy"); Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note
34, at 3 (referring to EMTALA's "regulatory anomaly" of requiring only general
hospitals to provide emergency services).





n230.  Geographic Location, supra note 35, at 20-23.





n231.  Id.





n232.  Id. at 23, 25-26.





n233.  Hospitals have pointed out that several regulatory mechanics also
fostered the development of specialty hospitals. In addition to their freedom,
in many cases, from EMTALA emergency treatment requirements, specialty hospitals
located in states that do not have "certificate of need" ("CON") restrictions do
not need to obtain regulatory approval before construction. See Letter from Beth
Schermer, supra note 34, at 3 (referring to the "carve out" in certain states
from CON laws).

   In addition, the Stark Law, 42 U.S.C. 1395nn, which generally prohibits
physicians from making referrals for designated Medicare-covered services to
entities with which the physicians have a financial relationship, permits
physicians to refer cases to hospitals where the physicians have invested in the
whole hospital, as opposed to a single department in the hospital. 42 U.S.C.
1395nn(d)(3)(B) (2004). This Stark exception permits physicians to send patients
to specialty hospitals that they own, thereby exacerbating the concern of
general hospitals that specialty hospitals foster "economic dumping." See Hammer
& Sage, supra note 220, at 95 (stating that "specialty hospitals exploit a
loophole in fraud-and-abuse law that allows physicians to maintain financial
interests in "whole hospitals' but not specific departments").

   Concerns articulated by hospitals about the proliferation of specialty
hospitals, and supported by the GAO Reports, resulted in a moratorium on
Stark-permitted referrals to specialty hospitals. As part of the recently
enacted Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003,
Pub. L. No. 108-173, Congress enacted an eighteen-month moratorium on the use of
the Stark whole hospital exception to most new specialty hospitals but exempted
from the moratorium specialty hospitals that were either in operation or "under
development" as of November 18, 2003. Pub. L. No. 108-173, 507, 117 Stat. 2066,
2295-2297 (2003). During the moratorium period, the Medicare Payment Advisory
Commission ("MedPAC") is to study the issues related to specialty hospitals,
including costs, services, and financial impact on general hospitals. Id.
507(c)(1), 117 Stat. at 2296-2297. Health and Human Services ("HHS") is to study
referral patterns, quality of care, and uncompensated care at specialty
hospitals. Id. 507(c)(2), 117 Stat. at 2297. Reports of these studies are to be
issued by March 2005. Id. 507(c), 117 Stat. at 2296-2297. See 42 C.F.R.
411.356(c)(3)(i) (2004) (implementing the eighteen-month moratorium into the
Stark exception for investment interests in whole hospitals).





n234.  See supra Part V.D for a discussion of these cases.





n235.  42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b (2004).





n236.  Id. 1395nn.





n237.  31 U.S.C. 3729-3733 (2004).





n238.  42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(b).





n239.  See, e.g., OIG Special Advisory Bulletin, Offering Gifts and Other
Inducements to Beneficiaries, at 1 (Aug. 2002) [hereinafter Offering Gifts]
(noting that a concern with kickbacks is that "providers may have an economic
incentive to offset the additional costs attributable to the giveaway by
providing unnecessary services or by substituting cheaper or lower quality
services"), available at
http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud/docs/alertsandbulletins/SABGiftsandInducements.pdf; OIG
Special Fraud Alert on Rental of Space in Physician Offices by Persons or
Entities to Which Physicians Refer, 65 Fed. Reg. 9274 (Feb. 24, 2000)
[hereinafter Fraud Alert on Rental of Space] (noting that kickbacks can result
in increased costs of medical services), available at
http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud/docs/alertsandbulletins/offoce%20space.htm.





n240.  See, e.g., Publication of OIG Special Fraud Alerts, 59 Fed. Reg. 65,372,
65,375 (Dec. 19, 1994), available at
http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud/docs/alertsandbulletins/121994.htm.





n241.  42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(b) (2004).





n242.  42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a (2004).





n243.  42 U.S.C. 13a-7(d) (2004).





n244.  United States v. Greber, 760 F.2d 68, 71 (3d Cir. 1985). See also United
States v. Kats, 871 F.2d 105, 108 (9th Cir. 1989) (holding that payment must be
"wholly and not incidentally" attributable to the referral); United States v.
Bay State Ambulance and Hosp. Rental Serv., Inc., 874 F.2d 20, 29 (1st Cir.
1989) (holding that improper purpose in making payment cannot be an incidental
or minor one).





n245.  Formerly the Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA").





n246.  42 C.F.R. 1001.952 (2004).





n247.  Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special Fraud Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg.
72,894 (Dec. 9, 2002).





n248.  Id. at 72,895-96.





n249.  The OIG also asked: Does the growing control of managed care plans over
local markets, where access to patients may depend on having privileges at
particular hospitals, affect the determination whether staff privileges are
remuneration? Should the determination whether staff privileges are remuneration
turn on market circumstances? Id. at 72,895.





n250.  The OIG also asked: "Are there conditions under which [the requirement of
a physician's referral of a predetermined level of referrals to the hospital]
might be justified? Failing financial health? ... Does the level of required
referrals ... matter ... ?" Id. at 72,896.

   In addition, the OIG raised the following questions: "Should the exercise of
discretion by the privilege-granting hospital affect the analysis under the
anti-kickback statute?" Id. at 72,895.

   "Are there limits on discretion that might provide sufficient safeguards
under the anti-kickback statute?" Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special
Fraud Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg. at 72,896.

   "What is the effect of credentialing restrictions that apply only to members
of a group practice? What are the implications of a hospital restricting
privileges for some, but not all, members of a group practice? What about
restricting privileges of the entire group?" Id.





n251.  Id. at 72,895.





n252.  Id.





n253.  Id.





n254.  Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special Fraud Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg.
at 72,896. On June 8, 2004, the OIG published a Draft Supplemental Compliance
Program Guidance for Hospitals that advised hospitals to "examine their
credentialing practices to ensure that they do not run afoul of the
anti-kickback statute." 69 Fed. Reg. 32012, 32023 (June 8, 2004). The Guidance
cautioned that "conditioning privileges on a particular number of referrals or
requiring the performance of a particular number of procedures, beyond volumes
necessary to ensure clinical proficiency, potentially raise substantial risks
under the statute." Id.





n255.  Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 7, 323-29; Marc S. Raspanti & David M.
Laigaie, Government's Next Target: Economic Credentialing by Hospitals, Legal
Intelligencer, Jan. 29, 2003, at 5, 8.





n256.  See, e.g., United States ex rel. Roy v. Anthony, 914 F. Supp. 1504,
1506-07 (S.D. Ohio 1994) (holding that the plaintiff could produce evidence to
show that the kickbacks paid to the defendant physicians rendered false the
physicians' claims for Medicare payments); United States ex rel. Thompson v.
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp., 20 F. Supp. 2d 1017, 1047 (S.D. Tex. 1998)
(holding that Medicare claims that were certified to be in compliance with fraud
and abuse laws could be challenged under the False Claims Act when the claims
were in violation of the Stark Self-referral law), aff'd, 125 F.3d 899, 904 (5th
Cir. 1997); United States ex rel. Pogue v. American Healthcorp, Inc., 914 F.
Supp. 1507, 1509-13 (M.D. Tenn. 1996) (stating that Medicare claims that are
tainted by kickbacks potentially violate the False Claims Act as well); see also
Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 7 (stating that "claims resulting from an illegal
kick-back arrangement may constitute false claims, pursuant to the federal False
Claims Act"); Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 255, at 8 (stating that "when a
hospital improperly forces a physician to refer patients in exchange for the
grant or renewal of privileges, all claims for services provided to the patient
at the hospital are false claims").





n257.  42 U.S.C. 1395nn (2004).





n258.  Id. The Stark Law is a strict liability statute, so that any referral for
designated services payable by Medicare that a physician makes to an entity with
which the physician has a financial relationship violates the law, unless the
remuneration falls into one of the statutory or regulatory exceptions. Id.
1395nn(e). In the case of economic credentialing, if a hospital's grant of staff
privileges to a physician is deemed to constitute remuneration, then the
physician would violate the statute every time he or she referred a patient to
the hospital, because the payment of the remuneration (in the form of staff
privileges) would create a financial relationship between the physician and the
hospital. Id. 1395nn(a). Currently there is no Stark exception that would cover
such referrals. See Weeks, supra note 33, at 280 (opining that if staff
privileges are deemed to constitute remuneration, then any referral to a
hospital where the referring physician has staff privileges would violate the
Stark law, with "dramatic implications for the existing healthcare delivery
system"). Compare Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 7, at 329 (asserting that
certain economic credentialing practices potentially violate the anti-kickback
law and False Claims Act but not discussing any potential applicability of the
Stark Law).





n259.  No. CV2004-2002 (Cir. Ct. Pulaski County, Ark. Mar. 22, 2004) (order
granting preliminary injunction). See supra Part V.E for a discussion of Murphy.





n260.  Complaint P 26-32, Murphy v. Baptist Health (Cir. Ct. Pulaski County,
Ark. Feb. 24, 2004) (No. CV2004-2002).





n261.  Murphy v. Baptist Health, No. 4:04CV00112, 2004 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 12080,
at 4-5 (Feb. 23, 2004).





n262.  Id.





n263.  Complaint PP 26-32, Murphy (CV2004-2002).





n264.  Murphy, No. CV2004-2002 at 5.





n265.  See supra Part V.E for a more detailed discussion of Murphy.





n266.  Complaint P 34, Murphy (No. CV2004-2002).





n267.  See, e.g., West Allis Mem'l Hosp., Inc. v. Bowen, 852 F.2d 251, 255 (7th
Cir. 1988) (holding that there is no private right of action under the federal
anti-kickback law).





n268.  See supra notes 191-97 and accompanying text for a discussion of Berasi,
wherein the plaintiffs withdrew the action upon denial of a temporary
restraining order.





n269.  See Complaint PP 34-40, Murphy (No. CV2004-2002) (relying on Arkansas
state laws to bring a private anti-kickback action to enjoin the hospital's
practices).





n270.  E.g., Virginia Radiology Assocs., P.C. v. Culpeper Mem'l Hosp., Inc., No.
906172, slip op. (4th Cir. Dec. 29, 1995) (holding that the hospital's demand of
payment from radiologists to renew their exclusive contract violated the
anti-kickback law). See also Odrich v. Trs. of Columbia Univ., 193 Misc. 2d 120,
131 (N.Y. 2002), aff'd, 308 A.D.2d 405 (N.Y. 2003) (holding that a medical
school's termination of the petitioners' faculty appointments and hospital
privileges because of the petitioners' refusal to pay a "Dean's Tax" of ten
percent of their private practice income constituted unlawful fee splitting);
Hauptman v. Grand Manor Health Related Facility, Inc., 121 A.D.2d 151, 154 (N.Y.
1986) (finding that a nursing home's demand of twenty percent of the fees
collected by physicians providing medical care to the residents constituted
unlawful fee splitting); OIG Special Fraud Alert, 59 Fed. Reg. 65,372, 65,376
(Dec. 19, 1994) (stating that free or discounted services or office space,
below-interest loans, payments for medical education, and income guarantees may
constitute remuneration for anti-kickback purposes).





n271.  Offering Gifts, supra note 239, at 1; Fraud Alert on Rental of Space,
supra note 239, at 9275 (noting that payment of kickbacks for referrals
encourages physicians to order services based on profit rather than patient
need).





n272.  OIG Management Advisory Report: Financial Arrangements Between Hospitals
and Hospital-Based Physicians (Oct. 1991), available at
http://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/oei-09-89-00330.pdf.





n273.  See Letter from Rick Pollack, supra note 57, at 1 (explaining why a
hospital's grant of staff privileges to physicians should not be treated as
remuneration); Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 5 (explaining the
distinction that the OIG has recognized between medical staff credentialing and
referral mandates).

   There are other indications of the OIG's position that staff privileges,
standing alone, do not constitute remuneration. The anti-kickback safe harbor
for physician recruitment excludes any staff privileges arrangements whereby the
physician is required to make referrals to the hospital. 42 C.F.R.
1001.952(n)(4). This implies that other staff privileges arrangements, such as
conflict of interest policies, do not foreclose use of the physician recruitment
safe harbor. See Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 5 (explaining that
only requirements that induce a physician to refer patients to the hospital fall
outside the safe harbor provision). In addition, the anti-kickback safe harbor
for multi-specialty ambulatory surgery centers ("ASC") requires physician owners
to perform at least one-third of their procedures at the ASC. 42 C.F.R.
1001.952(r)(3)(iii). This requirement suggests that the ASCs will need to limit
non-ownership staff privileges at the ASC, or the physician owners might be
unable to perform sufficient procedures at the ASC to satisfy the one-third
requirement. Denying staff privileges for this reason should not subject a
physician owner to anti-kickback risk. See Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note
34, at 7 (noting that denial of facility access by physician owners to other
physicians in order to meet administrative goals or to assure sufficient access
to operating and procedure rooms should not be construed as a violation of
anti-kickback law). Finally, in its recent publication of the Interim Final
Stark Law Phase II rule, 69 Fed. Reg. 16,054, the OIG reiterated that
"reasonable credentialing restrictions on physicians becoming competitors of a
hospital" do not foreclose the use of the Stark physician recruitment exception.
Interim Final Rule for the Stark Act II, 69 Fed. Reg. at 16,095 (Mar. 26, 2004),
available at
http://a257.g.akamaitech.net/7/257/2422/14mar200/0800/edocket.access.gpo.gov/200
4/pdf104-6668.pdf.





n274.  See Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 7 (observing that
denials of staff privileges to physicians with conflicts of interests "would
have the effect of limiting physician referrals to the hospital, rather than
inducing additional referrals").





n275.  Concomitantly, any referrals by a physician to a hospital that has
granted the physician staff privileges would violate the Stark Law. See supra
Part VIII.A for a discussion of the application of the Stark Law.





n276.  See Greber, 760 F.2d at 71 (holding that the anti-kickback law is
violated if one purpose of the remuneration is to induce referrals); Raspanti &
Laigaie, supra note 7, at 324-25 (stating that "if any one consideration in a
hospital's credentialing decision is to ensure future revenues through patient
admissions, then it has potentially violated the anti-kickback statute"); see
also Eve H. Goldstein, An Analysis of Medical Staff Credentialing As
Remuneration Under The Anti-Kickback Statute, 8 Health L. News 6 (arguing that
the defect of the theory that some forms of economic credentialing violate the
anti-kickback law is that, since credentialing undeniably has value to
physicians, and since credentials undeniably are conferred by hospitals to
induce referrals, all forms of credentialing, on their face, violate the
anti-kickback law).





n277.  See Letter from Rick Pollack, supra note 57, at 4 (stating that Congress,
CMS, and the OIG "clearly have taken the view that staff privileges are
distinguishable from those hospital benefits that are subject to the Stark
Law").





n278.  Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special Fraud Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg.
at 72,894, 72,895. See also Physicians' Referrals to Health Care Entities With
Which They Have Financial Relationships, 66 Fed. Reg. 856, 878 (differentiating
between requirements to make referrals and agreements not to establish a
competing business and stating that "if an agreement also included the
requirement that the physician refer business ... the agreement would be suspect
under the anti-kickback statute"). See also Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 7, at
327 (asserting that the anti-kickback statute applies when a hospital grants
staff privileges in exchange for a promise by the physician to refer more or all
of the physician's patients to the hospital).





n279.  See Raspanti & Laigaie, supra note 7, at 324 (describing the practice of
trading privileges for the promise of patient admissions); Weeks, supra note 33,
at 323 (stating that hospital policies that condition privileges on physicians'
agreeing to refer patients to the hospitals can be viewed "more easily" as
paying remuneration for referrals); Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at
1 (conceding that "remuneration may exist in a limited range of situations where
credentialing is directly linked to referral requirements"). But see
HortySpringer Publications, Hortyspringer White Paper, Hospital Responses to
Physician Competition, at 8 (2003) (opining that medical staff appointments do
not confer monetary value on physicians because the appointments have no
independent value, citing to OIG Advisory letters dated July 3, 1997 and August
4, 1997, which state that free computers from labs that can be used only to
print lab tests have "no independent value" apart from the service being
provided, so that the free computers do not constitute remuneration to
physicians, while free biopsy needles from labs do have independent value, so
that giving biopsy needles to physicians is suspect).

   The OIG asks in its solicitation for comments whether the control of a local
market by a managed care plan, or other market characteristics, affects the
analysis of whether staff privileges are remuneration. See supra Part VIII.A for
a discussion of the OIG's solicitation of public comments on the link between
certain credentialing practices and the anti-kickback law. Determining market
power, however, is appropriate to antitrust, not fraud and abuse, analysis. If
physicians need to participate in a particular managed care plan because the
plan controls access to patients in a given region, and the managed care plan
requires its participating physicians to have staff privileges at a particular
hospital, then those are relevant factors in determining whether the hospital
has market power. Under such circumstances, an unduly restrictive conflict of
interest policy implemented by the hospital might violate the antitrust law. See
Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 6-7 (explaining that limiting a
physician's ability to provide care for a patient may violate anti-trust law);
Weeks, supra note 33, at 276 (suggesting that the OIG's idea of determining
whether staff privileges constitute remuneration based on market factors is
problematic because tying the determination of remuneration to market analysis
would create "considerable uncertainty").





n280.  See, e.g., OIG Special Fraud Alert, Hospital Incentives to Physicians, 59
Fed. Reg. 65,372, 65,375 (Dec. 19, 1994) (stating that referral mandates can
interfere with physicians' judgments, causing them to decide between facilities
offering the best patient care and facilities providing financial incentives for
the physician).





n281.  See Weeks, supra note 33, at 276 (stating that "credentialing alone
should not be viewed as "remuneration' because of the permissive nature of
medical staff privileges, which allow, but do not require, a physician to use
hospital facilities."); Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 5 (stating
that staff privileges create a permissive relationship between a physician and
facility, whereby physicians are permitted, but not required, to use the
hospital's facilities).

   A more difficult question is whether hospitals offend the anti-kickback law
when they limit physicians' ability to obtain staff privileges at other
hospitals. This practice has become known as "exclusive credentialing." See
Allen Neurosurgical Assocs., Inc. v. Lehigh Valley Health Network, 2001 U.S.
Dist. LEXIS 284, at 3 (E.D. Pa. Jan. 18, 2001) (referring to a practice that
required member, or potential member, physicians to agree to admit patients only
to particular hospitals as an "exclusive credentialing" scheme). Under the
analysis above, even an exclusive grant of privileges, as long as the grant does
not expressly require the physician to make a given volume or value of
referrals, might not result in any referrals. Therefore, it would not appear to
violate the anti-kickback law per se. This does not necessarily mean, however,
that exclusive credentialing policies would not be subject to fraud challenge.
Where it could be established that a particular physician's practice necessarily
requires hospital admissions (cardiac surgeon), then requiring exclusive
privileges would be tantamount to a referral mandate. And once again, where a
hospital has market power, and its exclusive credentialing policy forecloses the
ability of other hospitals to attract sufficient staff physicians to operate,
such a policy could be challenged under the antitrust laws. Finally, states
could promulgate laws barring such practices. See, e.g., Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code
14087.28 (prohibiting determinations of staff privileges based on whether the
physicians have contracts with other hospitals); R.I. Gen. Laws 23-17-53
(prohibiting hospitals' grants of staff privileges conditioned on physicians'
relationships with other hospitals); Tex. Health & Safety Code 241.1015
(prohibiting hospitals from granting or renewing staff privileges based on
physicians' relationships with other hospitals). But see Baxter, supra note 23,
at 101-02 (observing that some commentators predict a proliferation of exclusive
contracting in the future, along with widespread acceptance of economic
credentialing).





n282.  See Weeks, supra note 33, at 276 (stating that "an economic
conflict-of-interest policy that conditions medical staff membership on a
physician's agreeing to refrain from owning or investing in a competitive
facility should not be considered remunerative as long as there is no referral
requirement"). This conclusion that conflict of interest policies do not offend
the anti-kickback law is also in keeping with the general antitrust principle
that an entity has no duty to aid competitors. See, e.g., Verizon Communications
Inc. v. Law Offices of Curtis V. Trinko, LLP, 124 S. Ct. 872, 880-81 (2004)
(explaining that Verizon's alleged insufficient assistance to rivals is not a
recognized antitrust claim and that the court has never recognized such a
doctrine). Indeed, physicians' complaints that competitive credentialing
interferes with physicians' freedom to make referrals based upon medical
judgment rings somewhat hollow. It can be argued that the medical judgment of
physicians who have conflicts of interest, such as ownership interests in
competing facilities, is already "tainted" when those physicians make referrals,
because those physicians' profit motives may already be significant factors in
their referral decisions.





n283.  The OIG appears to concede that hospital policies that require a minimum
number of referrals deemed to be necessary for clinical proficiency are not an
anti-kickback concern. Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special Fraud
Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg. at 72,895. Accord United States ex rel. Perales v. St.
Margaret's Hosp., 243 F. Supp. 2d 843, 864 (C.D. Ill. 2003) (holding that there
had been no showing that limiting "active staff" status to those physicians with
higher usage of the hospital was "an improper referral requirement in sheep's
clothing."). See also Hudson, supra note 168, at 40 (noting that Florida
hospitals routinely ask physicians to make a certain number of admissions, so
that the hospitals have enough data to measure the physicians' service quality).





n284.  See Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 8 (recommending the
adoption of a policy that would assure that hospitals employing credentialing
policies "based upon legitimate quality of care, administrative and business
concerns" will not be charged with violating fraud and abuse laws).

   In its request for comments, the OIG asked whether a conflict of interest
should be defined as an ownership, employment, or contractor status.
Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special Fraud Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg. at
72,895. See also Geographic Location, supra note 35, at 9 (reporting that
approximately seventy-three percent of physicians with admitting privileges to
specialty hospitals were not investors in the hospitals). But if conflict of
interest policies are deemed not to offend the fraud and abuse laws, then the
manner in which a hospital defines a conflict of interest also should not incur
fraud exposure. Accordingly, a hospital would be free to define a conflict as an
ownership interest, a staff leadership position, or an employment status.
However, it bears noting that the antitrust laws would be applicable
nonetheless. An unduly restrictive competitive credentialing policy by a
hospital with market power, where the competitive harm outweighs the business
rationale articulated by the hospital, or where the policy implemented by the
hospital is not the least restrictive alternative, could incur antitrust risk.





n285.  See Blum, supra note 26, at 256 (stating that the "mere application of
economic criteria in the credentialing process ... should not inherently lead to
violation of antitrust laws"); Hagen, supra note 75, at 454 (stating that "when
economic credentialing is properly administered, there are no inherent
violations of antitrust").





n286.  See supra Part V for a discussion of cases that have challenged economic
credentialing.





n287.  See supra Part VI for a discussion of state laws on economic
credentialing.





n288.  See supra Part VIII for a discussion of whether competitive credentialing
violates the fraud and abuse laws.





n289.  See supra note 233 for a discussion of the moratorium on Stark permitted
referrals to specialty hospitals and the reasoning behind the moratorium. A
joint FTC/DOJ report recently issued on healthcare competition states that "the
results of [these] two Congressionally mandated studies on the industry are
likely to affect the future development of those hospitals." Federal Trade
Commission and Department of Justice, Improving Health Care: A Dose of
Competition, ch. 3 at 18 (July 2004), available at
http://www.ftc.gov/reports/healthcare/040723_heathcarerpt.pdf.





n290.  See supra Part VIII.A for a discussion of the solicitation of comments by
the OIG. See also Weeks, supra note 33, at 38 (questioning how the OIG will
respond to the comments).





n291.  Murphy v. Baptist Health, No. CV2004-2002 (Cir. Ct. Ark. Mar. 22, 2004)
(order granting preliminary injunction); see discussion supra Part V.E.





n292.  Complaint PP 22-24, Murphy (No. CV2004-2002).





n293.  See supra notes 180-86 and accompanying text for a discussion of the
Murphy court's reasoning in granting a preliminary injunction.





n294.  Complaint P 23, Murphy (No. CV2004-2002).





n295.  Murphy, No. CV2004-2002 (order granting preliminary injunction).





n296.  No. 04CVA-03-2406; see discussion supra note 4 and Part V.E.





n297.  See supra notes 191-98 and accompanying text for a discussion of Berasi.





n298.  See supra Parts V.B-E for a discussion of cases challenging competitive
credentialing.





n299.  See supra Parts V.A-D for a discussion of antitrust hurdles and cases in
which physicians raised anti-trust challenges to economic credentialing.





n300.  See supra Part VIII.B for a discussion of when a grant of privileges
might constitute remuneration, a necessary element of an anti-kickback
violation.





n301.  See Alan Arville, Physician Investments in For-Profit Specialty Hospitals
Raise Novel Economic Credentialing Issues, at
http://www.szd.com/services/health/physician_investments.html (last visited Nov.
13, 2004) (stating that "the deciding factor, and ultimate battleground ...
could be ... whether the denial of privileges injures the public").





n302.  G. Edward Alexander, Jr., Testimony to the Joint Federal Trade Commission
and Department of Justice Hearings on Health Care and Competition Law and Policy
(Mar. 27, 2003), available at http://www.ftc.gov/opa/2003/03/030326hcagenda.htm
(quoting from a July 22, 2002 article in Modern Healthcare by David Burda:
"Nothing could be better for patients ... than to have an array of specialty and
full-service hospitals of various ownership models in their market to serve all
their healthcare needs.").





n303.  See Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 34, at 3 (stating that "while
hospitals were often viewed in the past as quasi-public facilities essential to
a physician's ability to practice his or her profession, they are now just one
of many facilities providing medical services").


                              86 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                       May 2, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Americanization continuing

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 260 words


The Americanization of Alberta, spearheaded by Ralph Klein, moves onward. Its
ideological roots stretch back to the Reagan-Bush political philosophy of the
1980s.

That flawed trickle-down economic philosophy paved the way to today's recession.

Ralph's Team is bent on restructuring our educational system in a way that
already is raising the anxiety of teachers and students. So, too, is our health
care system being revamped and our hospital network reshaped.

Take the latest trial balloon -- relocate the Alberta Children's Hospital. What
would Klein do with the empty hospital building? Or an empty Holy Cross hospital
building as well? Both seem ideal for sale to those entrepreneurial doctors who
hope to establish a for-profit parallel hospital system in the province. The
hospital closures are being proposed even before efforts at streamlining and
cost efficiencies can be undertaken by them. At least give them and the
community a chance.

And what about Klein's arrogant beachhead against the public and Catholic school
systems in Alberta? Is this an opening for charter schools? There's a good bet
it will lead to a deterioration in the existing systems.

Klein has been telling investors about the so-called Alberta Advantage, with low
taxation levels as its centerpiece. Well perhaps he should look at neighboring
British Columbia where, without duplicating this province's madcap attack on
expenditures, economic activity is the highest in Canada.

Do we really want to be like Americans, Ralph?

RICHARD ANCO,

Calgary.



LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

TALKING POINT

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1636  words


'Do the conservatives propose that the solution to the economic crisis will come
from slashing funding to public services?'

Scott Coombs, of Graceville, comments on the Liberal National Party promise to
scrap the Queensland Children's Hospital project

'One can only hope that Pauline Hanson's cheer squad has tired of her and she
fails spectacularly'

D.J. Fraser, of Mudgeeraba, says Hanson, who will be a candidate in the state
election, has made a business out of running for office

Keep ahead of bad news

PREMIER Anna Bligh says she needs a mandate to tackle the economic crisis. She
already had a mandate. You can't get a much bigger mandate than a 31-seat
majority to implement policies.

The economic outlook is so bad that when all the facts about unemployment and
the deficit are on the table, no one would re-elect the Government. Bligh is
hoping to get the election over before the worst of that news hits the fan.

Why is Queensland so poorly equipped to face an economic downturn? After so many
years of bountiful mineral royalties, why aren't we comfortably bunkered down
behind solid surpluses with major infrastructure projects fully funded? This is
going to be a difficult election for Labor to win.

Trevor Cooper, Stanthorpe

HOW can a Government that has presided over unprecedented economic growth leave
the state's finances in tatters, then turn to the electorate and ask for a
mandate to preside over a period of grave economic uncertainty. Surely any
alternative is better than what Labor has been serving up.

Peter Batzloff, Bucasia

TRADITIONAL political wisdom says that, generally, oppositions do not win
elections but governments lose elections.

The Government is a long way from losing the election through its own efforts
and the Liberal National Party is not in sufficiently good shape to become a
serious threat. Unity is more than just changing the label on the product. The
conservative parties found this in the past. They attempted a combined party in
1925 which lasted only a few years.

Disunity is political death. The smouldering dissension among the Queensland
conservatives has not gone away. The consequences will soon become apparent.

Neville Lines, Clontarf

PREMIER Anna Bligh told us last week that she was going full term (another six
months). Then, over the weekend, she decided (in our best interest) to go to the
Governor on Monday morning to issue a writ for the election.

With six months still to go, Bligh had her election website done, complete with
YouTube video, and her professionally made TV commercials were ready. Wow, that
is preparation -- six months ahead of time. She was also lucky enough to get her
TV ads run many times on the same day she announced the election.

Gee, it was lucky those prime-time slots were available.

She insults our intelligence.

Don Parry, Palmwoods

Slashing services

LIBERAL National Party leader Lawrence Springborg says he would scrap the
Queensland Children's Hospital on Brisbane's southside. In the federal sphere,
Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull opposed the stimulus package of the Rudd
Government.

Is this a sign of things to come? Do the conservatives propose that the solution
to the economic crisis will come from slashing funding to public services?
Queensland needs a premier, not a chief executive officer.

Scott Coombs, Graceville

Fund existing operations

WHY do we have to have new hospitals? If the State Government spent the money on
staff for existing hospitals, waiting lists would be cut. The wonderful Royal
Children's Hospital at Herston has served the community well for 44 years.

Sharryn Gilshenan, Zillmere

I HAVE three children and I have used the fantastic facilities at the Royal
Children's Hospital for the past eight years. I do not understand why the Bligh
Government wants to close it. The community does not support such a move.

Gemma Osborne, Highvale

Public system works well

SO often we hear only negative reports about Queensland Health and public
hospitals. Most people are quick to write to complain but seldom write when
satisfied.

My husband and I have had experience with public hospitals and cannot fault the
service and treatment received. Many family members and friends have voiced the
same opinion.

With the demand on public hospitals, everyone cannot be treated immediately. The
most urgent cases take precedence. It would be great to hear positive remarks
about public hospitals. They are not perfect but are doing a good job for so
many people.

Sylvia Meldrum, Holland Park West

Ditch hi-tech swimsuits

CONGRATULATIONS to Jim Wilson for his article on FINA dithering about making a
decision on the racing suits being used by swimmers (Sport, Feb 24).

Congrats also to swimming legend Murray Rose, who tells it like it is, and has
provided a part solution to the matter.

Rose says world records, set by athletes wearing the suits, cannot be scrapped
but an asterisk should be placed beside the times.

I refused to watch the swimming events at last year's Beijing Olympics as I
thought it was like watching a sailboat race in which the boats used motors.

The same logic applies to the aerodynamic suits worn by track athletes.

The suits are ``not cricket'' and the results obtained by competitors wearing
them are not real.

People who say that swimming should keep up with technology and use the suits
would probably advocate a spring-loaded shot put or pneumatic jumping shoes.

David Kendall, Stafford Heights

Repeat driving tests

AS a qualified driving instructor, I urge the public, especially parents with
teenagers, to press the Government to change the rule applying to provisional
licences.

I have spoken to many parents and learner drivers to gauge their reaction to
having P-plate drivers retested by the Transport Department in order to upgrade
to P2 and open licences at the completion of the provisional period.

A large number of P-plate drivers become complacent. Once they have that licence
in their hands, it appears that, no matter what the authorities try to do to
make them realise the danger associated with being on the road, it is to no
avail.

The number of young drivers being fined, losing their licences or being involved
in fatal accidents has been well publicised. Retesting P-plate drivers would do
one important thing. Once the driver realised he would be retested to upgrade to
the next level, he would have to try hard to maintain a good standard in order
to pass his future tests.

A P1 driver who failed the test should remain as such for a further six months,
and a P2 for a further 12 months before being eligible to sit for the next test.

The psychological effect would be that not too many of these drivers would want
to remain on P1 and P2 forever.

Thus, making a special effort for the following three years while on probation
would result in better drivers in the long term, as well as lowering the road
toll.

Repetition is the key to good learning.

Louis Bocquee, Forestdale

It's sad for those who care

A FEW of us near Altandi railway station (on the Beenleigh line) play our part
in keeping the area clean and tidy and look after the plants and trees.

Sometimes the trees are pulled out or damaged. The carers prop them up again;
they do the same with plants that have been pulled out and left to die.

Since Sunday night, some plants and trees -- a small poinciana tree, in
particular -- have just disappeared.

Rubbish and pieces of broken bottles are picked up and graffiti has been
scrubbed away, only for more to reappear.

Most of us in the community do not damage property or steal but a minority
thinks the world belongs to them and they can rubbish it if they wish -- or
steal if they wish.

If we were all like them, we would soon find ourselves living in a dump. If this
happened, maybe the ``penny would drop'' and this minority might consider living
by a different drum beat. I don't hold out much hope.

H. Bray, Sunnybank

Selfish society

THE article ``Lust for fame and fortune'' by Paul Williams was superb
(Viewpoint, Feb 24).

I hope that the people to whom he refers read this article about the selfish,
me-only culture, but I suspect they would not identify with the subject.

More and more, our culture is directed towards lust for the dollar and people
seek to be one-up on their neighbour. Do they have a conscience and a respect
for fellow Australians, particularly the battlers and the needy? The public rose
to the occasion with a magnificent response to the Victorian bushfire appeal.
Maybe the coverage and publicity by the media prompted them to do so (including
me). If the plight of the suffering by many in our society received the same
publicity, would a similar response be forthcoming? Sadly, I think not.

Bill Gates, Keppera

How hard can it be?

AIRTRAIN and TransLink are ingenious (C-M, Feb 24). Commuters are paying more
for travelling directly from suburban stations to the airport because the
companies can't agree on a single fare structure. What better response to an
issue raised in the media than a simple ``We can't do anything about it''. This
isn't about global warming or the recession. We're talking about train fares.
Fix them.

Matt Teale, Riverhills

Letters

CONTACT US

Mail: The Courier-Mail

GPO Box 130 Brisbane 4001.

Fax: 3666 8625

Email: letters@couriermail.com.au

Online: couriermail.com.au/letters

Letters and email must be dated, carry the full address of the writer and a
daytime telephone number for verification. Letters should be concise and
topical. Writers may choose to have their email address published rather than
suburb or town. Letters are submitted on condition that Queensland Newspapers as
publisher of The Courier-Mail may edit and has the right to and license third
parties to reproduce in electronic form and communicate these letters.

The winner of Letter of the Month wins a zippered A4 leather compendium, valued
at $80, courtesy of The Courier-Mail.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                  Wigan Today

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Hospital trust boosts local economy

LENGTH: 237  words


WIGAN hospitals could be making the local economy millions of pounds by being a
foundation trust according to new research.

Wrightington Wigan Leigh NHS Foundation Trust (WWL) which runs all three
hospital sites in the borough benefit from being a foundation trust which means
that they have a significant amount of managerial and financial freedom when
compared to NHS hospital trusts.

Research to examine the economic benefit of foundation trust hospitals has
concluded that nationally they deliver £30 billion in economic value annually,
and in the North West they deliver £5.5 billion which is more than any other
region in the UK, providing a much needed boost to the regional economy.

The report The economic and social value of foundation trusts' published by
Barclays and the Foundation Trust Network (FTN) sets out for the first time the
economic and social value generated by foundation trusts and the positive effect
that the hospital has above and beyond their critical role in healthcare.

The Bridgewater Community Healthcare NHS Trust, which provides community nursing
and other services in the borough is in the process of applying to become a
foundation trust.

Chris Hopson, Chief Executive, FTN, said: "In the current economic climate, it
has never been more important to capture and share the full value of the
foundation trust model in local communities, including the economic investment
made in local areas."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                           November 3, 2005, Thursday

APEC Medical Team Ready to Cover Emergencies

LENGTH: 567 words


   A medical team with state-of-the-art equipment is ready to cover medical
emergencies during the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit slated
for Nov. 12-19 in the southeastern port city of Pusan (Busan).

About 250 medical people in Pusan will join the team that will be launched on
Nov. 10.

They are from four university hospitals, 21 general hospitals, the Pusan Medical
Association, the Busan Pharmaceutical Association, and Green Doctors, an
international medical volunteer organization.

They will set up 13 emergency rooms from Nov. 11 to 19 at the hospitals, BEXCO,
Nurimaru APEC House, and six hotels where the heads of the participating states
will stay.

The university hospital doctors will work for 24 hours in two shifts, and 40
doctors, including surgeons and physicians will prepare for emergencies at the
Seomyeon Medical Center, the headquarters of the team.

Interpreters will be available at the hospitals for foreign guests.

The emergency rooms will also have a telemedicine system developed by Green
Doctors. Doctors at any of the 13 rooms will be able to check a patient's
condition through the monitors connected to one another through the Internet,
and discuss the best treatment through a video meeting.

If a patient needs surgery, he or she will be transferred from the conference
venue to the hospitals by helicopter. Doctors and nurses will also board the
helicopters for first aid, and the patient will undergo the necessary treatment
within two minutes after arriving. The hospitals have prepared their VIP rooms
for the APEC guests.

The medical team conducted a drill at BEXCO yesterday covering the whole
procedure of emergency treatment from first aid and telemedicine to transfer of
patients by helicopter and treatment at hospitals.

''We will also work with the 119 emergency squad and the military hospital if
there are a large number of casualties from terrorist attacks,'' a member of the
medical team said.

The National Police Agency said that it has made a list of 998 foreigners
belonging to about 20 international civic groups who will be prevented from
entering the country as they may hold anti-globalization demonstrations.

The agency has also made a list of 400 additional foreigners it will monitor if
they visit South Korea.

It has distributed the list to immigration offices.

Police will also distribute notices to warn potential anti-globalization
demonstrators that they may face criminal charges or deportation if they stage
or participate in rallies in Pusan, which will be banned during the summit
period.

Police are on high alert as members of local civic groups plan to hold mass
anti-globalization demonstrations in Pusan in cooperation with international
groups.

The National Intelligence Service (NIS)'s protection and security headquarters
set up the APEC International Security Liaison Office at the Arpina youth hostel
on Tuesday.

Some 20 anti-terror experts from eight countries including the U.S., Japan,
China and Russia will hold meetings to exchange information and discuss
anti-terror measures.

The office will also collect information about possible terrorist attacks as
well as support the security measures of the nations participating in the APEC.

The summit meeting's communication operator KT also conducted a drill recovering
communications facilities after a network interruption.

LOAD-DATE: November 03, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2005 The Korea Times


                              90 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                January 11, 2010

Hospitals see some economic recovery

BYLINE: By Victoria Stagg Elliott, amednews staff. Posted Jan. 11, 2010.

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 880 words



HIGHLIGHT: Financial numbers are looking better, but experts are concerned the
industry has not yet seen the full force of the recession.


Recent stock market gains, along with various steps taken to control costs, have
strengthened hospital bottom lines, and several recent reports have painted a
positive economic picture for the industry.

Many institutions, however, continue to have financial problems. And, experts
say, health care finances are usually slow to dip in a downturn, so the full
effect of the recession may not yet be realized.

"Investment income has come back, but we have so many patients who are uninsured
or covered through government programs." said Bruce Rueben, president of the
Florida Hospital Assn. "We're using investment income to subsidize operations."

One suggestion that recovery has arrived is offered by a research paper issued
by Thomson Reuters' Center for Healthcare Improvement Nov. 9, 2009. It found
that the median profit margin for a broad base of more than 400 hospitals had
increased from 0.37% in the third quarter of 2008 to 8.4% in the second quarter
of 2009. A greater number were in the black, and days of cash-on-hand increased.
No significant differences were found based on institution size.

"U.S. hospitals are on track to come out of the recession in better financial
shape than they were in when the downturn began," said Gary Pickens, PhD, chief
research officer at Thomson Reuters and one of the study's authors.

The improved financial status was primarily achieved by restraints on money
spent on staff, combined with improvements in hospital investment portfolios.
Many institutions also improved their efficiency: Length of stays got shorter,
with more money earned per patient discharge.

"Managing costs is extremely important, and hospitals have been successful in
managing their labor expenses through this downturn," said Pickens.

Also, several recently issued papers have found that hospitals' borrowing
ability is improving. An American Hospital Assn. survey of 768 hospital chief
executive officers found that a larger number of hospital CEOs said access to
capital was getting easier. Another issued by Moody's Investors Service Inc.
found the bond ratings of 20 nonprofit hospitals and health systems had been
upgraded in 2009. Standard & Poor's also identified health care as one of three
sectors that most likely will see credit ratings go up in 2010.

High credit ratings are important because they make capital easier to access, at
a lower interest rate.

There are many signs, however, that not all institutions are experiencing
recovery, and that future financial health remains uncertain.

"A lot remains to be seen," said Matt Fenwick, American Hospital Assn.
spokesman. "We know hospitals were deeply affected by the economic slowdown.
Nationally some economists are pointing to signs of recovery, but many still
believe that improvement will be slow, with some setbacks along the way. With
high unemployment and states facing budget deficits, hospitals will continue to
face tough financial pressures and difficulties meeting the needs of their
communities."

The report from Thomson Reuters found 20% of hospitals were financially in the
red, although this is comparable with the numbers before the recession began in
December 2007 and a vast improvement over the 50% in the red in the third
quarter of 2008. Also, while Moody's increased the ratings of 20 institutions,
the hospital industry as a whole is expected to have more downgrades than
upgrades, something that has been true for 16 of the past 20 years.

"Twenty upgrades is not a lot," said Lisa Goldstein, senior vice president and
team leader for health care ratings at Moody's. "Credit is improving for some
hospitals, but hospitals are complex and a little bit different from other
businesses. People show up at a hospital without being able to pay. Nobody shows
up at an airport not being able to buy a ticket."

In addition, hospitals may not yet have felt the worst of the economic downturn
because health care is traditionally an economic indicator that trails behind
others, experts said. It is unclear what kind of impact health system reform
will have, and several state hospital associations are sounding the alarm about
the strain caused by cuts to state health programs.

Higher rates of unemployment and large numbers of people running out of COBRA
coverage mean more use of public health services, but reimbursements are being
slashed by strapped state governments.

For instance, the Healthcare Assn. of New York State released results of a
survey of more than 100 hospitals in that state that documented the impact of
$3.87 billion cut from health care in the various state budgets running from
January 2008 until December 2010. The cut, combined with a reduction in demand
for elective procedures, meant that 17% of hospitals were eliminating or
reducing services. Also, 63% had frozen hiring or wages, and 10% had problems
meeting payroll.

"There are certainly some bright spots out there, but the majority of our
members are worried about how they are going to meet community demands," said
Bill Van Slyke, spokesman for the organization.

Weblink

"Compound Fractures: The Patient Services and Employment Impact of Repeated
State and Federal Budget Cuts," Healthcare Assn. of New York State, September
2009 (www.hanys.org/finance/budget/reports/2009-09-15_compound_fractures.pdf)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday
                               Australian Edition

GIVE THE AMA A BYPASS AND PRIVATISE PUBLIC HOSPITALS

BYLINE: Jeremy Sammut

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 889  words


Higher taxes to underwrite inefficient public services are not economic reform

The Australian Medical Association's pre-emptive political strike on the
Medicare services review shows that some members of the medical profession
believe only the doctor's union should make health policy in this country.

Given the evident sense of entitlement, and the self-serving belief that no
savings can be made from the health system, it beggars belief some are
suggesting taxes should be raised principally to feed the beast that is
Medicare.

Many budget experts are calling for a range of tax increases to close the fiscal
gap between government revenue and expenditure. But before allowing the nation
to be dragged over the cliff of higher tax and spend policies, we should stop,
think and understand how acting on this advice would be the antithesis of true
economic reform.

The major tax proposals on the table are a 50 per cent GST hike or a
proportionate rise in income tax to pay for the rising cost of state health
systems.

The problem in health is reckless spending, not a revenue shortfall. This is
clearly demonstrated by the ever-increasing amount of taxpayer money absorbed by
public hospitals. In 2003-04, combined federal, state and territory funding for
public hospitals totalled $22 billion. By 2012-13, this had increased to almost
$40bn, with real expenditure having grown at a rate much higher than inflation
and economic growth.

Demand for hospital services is increasing in an ageing society, but there is
little evidence that productivity improvements have enabled the community to
receive more hospital care in return for additional funding. The 2013 Queensland
Commission of Audit found that while expenditure on public hospitals in the
state had increased by 43 per cent across the previous five years, activity had
increased by less than half - just 17 per cent.

This is hardly surprising: public hospitals remain one of the few government
utilities that have been untouched by the market-based reform agenda initiated
under the Hawke-Keating government in the 1980s.

Like all cosseted public sector industries, public hospitals are inherently
inefficient because they are insulated against private sector forces of
competition and financial accountability that drives innovation and reduces
costs in other sectors of the economy. Analysis by the Productivity Commission
has suggested there is a 20 per cent cost difference between the least efficient
and more efficient public hospitals, which represents a waste of many billions
of dollars across the sector.

Yet this doesn't mean better performing hospitals are truly -efficient. The
sweetheart industrial deals struck between state governments and public sector
health unions account for the high costs and inefficiency across the entire
system. The centralised industrial agreements negotiated by state health
departments fix rigid, statewide employment terms and conditions for doctors,
nurses and allied health professionals, and include expensive and outdated work
practices that prevent the delivery of services more cost-effectively.

Health consumes one-quarter of total state government expenditure, and public
hospitals account for about two-thirds of state health spending. The cost of
clinical ser-vices represents about 70 per cent of total hospital budgets.

Higher taxes to underwrite inefficient public services is not economic reform.
Tax rises to fund state health systems are also a stopgap because, if present
growth in the cost of public hospital care continues, health will consume the
entire budgets of the states and territories in coming decades.

What state governments should be doing is addressing the structural problems in
their health systems by outsourcing the provision of public hospital care to
more efficient private providers. For example, the West Australian government
has outsourced the operation of the new Midlands public hospital to a private
operator, which will save $1.3bn across the life of the $5bn contract compared
with the estimated cost of the state running the hospital.

Public hospital reform needs to become a national policy priority just as reform
of the energy sector, the telecommunications industry, and ports were in earlier
times. Privatisation maybe a dirty word in health, but the alternative is
bankrupt state governments.

The best thing the Turnbull government can do is to use the review of federalism
and mooted changes to federal financial relations to drive health reform.

Ending all specific purpose payments for health, and instead giving the states
one pot of money to fund all responsibilities, would encourage state governments
to make more rational decisions about how best to use scarce public resources
amid competing priorities - including the operation of public hospitals.

A federalism reform package of this kind would prepare the way for return of
income tax powers to the states. State governments that fail to reform their
health systems should be made accountable to the voters who are forced to hand
over a higher proportion of their incomes to prop up inefficient public
hospitals.Jeremy Sammut is a research fellow at the Centre for Independent
Studies. He is the co-author with David Gadiel of the research report How the
NSW Coalition Should Govern Health: Strategies for Micro-Economic Reform.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                            Crain's Detroit Business

                           November 15, 2004, Monday

Week in Review

SECTION: Pg. 34

LENGTH: 993 words


Mt. Clemens General bond rating reduced by Fitch

Fitch Ratings Inc. last week downgraded Mt. Clemens General Hospital's bond
rating to BB, or junk status, from BBB- because of operating losses. Fitch kept
the bonds on rating watch negative because the hospital has delayed the release
of its audit.

The downgrade affects about $83 million in revenue bonds issued through the
County of Macomb Hospital Finance Authority.

Fitch said the downgrade is due to the hospital's continued operating losses,
which were exacerbated by low debt-service coverage and a 35-day nurses strike
that ended Sept. 11.

Fitch said it expects the hospital's profitability to improve based on such
favorable indicators as a 27 percent market share in its primary service area
and financial management improvements the hospital made before the strike.

Local economic indicators fall off in October

Comerica Bank's index for predicting the state's economy dropped slightly in
November.

The bank's Advance Economic Barometer measured 3.4 points in October, down 0.3
points from September and below the 5.0 recorded a year earlier, said David
Littmann, the Detroit-based bank's chief economist.

The barometer suggests Michigan's gross state product will rise through the end
of the year but at a slower pace, Littmann said.

Briefly

* Troy-based Delphi Corp. said it would delay filing its third-quarter report
while it completes internal and federal investigations into how it recorded some
vendor transactions.

* The ''Oprah Winfrey Show'' has been renewed on WXYZ-Channel 7 for three years,
said Marla Drutz, programming director.

* Detroit's three casinos reported revenue of nearly $95.9 million in October,
almost $1.4 million ahead of the same month last year. That pushed gross
receipts for the year at the three gambling houses past $1 billion, 6 percent
ahead of last year at the same time.

* Troy-based Presidion Solutions has received $25 million in financing from Las
Vegas-based Mirabilis Ventures Inc.

* Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick has realigned duties with the return of chief
of staff, Christine Beatty, from medical leave. Beatty will continue to oversee
operations in the mayor's office, along with human resources, labor relations,
neighborhood city halls and the senior citizens office. Kilpatrick will assume
direct oversight of the police, fire and law departments.

* Kmart Holding Corp. has launched a credit card called Kmart Rewards to be
managed by HSBC-North America. The card offers $10 off the first purchase of $50
or more and a $10 reward for every $250 in purchases thereafter. Customers also
will be offered 90 days, same-as-cash financing purchases over $100 during the
2004 holiday season.

* State revenue from major taxes dropped 3.2 percent in October compared with a
year ago, the Senate Fiscal Agency said in its monthly revenue report.

* Flint Ink Corp., the Ann Arbor-based maker of printing ink, said its growth in
the near future will come in Asia. The company has formed joint ventures with
four of the largest newspapers in Beijing.

* Oakland University worked to recover from a Nov. 6 cyber-attack to several of
its servers, said Theresa Rowe, assistant vice president of university
technology services. The intruder gained control of about 50 servers and
desktops and deleted system files and other data, she said. Core systems
containing data such as student records and financial systems remained
protected, as did online learning and e-mail systems, Rowe said.

* Masco Corp. is a target in a European Union investigation into price fixing of
bathroom fittings, Bloomberg News reported. In a statement, Taylor-based Masco
said it doesn't expect to ''incur any material liability.''

* DTE Energy Co.'s Fermi 2 nuclear plant is expected to return to service in
about a month after having shut down Nov. 7 for refueling, the company said.

* Detroit-based Catuity Inc. will trade on the Nasdaq system under CTTYD instead
of its normal CTTY for 20 days starting today. Adding the ''D'' is required
under Nasdaq rules whenever a company executes a reverse stock split.

* Gov. Jennifer Granholm has renamed the Michigan Family Independence Agency,
creating the Michigan Department of Human Services.

People

* Don Sommer, who created the Meadow Brook Concours d'Elegance in the late
1970s, has been elected chairman of the show's board of directors. William
Parfet was named vice chairman and Terence Adderley, Keith Crain and David
Fischer Sr. rejoined the board.

* Shirley Peterson, former president of Hood College in Frederick, Md., has been
named to the Champion Enterprise Inc. board.

* Andrew Schindler, chairman of Reynolds American Inc., and Steven Rothmeier,
CEO of Great Northern Capital, have been elected to the board of ArvinMeritor
Inc.

* James Buford, former commander of the Wayne County Sheriff's Department, has
been appointed director of Homeland Security and Emergency Management for the
county. Wayne County Executive Robert Ficano also named Mark Hammond, an
employee with the Emergency Management Department, as deputy director. Both
appointments need County Commission approval.

Other news

* The Whaling Wall mural on the side of Detroit's Broderick Tower soon could be
covered by a billboard with a General Motors Corp. ad, the Detroit Free Press
reported. Robert Wyland's 108-foot mural was painted in 1997. The Detroit Board
of Zoning Appeals voted Tuesday to allow two billboards, one of which would
cover the mural.

* Former Lt. Gov. Richard Posthumus is recovering from successful prostate
cancer surgery, The Associated Press reported.

Obituaries

* Richard Headlee, anti-tax crusader, gubernatorial candidate and former
chairman, president and CEO of Farmington Hills-based Alexander Hamilton Life
Insurance Co., died Nov. 9. He was 74.

* Hallison Young, co-founder of law firm Patmon, Young & Kirk, died of cancer
Nov. 8. He was 66.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Headlee

                   Copyright 2004 Crain Communications, Inc.


                              93 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday

Commentary: Arkansas ruling may impact economic credentialing

BYLINE: Barry Rosen

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 680  words


Earlier this year, in Murphy v. Baptist Health, a case hailed as a victory for
the preservation of the patient-physician relationship, the Arkansas Circuit
Court of Pulaski County permanently enjoined Arkansas's largest hospital system
from enforcing its economic credentialing policy.

The Litigation

The underlying facts date back to 2003, when Baptist Health adopted an economic
credentialing policy under which any practitioner who held an ownership or
financial interest in a competing hospital was not eligible to apply for staff
appointments or clinical privileges at any Baptist Health hospital.
Cardiologists who owned an interest in a private specialty hospital sued Baptist
Health because the cardiologists were denied privileges at a Baptist Health
hospital.

The doctors alleged that their denial of privileges tortiously interfered with
their relationships with patients and referring physicians. Additionally, the
doctors alleged that the economic credentialing policy was an unconscionable
business and trade practice that violated the Arkansas Deceptive Trade Practices
Act.

This year, the Arkansas court agreed and enjoined Baptist Health from denying
professional staff appointments and clinical privileges on the basis of its
economic credentialing policy.

The Law

Under Arkansas law, tortious interference occurs when a person, with knowledge
of another's contractual or business relationship, induces or causes a breach in
that relationship intentionally and "improperly. "

The Arkansas court first focused on the cardiologists' relationship with their
patients.   After noting that continuity of care is vitally important, the court
found that preserving the patient-physician relationship creates a legitimate
business expectancy with reasonable economic expectations.

Further, noting that referrals are often the lifeblood of specialists, the court
found that the cardiologists also had a legitimate business relationship and
resulting business expectancy with referring general physicians.

Not only did the court find that Baptist Health's economic credentialing policy
interfered with the doctors' patient and referral relationships, but the court
also found that the interference was "improper" because it conflicted with
Arkansas public policy. More particularly, the court noted that Arkansas public
policy gives patients the right to choose their physicians and favors both
competition and the establishment of specialty hospitals.

The court dismissed Baptist Health's argument that its economic credentialing
policy protected patients from "selective referrals" by physicians who have an
ownership interest in a hospital. The court reasoned that, even if the
credentialing policy afforded patients some protection in that regard, that
protection was overshadowed by other aspects of Arkansas public policy.

In addition, the court found that Baptist Health's economic credentialing policy
was overbroad by applying the restriction to family members of physicians who
have an interest in a competing hospital, by defining a "competing hospital" as
any hospital in Arkansas, and by not allowing physicians to rebut the
presumption that they engaged in unethical referrals.

The court also held that the policy violated the Arkansas Deceptive Trade
Practices Act, which prohibits "unconscionable" acts or practices in business,
commerce or trade. The court reasoned that Baptist Health's economic
credentialing policy was unconscionable because it impinged on the important
public policies mentioned above without adequate countervailing justifications.

Conclusion

Although the decision in Murphy v. Baptist Health is not binding in Maryland or
other states, it may prompt hospitals with economic credentialing policies to
re-evaluate those policies.

Barry F. Rosen is the chairman and CEO of the law firm of Gordon, Feinblatt,
Rothman, Hoffberger & Hollander, LLC, and can be reached at 410-576-4224 or
brosen@gfrlaw.com David B. Gibber is an associate in Gordon, Feinblatt's
Business and Health Care Practice Groups, and can be reached at 410-576-1625 or
dgibber@gfrlaw.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           December 29, 2015 Tuesday

Winfield to receive $900,000 annually from Central DuPage Hospital

BYLINE: By Robert Sanchez bsanchez@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 337 words


Winfield to receive $900,000 annually from Central DuPage Hospital

Winfield will receive a $900,000 annual grant over each of the next five years
from Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital as part of an agreement
finalized Monday, officials said.

"The purpose of the grant is to promote economic development, improve the
efficiency of village services, and improve the village's financial position,"
Village President Erik Spande said in an email to the Daily Herald.

The village board approved the grant agreement on Dec. 23, but the "final
wording changes" weren't completed until Monday.

"We recognize the unique economic challenges facing Winfield," CDH President
Brian Lemon said in a statement released Monday afternoon. The hospital, he
said, "is committed to working with the village to ensure Winfield remains a
great place to live, raise families and receive high-quality health care. Our
collaboration with the village of Winfield is designed to encourage economic
development while stimulating the village's economy."

"I am pleased to reinforce the partnership between the hospital and the village
and look forward to further collaborative efforts between our organizations,"
Spande said in his own statement.

CDH made the new offer after Winfield trustees rejected the hospital's first
proposal to give the village an annual $500,000 grant. The board was seeking
roughly $1.4 million a year from CDH to help pay for the services Winfield
provides to the hospital.

For months, village officials argued that CDH, which is in downtown Winfield,
hasn't fully reimbursed the municipality for police, road maintenance and other
services for the hospital.

Winfield trustees even voted to put an advisory question on the March 15 primary
election ballot that would ask voters if the village board should begin taxing
CDH's operations. The village clerk would have submitted that ballot question to
DuPage County election officials had an agreement not been finalized Monday, but
officials said it's no longer necessary.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Central DuPage Hospital on Winfield Road offers world-class medical
care and is now part of Northwestern Medicine. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a
$500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help
the village improve its economic health. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000
grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has
offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a
larger amount. Daily Herald file photo On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are
scheduled to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled
to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the
village is seeking a larger amount. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 grant over each
of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance and other
services. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage Hospital offers
world class medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000
grant over each of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance
and other services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to
provide Winfield a $500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the
community and help the village improve its economic health. Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 annual grant over
each of the next five years, Village President Erik Spande said, to help
reimburse the village for police protection, road maintenance and other
services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give
Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. On
Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled to consider a "motion to
approve a multiyear donation agreement" with Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              95 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        Chester Progressive (California)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  July 7, 2010

Study examines PDHs economic impact to community

BYLINE: Linda Satchwell

LENGTH: 551  words


Plumas District Hospital recently released an economic impact study it
commissioned, at a cost of $5,000, through the Center for Economic Development
at California State University-Chico.

The study analyzes the economic impact of the district on the local economy and
tries to estimate the economic effects of a hospital closure. It does not,
however, look at what might lead to closure or whether passage of Measure B
would or could lead to closure.

In its introduction, the CED study describes PDH as "a district hospital that
relies on patient care reimbursement and payments provided through a hospital
property tax assessment district."

The objective of the study "is to reveal possible consequences of losing this
hospital and how that would impact the community's levels of population, income,
and business revenues."

The CED reported, "Many of the negative effects on the local community, perhaps
including some of the most important ones, are difficult to quantify ... while
these potential impacts are impossible to quantify, it is quite possible that
they are substantial."

Among the possible or potential adverse factors that are not quantified in the
report are: quality of life issues and adverse impact to businesses, which in
turn might "have additional consequences for property values and local tax
revenues," leading to a downward spiral.

The CED then turned to those things it could quantify: "The gross economic
impact of Plumas District Hospital, the impact of all operations, is nearly $30
million in revenue to businesses and organizations, $14.4 million in labor
income (income to employees and business owners), and 288 (direct and indirect)
jobs.

"This includes the direct impact of the hospital, itself, and a secondary impact
(often referred to as a multiplier effect) of over $8 million in revenue to
businesses and organizations, nearly $2.4 million in labor income, and 70 jobs."

Having determined the economic benefits of PDH operations, the study then
assessed its costs. PDH receives regular property tax payments ($349,460 in
fiscal year 2008 -09) and Measure A assessments (anticipated at $554,000 in FY
09 - 10) for a total of $903,460 in property tax payments.

The study points to $21.67 million in hospital expenditures that, if the
$903,460 in property tax payments is subtracted, still shows a substantial
positive impact to area households.

The study does not, however, address the question: Can the argument be made that
PDH would not exist without the Measure A assessment?

The study considered "net migration to and from the district by age," especially
in populations that need care the most -- the young and the elderly.

It also looked at how many physicians the hospital could have supported in the
year 2000, and then detailed "hospital health care alternatives available to
county residents."

One item of interest is the population migration by age, which points to a large
influx of people 60 years of age and older, and a concomitant decrease in every
age group except, inexplicably, those in the 30 - to 34-year-old age range.

"Older adults are an especially important demographic group for PDH," according
to the study, and the hospital can "expect its potential market to grow in the
near future."

To see the full study, go to pdh.org and look under News and Events.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CHE

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                       Copyright 2010 Chester Progressive


                              96 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 13, 2008 Monday

Region cashes in on health education: UT medical college contributes $1.6B

BYLINE: Julie M. Mckinnon, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 463 words


Oct. 13--The University of Toledo's medical school and its main affiliated
teaching hospitals contributed $1.6 billion to the state's economy last year,
part of $37.2 billion from Ohio's academic health-care industry overall,
according to a recent report.

In addition, UT and all teaching hospitals with which it affiliates in Ohio
accounted for 57,060 full-time positions and $177.6 million in total state tax
revenue last year. Their total economic impact was $5.3 billion last year,
according to the report from the Ohio Council of Medical Deans.

While the economy overall has struggled, the economic impact from Ohio's
academic health-care industry has jumped from $21 billion in 2002 to $37.2
billion last year, said Dr. Jeffrey Gold, dean of UT's college of medicine, who
also is executive vice president and provost for health affairs.

Teaching hospitals such as the University of Toledo Medical Center, formerly the
Medical College of Ohio, not only educate medical students and residents, but
they care for patients, provide employment, do research, and undergo capital
expansion projects, Dr. Gold said.

And funding sources remain available for medical projects, such as a medical
office building UT is considering constructing on its Health Science Campus, he
said.

"In addition to the education mission, they are very, very much an important
part of the economics of the region," Dr. Gold said. "There are very few other
industries ... that have had the same increase in economic impact."

In 2002, the economic impact from the former Medical College of Ohio and its
main affiliated teaching hospitals -- St. Vincent Mercy Medical Center and
Toledo Hospital -- was $1.26 billion. That is more than 20 percent lower than
last year's $1.6 billion, according to the report.

The Ohio Council of Medical Deans first commissioned the impact report in 2002,
and it plans to have one performed every five years, a spokesman said.

The state's academic health-care industry has 425,000 full-time positions, with
one in every 12 working Ohioans directly or indirectly employed by a medical
school or teaching hospital, according to the report.

Ohio has seven medical schools. Ohio State University's medical school and core
teaching hospitals had the largest economic impact statewide at $11.4 billion,
the report said.

Contact Julie M. McKinnon at:

jmckinnon@theblade.com

or 419-724-6087.

To see more of The Blade, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.toledoblade.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20081013-TO-Region-cashes-in-on-health-education-1013

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2008 The Blade


                              97 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                    February 26, 2003 Wednesday Home Edition

OUR OPINIONS: Steer tobacco settlement toward rural hospitals ...

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 528 words


Gov. Sonny Perdue's 2004 budget proposes to cut $120 million from Georgia's
Medicaid program. That's shortsighted.

The Medicaid cuts would devastate rural hospitals, many of which are the only
economic engines left in poverty-stricken counties where textile plants, paper
mills and tobacco warehouses have shut down.

Indeed, for every state Medicaid dollar, the federal government puts in $1.50.
And because every dollar put into health care generates an estimated $3.37 in
business activity, the $120 million cut will remove close to $400 million from
the state's economy.

It would make much more sense to divert $70 million from the state's tobacco
lawsuit settlement currently dedicated to OneGeorgia --- an economic development
agency put in place to address the decline in the tobacco industry --- to
replace some of the Medicaid funds. A Senate subcommittee took an initial step
in that direction this week by proposing to reallocate $10 million from
OneGeorgia to help close the funding gap in Medicaid.

Putting the money into Medicaid would actually produce more economic benefit for
rural areas than the OneGeorgia program. The state's 89 rural hospitals have a
total economic impact of more than $6.8 billion and sustain 68,348 full-time
jobs, according to the Georgia Hospital Association. In most cases, the hospital
is an area's largest employer.

In most of those hospitals, Medicaid patients make up 15 to 30 percent of the
population. Medicare patients make up another 50 percent, and uninsured people
with no ability to pay are 15 percent. The remaining few pay full freight with
private insurance.

Medicaid --- the state and federally funded health insurance program that covers
1.3 million low-income Georgians --- already pays hospitals and doctors less
than 90 percent of the cost of care, and the governor's proposed state budget
would cut those payments by another 10 percent. Two-thirds of the state's
hospitals are already operating in the red, according to hospital association
chairman Ken Beverly. As many as 20 are close to shutting their doors, which
would throw hundreds of people out of work.

When a rural medical center closes, it's not just a matter of forcing people to
drive to another county to see a doctor, though that can be fatal for emergency
patients. Doctors and other health care workers may leave the area and new
industry will be less willing to locate in that county, as will retirees and
other wealthier residents fearful of living too far from a hospital.

In the past couple of years, OneGeorgia, which receives about a third of
Georgia's money from the tobacco settlement, has funded infrastructure
improvements, rural water and sewer projects, assistance to tobacco farmers and
some successful projects to attract industry. Those grants are credited with
creating and retaining several thousand jobs. But those accomplishments seem
scant when compared with the impact of the health care industry in rural areas.

If the Legislature believes that rural economic development is a good use of
tobacco settlement money, then Medicaid is the best place to put it.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: GEORGIA'S RURAL HOSPITALS
Hospitals....................... 89
Full-time jobs................68,348
Total spending..........$2.2 billion
Economic impact....... $6.8 billion
Free or indigent care.. $212 million
Source: Georgia Hospital Association

                Copyright 2003 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              98 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                August 25, 2001

Private hospitals 'barely surviving'; Government criticised for not tackling
core problems while heavily subsidising public sector

BYLINE: Mary Ann Benitez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 431 words


Hong Kong's private hospitals are struggling to survive as they are battered by
the economic downturn and wait for the Government to complete its health
reforms, it was claimed yesterday.

The president of the Private Hospitals' Association, Dr Walton Li Wai-tat, made
the comments as he called on the Government to involve the private sector more
in its reform plans.

"Occupancy is still a big problem, but stable this year, I think. Some wards are
open and some are not," he said, adding that he hoped the situation would not be
worse than during the 1998-99 economic crisis. "Private hospitals are not
flourishing. They are barely surviving."

His concerns were echoed by legislator Dr Lo Wing-lok, president of the Hong
Kong Medical Association, who said private practitioners were expecting to be in
worse shape this year than last, when the economic recovery brought some relief.

Both men said the Government had not addressed the health system's core problem
of lack of resources.

It has been estimated that the Hospital Authority accounts for about 92 per cent
of medical care. A consultation paper on health-care reform released last year
called for more interaction between the private and public sectors.

But Dr Li and Dr Lo said there had been little action to achieve this.

The Secretary for Health and Welfare, Dr Yeoh Eng-kiong, has said he will set up
two working groups to look into the issue. The first will involve private
hospitals developing joint health-care services and products with the Hospital
Authority. The second will comprise doctors from both sectors exploring closer
collaboration.

"We expect the two working groups to come up with concrete proposals in six
months' time, after their first meeting," Dr Yeoh said in a report to the Legco
health services panel in July.

Dr Li said private hospitals were more than willing to co-operate with the
Hospital Authority.

"It's very simple. You have a fixed budget. Everybody knows that no country in
the world with a low taxation system can really give unlimited medical service
to everybody. It just doesn't work."

He said the problem was that the Government had been promising more services at
public hospitals, rather than trying to achieve "product differentiation" so
that people who can afford to pay could be encouraged to seek private care.

Dr Lo said it was "a miracle" private hospitals had survived for so many years
without government incentives - the public sector had been heavily subsidised,
which had allowed it to improve facilities and services.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr Walton Li: lack of resources

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2001 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              99 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           December 29, 2015 Tuesday

Winfield to get $900,000 a year from hospital

BYLINE: By Robert Sanchez bsanchez@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 326 words


Winfield will receive a $900,000 annual grant over each of the next five years
from Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital as part of an agreement
finalized Monday, officials said.

"The purpose of the grant is to promote economic development, improve the
efficiency of village services, and improve the village's financial position,"
Village President Erik Spande said in an email to the Daily Herald.

The village board approved the grant agreement on Dec. 23, but the "final
wording changes" weren't completed until Monday.

"We recognize the unique economic challenges facing Winfield," CDH President
Brian Lemon said in a statement released Monday afternoon. The hospital, he
said, "is committed to working with the village to ensure Winfield remains a
great place to live, raise families and receive high-quality health care. Our
collaboration with the village of Winfield is designed to encourage economic
development while stimulating the village's economy."

"I am pleased to reinforce the partnership between the hospital and the village
and look forward to further collaborative efforts between our organizations,"
Spande said in his own statement.

CDH made the new offer after Winfield trustees rejected the hospital's first
proposal to give the village an annual $500,000 grant. The board was seeking
roughly $1.4 million a year from CDH to help pay for the services Winfield
provides to the hospital.

For months, village officials argued that CDH, which is in downtown Winfield,
hasn't fully reimbursed the municipality for police, road maintenance and other
services for the hospital.

Winfield trustees even voted to put an advisory question on the March 15 primary
election ballot that would ask voters if the village board should begin taxing
CDH's operations. The village clerk would have submitted that ballot question to
DuPage County election officials had an agreement not been finalized Monday, but
officials said it's no longer necessary.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Central DuPage Hospital on Winfield Road offers world-class medical
care and is now part of Northwestern Medicine. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a
$500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help
the village improve its economic health. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000
grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has
offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a
larger amount. Daily Herald file photo On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are
scheduled to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled
to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the
village is seeking a larger amount. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 grant over each
of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance and other
services. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage Hospital offers
world class medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000
grant over each of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance
and other services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to
provide Winfield a $500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the
community and help the village improve its economic health. Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 annual grant over
each of the next five years, Village President Erik Spande said, to help
reimburse the village for police protection, road maintenance and other
services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give
Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. On
Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled to consider a "motion to
approve a multiyear donation agreement" with Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              100 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   Mississippi Business Journal (Jackson, MS)

                               December 15, 2008

Mississippi hospitals feel squeeze of receding economy

BYLINE: Wally Northway

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 772  words


A recent survey by the American Hospital Association (AHA) shows just how much
the troubled economy is affecting the nation's hospitals.

More than 30 percent of survey respondents report a moderate to significant
decline in patients seeking elective procedures, and nearly 40 percent of
respondents report a drop in admissions overall.

Additionally, uncompensated care was up eight percent from July to September
versus the same period last year, according to the report.

The report finds that hospitals have seen the immediate impact of the economic
downturn in other ways. Total margins fell to -1.6 percent in the third quarter
of 2008, versus 6.1 percent during the same period last year. Hospitals rely on
investment income, especially since government payors do not cover the costs of
care. However, recent turmoil in the stock market has turned investment gains to
losses, further worsening hospitals' financial condition.

Factor in Medicare and Medicaid issues, and the financial stress is forcing
hospitals to make or consider making cutbacks to weather the economic storm
including cutting administrative costs (60 percent), reducing staff (53 percent)
and reducing services (27), among the hospitals surveyed.

Mississippi's hospitals are certainly not immune to recession, and are eyeing
2009 with caution. Can Mississippi hospitals expect a rise in emergency room
traffic as people lose jobs and health insurance and use the emergency room as a
clinic? Or will people forego treatment because they don't have the money to
pay?

Althea Crumpton, administrator of Magee General Hospital in Simpson County, said
both could be expected. She, indeed, anticipates a rise in emergency room
traffic, and at the same time anticipates a drop in other services as people
delay or cancel treatment. And she foresees all of that causing collection
problems.

Lance Moak, administrator of Franklin County Memorial Hospital in Meadville,
which is licensed for 36 beds, 24 of them acute care, agreed.

"People who are already using the emergency room as a clinic will continue to do
so," he says. "People who don't are going to forego treatment until their
illness worsens, which will cost more to treat in the long run. "

Both Crumpton and Moak oversee rural hospitals located in counties where
personal income is not high. Sam Cameron, president and CEO of the Mississippi
Hospital Association (MHA), said earlier this year that the effects of a shaky
economy could vary from hospital to hospital and region to region.

"A hospital in the Delta may see more of a problem than, say, a hospital in
Northeast Mississippi," he said.

Measures to combat the potential effects of a receding economy vary, as well.
Some have more capacity to deal with a downturn than others.

At Magee General, which is the only hospital in Simpson County and serves
residents of adjacent counties, as well, is allowing for a rise in collection
problems in its budgetary process. Calling it "booking up bad debt," Crumpton
said, as the economic crisis built, the hospital forecast a rise of two
percentage points in accounts receivable. She added that she is fairly confident
that Magee General will not have to slash its staff or discontinue services in
order to stay in out of the red.

Moak was not as optimistic. He said Franklin County Memorial, which operates a
two-bed emergency room, is already thin in terms of staff. He said the hospital
currently has the staff to meet the state's minimum requirements. Any staff cuts
would necessitate a discontinuance of service.

"I am extremely nervous," Moak said.

The MHA points out that as hospitals go, so go their communities. An MHA study
shows just how big a piece of the economic pie healthcare is. Hospitals alone
generate a total impact of more than $9 billion on the state economy, and have
on their payroll more than 50,000 full-time job equivalent employees.

In Mississippi communities, hospitals are some of the largest employers - 23
hospitals employ more than 500 workers.

Hospitals are also important "job creators" in their communities. Companies
often consider access to quality healthcare when choosing a site to locate or
expand, and the existence of a strong healthcare network can lower healthcare
costs.

"As Mississippi's leaders continue to ponder the state's economic priorities and
look for ways to create more jobs, they should keep in mind the importance of
hospitals and healthcare to the state economy," Cameron said. "This study shows
that healthcare is much more to Mississippi than hospitals, clinics and doctors.
The ripple effect of the healthcare sector throughout Mississippi's economy is
enormous. "

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 24, 2017 Monday

Hospital makes significant impact on economy

BYLINE: Lindsey Adkison, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 575 words


April 24--Southeast Georgia Health System has long been known as a significant
economic generator for Glynn and Camden counties. Each year, the Georgia
Hospital Association takes a look at just how much an impact it truly has.

The trade association discovered that, for 2015, the most recent data available,
the health system's hospitals in Glynn and Camden counties generated more than
$5.9 million in revenue for the local and state economy.

Michael Scherneck, president and chief executive officer of the health system,
feels the report validates the positive impact the facilities have on the area.

"We are very appreciative of our communities for their unwavering support of our
health system and will continue to work hard to ensure that the residents of our
communities have access to the best and safest health care services available,"
Scherneck said in a release.

The report also found that the Southeast Georgia Health System hospitals
sustained 1,697 full-time jobs, excluding workers at the facility's two senior
care and three immediate care centers as well as dozens of physician's
practices.

The health system also provides $26.8 million in uncompensated care, which
Scherneck said, does prove challenging. The health system's leadership has
voiced concerns including a fast-growing uninsured population and inadequate
payments from government insurance programs Medicare and Medicaid. Presently, 42
percent of all hospitals in Georgia are operating with negative margins.

"We're extremely concerned about the current operating environment for our
health system hospitals," says Scherneck. "We've made a commitment to every
citizen of our communities to be there for them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
However, our ability to do so is being compromised when so many of our patients
are either uninsured or severely underinsured."

Even with the struggle, the hospital continues to make a powerful impact on the
Glynn, Camden and the surrounding counties, the report said. It shows the health
system had direct expenditures of more than $257.1 million in 2015. When
combined with an economic multiplier developed by the United States Department
of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total economic impact was more
than $591.5 million.

The output multiplier takes into account the ripple effect the health system's
expenditures bring to other sectors of the economy, such as medical supplies and
pharmaceuticals. The report indicates that other affiliated entities accounted
for expenditures in excess of $80 million, which results in a further economic
impact of more than $175 million.

Don Mathews, professor of economics at the College of Coastal Georgia, said the
figures illustrate just how critical the health system is to the area.

"The health system is a local economic engine, to be sure. It employs a lot of
people of many different skill levels, and it has generated many associated
businesses that employ a lot of people, too," he said.

"But the most important part about it, to me, is the part that doesn't show up
in economic impact studies. Our area is fairly isolated and in many ways
neglected. What would people here do if the health system were not here? The
health system extends and enhances lives. To me, that makes even $592 million
seem pretty small."

___ (c)2017 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170424-GE-Hospital-makes-significant-impact-on-economy-0424-20170424

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2017 The Brunswick News


                              102 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Newton Daily News, Iowa

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

Study: Skiff creates $25 million impact on local economy

BYLINE: Newton Daily News, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 379 words


Feb. 22--Skiff Medical Center generates 361 jobs that contributed more than $25
million to Jasper County's economy, according to the latest study by the Iowa
Hospital Association.  In addition, Skiff employees by themselves spend almost
$7 million on retail sales and contribute about $400,000 in state sales tax
revenue.

"Skiff Medical Center is one of the major employees not only in Newton, but in
all of Jasper County," CEO Steve Long said. "Our vision is to be a 'treasured
community asset' and our many caregivers work hard every day to live up to this
ideal.  It is satisfying to know that we are able to impact the community not
only in the excellent care we provide for our patients but in the significant
direct and indirect investment we make economically, as well."

The IHA study examined the jobs, income, retail sales and sales tax produced by
hospitals and the rest of the state's health care sector. The study was compiled
from hospital-submitted data on the American Hospital Association's Annual
Survey of Hospitals and with software that other industries have used to
determine their economic impact.

The study found that Iowa hospitals directly employ 71,169 people and create
another 62,198 jobs outside the hospital sector.  As an income source, hospitals
provide more than $4 billion in salaries and benefits and generate another $2.2
billion through other jobs that depend on hospitals.

"In most Iowa counties, hospitals are among the three or four largest employers,
but it's more than just providing jobs," IHA president and CEO Kirk Norris said.
"People are often unaware of the broader contribution that hospitals make to
their local economies, the significance of hospital purchases with local
businesses and the impact of their employees' spending for the entire region."

Iowa community hospitals generate more than 133,000 jobs that add nearly $6.2
billion to the state's economy, according to IHA's latest Iowa hospital economic
impact report.  In addition, Iowa hospital employees by themselves spend $1.8
billion on retail sales and contribute nearly $106 million in state sales tax
revenue.

___ (c)2013 the Newton Daily News (Newton, Iowa) Visit the Newton Daily News
(Newton, Iowa) at www.newtondailynews.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130222-1NI-Study-Skiff-creates-25-million-impact-on-local-economy-0222-2013022
2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1NI


                     Copyright 2013 Newton Daily News, Iowa


                              103 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                January 5, 2009

Economic downturn adds new uncertainties to IT planning

BYLINE: By Pamela Lewis Dolan, AMNews staff. Jan. 5, 2009

SECTION: BUSINESS; Technically Speaking; Pg. 13 Vol. 52 No. 2

LENGTH: 810 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


The U.S. recession is making for an immediately murky future for the adoption of
health information technology.

Experts say if you have the money, now is an especially good time to implement
IT because of the efficiencies you will gain that will pay off once the economy
turns around. However, they acknowledge that physicians aren't flush with cash
for IT, and that hospital partners and some vendors are struggling as well.

Hospitals in good financial standing are planning to move ahead with health IT
plans, despite their inability to get credit, by scaling down projects or
postponing them. But for underfunded hospitals and small physician practices
that have no places to cut or extra capital, the future of HIT adoption is less
clear.

The American Hospital Assn. released its "Report on the Economic Crisis: Initial
Impact on Hospitals" in November 2008. It found 39% of hospitals were
reconsidering or postponing planned health IT projects. A separate survey by the
National Alliance for Health Information Technology, the College of Healthcare
Information Management Executives and AHA Solutions found that 94% of hospitals
have cut IT budgets by extending implementation time or reducing the scale of
new projects.

Jane Horowitz, NAHIT's chief operating officer, said the findings were
encouraging because they showed hospitals are proceeding cautiously, as opposed
to walking away from entire projects. Horowitz said that not only are they not
abandoning the projects, but in many cases they are prioritizing them. "When
they are being asked to be more efficient, HIT is the way to go," she said.

Dan McMurray is managing director of Focus Management Group, a national
consultancy group based in Tampa, Fla., that works with hospitals and practices
facing financial crises. He said the highest-performing hospitals that have well
thought-out business plans could not only make it through the financial crisis
unscathed but could become stronger. But the bad news, McMurray said, is that
such hospitals make up a small percentage of the total. "Sixty percent to 80% of
hospitals are in trouble. Many are in deep trouble."

The economy will force underperforming hospital programs to shut down, providing
money for other areas. It could also help eliminate some of the competition or
present opportunities for mergers and acquisitions.

The hospitals' troubles may be trickling down to physicians.

"We have a liquidity crisis not just on an economy basis but on an individual
facility or practice basis," said Bobby Guy, an attorney with the Nashville,
Tenn., law firm of Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis. "I'm not sure what the result
will be on that. But it will be harder to get money from physicians on this.
Physicians aren't feeling flush."

Guy said since Stark law exceptions and anti-kickback safe harbors went into
effect in 2007, practices have been looking to hospitals to help with IT
purchases, but "hospitals won't have the money to help anymore."

Horowitz said the recent survey did not cover the question of hospitals helping
physician practices, but it's one she hopes future surveys will address.

McMurray said it's possible high-performing hospitals will still be able to make
a business case for helping physicians out with health IT purchases. But Robert
James Cimasi, president of St. Louis-based Health Capital Consultants, said
despite the financial crunch, physicians are still skeptical of accepting help
from hospitals.

There are unanswered questions about implications of donated health IT on
practices, he said. Many physicians are concerned with ownership of data among
other things, he said.

Robert Tennant, senior policy adviser for health IT for the Medical Group
Management Assn., said practices must also be aware that the financial crunch is
affecting their vendors, as well. Tennant is particularly concerned that some
practices might get in trouble by opting out of an electronic medical record
system to adopt a much cheaper e-prescribing system.

He said while e-prescribing is a smart first step into full EMR adoption, the
final requirements for stand-alone e-prescribing systems have not been released.

In order to be eligible for Medicare e-prescribing bonuses that started Jan. 1,
use of a system certified by the Certification Commission for Health Information
Technology is required. But Tennant said vendors may not have money to invest to
make their systems CCHIT-compliant.

He advised practices to negotiate that the vendor will pursue CCHIT
certification. When the rules come out if updates are needed, the vendor will
provide them at no cost.

"If they say they have no plans to be CCHIT certified, then you probably don't
want to go with them," Tennant said. "Any bonuses down the road will be
contingent on that certification."

The print version of this content appeared in the Jan. 12, 2009 issue of
American Medical News.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            July 27, 1988 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

REGULAR SHORTS

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Letters; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 400 words


BLEWETT DEFIES ECONOMICS

SIR, Dr Blewett's criticism of your editorial (AFR, July 19) casts more light
upon his ignorance of basic economics than upon any errors you may have made.

Such assertions as "the oversupply of private hospital beds has led to increased
costs to the public" defy all economic logic. As any student of economics knows,
an oversupply of a good or service must result in a decrease in price to the
consumer, all other things being equal. An increase in the price for already
oversupplied beds in such a situation would only lead to a worsening of the
problem and make private hospitals even less viable.

In his critique, Dr Blewett does not mention the shortage of public hospital
beds which the waiting lists all over the country attest to. Any student of
economics could again tell Dr Blewett that reducing the price of a good or
service to zero, will cause an explosion in demand and since the Government has
now realised it does not have a bottomless pit of money to draw from to provide
the necessary resources, it cannot meet that demand.

Furthermore, as Dr Blewett has actively encouraged the population to forgo
private health insurance, private hospital care has now been priced out of the
average person's budget, resulting in an oversupply of private hospital beds.

By his deliberate actions Dr Blewett has created an acute shortage in the public
hospital system and a short term surplus in the private hospital system through
the introduction of Medicare. I say "short term" as economic reality will force
the closure or disappearance of those surplus beds. A bizarre situation of
inaccessible plenty in the face of a Blewett-induced shortage -an astonishingly
perverse result but also entirely predictable.

As the position continues to deteriorate, beneficiaries of Medicare will still
continue to be covered for essential medical and hospital treatment with the
definition of "essential" being continually redefined by Dr Blewett.

The economic results of Dr Blewett's meddling should have been obvious from the
start. He might boast about how cheap his system is but when consumers can find
only queues for that price, it becomes in reality very expensive indeed.

You, sir, do not need a lecture in economics from Dr Blewett. He, however,
should seek the services of a good ophthalmologist as he still appears blind to
the destruction he is causing.

MICHAEL MURPHY,

Brisbane.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1988 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                  Feather River Bulletin (Quincy, California)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  July 7, 2010

Economic study looks at hospital s impact

BYLINE: Linda Satchwell

LENGTH: 683  words


Plumas District Hospital recently released an economic impact study it
commissioned, at a cost of $5,000, through the Center for Economic Development
at California State University-Chico.

The study analyzes the economic impact of the district on the local economy and
tries to estimate the economic effects of a hospital closure. It does not,
however, look at what might lead to closure or whether passage of Measure B
would or could lead to closure.

In its introduction, the CED study describes PDH as "a district hospital that
relies on patient care reimbursement and payments provided through a hospital
property tax assessment district."

The objective of the study "is to reveal possible consequences of losing this
hospital and how that would impact the community's levels of population, income,
and business revenues."

The CED reported, "Many of the negative effects on the local community, perhaps
including some of the most important ones, are difficult to quantify ... while
these potential impacts are impossible to quantify, it is quite possible that
they are substantial."

Among the possible or potential adverse factors that are not quantified in the
report are: quality of life issues and adverse impact to businesses, which in
turn might "have additional consequences for property values and local tax
revenues," leading to a downward spiral.

The CED then turned to those things it could quantify: "The gross economic
impact of Plumas District Hospital, the impact of all operations, is nearly $30
million in revenue to businesses and organizations, $14.4 million in labor
income (income to employees and business owners), and 288 (direct and indirect)
jobs. "This includes the direct impact of the hospital, itself, and a secondary
impact (often referred to as a multiplier effect) of over $8 million in revenue
to businesses and organizations, nearly $2.4 million in labor income, and 70
jobs." Having determined the economic benefits of PDH operations, the study then
assessed its costs. PDH receives regular property tax payments ($349,460 in
fiscal year 2008 -09) and Measure A assessments (anticipated at $554,000 in FY
09 - 10) for a total of $903,460 in property tax payments.

The study points to $21.67 million in hospital expenditures that, if the
$903,460 in property tax payments is subtracted, still shows a substantial
positive impact to area households.

The study does not, however, address the question: Can the argument be made that
PDH would not exist without the Measure A assessment?

The study considered "net migration to and from the district by age," especially
in populations that need care the most -- the young and the elderly.

It also looked at how many physicians the hospital could have supported in the
year 2000, and then detailed "hospital health care alternatives available to
county residents."

One item of interest is the population migration by age, which points to a large
influx of people 60 years of age and older, and a concomitant decrease in every
age group except, inexplicably, those in the 30 - to 34-year-old age range.

"Older adults are an especially important demographic group for PDH," according
to the study, and the hospital can "expect its potential market to grow in the
near future."

The study offers a warning statement, as well: That population group might
choose not to locate to the area if there weren't a hospital available.

While PDH draws most of its patients from the larger Quincy area, it also has a
substantial patient base in Indian Valley. The study addressed patient "leakage"
to other facilities, but most of that is for specialty services that PDH is
never likely to offer, such as "major head and neck procedures ... (and) cardiac
valve and other major cardio-thoracic procedures."

Finally, the study suggested, "Even if the hospital were to close, households
may still lose all $903,460 of income (through regular and Measure A property
taxes) annually in the near future." According to the study, that is a reason to
make certain that the hospital stays open.

To see the full study, go to pdh.org and look under News and Events.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FTH

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                     Copyright 2010 Feather River Bulletin


                              106 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2008 Friday

Zimbabwe: Major hospital closes theater over drug, equipment shortage

LENGTH: 465 words


Text of report by South Africa-based ZimOnline website on 31 October

[Report by Lizwe Sebatha: "State hospital forced to close theatre unit"]

Bulawayo - One of the two biggest public hospitals in Zimbabwe's second largest
city of Bulawayo has closed its theatre unit after running out of critical drugs
necessary for all life-saving operations.

Sources told ZimOnline on Thursday that the United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) -
which is one of the two main public referral hospitals in the south of the
country - suspended surgical operations last week after running out of
anesthetics and other essential tools, in yet another sign of collapse of the
public health sector.

"We suspended all surgical operations last week after the last stocks of
anesthetics and surgical thread ran out. The critical theatre medical unit has
since been closed," a doctor at the institution speaking on condition of
anonymity said.

ZimOnline reporters who visited the UBH on Thursday found the theatre unit at
the hospital closed with staff saying they were referring patients to expensive
private hospitals such as the Catholic-run Mater Dei hospital for surgery.

Another state-run hospital in the city Mpilo General was not taking extra
patients from UBH apparently because it was also running low on anesthetics.

"Mpilo also faces shortages of anesthetic drugs. The situation is very critical
as it means hospitals in Bulawayo, which are supposed to cater for four
provinces, are not equipped to deal with disasters such as road accidents,"
another doctor added.

Deputy Health Minister Edwin Muguti blamed sanctions for the suspension of
surgical operations at Bulawayo's state hospitals.

"These are the effects of the illegal western sanctions against Zimbabwe," said
Muguti in a telephone interview on Thursday. "We have a serious challenge as far
as the shortages of consumables and critical drugs for surgery are concerned.
UBH has suspended surgical operations as a result."

Last week the Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights (ZADHR) blamed an
outbreak of cholera in Zimbabwe on broken down public infrastructure, the result
of years of an unprecedented economic decline and political turmoil in the
country.

Zimbabwe's recession marked by the world's highest inflation of 231 million per
cent, has hastened the deterioration of key infrastructure needed for economic
activity and public health such as adequate power and water supplies.

The public health sector - once one of the best in Africa - has been hardest hit
by the economic crisis with the government short of cash to import essential
medicines and equipment, while the country has suffered the worst brain drain of
doctors, nurses and other professionals seeking better opportunities abroad.

Source: ZimOnline, Johannesburg, in English 31 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                             March 29, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Rudd to outline vision of future via hospitals

BYLINE: Chris Johnson

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 293  words


Prime Minister Kevin Rudd will deliver a major economic address today in which
he will attempt to link hospitals reform to Australia's future economic health.

In a move expected to place further pressure on Opposition Leader Tony Abbott to
issue his health policy, Mr Rudd will clearly position his hospitals agenda as
an economic issue over which this year's election will be fought.

The Prime Minister will also be hoping to persuade state premiers to agree to
his controversial plan for the Commonwealth to take over 60 per cent of all
hospital funding by using one-third of the states' GST allocations.

Speaking in Melbourne at leadership forum the Australian Davos Connection, Mr
Rudd will focus on the importance of maintaining macroeconomic stability while
returning to a position of fiscal strength following the global economic
downturn.

He will lay out a case that hospitals will be key to securing that stability.

The Prime Minister will highlight what he says is the importance of health
reform in maximising future workforce participation to respond to the ageing
population.

He will argue that tackling chronic disease through an integrated national
health and hospitals network will be critical to ensuring as many people as
possible are able to contribute to the economy.

Efforts to reduce chronic disease could result in as many as 175,000 extra
people in the workforce by 2030, Mr Rudd will say.

He insists that if the states agree to his plan for a national hospital network,
they will have an additional $15 billion to invest in economic infrastructure
over the remainder of this decade.

His justification for that prediction is that it will be made possible because
the Commonwealth will take on more funding responsibility for the hospital
system.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2010 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             March 13, 2009 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SURVEY: 80 PERCENT OF PA. HOSPITALS WEIGH LAYOFFS

BYLINE: Steve Twedt, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-16

LENGTH: 199 words


More than 80 percent of Pennsylvania's hospitals are considering layoffs -- if
they haven't initiated them already -- due to the national economic downturn,
according to a new statewide survey by the Hospital and Healthsystem Association
of Pennsylvania.

The survey, conducted earlier this month, also shows that "the economic
environment for the state's general acute-care hospitals has not improved, and
in some areas worsened," according to hospital association officials, who warned
of the consequences of reducing Medicare and Medicaid payments, something that
has been proposed.

"Cutting payments to hospitals under these programs jeopardizes the ability of
hospitals to meet all patient and community health care needs," said Carolyn
Scanlan, president and chief executive officer, in a release. "It also
undermines the very economic stability of many Pennsylvania communities."

Responding hospitals reported a slight increase in uninsured or financially
strapped patients and a continued decrease in admissions and elective
procedures.

Nearly 90 percent said they'd reduced capital spending for building
improvements, renovations or new equipment.

The association represents about 250 hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Steve Twedt can be reached at stwedt@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1963.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              109 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           February 17, 2009 Tuesday

Economic downturn delays hospital site sale;
Hull: Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust has confirmed its Princess
Royal Hospital site will not be sold before the end of the financial year.

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 155 words


The trust said the current economic climate will have an impact on the timing of
the disposal of the site in Saltshouse Road, east Hull.

David Haire, director of business development and strategy for the trust, said:
"We have vacated the major part of the site and are exploring disposal options.

"Within the current economic climate, disposal is not likely to be achieved in
the short term.

"We have formerly declared it surplus to requirements and we are looking at how
best to dispose of it."

Mr Haire said the trust needs to ensure it gets the best value for the site.

He said: "The economic downturn will influence land sales generally and this
will impact on the timing of the disposal." As reported in the Mail in December,
X-ray and physiotherapy services will remain at the site.

Patients were transferred from the Saltshouse Road hospital to the oncology and
haematology centre at Castle Hill Hospital in Cottingham last summer.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           February 17, 2009 Tuesday

Economic downturn delays hospital site sale;
Hull: Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust has confirmed its Princess
Royal Hospital site will not be sold before the end of the financial year.

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 155 words


The trust said the current economic climate will have an impact on the timing of
the disposal of the site in Saltshouse Road, east Hull.

David Haire, director of business development and strategy for the trust, said:
"We have vacated the major part of the site and are exploring disposal options.

"Within the current economic climate, disposal is not likely to be achieved in
the short term.

"We have formerly declared it surplus to requirements and we are looking at how
best to dispose of it."

Mr Haire said the trust needs to ensure it gets the best value for the site.

He said: "The economic downturn will influence land sales generally and this
will impact on the timing of the disposal." As reported in the Mail in December,
X-ray and physiotherapy services will remain at the site.

Patients were transferred from the Saltshouse Road hospital to the oncology and
haematology centre at Castle Hill Hospital in Cottingham last summer.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           February 17, 2009 Tuesday

Economic downturn delays hospital site sale;
Hull: Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust has confirmed its Princess
Royal Hospital site will not be sold before the end of the financial year.

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 155 words


The trust said the current economic climate will have an impact on the timing of
the disposal of the site in Saltshouse Road, east Hull.

David Haire, director of business development and strategy for the trust, said:
"We have vacated the major part of the site and are exploring disposal options.

"Within the current economic climate, disposal is not likely to be achieved in
the short term.

"We have formerly declared it surplus to requirements and we are looking at how
best to dispose of it."

Mr Haire said the trust needs to ensure it gets the best value for the site.

He said: "The economic downturn will influence land sales generally and this
will impact on the timing of the disposal." As reported in the Mail in December,
X-ray and physiotherapy services will remain at the site.

Patients were transferred from the Saltshouse Road hospital to the oncology and
haematology centre at Castle Hill Hospital in Cottingham last summer.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           February 17, 2009 Tuesday

Economic downturn delays hospital site sale;
Hull: Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust has confirmed its Princess
Royal Hospital site will not be sold before the end of the financial year.

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 155  words


The trust said the current economic climate will have an impact on the timing of
the disposal of the site in Saltshouse Road, east Hull.

David Haire, director of business development and strategy for the trust, said:
"We have vacated the major part of the site and are exploring disposal options.

"Within the current economic climate, disposal is not likely to be achieved in
the short term.

"We have formerly declared it surplus to requirements and we are looking at how
best to dispose of it."

Mr Haire said the trust needs to ensure it gets the best value for the site.

He said: "The economic downturn will influence land sales generally and this
will impact on the timing of the disposal." As reported in the Mail in December,
X-ray and physiotherapy services will remain at the site.

Patients were transferred from the Saltshouse Road hospital to the oncology and
haematology centre at Castle Hill Hospital in Cottingham last summer.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           February 21, 1993, Sunday

CLINTON'S AGENDA: HEALTH CARE What will system of future look like? More gain
than pain, say voices of change

BYLINE: By Andy Miller STAFF WRITERbill/clinton; policy; economy; reform;
health; care; budgets; forecasts; costs

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 7

LENGTH: 414 words


Managed competition. Global budgets.

So what would this ominous-sounding jargon mean to you and me?

Probably some big changes in how health care is provided - and how much it
costs. And likely, too, some harsh medicine for doctors, hospitals and insurers.

If global budgeting - essentially, limits on total medical spending - and
managed competition are proposed and escape Washington crossfire to become law,
proponents say there could be:

Increased efficiency and quality of care.

Better information about the outcomes of medical procedures.

A standardized benefits package and uniform rates.

Less paperwork.

Malpractice reform.

The last two would please many doctors.

But "all these reforms are going to lead to a lessening of [specialists']
income," says Dr. Bill Winkenwerder of Prudential Health Care System.

Many think there would have to be choices linked to prioritizing services, such
as: Would we, as a society, want to pay for a 90-year- old's heart transplant?

Insurers could face cost pressures, too. Employers - and employees - would be
looking for the most attractively priced plans. And limits on premium increases
might be set.

"If you control rates that providers can be paid and don't control rates
insurers can charge, you may not necessarily be saving," says Peter Wilson, an
American Hospital Association vice president.

For hospitals, it could wind up as "the survival of the most efficient," says
Lew Yeouze of the consulting firm William M. Mercer.

What's more, a crucial ingredient in any reform plan - extending coverage to 36
million uninsured Americans - could cost up to $ 30 billion to $ 90 billion
annually, officials say.

One way to cover that cost - a proposal known as "play or pay" - would require
all employers to provide their workers a standard package of benefits or enroll
them in a public pool and pay a payroll tax toward the cost. That would surely
raise the hackles of small businesses.

According to a White House memo, other funding proposals that have surfaced
recently include:

Taxing premiums collected by insurance companies.

Taxing health-care benefits above a certain level.

Raising taxes on things such as tobacco, alcohol, guns and pollutants.

So universal coverage is likely to cause some initial financial pain for
companies or individuals or both. But it also would guarantee care to everyone -
and end the current climate of fear over coverage.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH930610232

GRAPHIC: Line graph: The deficit and health care In his address to the nation
last week, President Clinton said that unless the government acts, health-care
costs could consume up to 20 percent of total economic output by the end of the
decade. Graph shows deficit reduction if Clinton plan is adopted with no cost
controls on health care; and if cost controls are implemented (numbers in
billions) from 1993 through 2003 Source: Council of Economic Advisers / staff

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              114 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                October 11, 2010

News in brief - Oct. 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 529 words



HIGHLIGHT: 'Illinois hospitals generate $75 billion in spending' and other items


Illinois hospitals generate $75 billion in spending

Illinois hospitals directly or indirectly supported 426,700 jobs in 2009,
according to a report issued Sept. 24 by the Illinois Hospital Assn. These
institutions generated $75.1 billion in spending by purchasing supplies or
paying staffers who in turn spent their paychecks on goods and services.

"By providing jobs for a wide range of health care workers and spurring more
economic activity through their spending on goods, services and capital
improvements, hospitals are a key cornerstone of the local and state economy,"
said IHA President Maryjane A. Wurth.

Researchers used the Regional Input-Output Modeling System II developed by the
U.S. Dept. of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis. Each job at a hospital
lead to an additional 1.1 jobs in other industries. One dollar spent by a
hospital led to an additional $1.40 in spending elsewhere in the economy.

Reports issued by other hospital and medical associations, which are used to
argue against cuts to public insurance programs or support other items on the
legislative agenda, also have documented the significant economic impact of the
health care sector. The IHA report is available online
(www.ihatoday.org/economicreport.pdf).

Back to top

Consumer confidence about affording health care rises

Patients were feeling more certain in August about their ability to cover future
medical care costs and were less likely to have delayed or canceled treatment in
the past three months, according to the Consumer Healthcare Sentiment Index
issued Sept. 28 by Thomson Reuters.

Researchers analyzed surveys completed by a demographically representative
sample of 3,000 households. The overall composite Consumer Healthcare Sentiment
Index was 99 in August. One hundred is the baseline, but it fell to 95 in July,
a low point for 2010, so August was an improvement.

"This notable increase in confidence may signal growing optimism heading into
the final quarter of the year," said Gary Pickens, PhD, chief research officer
at the Thomson Reuters Center for Healthcare Analytics. "However, we will need
to see similar results over the next several months before we can confirm a
meaningful rise in consumer health care sentiment."

The August Consumer Healthcare Sentiment Index report is available online
(healthcarescience.thomsonreuters.com/indexes/assets/aug2010index_chsi.pdf).

Back to top

Judge to consider Michigan Blues' request for rate increase

An administrative law judge will hear from Michigan's attorney general later
this year to consider whether Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan should be
allowed to raise rates for 195,000 customers.

Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox filed a motion to intervene and challenge the
proposed rate increases Sept. 20. In a news release announcing his objection,
Cox cited the Blues' surplus of nearly $3 billion.

A statement from the Michigan Blues said it expects to lose between $40 million
and $60 million on the individual and group conversion lines of business in
2011, even with the requested rate increases of as much as 15%.

The state insurance commissioner will make the final decision on whether to
grant the rate increases.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 21, 2011 Friday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

Construction of health care facilities could help county

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 611 words


WHAT if I told you that there is an economic development strategy that could add
an additional 200,000 much-needed construction jobs to our state's economy and
be instituted almost immediately without complex legislation or ballot measures,
without increasing government-led infrastructure spending or instituting a
federal-like stimulus program and without issuing billions of dollars worth of
new infrastructure bonds or awarding government incentives?

Drum roll please ...

It would be for the California Office of Statewide Health Planning and
Development - essentially the building department for hospitals and other
health-related facilities - to expedite plan reviews and approvals for hospital
and health facility construction. I know it's not very sexy. But it is
substantive.

Right now, too many California hospitals seeking to perform capital improvement
projects, employing many thousands of construction workers, have been met by
unremitting postponements and holdups in their plan review and approval process.
Some projects have required an approval process of two or more years before
construction can even begin. In all, OSHPD - which, by the way, has as one of
its articulated core service values "the efficient processing of approvals for
health facility construction" - is holding up approximately $23 billion in
hospital and health-related construction work in California.

From an economic development perspective, this multibillion-dollar backlog is
unacceptable. The $23billion in construction activity would sustain direct,
indirect, and induced impacts, including 232,000 jobs with $15.1 billion in
wages and generate approximately $1.7 billion in state and local tax revenue.

Here in L.A. County, health industries play a vital and leading role in our
economy. They account for almost 12 percent of the county's total economic
output and support approximately 352,000 direct and indirect jobs, with $15.6
billion in wages.

According to a 2006 report done by the LAEDC, the sector contributes more than 1
billion dollars in tax revenues to the state's coffers, close to $70 million to
the county and more than $40 million in sales tax revenues to cities in the
county. Even more, the sector has been one of the few bright spots during these
bad economic times, and its expansion is almost certain to accelerate as our
population continues to age and swell from about 10.4 million residents to 11.2
million by 2020.

Even so, this vital economic sector is in a "lifeblood" struggle for survival
against threats that include deep budget cuts, new MediCal restrictions,
unfunded seismic retrofit mandates, an emergency room network under siege and
laboring on the fringe of unprofitability, and a rapid increase in the number of
the uninsured. Here in Los Angeles, we have already lost 17 hospitals and
emergency departments during the last decade, and with two out of every five
hospitals losing money, we are in grave danger of losing another four hospitals
very quickly.

Throughout Southern California there are numerous examples of an OSHPD
entitlement approval process that has gone off track. This has been further
exacerbated by furloughs and personnel reductions in general.

Hospitals and health care facilities play a critical role in economic
development and the quality of life of our communities. Consequently, we must
discharge the backlog of $23 billion worth of stalled hospital construction
projects, reverse this worsening trend of project entitlement delays and
interruptions, and reduce the time it takes for a project to navigate OSHPD's
plan review and permitting process.

This is an economic development strategy we can all get behind.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Bill Allen is the chief executive of the Los Angeles County Economic
Development Corporation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   Bluefield Daily Telegraph (West Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 24, 2010 Friday

Tazewell Community Hospital addressing challenges

BYLINE: Kate Coil, Bluefield Daily Telegraph, W.Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 528 words


Sept. 24--TAZEWELL, Va.  -- Faced with challenges as a result of the recession,
officials have launched a study to determine the sustainability of Tazewell
Community Hospital.

Despite financial issues, Eric Earnhart, director of media relations for
Carilion Clinic, said Tazewell Community Hospital will not be closing any time
soon.

"We are not planning to close the facility, though it's important to understand
we must change how we provide health care," Earnhart said. "The model of the
hospital may look very different in the future because of that.

Earnhart said Tazewell Community Hospital is dealing with the same issues of all
community hospitals in Virginia and nationwide. He said all community hospitals
under the Carilion Clinic umbrella are undergoing "internal evaluations" to
better meet community needs.

"All community hospitals, especially in rural areas all over Virginia, are all
dealing with financial situations because of the recession," Earnhart said.
"Charity care is up, insurance coverage is down, and people are not choosing to
take elective surgeries. We are trying to figure out how to best serve the needs
of the people and address the financial challenges we face by reviewing all of
our community hospitals."

According to Earnhart, these evaluations will hopefully determine how the
hospitals can balance community needs with financial realities.

"We are looking at what needs to be done to provide services to the community in
a stable way," he said. "Given the economic realities of the recession and
health care reform, there is no precedent for what is happening to community
hospitals. We need to look at the hospital's needs, the community needs, and the
financial needs. These needs may be different for different communities.
Tazewell is certainly not alone in this."

Earnhart said sustainability has become the overall goal for all community
hospitals, given the nationwide economic situation.

"We need to meet community needs in a way that's sustainable, for the long
term," he said. "We've got to find a way to balance needs with the current
economic situation."

Representatives of the hospital announced the hospital would be undergoing a
study to determine the sustainability of the hospital at a Tazewell County Board
of Supervisors meeting on Sept. 7.

Tazewell Community Hospital is one of several Carilion hospitals undergoing a
study to determine how they can become more sustainable. Earnhart did not know
how long the study would last.

Tazewell Community Hospital joined the Carilion Clinic in June of 2008, but
received management services from Carilion for more than 27 years prior to being
acquired by the Carilion Clinic.

--Contact Kate Coil at kcoil@bdtonline.com

To see more of Bluefield Daily Telegraph, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.bdtonline.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Bluefield Daily Telegraph,
W.Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100924-WF-Tazewell-Community-Hospital
-addressing-challenges-0924-20100924

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WF


                    Copyright 2010 Bluefield Daily Telegraph


                              117 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                 August 3, 1998

More using government hospitals and clinics

BYLINE: By Chong Chee Seong

SECTION: National; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: Muar


MUAR, Sun. - The Health Ministry has embarked on several new approaches to
cater to the increasing number of patients seeking medical treatment at
government hospitals and clinics.

Its Minister Datuk Chua Jui Meng said the Government would continue to
allocate more funds to boost medical care and attention for all patients.

He said the number of patients seeking specialists' treatment at
government hospitals had gone up by between 10 and 30 per cent since the
onset of the economic slowdown.

He noted that there had also been a marked increase in the number of
patients calling at outpatient centres at hospitals and clinics
nationwide.

"We are facing a shortage of wards in certain major hospitals to
accommodate patients."

Chua was speaking to reporters after opening the RM1.2 million three-
storey buildings of the Kwangtung Association here today.

Chua, who is also the Member of Parliament for Bakri, said government
hospitals and clinics could manage the "rush" as the brain drain of
specialists from government hospitals had slowed down.

He said: "We can now retain about 50 per cent of our specialists and
doctors from leaving the Government hospitals and clinics.

"In view of the presence of a large pool of specialists and highly
trained doctors, more patients are seeking medical assistance in our
hospitals and clinics."

Chua said the "rush" could be attributed to the exorbitant medical
charges of private hospitals, with many patients unable to foot the bills
under the current depressed economic climate.

He said: "Malaysians are aware that our hospitals and clinics have
achieved a high standard of excellence in medical and healthcare in the
Asean region".

Chua said the ministry would continue to upgrade services at the
hospitals and clinics to enable people of all walks of life to receive the
best medical treatment and care.


LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture - Chua ... can cope with rush'.

            Copyright 1998 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              118 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Moultrie Observer (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday

Report: CRMC has $151.6 million economic impact

BYLINE: The Moultrie Observer, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words


March 30--MOULTRIE -- In 2009, Colquitt Regional Medical Center generated
$151,568,879 in revenue for the local economy according to a recent report by
the Georgia Hospital Association, the state's largest hospital trade
association. The report also found that, during the same time period, Colquitt
Regional provided approximately $6,952,206 in uncompensated care while
sustaining approximately 800 jobs.

The report revealed that Colquitt Regional had direct expenditures of
$61,296,914 in 2009, which is the latest data currently available from the
Department of Community Health. When combined with an economic multiplier
developed by the United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic
Analysis, the total economic impact of those expenditures was more than $151
million. This output multiplier considers the "ripple" effect of direct hospital
expenditures on other sectors of the economy, such as medical supplies, durable
medical equipment and pharmaceuticals. Economic multipliers are used to model
the resulting impact of a change in one industry on the "circular flow" of
spending within an economy as a whole.

"This new report shows that, even in these difficult economic times, Colquitt
Regional has an enormous positive impact on our local economy," said Jim Lowry,
president and CEO of Colquitt Regional.

While Colquitt Regional remains a major component of the area's economic engine,
the hospital's leadership, like the rest of the Georgia hospital community, is
concerned about a wide array of economic challenges that have made it
increasingly difficult to meet the community's health care needs including
continued cuts in Medicare and Medicaid payments and a fast-growing uninsured
population. Presently, more than a third of all hospitals in Georgia are
operating with negative margins.

"We're extremely concerned with the current operating environment for hospitals,
" Lowry said. "We've made a commitment to every citizen of this community to be
on call for them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. But our ability to do so is
being compromised when, in many cases, we're seeing an increasing number of
uninsured patients while the state is paying us far less than what it actually
costs to treat Medicaid patients."

According to Lowry, state lawmakers must work to protect the state's health care
system with the same fervor that they do other initiatives like education and
public utilities.

"Our local health care system is indispensable," Lowry said. "It is the primary
guardian of health in our community and is the key building block for everything
else in our community including education and economic vitality. It is our hope
that, even in these challenging economic times, that our elected lawmakers will
do what is necessary to protect our local health care system and preserve access
to health care for every resident of this community."

To see more of The Moultrie Observer or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.moultrieobserver.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Moultrie Observer, Ga.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110330-GJ-Report-CRMC-has-151.6-million-economic-impact-0330-20110330

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GJ


                      Copyright 2011 The Moultrie Observer


                              119 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   Mississippi Business Journal (Jackson, MS)

                                February 2, 2009

Economy hits hospitals hard: Ailing Mississippi healthcare facilities facing
'perfect storm'

BYLINE: Clay Chandler

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 668  words


Hospitals are not the first thing to leap to mind when it comes to the economic
development discussion, but their impact is profound, according to a 2007 study
commissioned by the Mississippi Hospital Association.

Conducted by a New York company, the study provides the latest data on the
financial punch hospitals provide to Mississippi.

In all, the state's 115 hospitals had a $9.2-billion impact on Mississippi's
economy. That tally includes the direct contribution of hospitals, jobs created
and income and tax revenue generated as a secondary effect.

That was the good news.

The bad: The study also showed that almost half of the hospitals were operating
at a deficit.

In the middle of the worst economic climate the U.S. has seen since the Great
Depression, the MHA is again surveying its members to see how they are coping.
Specifically, the Association wants to gauge how the economy is affecting
hospitals' access to capital and patient volume.

What will almost certainly show up when the results arrive is the decline in
cash reserves, a condition brought on by the struggles of the nation's bond
market.

"The bond market has really hit the hospitals," said Shawn Lea, the MHA's
vice-president for strategic communications.

That represents one of two tsunamis the economic downturn is sending toward
hospitals.

The other gained a lot of momentum last week, with the announcement by several
major companies that they were making job cuts. Mississippi has endured its
share of job loss, with the manufacturing sector losing thousands of jobs since
last summer.

With the rise in unemployment comes the swelling of the state's population
without health insurance. The options for the 3.5 million people who have lost
their jobs nationwide since the recession began more than a year ago are
limited. They can enroll in Cobra coverage, Medicaid or simply pay for health
expenses themselves.

A report by consumer group Families USA released earlier this month showed that
only nine percent of the U.S. population could afford Cobra premiums, which can
be three to four times more expensive than regular health insurance premiums.

Limited options for consumers usually translate to only one option for hospitals
- debt write-offs, another financial body blow in an economy that has already
provided plenty of them.

"This is kind of just the tip of the iceberg," Lea said. "All those people (who
lost their jobs) had insurance through their employer and will now be uninsured
or trying to pay for Cobra coverage or trying to access Medicaid. The layoffs
directly affect hospitals because of the relationship to the uninsured
population rising. "

The Medicaid issue is one that has gotten a lot of attention since the 2008
session of the Mississippi Legislature. The funding method - how the state will
pay its $90-million obligation to the program - has been he sticking point
between the House and Gov. Haley Barbour and his allies in the Senate.

With the Medicaid rolls set to swell as unemployment rises in the state, the
issue will become even more urgent.

"The smaller, rural hospitals are the ones most affected; they're the ones that
depend the most on Medicaid payments," said Lea, who called all the elements
hitting hospitals "a perfect storm. "

To solve the Medicaid funding problem, the MHA has endorsed a plan that would
implement a tax on Medicaid-providing hospitals to pay half of the $90-million
tab. That contrasts with a plan passed by the Senate last year and supported by
Barbour that would put the full burden on hospitals.

The economic stimulus package President Barack Obama is pushing does include
some relief for those with Cobra coverage. Like everybody else, Lea said the MHA
is following the developments of the bill.

"We have to help fight the insurance problem," she said. "Hospitals are
beginning to realize that the uninsured is not just a social problem. It's
directly affecting their bottom line, so we're all becoming much more active in
helping those people find more insurance of some sort. "

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 16, 2009

Organized medicine-backed lawsuit knocks down hospital's attempt at economic
credentialing

BYLINE: By Amy Lynn Sorrel, AMNews staff. Mar. 16, 2009

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words



HIGHLIGHT: A trial judge in Arkansas found that a hospital system denying
privileges to some physicians was motivated by unfounded financial concerns.


An Arkansas hospital system's economic credentialing rule intrudes on the
patient-physician relationship and violates public policy, a state trial court
ruled on Feb. 27.

Baptist Health's credentialing policy precluded staff doctors with interests in
competing hospitals from having privileges. The judge found that Baptist's
policy was intended to suppress competition from physician-owned specialty
hospitals, rather than further patient care.

"The heart of this case is the patient-physician relationship. The relationship
is entitled to exceptional protection," Judge Collins Kilgore wrote. "Arkansas
protects the patient's right to the physician of their choice. An act such as
Baptist Health's economic credentialing policy that interferes with that choice,
and that by extension interferes with the patient-physician relationship, is
contrary to public policy."

Little Rock-based Baptist Health, Arkansas' largest hospital system, instituted
what it calls an economic conflict-of-interest policy in 2003. Twelve staff
cardiologists who owned a specialty facility, Arkansas Heart Hospital, lost
their privileges and sued. The Arkansas Supreme Court in 2006 stopped Baptist
from ending the doctors' privileges while the case headed to trial.

The Pulaski County trial court ruling permanently bars Baptist from enforcing
its policy. Baptist did not indicate whether it plans to appeal but said it
would study the opinion.

Physicians said the decision in the closely watched case demonstrates that
economic credentialing policies do nothing to protect patient care and serve
only to restrict it.

"What's important is the court's recognition of the sanctity of the
patient-physician relationship, the importance of continuity of care in that
relationship and patients' ability to have a choice in where they receive their
care," said Rebecca J. Patchin, MD, chair-elect of the American Medical
Association Board of Trustees.

The AMA, along with the Arkansas Medical Society, joined the case as plaintiffs.
The Litigation Center of the American Medical Association and State Medical
Societies also contributed to the physician plaintiffs' legal expenses.

The awarding of clinical privileges should be based on physicians' skills and
expertise, not financial considerations, Dr. Patchin said.

"If you don't have that patient and doctor working together, the patient is not
going to get the best care," said AMS President David C. Jacks, MD. "It doesn't
matter where they go. A hospital is just a building."

The decision is among a few that directly address economic credentialing and
could have a nationwide effect as other hospitals and courts turn to the opinion
for guidance, said Emily Sneddon, an attorney for the AMA and AMS. At least 13
states have laws that restrict or prohibit economic credentialing, according to
AMA research. Arkansas is not one of them.

Because the court found Baptist's credentialing rule a violation of public
policy, the hospital system likely cannot enforce it against any physician in
the state, including the plaintiffs involved, Sneddon said.

Baptist said in a statement that its policy was aimed at protecting "the
community's long-term access to a broad range of services" and protecting
patients from "an inherent conflict of interest" when physicians refer to their
own facilities. Such referrals hurt the hospital's financial health by steering
away higher-paying patients and leaving it with unprofitable charity care,
Baptist maintained in court documents.

No evidence Baptist was harmed

The trial court recognized that hospitals have an interest in protecting their
economic viability and ensuring access. But Kilgore found no evidence that
Baptist had been harmed by competition from Arkansas Heart Hospital.

Baptist adopted the credentialing policy six years after the heart hospital
opened in 1997, without analyzing its effect on Baptist's profitability, the
court noted. Nor was there any evidence that the heart hospital's physician
owners had acted unethically.

Instead, Kilgore found that Baptist had instituted the policy despite a shortage
of cardiac beds in the region and "acted in a way directly adverse to its goal
of providing services to the community."

The court dismissed the policy as "overbroad" in that it applied to
non-referring doctors, such as radiologists; physician family members with
indirect outside interests; and geographic regions outside Baptist's treatment
area.

Kilgore said Baptist's policy was meant to discourage competition, ruling it an
unconscionable trade practice that "affronts the sense of justice, decency, and
reasonableness because it impinges on fundamentally important public policies
without adequate countervailing justification."

Lawyers who represent hospitals said the decision, while significant, evolved
from unique circumstances and does not prevent hospitals' ability from using
economic credentialing.

"Clearly, there are a lot of lessons learned from this decision, and hospitals
need to be mindful and do their homework when pursuing such a policy," said
Michael R. Callahan, a hospital attorney and partner with Chicago-based Katten
Muchin Rosenman LLP. "But it will play differently in different circumstances."

For example, Baptist is the only dominant hospital system in a largely rural
region, he noted. But in larger markets, physicians likely would have privileges
at multiple hospitals. There they could continue to treat patients without
disruption, despite losing privileges at one facility.

The Arkansas court emphasized that Baptist applied its policy retroactively to
existing medical staff without any hearing rights, Callahan said. Some states
also permit hospitals to consider economic factors in the initial credentialing
process.

Callahan said the ruling still "preserves certain fundamental principles" that
hospitals have a right to protect their financial well-being. "But a court is
not going to accept [such principles] carte blanche without looking at the
evidence."

Bruce E. Murphy, MD, lead plaintiff in the case and medical director of Arkansas
Heart Hospital, said he hoped the decision would embolden other physicians who
feel pressured by large hospital and insurance entities.

The doctors, partners at Little Rock Cardiology Clinic PA, sued Baptist in a
separate antitrust case alleging that the hospital system had conspired with a
dominant health insurer to keep the doctors and their heart hospital out of the
network. A federal judge dismissed those claims in August 2008. An appeal by the
doctors is pending in the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

For now, the state trial court ruling allows the physicians to return their
attention to improving patient care -- their initial motivation for investing in
the specialty hospital, said Dr. Murphy, an interventional cardiologist.

"Our patients are no longer at the mercy of hospitals and insurance companies
telling them where to go," he said. "I would hope this [decision] would signal
to hospitals that the foundation of medicine should not be tampered with."

This content was published online only.

A different view

In a decision striking down an Arkansas hospital system's credentialing rule as
being contrary to public policy, Pulaski County Circuit Court Judge Collins
Kilgore distinguished his opinion in Murphy v. Baptist from some prior rulings
on the matter.

     ·     In Walborn v. UHHS/CSAHS-Cuyahoga Inc., an Ohio trial court in 2003
          held that a hospital demonstrated that its economic credentialing
          policy was "a reasonable means" of protecting the hospital's
          viability. But Kilgore said the "facts in [the Murphy] case do not
          support such a finding." He also noted that self-referral issues
          played a significant part in the Ohio dispute, whereas in the Arkansas
          case, "there is no evidence that the [physician-owned hospital]
          requires or encourages the plaintiff physicians to steer their
          patients" to their hospital.
     ·     In Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, the South Dakota Supreme Court in 2001
          upheld a hospital's decision to close its medical staff to new
          orthopedic surgeons after a group of doctors built a competing surgery
          center. No doctors in the group lost privileges, and the court agreed
          that the hospital's move was in patients' best interests. Kilgore
          differentiated that the South Dakota case stemmed from a breach of
          contract claim because the medical staff had not approved the hospital

          policy.
     ·     A 1993 decision in Williamson v. Sacred Heart Hospital of Pensacola
          in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida was
          based on antitrust claims that Kilgore said were not at issue in
          Murphy v. Baptist. The court sided with the hospital.
     ·     A 1992 Florida trial court ruling validated a hospital's decision to
          deny staff privileges to a heart surgeon who had interests in a
          competing hospital. The ruling in Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial
          Regional Medical Center hinged on a Florida statute authorizing the
          use of economic criteria in hospital credentialing, as long as such
          factors are not "arbitrary." Kilgore said the case "did not aid the
          court" in the Murphy decision because Arkansas has no such law.


Source: Murphy v. Baptist, Pulaski County Circuit Court, Arkansas, Feb. 27
ruling

Retrieve Attachment

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

HEALTH-CARE INDUSTRY FEELS EFFECTS;
IMPACT OF RECESSION

BYLINE: George Hesselberg

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 242 words


The economic recession will reach, but not seriously infect, the health care
industry, a university expert on the economic health of hospitals in Wisconsin
said Wednesday.

Professor Andy Lewis, of UW-Extension's Center for Community-Economic
Development, pointed to a recent study of the state's hospitals, which added
35,000 new jobs between 1990 and 2007 and are expected to add 20,950 jobs
between 2006 and 2016.

"When we looked at local economic impact of hospitals, the general knowledge is
that hospitals are pretty much recession-proof, though not completely
impervious," Lewis said.

"There are some differences in this recession, though," he said, noting that
clinics, which are the entities affected by the Dean Health System layoffs, were
not included in the study but fall in the same economic impact category.

"Even hospitals are feeling the pinch, though overall they are going to fare a
lot better than any other industry sector during a recession. They are certainly
seeing an increased number of charitable cases and few discretionary surgeries,
which tend to be profit centers," he said.

Also, health care layoffs and the recession will affect the hospital supply
industries, including medical equipment companies, he said.

Another effect will be that hospital administrations, along with the managers in
other industries, may turn conservative in their hiring even when the recession
recedes, which Lewis suspects may begin, slightly, in 2010.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 3, 2013 Thursday
                                 ONLINE EDITION

Missouri's hospitals will benefit from expanded health care

BYLINE: by Rep. Chris Kelly

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 1034 words


The most important issue facing the next Missouri General Assembly is whether to
expand health care coverage for uninsured Missourians who have incomes below 138
percent of the federal poverty level. (Poverty level equals an income of $23,050
for a family of four.)

The costs and benefits of expansion have been analyzed in three studies: one by
the Missouri Office of Budget and Planning, one by the Kaiser Foundation, and
one by the University of Missouri Medical School in cooperation with Dobson,
DaVanzo & Associates. The MU study is the most conservative, so I will rely upon
it. The projected economic benefits and the number of Missourians covered by the
expansion are substantially higher in the other two studies.

The federal Affordable Care Act (ACA, also known as Obamacare) allows states to
expand their medical coverage to 138 percent of the federal poverty level. The
federal government will pay 100 percent of the cost through 2016. That
percentage will phase down to 90 percent in 2020. About 161,000 additional
Missourians would receive medical coverage under the expansion. Absent
expansion, those Missourians will continue to live without health insurance.
When they experience health problems, they show up at hospitals and are treated
- but the cost of that care is not completely compensated. We all pay the cost
of their treatment. It is redistributed through increases in our health care
premiums or absorbed by the hospitals as uncompensated care.

There is a provision in law whereby hospitals receive money to offset the cost
of uncompensated care (called disproportionate share hospital allotments). This
provision will be substantially reduced. It has been replaced by the option for
states to expand coverage. That means that Missouri hospitals will lose DSH
payments and, if there is no expansion of Medicaid coverage, they will also
absorb the cost of treating people with no insurance - a huge financial burden.

Statewide, the cost of decreased DSH payments will be roughly $500 million.
Losses to hospitals resulting from other changes in law will be about $2.6
billion. On the other hand, if Missouri expands coverage, the state will receive
an additional $8.2 billion from the federal government in the years between 2014
and 2020. The state will be required to pay about $333 million, all occurring
after 2017. The economic expansion would include an additional 24,000 new jobs
with a payroll of nearly $7 billion and a total impact on Missouri's economy of
more than $16 billion. Tax revenues to the state would increase by more than
$850 million. The tax revenue from the increased jobs and economic activity will
generate more than double the cost of expansion.

Viewing the loss of DSH payments at a local level, Christian Hospital in St.
Louis County will lose about $30 million. The combined losses to Boone Hospital
and the University of Missouri in Columbia will be about $28 million.
Proportional losses will occur to hospitals in Springfield, Kansas City, St.
Joseph, Cape Girardeau and Joplin. The pattern is the same for all larger
hospitals. They will be seriously harmed, but will survive.

Having grown up in a rural community with a small hospital, I wondered what was
likely to happen in rural Missouri. I studied the probable result of expansion
of Medicaid versus nonexpansion in West Plains as an example.

Ozarks Medical Center is a 114-bed hospital serving 11 counties and about
160,000 people. The closest large hospital is in Springfield, 100 miles away.
OMC will lose about $2,225,000 as a result of the reduction of the DSH
provision. The medical center will still be required to treat all who appear at
its door. In the event that those patients do not have insurance, the medical
center will not be fully compensated for that care. The hospital estimates that
cost next year to be approximately $6 million to $8 million.

On the other hand, if the state were to expand Medicaid coverage, more than
9,000 additional people would have medical insurance in the West Plains service
area. In addition to the benefits of medical insurance for those patients, the
entire south central region will experience an economic benefit. The federal
contribution in the region is estimated to be $463 million. More than a thousand
jobs would be created. The total economic benefit to the region would be almost
$800 million. Much of this expansion would occur in Howell County. More patients
mean more pharmacists, more nurses, more physical therapists, etc.

OMC is larger and stronger than some other rural hospitals. As one looks east
toward the Bootheel, the situation becomes more troubling. The hospitals are
smaller and their patient populations are poorer. If Missouri does not expand
coverage, Missouri could lose more than a dozen rural hospitals - perhaps as
many as 25 - a tragedy for rural Missouri.

I recently heard a story that illustrates the importance of these institutions
to their communities. In 2007 a devastating tornado destroyed the town of
Greensburg, Kan. The people had to decide whether to rebuild. Many said, if the
hospital rebuilds, we will too. Rural hospitals are often the economic nuclei of
their communities. Their loss would in some cases means that their communities
would lose the critical mass necessary to stay economically viable.

There is only one rational conclusion: Missouri will gain far more than it loses
from the expansion of health care coverage.

Opponents of expansion say, "We cannot afford it," but these claims are simply
an expression of opposition to the concept of "Obamacare" without analysis of
the actual economic costs and benefits. Whether one supports or opposes the
underlying philosophy of Obamacare, it is the law of the land. Missouri should
not undermine the solvency of its own hospitals and decimate the economic
lifeblood of many rural communities just for the sake of demonstrating political
purity. The Legislature has an obligation to examine what is economically best
for the state of Missouri. We should work together to find a solution we can all
live with.

Rep. Chris Kelly, D-Columbia, is the newly elected state representative in the
45th District and a member of the House Budget Committee.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 4, 2008 Monday

OMHS a healthy part of economy: New hospital will deliver even more growth,
economist says

BYLINE: Dariush Shafa, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 922 words


Feb. 4--Owensboro Medical Health System has a substantial economic impact on
Owensboro, and construction of a new hospital would only further economic growth
for the city, a University of Louisville economics professor says.

Last year, Dr. Paul Coomes and his department were commissioned by the Kentucky
Hospital Association to study the local economic impact of every hospital in
Kentucky. The study updates previous findings that were done by the association
five years ago.

"The importance of hospitals economically is something that can't be
overstressed," said Frank Butler, chairman of the association's board.

Jeff Barber, CEO and president of OMHS, said in addition to buying power, OMHS
pays taxes on both the local and state level that go back into the community.

"I think we play a huge role for the local community. We're the largest
employer, and we pay our fair share of taxes, and we're not imposing on the
taxpayers since we're a not-for-profit hospital, which is a good thing," Barber
said. "I think we have about 1,800 employees that live in Daviess County, plus
part-time employees. They recycle their wages into our local community, and I
think that's an important part of our economy."

As a whole, OMHS employs about 3,100 people throughout the 11-county region it
serves. The KHA study does not take this into account, focusing only on the
1,781 who work at the acute care hospital on East Parrish Avenue.

Those employees earn $83.2 million in wages yearly -- about 6.1 percent of all
the wages and salaries in the county. According to the study, those employees
spend $32.5 million locally in addition to the $46.4 million the hospital spends
locally.

OMHS also pays $1.1 million in city government occupational taxes and an
estimated $6.1 million for the Kentucky hospital provider tax, and $7.6 million
goes to the state in the form of income taxes or sales taxes linked to employee
wages and salaries.

Barber said he is happy that OMHS is a part of the survey because it allows word
to get out about what the hospital gives to the community in addition to health
care.

"I think it's good for the community to understand what kind of impact that we
have and what we do buy locally," Barber said. "Our employees live here locally,
recycle their dollars into businesses locally, contribute to the schools."

The construction of a new hospital would only add to the economy, Coomes said.
The facility, which is expected to cost between $375 million to $450 million,
would be built on Daniels Lane. Coomes said a new hospital would be a good thing
for the city's economy.

"It definitely has a ripple effect on the economy. Owensboro has had pretty
sluggish economic performance over the last 20 years," Coomes said. "This is a
good thing in that it helps mitigate the loss of goods-producing industry."

Barber said he definitely sees the new hospital as a boon to the city.

"I think we can help some by our growth. Certainly we'll help the construction
industry when we get into building the new hospital and I think by being a
regional medical center that provides quality care, that'll attract more
businesses to the area," Barber said. "People that are moving their businesses
want to come to a place like Owensboro, in my opinion. We provide good health
care, which is a good attracting force."

Barber said the hospital will use local labor for the new hospital, both during
the construction and after it's built.

"Part of our stipulations for our general contractors, architects and electrical
and plumbing folks is that they use as much of the local talent as possible,"
Barber said. "Secondly, we want them to train our local craftsmen in how to
operate the systems that we'll be installing in the new hospital so that when
they leave they'll be leaving behind a work force that can maintain our new
hospital."

OMHS also hopes to grow its employee population by another 500 people by 2012
and add 50 more physicians with their staffs. Coomes said that, too, would
contribute more money to the community, both through dollars spent here and
payroll, sales and income taxes. Barber said it can also encourage
medical-related industries to relocate here or start up.

"If we recruit physicians in the town, they in turn have to have their employed
staff so that will help the economy grow," Barber said. "There will be other
industries that come to town to support us, so that will help the town grow."

The ultimate goal, Barber said, is for OMHS to do here what people might go
elsewhere for.

"The 11 counties that we serve, several of those counties don't have hospitals,
so we want to become the provider of choice for those people who don't have a
hospital and become a provider to the people that do have one," Barber said. "I
think we can work over time to provide more specialty services, to provide more
primary care services, to provide better access to health care."

Coomes said the ultimate thing to keep in mind is that whatever is done, it
should be done with the good of the community in mind.

"If it improves the quality of care," Coomes said, "It improves the quality of
life."

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2008, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080204-OW-OMHS-a-healthy-part-of-economy-0204

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2008 Messenger-Inquirer


                              124 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          November 16, 2005, Wednesday

Free economic zones take off in Korea

BYLINE: By Kim Min-hee

LENGTH: 1113 words



Taking off in earnest, Korea's free economic zones are at the forefront of the
country's aspirations to blossom into a financial and logistics hub of Northeast
Asia. Set in the scenic coastal cities of Incheon, Busan-Jinhae and Gwangyang,
the zones form an axle of investment for multinational companies seeking entry
in Asia's fourth-largest economy. In recent developments, Incheon Free Economic
Zone said it selected a New York-based hospital as the preferred bidder to
jointly run Korea's first international hospital.

The hospital, along with a top-notch international school run by U.S.-based
International Schools Services, is scheduled to open in 2008.

"The government's resolve to turn the FEZ plan into a success is very firm, Cho
Sung-ik, deputy minister of MOFE's Free Ecomonic Zone planning office.

The former Hermit Kingdom has been actively seeking foreign investors to the
free economic zones it designated in 2003 - Incheon, Busan-Jinhae and Gwangyang
- to spur economic growth and ultimately transform the country into a financial
and logistics hub of Northeast Asia.

The global competition for developing FEZs, however, has lately intensified,
with Korea pitted against strong neighboring contenders like Singapore, Hong
Kong and Shanghai.

Despite the challenges, the government believes Korea has many advantages,
including the geographical location, abundance of well-skilled human resources
and a strong IT infrastructure. "The Free Economic Zone Planning Office will
provide a systematic support to enable the world's leading corporations to
operate their businesses in the best environment. The zone will simplify
procedures for permits and will provide a one-stop service, the best
infrastructure, and living conditions well-suited to the service-oriented public
administration," Cho said.

The Korean government has allocated 1.9 trillion won this year to support
activities of the three FEZs, up 47 percent from last year. Next year, the
subsidy will be raised to 2.4 trillion won.

"One of our priorities (for this year) will be post-negotiations with foreign
companies which already have indicated interest in investment so it is made into
reality," Cho said. "The FEZ authorities will also actively carry out IR
(investor relations) activities jointly with the central government and other
related organizations." Further, Cho said special efforts will be made to remove
any hurdles to foreign investment, with special emphasis on creating a
competitive living environment.

"World-class schools and hospitals in FEZs will actually benefit local people as
well and lead to raising the competitiveness of domestic industries," Cho said.

The government said in July that a consortium of U.S. hospitals, including the
Hospital of the University of Philadelphia, plans to establish a foreign-run
hospital in Songdo International City in the Incheon Free Economic Zone by 2008.

Under the revised FEZ Law, foreign hospitals will be allowed to treat local
patients. The government believes foreign hospitals will push domestic medical
service to improve as well as help attract international biotech companies to
the country.

In May, the National Assembly passed a bill allowing foreign schools to open in
the nation's free economic zones.

The Korean government believes developing FEZs will advance the nation's
position as the business and logistics hub of Northeast Asia.

With a population of 1.5 billion and accounting for nearly 20 percent of global
gross domestic production, the region is emerging as one of three major trade
blocks that fuel global economic growth.

Fast progress In March, ground broke to start building an international business
district in New Songdo City, a next-generation city being built from scratch on
mounds of reclaimed land in Incheon. In June, developers of the international
business district raised $1.7 billion in syndicated loans from 26 firms,
including ABN Amro, Kookmin Bank and Woori Bank, attesting to the high potential
of the project's success. The project to develop New Songdo City, envisaged as
an alternative for Seoul for multinational companies, is the largest privately
financed real estate development in Korea to date. Plans for New Songdo City
were launched in 2002 based on a joint venture between Gale International, a New
York-based real estate company, and POSCO E&C, a domestic builder affiliated
with Korean steel giant POSCO. Along with the business district, Finance
Ministry officials say a "knowledge industry complex" will be completed in New
Songdo City by the year's end. The complex is expected to house up to 35 venture
companies. In addition, it will become home to the country's first U.N.
affiliate, UN ESCAP ICT.

The Ministry of Information and Technology meanwhile unveiled plans to build a
Radio Frequency Identification cluster within the industrial complex.

Cheongna, also in the Incheon FEZ, is being developed into a leisure hub
targeting visitors from Southeast Asian countries. The region will house a theme
park and an "Asian Village," among other attractions. The Finance Ministry
recently also said an upscale Chinatown is to be established there to help draw
investors from Asian neighbors, namely China, Singapore and Hong Kong.

Incheon International Airport has established an around-the-clock customs system
as part of its resolve to become the world's leading airport. Construction is
under way to build a third runway and periphery facilities, to be completed in
2008. A new bridge will also be completed, cutting travel time between the
airport and Songdo New City to 15 minutes. Officials also say that by next year,
the new Busan Port and Gwangyang Port will have infrastructure to compete with
Chinese ports. Busan and Gwangyang are situated along the world's main trunk
routes, which allow both locations a significant geographical advantage to
develop into prominent global harbors.

Busan and Gwangyang are advantageously located when compared to Shanghai and
Hong Kong in terms of North China cargo processing competitiveness. Recently
North Chinese and Japanese cargo has significantly increased the cargo
processing volume of both harbors. This, in turn, proves that it is very likely
that both harbors hold a strong possibility of becoming the central harbors of
North East Asia. Busan and Jinhae also are upbeat about transforming into a
machine-automotive parts cluster after receiving inquiries from many companies.
Hwayang, within the Gwangyang FEZ, will be developed into a global marine and
leisure complex also in relation to Yeosu city's bid to host the International
Exhibition in 2012.

(mhkim@heraldm.com) ;SN07

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2005 The Korea Herald


                              125 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           February 19, 2009 Thursday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Survey: New Jersey hospitals are hurting

BYLINE: By Stacey Burling; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; P-com Biz; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 343 words


With all the talk of budget cuts in New Jersey, the state's hospitals are making
their case that they're suffering in the economic downturn just like other
businesses. To bolster their argument, the New Jersey Hospital Association
released results of a new survey yesterday that revealed multiple signs of
financial strain.

The American Hospital Association and the Hospital and Healthsystem Association
of Pennsylvania already have used similar surveys to argue for robust government
funding, even though health care seems to be one of the economy's stronger
sectors.

Not only are hospitals crucial for health care, but they are also often the
biggest employers in their communities, said Sean Hopkins, senior vice president
of health economics at the New Jersey Hospital Association. "Now is not the time
to forsake some of your largest employers that also happen to be the fabric of
the health-care safety net in the state," he said.

Thirty-seven of the state's 74 hospitals responded to the survey. The results
were presented in aggregate and were short on details.

The hospitals said their total margins fell from 3.7 percent in 2007 to minus
4.5 percent last year. Forty-five percent said they had laid off from six to 140
people in 2008. Twenty-one percent expect layoffs this year, ranging from 10 to
120 employees.

More than three-quarters said they had more charity care and emergency room
patients. In 60 percent of hospitals, elective procedures were down 2 percent to
20 percent.

Hopkins said eight hospitals had closed in the last year. That, coupled with
people who had lost employer-sponsored insurance along with their jobs, could
explain why ER visits and charity care are up. Hospitals were not asked whether
they had seen an increase in elective procedures, so it is not known whether
some might be benefiting from the closures.

Seventy-two percent of the hospitals said charitable contributions were down.
Hopkins said declines of 10 percent to 25 percent were common.

Contact staff writer Stacey Burling at 215-854-4944 or sburling@phillynews.com.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                             March 20, 2009 Friday

Hospital pulls belt&nbsp; tighter, cuts more jobs

BYLINE: By CHRIS SHOLLY Staff Writer Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: LETTERS TO EDITOR; Local

LENGTH: 465 words


Good Samaritan Health System announced yesterday that it has eliminated 50
positions because of the struggling economy.

"We had hoped that we could make it through this economic downturn without
having to eliminate a single job," Robert Longo, GSH president and CEO, said in
a news release.  "Although we had initiated several cost-cutting initiatives,
revenues have simply not kept pace with expenses."

William Mulligan, the hospital's vice president of strategic planning and
marketing, said none of the eliminated positions directly affect the delivery of
patient care.

Mulligan said the positions eliminated are "behind-the-scenes functions," such
as in the departments of finance and planning and marketing.

"The public is not going to notice any change. We made every effort to maintain
patient-care positions so we can continue to provide a high level of care for
our patients," he said.

 About five of the 50 positions were already vacant, he said. Earlier this year,
the hospital did some belt-tightening by eliminating a number of vacant
positions, holding merit pay increases for salaried employees for one year,
postponing capital expenditures and eliminating the use of temporary staff.

He said the hospital has experienced a decline in inpatient admissions, which
may be explained by a milder than expected flu season and by patients postponing
elective procedures.

In the first eight months of the fiscal year, inpatient admissions are down by
more than 200 from what was projected, Mulligan said. The hospital's fiscal year
runs from July 1 through June 30.

While outpatient services have increased significantly, he said, the added
revenues in this area have not been sufficient to offset dramatic increases in
patient bad debts and free care, which reflects the overall economic conditions.
Last year, the hospital recorded $16.6 million in bad debt and free care. This
year, he said, that number is $1.5 million more than it was at the same time
last year.

In addition, he said, the hospital has seen an increase in pension expenses,
which he attributed to the decline in the stock market. As a result, the
hospital expects to add $600,000 to its pension expenses this year, Mulligan
said.

Other hospitals throughout the region, state and nation are experiencing the
same economic woes, he said.

"It's a myth that hospitals are recession-proof. Like everyone else, we are
suffering from the economic downturn," he said.

Mulligan said he does not anticipate further reductions at this time.

"This is what we believe we needed to do," he said. "It's unfortunate we had to
take these steps."

 GSH notified employees of the cuts yesterday. The hospital will provide
severance packages and out-placement assistance to all employees affected by the
changes, Mulligan said.

ChrisSholly@LDNews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

               September 10, 1998, Thursday, Correction Appended
                                  ALL EDITIONS

GROWTH & DEVELOPMENT;
World markets won't hurt Cobb, KSU expert says

BYLINE: Chris Reinolds

SECTION: COBB EXTRA; Pg. 07JG

LENGTH: 930 words


Robert Tuttrow, Kennesaw State University chairman of the economic and finance
department, sees a healthy future for Cobb County despite unstable national and
world markets.

"I think both nationally and locally you'll see a second half slower than the
first half (of 1998)," Tuttrow said. Even with the Asia slowdown, Cobb County is
one of the strongest counties in the metro area, he said.

"The labor market here is tight and the unemployment rate's low (in Cobb)," he
said.

The Southeast had less exposure to Asia in terms of exports, he said.

And Cobb's job growth has been in service sectors, not manufacturing which would
be affected by the problems in Asia, he said. Tuttrow, who is co-director of the
Econometrics Center at the university, recently completed a third-quarter
consumer confidence survey of metro Atlanta and it continues to be favorable.

KSU's Econometrics Center produces a monthly purchasing managers index and a
quarterly consumer confidence index, as well as provides economic forecasts for
regional and national groups and municipalities. Bringing it home To generate
more business, the Cobb County Convention & Visitors Bureau has started a new
campaign: "Bring Your Convention Home."

Billboards throughout the county are displaying the convention bureau's new logo
and tagline, "Cobb County, The Very Best of Atlanta," and encouraging residents
to bring their meetings home to Cobb. Convention and Visitors Bureaus do not
charge for their services as a liaison agency to match county meeting venues
with customers.

The billboard design was awarded a 1998 Best Ideas Award in the outdoor
advertising category by the Georgia Association of Convention & Visitors
Bureaus. Hospital reorganization Emory-Adventist Hospital at Smyrna, 3949 South
Cobb Drive, is planning a renovation and reorganization of its first floor in
the next 12 months. Hospital spokeswoman Merri Sheffield said construction will
begin late this year to make the hospital more accessible to outpatient clients
and their families.

The number of people who are using outpatient services has increased 10 percent
in the last year, Sheffield said. And the population growth in south Cobb has
spurred the hospital to upgrade services, redecorate and add new doctors as
well.

Sheffield said the demographics of the patients is shifting from primarily
elderly care to more families and younger patients.

The hospital will be changing the registration area, expanding the waiting rooms
and outpatient surgery rooms for pre- and post-operation care.

"We want to make sure we're using all the space efficiently," Sheffield said.

While patients might have to dust off their clothes a little during the
construction, the hospital will not shut down. The 100-bed hospital has 88
general acute beds and 12 beds in a skilled nursing unit.

The increase in the number of outpatients is due in part to more people on
managed care plans and hospitals shifting their focus toward more outpatient
procedures, Sheffield said. Bank company new name American Bankshares Inc., the
holding company for Riverside Bank, has changed its name to Riverside Bancshares
Inc. Kessel D. Stelling, chairman and chief executive officer, said the change
will allow the holding company to benefit from the Riverside name and
reputation.

Riverside Bancshares is a one-bank holding company with assets of about $ 133
million. Its subsidiary, Riverside Bank, is a full-service financial institution
in Cobb County. Preview of new theaters Regal Cinemas has announced plans to
revamp and rebuild two theaters in Austell and Town Center this year.

The Austell theater will be brand new and have a total of 20 screens. All seats
will be stadium style and theaters will be equipped with digital sound
technology --- the bells and whistles that modern day theater-goers expect.

The theater will seat about 4,500 people and be about 89,000 square feet.
Customers will be able to choose from popcorn and sodas to a gourmet cafe menu
that includes lattes, hot chocolates, ice cream and muffins.

Regal officials have not yet decided what to do with the old Austell theater.
The new theater is scheduled to open next spring.

The Town Center theater complex, currently 12 screens, will be adding four more
and converting all seats to stadium style. However, a gourmet cafe is not
planned for that site, Regal spokesman Phil Zacheretti said.

The renovated theater will seat about 3,700 people and expand to 65,000 square
feet. Pramac consolidation Eighteen months after opening a North American
distribution center in Kennesaw, Pramac Industries Inc. plans to open a
manufacturing plant in Cherokee. The Development Authority of Cherokee County
has approved measures that will enable Pramac to seek up to $ 8 million in
tax-exempt financing. Pramac will close its Kennesaw office.

The company, which manufactures materials handling equipment and generator sets,
expects to move into a 97,000-square-foot building in the Canton-Cherokee
Industrial Park by the end of January, said Richard Kennedy, president of Pramac
Industries Inc., the U.S. subsidiary of Florence, Italy-based Pramac
Industriale, which reported $ 110 million in sales in 1996.

Kennedy hopes to employ 44 people by the end of next year, and eventually double
the size of the company's new Cherokee plant serving the North and South
American markets. If you have any news about growth or development in Cobb
County, call Chris Reinolds at 770-509-4092 or e-mail at creinolds@ajc.com. Her
fax number is 770-509-4170.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Home

CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 1998

CORRECTION: KENNESAW STATE UNIVERSITY ECONOMICS AND FINANCE DEPARTMENT CHAIRMAN
ROGER TUTTEROW'S NAME WAS MISPELLED IN THURSDAY'S EDITION OF THE COBB SECTION.

GRAPHIC: Photo :
 Cobb flexing economic strength: Smooth sailing lies ahead for Cobb's
 economy, says Robert Tuttrow, chairman of Kennesaw State's economic and
 finance department and co-director of the school's Econometrics Center,
 which provides economic forecasts for regional and national groups. /

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution


                              128 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                         Portola Reporter (California)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  July 7, 2010

Study looks at PDHs economic impact

BYLINE: Linda Satchwell

LENGTH: 683  words


Plumas District Hospital recently released an economic impact study it
commissioned, at a cost of $5,000, through the Center for Economic Development
at California State Univer-sity-Chico.

The study analyzes the economic impact of the district on the local economy and
tries to estimate the economic effects of a hospital closure. It does not,
however, look at what might lead to closure or whether passage of Measure B
would or could lead to closure.

In its introduction, the CED study describes PDH as "a district hospital that
relies on patient care reimbursement and payments provided through a hospital
property tax assessment district."

The objective of the study "is to reveal possible consequences of losing this
hospital and how that would impact the community's levels of population, income,
and business revenues."

The CED reported, "Many of the negative effects on the local community, perhaps
including some of the most important ones, are difficult to quantify ... while
these potential impacts are impossible to quantify, it is quite possible that
they are substantial."

Among the possible or potential adverse factors that are not quantified in the
report are: quality of life issues and adverse impact to businesses, which in
turn might "have additional consequences for property values and local tax
revenues," leading to a downward spiral.

The CED then turned to those things it could quantify: "The gross economic
impact of Plumas District Hospital, the impact of all operations, is nearly $30
million in revenue to businesses and organizations, $14.4 million in labor
income (income to employees and business owners), and 288 (direct and indirect)
jobs.

"This includes the direct impact of the hospital, itself, and a secondary impact
(often referred to as a multiplier effect) of over $8 million in revenue to
businesses and

organizations, nearly $2.4 million in labor income, and 70 jobs."

Having determined the economic benefits of PDH operations, the study then
assessed its costs. PDH receives regular property tax payments ($349,460 in
fiscal year 2008 - 09) and Measure A assessments (anticipated at $554,000 in FY
09 - 10) for a total of $903,460 in property tax payments.

The study points to $21.67 million in hospital expenditures that, if the
$903,460 in property tax payments is subtracted, still shows a substantial
positive impact to area households.

The study does not, however, address the question: Can the argument be made that
PDH would not exist without the Measure A assessment?

The study considered "net migration to and from the district by age," especially
in populations that need care the most -- the young and the elderly.

It also looked at how many physicians the hospital could have supported in the
year 2000, and then detailed "hospital health care alternatives available to
county residents."

One item of interest is the population migration by age, which points to a large
influx of people 60 years of age and older, and a concomitant decrease in every
age group except, inexplicably, those in the 30 - to 34-year-old age range.

"Older adults are an especially important demographic group for PDH," according
to the study, and the hospital can "expect its potential market to grow in the
near future."

The study offers a warning statement, as well: That population group might
choose not to locate to the area if there weren't a hospital available.

While PDH draws most of its patients from the larger Quincy area, it also has a
substantial patient base in Indian Valley.

The study addressed patient "leakage" to other facilities, but most of that is
for specialty services that PDH is never likely to offer, such as "major head
and neck procedures ... (and) cardiac valve and other major cardio-thoracic
procedures."

Finally, the study suggested, "Even if the hospital were to close, households
may still lose all $903,460 of income (through regular and Measure A property
taxes) annually in the near future." According to the study, that is a reason to
make certain that the hospital stays open.

To see the full study, go to pdh.org and look under News and Events.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: POR

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                        Copyright 2010 Portola Reporter


                              129 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Albert Lea Tribune (Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

Hospital won't move into downtown building

BYLINE: Sarah Stultz, Albert Lea Tribune, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 569 words


March 18--A private-public partnership that could have brought Mayo Clinic
Health System in Albert Lea to downtown's Freeborn National Bank and Jacobson
buildings is not moving forward, according to city and hospital officials this
week.

Mark Ciota, CEO of Mayo Clinic Health System in Albert Lea and Austin, said in a
written statement Thursday that though the hospital has a tradition of
partnering with the community, it will not be able to move forward with this
project.

"Because of current economic conditions, we are experiencing capital constraints
that prevent us from participating in the development of the Freeborn National
Bank and Jacobson buildings," Ciota said. "We continue to be interested in
partnering opportunities with the city that contribute to our community's growth
and look forward to an economic upturn that better supports those efforts."

The city and hospital had been in serious discussions about the partnership for
about two years.

"It was disappointing that we couldn't find a way to make the project work with
Mayo," said Dan Dorman, executive director of the Albert Lea Economic
Development Agency. "But given the reality of what's there, we're going to reach
out the best way we can and try to find a possible use for it."

Dorman said the city hopes to find other ways to work with the hospital -- the
city's largest employer -- in the future.

Albert Lea City Manager Chad Adams said the city will begin to move forward with
Plan B options for the former bank building and the second, third and fourth
floors of the Jacobson Apartments building. The first floor is the home of the
National Vitality Center.

Dorman said this could involve looking into the feasibility of housing in some
of the upper floors. He noted while he doesn't think there's a demand for
high-end apartments or condominiums downtown, there may be projects utilizing
low-income housing tax credits that could be feasible. He noted the success of
the Lea Center just around the corner from the buildings, which has a waiting
list to get in.

The Freeborn National Bank and Jacobson buildings were originally constructed in
the 1920s but have been vacant since 1995, according to the city directory.

They were purchased by the city for $75,000 on April 19, 2001, out of concerns
that they might be lost. City officials hoped the buildings could be the key to
revitalizing Albert Lea's downtown business district.

In 2006 and 2007, the city invested $1.7 million for the exterior renovations of
the bank building, at the corner of Broadway Avenue and William Street.

The interior has not been remodeled.

Dorman said the length of time that the city has owned the two buildings without
being able to find a developer or tenant speaks to the difficulty of projects
like this.

"We should be open to any kind of arrangement that makes good long-term sense,"
he said. "We want a project in there that's successful."

This means recruiting someone that has not only the financial ability to
complete the project, but someone with a plan of how to do it, he noted.

"We don't want to do something that looks good in the short run that in the long
run doesn't make sense," Dorman said.

He estimated the cost for interior renovations on the low end would be $5
million.

___ (c)2012 the Albert Lea Tribune (Albert Lea, Minn.) Visit the Albert Lea
Tribune (Albert Lea, Minn.) at www.albertleatribune.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120318-1AL-Hospital-won-t-move-into-downtown-building-0318-20120318

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AL


                       Copyright 2012 Albert Lea Tribune


                              130 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                          February 20, 2008 Wednesday

Top Tulsa health systems competing for real estate

BYLINE: Heather Caliendo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 554  words


Health care construction is booming here and the companies behind the building
are basing decisions in large part on what their competitors are up to.

When St. John Health System builds its new facility in Broken Arrow it will be
the seventh new health care facility in the past two years. St. John took the
opportunity after Saint Francis Health System moved its full-service facility to
91st Street and U.S. 169 in Tulsa, the former site of the company's heart
hospital.

The St. Francis Broken Arrow facility at 300 S. Elm is now an urgent care
clinic.

Keith Sterling, director of communications for the city of Broken Arrow, said
while St. Francis' south location is nearby, it is not the same as having a
full-service facility in the city.

 "The city had become accustomed to having Saint Francis here on Elm," he said.
"The thought of not having the hospital in their own city is a concern to
citizens. They want to have a facility near their home in the city's limit that
they feel could call their own. "

Mike Prescott, co-owner of Broken Arrow Medical Facility, contracted with St.
John to build the new hospital in Broken Arrow. The 150,000-square-foot facility
will cost about $80 million to build.

Many groups expressed interest in coming to the city, and in the end city
officials decided to let St. John build on a 68-acre spot near the Broken Arrow
Expressway.

Prescott said they are also planning to build a medical office building next to
the hospital, which could bring their Broken Arrow project to $100 million.
Construction will start in six weeks, weather permitting.

While the new hospital will help bring health care to the city, Sterling said
they are anticipating new economic developments as well.

"We think the hospital will help economic growth in the city," he said. "We've
talked about the possibilities of continuing to see the growth over time. "

Health care-based economic growth is something the city of Owasso has come to
know. In 2006 St. John and Hillcrest Healthcare System both opened brand-new
facilities. Prescott's company was also behind the construction of St. John
Owasso.

The two hospitals brought $100 million in construction to Owasso and promise an
annual combined payroll of $22 million.

Earl Denning, president and CEO of Hillcrest and the Ardent Health Services
Oklahoma division, said most hospitals plan construction projects three to five
years in advance.

He estimated that since Ardent Health Services acquired all Hillcrest services,
they have invested almost $500 million.

Although hospitals are being built outside the Tulsa metro, urban hospitals are
expanding.

Saint Francis opened a new $72.6 million Children's Hospital in January, and
Hillcrest's $64 million cardiac-care center is half completed.

Denning said Hillcrest wants to provide health care in individual neighborhoods,
including outpatient care and urgent care.

Hillcrest's Utica Park Clinic will celebrate its grand opening today in Sand
Springs.

Denning said the health care industry is extremely competitive.

"How often do you drive down the street and on one corner you see a Walgreen's
and on the other is a drugstore," he said. "I kind of compare it to the
fast-food industry; health care is going down the same path.

"We're based on the needs of patients," he said. "And based on what the
competition is doing. "

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                             March 28, 2014 Friday

HOSPITAL ENHANCING AREA'S HEALTH

BYLINE: MONICA BENNETT, TIMES CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: SOUTH SHORE & BRANDON TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: RIVERVIEW



HIGHLIGHT: When St. Joseph's Hospital-South opens it will be a boost for
economic growth.


St. Joseph's Hospital-South is going to do more than heal the sick and mend the
injured when it opens in early 2015.

Community and business leaders gathered at the Regent Tuesday heard that the
hospital will spur jobs and be a boon for housing, restaurant and retail
development.

Members of the Greater Riverview Chamber of Commerce listened closely as St.
Joseph's Hospital-South president Scott Smith updated them on the hospital,
scheduled to open in February.

Prior to his presentation, Smith told the Tampa Bay Times the hospital is a
tremendous boost for the area.

"St. Joseph's will be a major economic engine in this market," he said.

Smith told the group the hospital is thrilled to add a hospital to the southern
part of Hillsborough County. He said St. Joseph's leaders think it is a good
location because the area is growing and underserved.

The complex's physician office building opened in July. The medical office
building and hospital will open in 11 months and employ some 500 people. He
estimated that half of the jobs would be internal hires and the rest outside
hires.

The hospital's vast services will include 90 private patient rooms, 22
observation rooms, a 30-bed emergency center and maternity unit.

"We'll be a full-service hospital when we open," Smith said.

Smith said St. Joseph's took care to keep a lot of green space, so the 72-acre
site will include walking trails and patient rooms will overlook nature views.

Tanya Doran, the chamber's executive director, said the project is one of the
best things to happen to Riverview. Doran had a hard time hiding her enthusiasm
about the hospital.

"It's huge," she said. "It's very exciting."

Doran said the hospital will give Riverview a new identity. No longer will it be
known simply as a bedroom community of Tampa.

"We are making a solid foundation for an incredible community," she said.

Doran said the hospital will spur big stuff for Riverview. She ticked off a list
of pluses: high-quality jobs, new housing subdivisions, additional quality
restaurants and retail stores.

"It's smart growth," she said. "We want smart development."

Construction on the 352,000-square-foot hospital started in 2012. The hospital
is on Simmons Loop Road, between Interstate 75 and U.S. 301.

St. Joseph's Hospital-South will be the newest hospital in the BayCare Health
System in the Tampa Bay area. The others are: St. Joseph's Hospital, St.
Joseph's Children's Hospital, St. Joseph's Women's Hospital, and St. Joseph's
Hospital-North.

Monica Bennett can be reached at hillsnews@tampabay.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Smith says the hospital, with 90 private patient rooms,
will employ about 500 people.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                       July 8, 2004 Thursday Home Edition

Clayton/Henry Business: BRIEFS

BYLINE: LINDA LICKTEIG

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Clayton / Henry; Pg. 3JI

LENGTH: 292 words


Hospital system gets out of Aetna

Southern Regional Health System has withdrawn from Aetna Healthcare insurance
network effective July 1, according to officials at the medical center.

"Recently, we reached new network agreements with every other major health
insurance company, but Aetna's demands are simply unreasonable," says Ed Bonn,
president and chief executive officer of Southern Regional.

After July 1, all Southern Regional facilities, including Southern Regional
Medical Center, are considered "out-of-network" for Aetna members. Aetna members
may still receive treatment at the Southern Regional facilities, but they will
be considered "self-pay" patients in most nonemergency cases. Emergency patients
still could be covered under their "out-of-network" provision.

Affected Aetna customers should speak to their employers or insurance
representatives regarding alternate insurance coverage options.

Hospital impact calculated

A recent study commissioned by the Georgia Hospital Association reported that
Henry Medical Center's economic impact on the region exceeded $249 million in
2002, the most recent year for which data is available.

The report, titled "Georgia Hospitals Economic Impact on the Local and State
Economy," is based on a formula developed by economist Donald Ratajczak and the
U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis.

The report calculates that Henry Medical Center created more than 2,500
full-time jobs and $63 million in household income for people employed in
supporting industries, in addition to the 862 full-time jobs and $36 million in
payroll for Medical Center employees in 2002. More than 65 percent of Henry
Medical Center's employees live in Henry County.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Briefs

                Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              133 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                  May 30, 2002

Hospital appeals finding that it discriminated against doctor

BYLINE: By EITHNE DONNELLAN

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 432 words


One of the State's larger hospitals - St James's in Dublin - yesterday went to
the Labour Court to appeal against a landmark decision that it discriminated
against a Malaysian junior doctor on race grounds.

The hospital was found by the Office of the Director of Equality Investigations
(ODEI) to have discriminated against Dr Bennett Eng (26) by hiring him as an
unpaid intern in 2000, while giving salaried positions to his Irish intern
colleagues. It was the first racial discrimination claim to be successfully
taken by an employee in the State under the Employment Equality Act 1998.

Ms Michelle Ni Longain, solicitor for the hospital, told the court a limited
number of paid intern positions were available at the hospital each year. The
hospital was affiliated to Trinity College and if the number of medical
graduates from the college exceeded the number of paid intern positions
available, the hospital offered those graduates who had not been given paid
posts unpaid ones to enable them to complete their training and obtain Medical
Council registration.

She said paid posts were allocated on the basis of exam results but the hospital
was also obliged to act in accordance with Department of Enterprise, Trade and
Employment rules on the issuing of work permits. "Its policy states that only if
an Irish/EEA (European Economic Area) candidate cannot be recruited for a
position should a non-EEA national be employed," she said.

Ms Ni Longain submitted that there may be a conflict between the requirements
which an em- ployer is obliged to observe when obtaining a work permit and its
obligation under the Employment Equality Act 1998 not to discriminate on the
grounds of race. She said the hospital sought the court's guidance in respect of
its obligations under the work permit rules.

Ms Ni Longain said there were only 77 paid intern posts available to graduates
in 1999/2000, the year Dr Eng qualified, and 10 per cent of them went to non-EEA
nationals. She said Dr Eng finished 81st out of a total of 85 graduates in his
year and therefore was not entitled to a paid intern post.

Dr Eng submitted, however, that an Irish graduate who finished 82nd got a paid
post and that this was unlawful under the Employment Equality Act. The hospital
said this was because Irish or EEA persons had to be recruited first if they
were available.

Dr Eng appealed to the Labour Court to uphold the ODEI decision in which he was
awarded about  EUR 38,000 in back pay and allowances which had been withheld
pending the appeal. The Labour Court reserved its decision.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


                              134 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

Economic crisis affects charitable organisations

BYLINE: Sara Aggour

LENGTH: 554 words


The Egyptian children's cancer hospital (57357), whose budget derives solely
from donations, has also been affected by the economic slowdown in the country.

Charitable organisations in Egypt have not been immune from the economic
difficulties facing the nation; many struggle with gathering donations to
maintain their operations. The Daily News Egypt spoke to a number of
organisations to investigate the problems they face.

The Wataneya Society for the Development of Orphanages, established in 2008,
aims to develop and implement a unified and integrated mechanism for Egyptian
orphanages.  Yasmeen Hegry, the external relations manager, said they have
witnessed a major drop after the 2011 revolution, from both corporations and the
individual donors: "Both donations dropped by 60%."

Hegry added that the decrease continued in 2013: "we can still feel the
consistency of the drop. The crisis has definitely taken its toll on us."

The Egyptian children's cancer hospital (57357), whose budget derives solely
from donations, has also been affected by the economic slowdown in the country.

"The economic crisis has affected the amounts of donations the hospital
receives... however, it's visible that Egyptians are trying to participate with
all their resources and zakat (alms-giving) in the organisation," said Hanaa
Farid, manager of the financial resources.

Farid added that the visiting rate has also changed during the past years: "We
used to receive visitors all the time. People liked to pass by and check on the
kids and see the development of the hospital that they helped build."

"But the lack of clear vision and security during the current circumstances led
the number of visits to decrease," she said.

Farid stated that the hospital maintains a financial sustainability plan that
permits it to function in lean times: "we put a clear running cost plan to
rationalise the hospital costs. This strategic plan, which includes making bank
endowments, allows us to continue offering the medical assistance the children
need."

Mostafa Zamzam, the spokesman for Dar El-Orman, a charity that supports the
hospital, said that the number of visitors only decreased in the Cairo and
Alexandria branches. "The remaining branches for the orphanages and the projects
in south Egypt still receive the same number of visitors," he said.

Zamzam  added that the financial situation actually improved in 2013. "The
amounts donated exceeded all expectations and increased by 30% compared to
2012."

"It seems that the harder the situation gets for Egyptians, the more they give
away", he said.

He explained that this increase was encouraged by ability for contributors to
donate online to Dar El-Orman.

"We also send our employees to receive any payments and this offers the donor an
alternative to coming in," he added.

Another organisation that seems to be suffering is the Resala foundation, which
has been  rumoured to be affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood, whose donations
have suffered.

Resala denied any association to the Brotherhood adding "we did not, do not and
we will not affiliate with any organisation that has religious direction," to
their television advertisements.

Related posts:

Foreign reserves on the threshold of stabilisation

Cairo University conference discusses economic challenges

Egypt ranked 108th in terms of innovation

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            November 5, 2012 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

SECTION: Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 444 words


Who knew, back in the 1960s, that little old New Hanover Memorial Hospital would
grow up to have such a huge economic impact on the Cape Fear region? At the
time, supporters of building a new hospital were most concerned about having a
place where residents could get quality health care.

But a recently completed economic study has estimated the value of the hospital
to the region at $1.34 billion in just one year. That's more than one-tenth of
the total economic activity of the region, according to the study by UNCW's
Swain Center for Business and Economic Services.

Not bad for such humble beginnings.

New Hanover Regional Medical Center began as New Hanover Memorial Hospital,
built with money from a taxpayer-backed bond issue. Back then, the dream was to
merge two aging, segregated hospitals in a brand-new building. It opened in
1967.

As the population grew, so did the hospital, which for years competed with the
smaller, private Cape Fear Memorial Hospital - now a part of New Hanover
Regional. A small psychiatric hospital was added, a rehabilitation hospital, a
cancer center, and a women's and children's hospital. Outpatient services and
clinics also grew.

Now the hospital has 5,000 employees, a significant percentage of them in
good-paying, high-demand health care fields. An operation that size has a
natural impact on the local economy. In addition to the full- and part-time
hospital employees, the study estimates that the hospital also is responsible
for the existence of several thousand other jobs, and $481 million annually in
salaries.

It's like its own small economy in a single network, if you will.

Most residents of the region, however, value New Hanover Regional as a medical
care provider, and have an interest in keeping a high quality of service. It
isn't cheap, as we all know every time we get a bill from the doctor or
hospital.

But unlike many hospitals that have been absorbed by larger networks, New
Hanover Regional is still owned by the residents of New Hanover County and
operated by a board of trustees appointed by the county commissioners. Residents
here value that public ownership.

Efforts to privatize it in the past have failed, and at least one suitor that
sought to buy the hospital was turned down flat.

Last year the commissioners nixed a proposal to allow Carolinas HealthCare
System in Charlotte to manage the local hospital because New Hanover County
residents were not convinced the move would be good for the community.

Residents here have always known the value of their hospital to the region's
quality of life. The new study merely quantifies its impact in terms of dollars
and cents - a lot of dollars and cents.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     January 9, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Health care spending's rapid growth 'threatens affordability'

BYLINE: Julie Appleby

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 427 words

Fueled by rising hospital costs and health insurance premiums, U.S. employers,
consumers and the government spent 9.3% more on health care in 2002 than they
did in 2001.

The rate outpaced U.S. economic growth for the second year in a row. The nation
spent $ 1.6 trillion -- or 14.9% of the gross domestic product -- on health care
for insured and uninsured Americans, an amount equal to $ 5,440 per person,
according to data released Thursday from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services.


Government researchers who analyzed the data warned that continued rapid growth
in health care spending in the absence of strong economic growth "threatens the
affordability and generosity of sponsored health care benefits." In other words,
as health spending rises, business profits are squeezed, often resulting in
health benefit cuts, increased cost to workers, or both.

The study, published in the journal Health Affairs, pointed to rapidly rising
hospital spending -- up 9.5% over a year earlier -- as a main factor in the
overall increase.

More people used hospitals in 2002, and hospitals paid more for labor and
supplies. But the biggest part of the hospital increase -- 5% of the total --
was the success of hospitals in raising prices. While hospital costs were the
largest chunk of the health care spending pie, prescription drug spending was
the fastest rising, at 15.3%.

Health insurance premiums also rose sharply, and some employers passed those
costs to workers.

The study noted that enrollment in health plans offered by employers fell for
the second year in a row by about 1%. Researchers blamed that drop on
unemployment, a shift by workers to smaller companies that are less likely to
offer coverage and to higher employee costs, which led some workers to drop
coverage.

There is some good news: Growth in spending appeared to be slowing in the first
half of 2003, according to many economists.

"There was a very striking decline in prescription drug spending," says
economist Paul Ginsburg of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a
Washington think tank.

He attributes the decline to an increase in the number of generic drugs
available and to higher co-payments required by many health plans, which caused
patients to switch to cheaper generics or not fill prescriptions at all.

The center in December published its own report. It found that overall health
care spending growth for privately insured Americans slowed to 8.5% in the first
half of 2003, down from 10% in the second half of 2002.

LOAD-DATE: January 09, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Health Affairs (BAR
GRAPH)

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              137 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                January 11, 2002

Malaysian doctor wins pay case against Dublin hospital

BYLINE: By NUALA HAUGHEY, Social and Racial Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 413 words


A Malaysian doctor who claimed he was discriminated against on the grounds of
race while working at one of the biggest hospitals in the State has won an
employment equality case.

St James's Hospital in Dublin has been ordered to pay Dr Bennet Eng (26) about
EUR38,000 in back pay and allowances by the Office of the Director of Equality
Investigations, which ruled in the case.

In the first racial discrimination case to be successfully taken by an employee,
an equality officer ruled that it was unlawful for Dr Eng to work as an intern
without a basic salary when Irish intern colleagues doing like work were in
salaried positions.

Dr Eng, a graduate of Trinity College Dublin, worked for nine months in 2000 and
2001 as an unpaid intern in St James's.

A specific number of funded intern posts are available to medical graduates
every year in the State's main hospitals. If the number of graduates exceeds the
number of posts offered, the remainder are allocated unpaid intern positions.

However, if an Irish doctor or one from the European Economic Area - the 12 EU
states and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein - does not have sufficient exam
qualifications for a funded post, non-EEA graduates can be displaced from paid
posts to make way for EEA graduates.

In Dr Eng's case, an EU graduate who was ranked lower than him on merit was
allocated a paid internship post.

The hospital contended that this system was justified, as it was obliged to
offer paid intern jobs to EEA nationals who did not require work permits before
offering them to non-EEA nationals who did.

The hospital also maintained that this system was necessary to meet the
requirements of the Treaty of Rome, which provides for equal treatment for
workers within the EEA.

The equality officer ruled that the treaty did not, by corrollary, oblige
employers to discriminate against non-EU nationals and that national law
governed the rights and entitlements of third-country nationals resident here.

The hospital had not submitted "any valid ground other than nationality for the
non-payment of basic salary" to Dr Eng, the ruling states.

A spokesperson for St James's Hospital said it had a long track record as an
equal opportunity employer. "We have proactively recruited people on ability
from many different parts of the world and the evidence is there from the
multi-ethnic workforce within the hospital."

The hospital had not ruled out appealing the judgment, he added.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


                              138 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               November 22, 2010

A victory for the sanctity of the doctor-patient relationship

BYLINE: Editorial. Posted Nov. 22, 2010.

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 31 Vol. 53 No. 47

LENGTH: 668 words



HIGHLIGHT: A recent court decision in Arkansas made clear that hospital economic
credentialing policies may not stand up in court.


Two of the fundamentals that represent the best of our health system are the
physician-patient relationship, and the notion that choice matters in how and
where care is delivered. A practical and important expression of them is when
doctor and patient can decide the best treatment setting to fit the patient's
needs.

That freedom of choice has been under attack by hospitals that have engaged in
economic credentialing. That's the practice of excluding physicians because of
money matters, not competency or quality of care.

A recent ruling from the Arkansas Supreme Court against one hospital system's
economic credentialing policy should make other hospitals think twice about
instituting or enforcing such policies of their own.

The case dealt with physicians who owned their own specialty hospital. A recent
law effectively stopping the creation of such facilities, however, does not
render the ruling moot. Expect that it will be cited when protecting any
physicians who feel like their hospitals are arbitrarily cutting them off from
their patients.

The case was brought by 12 cardiologists in the Little Rock area. They sued
Baptist Health, Arkansas' largest hospital system, in 2004 after it created a
credentialing policy that revoked or banned privileges for any physician who had
any financial interest in a competing facility. The American Medical Association
and the Arkansas Medical Society joined as plaintiffs, and the Litigation Center
of the American Medical Association and the State Medical Societies contributed
to the plaintiffs' legal expenses.

Baptist Health argued that its policy protected patients from potential
conflicts when physicians can refer to their own facilities. The health system
also noted that the policy protected the hospital system's economic interests,
in that Baptist Health risked losing patients to a competitor.

In late September, however, the Arkansas Supreme Court ruled against Baptist
Health, which had asked that a lower court decision against its economic
credentialing policy be overturned.

The ruling permanently bars Baptist Health from enforcing its policy. The court
not only said the policy was improper but also emphasized that patients and
physicians, and physicians and their referring doctors, had a "reasonable
expectancy" to doctors' access to hospitals.

The Arkansas Supreme Court, in a 4-0 decision (with two justices not
participating), wrote that it agreed with the lower court about the negative
effects of Baptist Health's policy. The justices ruled that it "disrupted the
physician-patient relationship, discouraged specialty hospitals, suppressed
competition and" -- in a nod to the policy also banning physicians if their
spouses invested in a competing facility -- "harmed the institution of
marriage." The court also rejected Baptist Health's argument that its financial
viability had been at risk.

The Supreme Court pointed out that physicians have enforceable legal rights when
it comes to their hospital privileges, and that the physician-patient
relationship is protected by what it called unreasonable or arbitrary
interference by third parties. That means the ruling case applies to any
physician, not just the relative few who own specialty hospitals.

It is the first case in which a state Supreme Court ruled against an economic
credentialing policy. Previously, other courts had ruled in favor of hospitals
in such cases.

The ruling of the Arkansas Supreme Court, because its jurisdiction does not
extend outside the state, will not guarantee that another economic credentialing
case outside that state goes in the doctor's favor. The ruling does, however,
signal to hospitals nationwide not to consider it a sure bet that any economic
credentialing policy will stand up in court.

Disrupting the doctor-patient relationship, and the decisions that flow from it,
should not be trumped by a hospital's interest in stifling its competition. The
Arkansas Supreme Court understood that and set a good example for other jurists
to follow.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               November 22, 2010

A victory for the sanctity of the doctor-patient relationship

BYLINE: Editorial. Posted Nov. 22, 2010.

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 31 Vol. 53 No. 47

LENGTH: 668 words



HIGHLIGHT: A recent court decision in Arkansas made clear that hospital economic
credentialing policies may not stand up in court.


Two of the fundamentals that represent the best of our health system are the
physician-patient relationship, and the notion that choice matters in how and
where care is delivered. A practical and important expression of them is when
doctor and patient can decide the best treatment setting to fit the patient's
needs.

That freedom of choice has been under attack by hospitals that have engaged in
economic credentialing. That's the practice of excluding physicians because of
money matters, not competency or quality of care.

A recent ruling from the Arkansas Supreme Court against one hospital system's
economic credentialing policy should make other hospitals think twice about
instituting or enforcing such policies of their own.

The case dealt with physicians who owned their own specialty hospital. A recent
law effectively stopping the creation of such facilities, however, does not
render the ruling moot. Expect that it will be cited when protecting any
physicians who feel like their hospitals are arbitrarily cutting them off from
their patients.

The case was brought by 12 cardiologists in the Little Rock area. They sued
Baptist Health, Arkansas' largest hospital system, in 2004 after it created a
credentialing policy that revoked or banned privileges for any physician who had
any financial interest in a competing facility. The American Medical Association
and the Arkansas Medical Society joined as plaintiffs, and the Litigation Center
of the American Medical Association and the State Medical Societies contributed
to the plaintiffs' legal expenses.

Baptist Health argued that its policy protected patients from potential
conflicts when physicians can refer to their own facilities. The health system
also noted that the policy protected the hospital system's economic interests,
in that Baptist Health risked losing patients to a competitor.

In late September, however, the Arkansas Supreme Court ruled against Baptist
Health, which had asked that a lower court decision against its economic
credentialing policy be overturned.

The ruling permanently bars Baptist Health from enforcing its policy. The court
not only said the policy was improper but also emphasized that patients and
physicians, and physicians and their referring doctors, had a "reasonable
expectancy" to doctors' access to hospitals.

The Arkansas Supreme Court, in a 4-0 decision (with two justices not
participating), wrote that it agreed with the lower court about the negative
effects of Baptist Health's policy. The justices ruled that it "disrupted the
physician-patient relationship, discouraged specialty hospitals, suppressed
competition and" -- in a nod to the policy also banning physicians if their
spouses invested in a competing facility -- "harmed the institution of
marriage." The court also rejected Baptist Health's argument that its financial
viability had been at risk.

The Supreme Court pointed out that physicians have enforceable legal rights when
it comes to their hospital privileges, and that the physician-patient
relationship is protected by what it called unreasonable or arbitrary
interference by third parties. That means the ruling case applies to any
physician, not just the relative few who own specialty hospitals.

It is the first case in which a state Supreme Court ruled against an economic
credentialing policy. Previously, other courts had ruled in favor of hospitals
in such cases.

The ruling of the Arkansas Supreme Court, because its jurisdiction does not
extend outside the state, will not guarantee that another economic credentialing
case outside that state goes in the doctor's favor. The ruling does, however,
signal to hospitals nationwide not to consider it a sure bet that any economic
credentialing policy will stand up in court.

Disrupting the doctor-patient relationship, and the decisions that flow from it,
should not be trumped by a hospital's interest in stifling its competition. The
Arkansas Supreme Court understood that and set a good example for other jurists
to follow.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business

                               February 13, 2012
                              Correction Appended

McLaren's Plan B if CON is rejected: Legislators;
Battle lines: Too many hospitals vs. economic jolt

BYLINE: JAY GREENE; jgreene@crain.com

SECTION: Pg. 1 Vol. 28

LENGTH: 1223  words


Stymied in its effort to change state regulations that control hospital growth,
McLaren Health Care may turn to the Michigan Legislature to get a long hoped-for
hospital in Independence Township approved as an economic development project.

On Feb. 1, Flint-based McLaren filed two certificate-of-need applications to
build a hospital in the township and transfer 200 unused beds from
McLaren-Oakland, the former POH Regional Medical Center, in Pontiac.

McLaren CEO Phil Incarnati said that if the CONs are denied in July, when they
are scheduled to be heard, McLaren will go forward with plans to seek special
legislation that would allow construction on 80 acres that is part of the
McLaren Health Care Village of Clarkston.

Current CON regulations prevent hospitals in metropolitan areas from
transferring beds farther than two miles. McLaren's proposed site is 9.4 miles
from McLaren-Oakland.

Incarnati said McLaren prefers to go through the CON process, but "the CON
commission needs to recognize that changes need to be made with the geographic
limitation (two miles) for a new hospital."

The filing came after McLaren had unsuccessfully attempted in December to change
CON regulations to permit replacement hospitals more than five miles away from
an existing hospital, according to Bret Jackson, president of the Economic
Alliance of Michigan, a Novi-based business-labor coalition. That rule change
would allow for construction of the proposed hospital.

The Economic Alliance in a statement to Crain's said the rule change would have
resulted "in hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars of unneeded capital
investment in Michigan's health care infrastructure. This would have a
devastating impact on the cost of health care benefits and the loss of thousands
of jobs for Michigan's residents."

Jackson said there is no need for the proposed McLaren hospital because the six
hospitals within a 22-minute drive of Independence Township operate at a 53
percent occupancy rate based on 989 licensed beds.

"Putting a new hospital in Clarkston is just trying to steal market share away
from other hospitals," Jackson said. "Patients are being taken care of now" by
the area's hospitals.

McLaren's case for the hospital rests on the argument that northern Oakland
County is growing and can financially support a $308 million hospital with
25,000 annual patient discharges, and that the distance to other hospitals can
be problematic.

The closest hospital to the proposed hospital after McLaren-Oakland is St.
Joseph Mercy Oakland in Pontiac, at 11.2 miles; followed by Huron Valley Sinai
and Crittenton Hospital Medical Center, at about 16 miles; and Henry Ford West
Bloomfield, at 18.3 miles.

Incarnati also disputes that the hospital will drive up health care costs,
saying that McLaren is the lowest-cost provider with the highest case mix of any
hospital organization in Michigan.

Those arguments have won the support of Oakland County Executive L. Brooks
Patterson, who says the project will create 2,000 to 3,000 jobs and provide an
economic development jolt to businesses.

"I live in that area," Patterson said. "It is one of the fastest-growing sectors
we have, and McLaren is willing to make a $300 million investment to create up
to 3,000 jobs. We need a hospital because people have to drive 20 minutes to the
nearest one."

The legislative route has precedent.

Two other Detroit-based health systems accomplished the same CON bypass maneuver
in 2002.

During a legislative lame duck session, Henry Ford Health System and St. John
Providence Health System won special legislative approval to transfer beds from
existing hospitals to new hospitals in Oakland County.

In 2008, 200-bed St. John's Providence Park Hospital in Novi opened, followed by
300-bed Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital in 2009.

"McLaren is going to use the same pathway as St. John's and Henry Ford," said
Jack Weiner, CEO of St. Joseph Mercy Oakland.

Weiner said McLaren's specific route would be through the Senate Economic
Development Committee, not through the Health Policy Committee.

"They are working with Sen. (Mike) Kowall (R-White Lake), to get a bill through
on a trumped-up economic development reason," Weiner said.

Weiner said McLaren wants to be ready to get enabling legislation for its
hospital this fall if the Certificate of Need Commission rejects its request
this summer.

Kowall, who is chairman of the Senate economic development committee, said he's
considering introducing a bill and hopes it will be assigned to his committee.

Incarnati said McLaren has spoken with Kowall and other legislative leaders, but
no firm strategy has been put in place.

"There is a lot of support for the concept despite the constant barrage from
competitors to stop it," Incarnati said. "No one has addressed the patient care
needs. People want to protect their own monopolies."

Amber McCann, press secretary for Senate Majority Leader Randy Richardville,
R-Monroe, said there are no bills in the works on behalf of McLaren.

"The majority leader has heard talk about McLaren's plans, but he hasn't had any
conversations on the topic and doesn't have a position," McCann said.

Rob Casalou, CEO of St. Joseph Mercy Ann Arbor, said McLaren's effort to build a
new hospital is reminiscent of his efforts to build Providence Park, where he
was CEO before joining St. Joseph's.

"I supported new hospitals in 2002," Casalou said. "I am on the opposing side
now because the dynamics in health care have changed dramatically. Admissions
are going down or flat."

Casalou, who also is chairman of the CON commission's Hospital Bed Standard
Advisory Committee, said McLaren was initially supportive of a rule change that
would require hospitals to remove licensed beds if they have less than 40
percent occupancy and seek CONs for beds.

"We met for six months and in the last 10 minutes of the last meeting McLaren
made (the) proposal that would have dismantled the CON program for hospital
beds," Casalou said. "We felt it was a disingenuous effort."

The CON commission is expected to consider the committee's recommended changes -
which do not include the McLaren proposal - at its meeting next month.

Casalou said McLaren doesn't believe it will win a CON for the new hospital but
wants to go through the regulatory motions before recruiting a legislator to
submit a bill.

"They are aligned with Oakland County and convinced them this will be an
economic engine, a bonanza, and are trying to sell that story across the state,"
Casalou said. "This is not unlike what we did in 2002."

Citing a recent study by Michigan State University, Casalou said there are 6,700
surplus beds in Michigan - and 10 percent are located in northern Oakland
County.

"There is a lot of risk (rising costs and negative impact to neighboring
hospitals) to go forward with a new hospital. The only entity that doesn't have
a risk is McLaren. They are assured of a good return," Casalou said.

Weiner said if McLaren gets a new hospital through legislative means as did
Henry Ford and St. John, "CON will be dead. If you spend enough money, you can
build a new hospital, dialysis center or MRI. There are no rules."

Weiner said St. Joseph provides care to nearly half of the people who need
health care services in Independence Township. "It will have a significant
financial impact to us," he said.

Twitter: @jaybgreene

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 5, 2012



CORRECTION: A story on Page 1 in the Feb. 13 issue, "McLaren's Plan B if CON is
rejected: Legislators," should have said that Doctors' Hospital of Michigan in
Pontiac is the closest to a proposed McLaren Health Care hospital in
Independence Township at 9.2 miles away.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CD


                      Copyright 2012 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                  Feather River Bulletin (Quincy, California)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                October 13, 2010

Plumas County Economic Recovery Committee concerned by lack of support;
Where 1 Stand

BYLINE: Feather River Bulletin staff

LENGTH: 595  words


Honorable Senator Diane Feinstein'

Honorable Congressman Wally Herger Honorable Congressman Tom McClintock
Assemblyman Dan Logue

The Plumas County Economic Recovery Committee (PCERC) wishes to express a
critical need and concern to you. The specific issue is our small rural
hospitals and the ever-increasing rate of closure of these critical facilities.

In Plumas County our existing hospitals were built with federal Hill-Burton
funds in the 1950s. These facilities have met the medical needs of our
communities for over 50 years but now are in dire need of modernization.

As you are all aware, California has also placed an additional burden on our
hospitals with the earthquake standards (S.B. 1953) that have been adopted.

The current issue for Plumas County, as well as most other small rural counties
across the nation, is that the federal government and state have abandoned our
hospitals as far as assistance to upgrade these outdated facilities.

Because of this loss of support, our communities are struggling to keep this
vital medical infrastructure open and updated. Plumas County has seen the
closure of one of our four rural hospitals in the last five years.

Recently in Quincy, our largest community, voters rejected a bond measure that
would have provided funding to allow for the modernization necessary to provide
the modern technology, emergency services, operating room updates as well as
infection free inpatient rooms that are so badly needed.,

The current economic downturn that has affected so much of our country is having
a larger impact on our small rural counties in the ability to provide local
support in such critical community needs. This rejection, by property owners,
was related to the high cost of the tax necessary to build a hospital in a small
population hospital district.

Without adequate support, it is highly likely Plumas County could lose a second
rural hospital. If this occurs, businesses will slowly close, property values
will decline further, families will move away and we will be confronted with
another dying community.

The Plumas District Hospital (PDH) in Quincy is the only facility in Plumas
County that provides 24-hour emergency and obstetric service. It is also
designated as a critical access hospital.

With the closure of the Indian Valley Hospital in Greenville, PDH is also the
only local medical facility that is reasonably close to meet the needs of that
community as. well as Quincy and the surrounding communities of Meadow Valley,
Twain, Cromberg and Bucks Lake.

With continued aging of our facility in Quincy, more and more patients must
travel to Reno, Nev., or Chico for their medical needs and that means a trip of
80 miles.

During the winter months, this is 80 miles over icy or snowy roads or down the
Feather River Canyon with the additional hazard of rockslides and a closed road.
In addition, it is becoming ever more difficult to maintain or attract doctors
and specialists, such as orthopedists, that will practice in PDH.

This leads to continued loss of revenue that is vital to keep PDH open.

Given the situation we have outlined, we invite you or your representatives to
tour PDH to personally see and discuss this critical issue, as well as learn
about rural health care.

PCERC and all of Plumas County are requesting your assistance in this critical
funding issue and can only hope that there are federal assistance funds and
support available.

If we can provide more specific information or meet with your office, we would
welcome the opportunity to do so -- the future of our community depends on it.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FTH

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                     Copyright 2010 Feather River Bulletin


                              142 of 994 DOCUMENTS

              St. Charles County Business Record (St. Charles, MO)

                             April 8, 2004 Thursday

New hospital will help market county

BYLINE: Mike Trask

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 613 words


Attracting new development to O'Fallon has not been a problem during the past
decade.

The city has been the favorite spot of homebuilders during most of this time,
with retailers following close behind. The decisions by MasterCard International
and CitiMortgage to locate major operations centers there, in turn, spurred
additional home building and commercial development.

BJC HealthCare's decision to build a hospital near the intersection of Highways
40 and K is almost certain to continue this trend. BJC plans to start
construction of the $75 million, 72-bed hospital early this summer, and the
facility is scheduled tentatively to open in early 2006.

Last month, BJC released the findings of a study the health care provider
commissioned that claimed the new hospital would have an economic impact of $616
million on the county. Of that amount, some $353 million in economic impact
would result from "ripple effects" such as additional retail and housing growth,
the study said.

In time, doctor offices, pharmacies, gift shops and related businesses probably
will appear near the hospital site, said Libbey Simpson, director of economic
development for O'Fallon. But the news that the hospital will be built has not,
as yet, prompted developers to some forward with development proposals for that
area. "I think it's a little too soon probably for that to happen," Simpson
said.

Still, the new hospital will be another tool the city can use to help market the
community to corporate decision-makers looking at sites for their relocations
and expansions. Economic development specialists for local municipalities and
the county often tout in their marketing materials BJC's and SSM Health Care's
significant presence in the county, as well as other health care providers such
as Crossroads Regional Hospital in Wentzville.

"I think definitely in 2005 [the hospital] will be a key component of our
marketing effort," Simpson said. "I think, overall, it will help the
marketability of the town." Simpson said the city's marketing plan for this year
was completed before the Missouri Health Facilities Review Committee voted
unanimously late last month to approve BJC's proposal. Before any major health
care facility can be built in Missouri, the state panel must decide there is a
need for it.

The Economic Development Center of St. Charles County was careful to stay out of
the argument about whether BJC HealthCare should build a hospital in O'Fallon.
But now that the decision has been made, the EDC will use that fact to help
market the county to businesses that may be considering locating or expanding
their operations here.

"We're going to definitely promote our strong health care system in the county,"
said David A. Leezer, the EDC's business development director.

At the same time, Leezer said it is difficult to measure how important health
care is to employers. "They all tell you it's important," he said. But the
definition of quality health care could mean one thing to some business owners
or CEOs, and another thing to their counterparts, he added. "It varies with
different people."

Health care is just one part of the mix that communities use to market
themselves. Companies look at schools, tax rates, land prices, the education and
training levels of the local work force, housing and amenities in deciding where
to move, Leezer said.

Still, the activities of health care providers in a given area are important
economic indicators. "If a health facility was to close its doors, that would
say a lot about the economic health of a community," just as the rapid expansion
of health care in a community does, he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: General news

                      Copyright 2004 Dolan Media Newswires


                              143 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The Economic Times

                          November 10, 2005, Thursday

Wockhardt to roll out four new hospital projects

LENGTH: 363 words



MUMBAI, India -- Wockhardt Hospitals plans to set up four new hospitals across
the country at a total outlay of Rs 500 crore. The projects will be executed
over the next two years and will involve setting up greenfield projects in New
Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Kolkata.

The first of the new hospitals, which is located at Bangalore, will be
commissioned in the first quarter of next year, Wockhardt Hospitals' chairman,
Habil Khorakiwala said. The new hospital will also be affiliated with the
Harvard Medical International (HMI).

Wockhardt is one of the few private healthcare players to have established
hospitals across the country. It already has three hospitals, located at Mumbai,
Bangalore and Kolkata.

The group's Mumbai hospital has just achieved accreditation from Joint
Commission International (JCI), US, a gold standard in global healthcare. With
this, Wockhardt Hospitals joins a group of 71 hospitals worldwide, which have
passed JCI's stringent clinical quality standards. JCI is the international arm
of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organisations, which
evaluates quality standards of US hospitals. Wockhardt claims to be the first
'superspeciality' hospital in South Asia to receive JCI accreditation.

The JCI accreditation follows a rigorous onsite evaluation of Wockhardt
Hospitals, Mumbai by an international surveyor team of healthcare experts. The
accreditation process requires a hospital to comply with almost 1,300 measurable
standards. According to Vishal Bali, vice president, Wockhardt Hospitals, the
JCI accreditation will create a benchmark for the quality of healthcare services
in India.

"Wockhardt is the only HMI-associate outside the US to win this recognition,"
said Harvey Makadon, director, HMI.



-----

To see more of The Economic Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com Copyright (c) 2005, The Economic Times,
India

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.  532300,

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: ET-HOSPITAL-PROJECTS-20051110

JOURNAL-CODE: ET

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                       Copyright 2005 The Economic Times


                              144 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                           January 22, 2011 Saturday

S&P: US Healthcare Costs Rise 6.27% Over the 12-Months Ending November 2010

LENGTH: 789  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Jan. 22 -- Data released today by Standard & Poor's for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicates that the average per capita cost
of healthcare services covered by commercial insurance and Medicare programs
rose 6.27% over the 12-months ending November 2010. This is a deceleration from
the +6.68% reported for the 12-months ending in October 2010.

Claim costs associated with hospital and professional services for patients
covered under commercial health plans rose 7.79% over the year ending in
November, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index. Medicare
claim costs for the same services rose at a rate of 3.74% from the previous
year, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index. This is the
lowest annual growth rate for Medicare claims costs since June 2007, when it was
+3.55%. These two measures saw growth deceleration versus their October reports
of +8.19% and +4.18%, respectively.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the monthly
index levels versus the same month of the prior year.

"The slowdown in the annual growth rate of healthcare costs, which started
around May 2010, continued through November," says David M. Blitzer, Chairman of
the Index Committee at Standard & Poor's. "In the 12-months ended in November,
the Composite index rose 6.27%, down about 0.4 percentage points from its
October rate and 2.1 percentage points from May. Both the Commercial and
Medicare Indices witnessed similar deceleration. With the Commercial Index up
7.79% and the Medicare Index up 3.74% through November, both of these are lower
growth rates than witnessed in prior months. As we have noted in the past,
expenditures associated with commercial health insurance plans continue to
significantly outpace expenditures for Medicare.

"We did notice that the growth rates for services provided under Medicare
coverage are approaching or reaching new lows. The Medicare composite posted an
annual growth rate of +3.74% in the 12-months ending in November. The lowest
rate was +3.47% in December 2006. Looking even closer at the sub-indices, we see
that the annual growth rates for Medicare services provided at hospitals has, in
fact, hit the lowest rate in the six-year history for these data, +2.71%.

"We are continuing to see a downward trend in the annual growth rates across all
the indices. Since May 2010, most of the indices annual growth rates have
declined month-to-month. Commercial and Medicare Indices showed annual
deceleration of 0.40% and 0.45%, respectively, compared to October. Likewise,
the Hospital and Professional Services Indices annual rates decelerated by
approximately 0.40% each in November compared to the previous month."

The S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index is a weighted average of the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare
Index. Alternatively, it is a weighted average of the S&P Healthcare Economic
Hospital Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index, as
each of these indices has the analogous Commercial and Medicare component.

The table below summarizes the year-over-year change in the S&P Healthcare
Economic Indices for the 12-month period ending November 2010. With each monthly
release, the index levels, including the 12-month moving averages, are
recalculated for the full history of the indices, whenever there are revisions
to underlying data used in the models. The entire revised history, as well as
full results for the underlying S&P Healthcare Economic Indices, is available
from Standard & Poor's as a subscription service.

S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

(12-Month Moving Average)

Index

1-Year Change (%)

S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index

6.27%

S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index

7.79%

S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index

3.74%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Index

6.26%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Medicare Index

2.71%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Commercial Index

9.04%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index

6.06%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Medicare Index

4.93%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Commercial Index

6.53%

Source: Standard & Poor's

Data through November 2010 Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   Niagara Gazette (Niagara Falls, New York)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 2, 2017 Wednesday

$1M earmarked infrastructure projects at local hospitals

BYLINE: Rick Pfeiffer, Niagara Gazette, Niagara Falls, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 592 words


Aug. 02--State Sen. Robert Ortt (R-North Tonawanda) and State Assemblyman Angelo
Morinello (R-Niagara Falls) came to town Tuesday morning bearing gifts for area
hospitals.

Ortt announced he has $1 million in state funding for infrastructure projects at
Niagara Falls Memorial Medical Center, DeGraff Memorial Hospital in North
Tonawanda, and Mount St. Mary's Hospital in Lewiston.

The senator called the cash "a catalyst for economic growth and job creation."

"They are not just providing health care to underserved communities. Ortt said
of the trio of hospitals. "They are economic drivers in this region."

The funding will help the local hospitals expand and upgrade facilities and
operations. Both Ortt and Morinello said the expansions and upgrades will lead
to the creation of new jobs.

"This is the life blood of the community," Morinello said. "I'm pleased that we
were able to fight for this in the (state) budget. This money will be put to
good use."

The Falls Memorial Medical Center was awarded $400,000 for its new inpatient
Cardiac and Stroke Center. The 12,950-square-foot facility will replace the
hospital's 40-year-old telemetry unit.

The center will feature 25 private rooms equipped with state-of-the-art
technology. The state money will complete a $4.3 million project that also will
includes a family and patient resource room and medical teaching facilities.

The project features a new inpatient rehabilitation center that will make it
more convenient for patients to begin physical therapy and occupational therapy
while still in the hospital. Since construction started in October, the project
has created 15 construction jobs.

"The health care sector is the largest economic sector in Western New York,"
Niagara Falls Memorial Medical Center President & CEO Joseph A. Ruffolo said.
"(This) is all about economic development."

DeGraff Memorial Hospital will use a $300,000 grant for a portion of the cost of
renovation and expansion to transform its emergency department. The project will
accommodate patient needs that saw 12,505 emergency room visits in 2015,
management at DeGraff's parent, Kalieda Health said. The ER will be moved to the
hospital's east side, facing the Twin Cities Highway.

"The ER is doubling in size," said DeGraff and Millard Fillmore Suburban
Hospital President Darcy Craven. "We're creating a state-of-the-art facility for
the people of the Twin Cities."

The new 10,264-square-foot facility will include 17 treatment bays with
high-tech equipment and energy efficiencies, trauma, bariatric and airborne
isolation rooms, as well as a decontamination area for infectious threats. An
additional 3,075-square-foot-space will include a new main lobby and patient
registration area.

The state funding cements the $7.8 million project,

Mount St. Mary's Hospital will use a grant of $300,000 to upgrade its electrical
distribution system in the main building that was originally constructed in
1965. Replacing the antiquated system will improve safeguards on the campus and
better protect both patients and visitors.

"We will invest nearly $5 million overall in the project because of its
importance in enhancing patient care and safety," Mount St. Mary's President and
Chief Executive Officer Gary Tucker said.

Upgrades will include new transformers, main breakers, a generator housing
structure, and seven new transfer switches with monitoring systems.

___ (c)2017 the Niagara Gazette (Niagara Falls, N.Y.) Visit the Niagara Gazette
(Niagara Falls, N.Y.) at www.niagara-gazette.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170802-NF-1M-earmarked-infrastructure-projects-at-local-hospitals
-0802-20170802

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NF


                         Copyright 2017 Niagara Gazette


                              146 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      DECEMBER 19, 1997 Friday SF EDITION
                              Correction Appended

ECONOMIC FORCES RESHAPE AND SHRINK AREA HEALTH CARE / THE RESULT HAS BEEN
HOSPITAL CLOSINGS AND BIG LAYOFFS. GOVERNMENT BAILOUTS ARE VIEWED WITH
RESERVATIONS.

BYLINE: Josh Goldstein, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 992 words


Increased competition, lower government reimbursements, and the growth of
managed care present huge financial challenges to cash-strapped hospitals here
and around the country.

In Philadelphia there is the added problem of excess hospital capacity - too
many hospitals with too many empty beds. On any given night, approximately four
of every 10 beds are unused. That means payers - employers, insurers and the
government - have even more leverage to dictate lower prices.

These turbulent economic forces reshaping health care have already claimed
several victims. The Allegheny Health network recently shut down its Mount Sinai
unit in South Philadelphia and cut another 1,200 local hospital jobs. Last week,
the federal government announced it would bail out the North Philadelphia Health
System, which had lost $31 million and stopped payments on its bonds, by backing
$24 million in new tax-exempt bonds.

Those, however, were ad hoc decisions addressing specific crises. As such, they
did not deal with the broader economic and social issues confronting hospitals,
patients, communities and taxpayers.

Who decides when a failing hospital should close - its board, the community,
politicians? - and how is that decision balanced against the cost of lost jobs?

Do the jobs and economic stability provided by the hospitals justify huge
taxpayer subsidies? How many hospitals does a region such as Philadelphia really
need? Should market forces alone be left to determine which hospitals survive
and which fail?

The answers aren't academic. Hospitals play a crucial social and economic role
in the region, and tens of thousands of jobs are at stake. Hospitals are also a
source of community pride, and often serve as a proxy for neighborhood doctors
and other medical providers in areas where none exist.

Experts say those justifications must be balanced against competing concerns,
principal among them soaring medical costs that have gobbled up an
ever-increasing share of resources.

"The cost of keeping all these hospitals open is very great, and there is not a
bottomless pit of money to bail them out all the time," said Robert Helms,
director of health policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington. "It seems to me that the market has to reduce capacity and
politicians have to step back and let the market do that."

Even some hospital officials say privately that the overall hospital system
would run more efficiently and reduce costs by allowing failing institutions to
go out of business. The remaining hospitals would have more business. That could
improve their bottom lines and, for some sophisticated services, improve care.

"It's awful hard for hospitals to come back from the dead unless there is some
change in their fundamentals," said Wharton School health economist Mark Pauly.
"The hospitals that go out of business are the weakest financially, not
necessarily the ones that provide the least-needed care."

For the moment, at least, market forces alone are not permitted to determine
which hospitals live or die. Issues such as medical need, economic development
and employment also play important roles in the decisions. But those forces can
produce divergent results: In one case, state and federal officials have
committed nearly $70 million to prop up North Philadelphia, while in another,
Allegheny officials were driven by economics to shut down Mount Sinai and lay
off 1,200.

The North Philadelphia Health System was created by the merger of St. Joseph's
Hospital and the Girard Medical Center in 1990. The system serves a poor, urban
neighborhood, employs 1,300 people, and is an institutional anchor for the area,
which has received $79 million from the Clinton administration as a federal
empowerment zone.

Medicare and Medicaid account for 90 percent of patient-care revenues. The
hospitals also provide substantial amounts of free services to the poor and
uninsured.

But the system has struggled financially from day one. Without $44.5 million in
special subsidies from the Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare and the
federal government's $24 million loan guarantee, the hospitals - according to
their own analysis - would be forced to close. And there are a half-dozen
hospitals within three miles of the two facilities.

"What you have to do is look at all the hospitals in the community and ask what
is the right array of resources needed to serve the area, not single one out,"
said Jerry Katz a health-care consultant based in Plymouth Meeting. "No one is
out there doing that."

Hospital advocates say they also are frustrated by the lack of a forum to
discuss critical issues facing their networks.

"I don't think that anyone would dispute that there is excess hospital capacity,
but the problem that exists for all of us in this region is that there isn't a
public policy framework to guide the transformation of this delivery system,"
said Andrew Wigglesworth, president of the Delaware Valley Healthcare Council,
which represents area hospitals.

"We need to work to develop a framework for making the judgment as to when a
facility should be preserved in its current form or should be assisted to
convert to some other use," Wigglesworth said, adding that the decision should
be left to "the dictates of the market."

Health economists don't dispute the need to protect the essential health-care
needs of the public, but note that issues such as economic development and jobs
could be used to justify government bailouts of any failing company or industry.

"A local restaurant or a local shoe store may provide jobs, but if they are
going out of business we don't expect the government to step in and subsidize
them," said Michael Tanner, who directs health and welfare studies at the Cato
Institute in Washington.

He said, "We should let hospitals fail because you want to - as much as you can
- let markets speak."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            January 14, 2008 Monday

Jackson County hospital makes big impact

BYLINE: The Telegraph Herald

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 274 words


MAQUOKETA, Iowa - Jackson County Regional Health Center pumps more than $10
million into Jackson County's economy, according to the latest study by the Iowa
Hospital Association.

The health center employs nearly 200 employees directly, generating 355 total
jobs in the county and providing a $10.2 million in direct economic impact, the
study stated.

In addition, hospital employees by themselves spend nearly $2 million on retail
sales annually and contribute almost $100,000 in state sales tax revenue.

"This study underscores how important a hospital is for your community, not just
for quality of life, but for the economic development of Jackson County," said
Curt Coleman, Jackson County Regional Health Center's chief executive officer.

The IHA study examined the jobs, income, retail sales and sales tax produced by
hospitals and the rest of the state's health care sector. The study was compiled
from hospital-submitted data on the American Hospital Association Annual Survey
of Hospitals and with software that other industries have used to determine
their economic impact.

The study found that Iowa hospitals directly employ 71,446 people and create
another 83,082 jobs outside the hospital care sector. As an income source,
hospitals provide $3.2 billion in salaries and benefits and generate another
$2.5 billion through other jobs that depend on hospitals.

In all, Iowa's health care sector, which includes employed clinicians, long-term
care services and assisted living centers, pharmacies and other medical and
health services, directly and indirectly provides 375,470 Iowa jobs, or more
than one-fifth of the state's total employment.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               September 16, 2002

Group May Be Set Up To Help Make Hospital Site More Attractive To Buyers

BYLINE: John Thomson

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 517 words


A new group may be set up to examine ways of persuading potential developers to
take on a North-east hospital site.  Ladysbridge Hospital near Banff is due to
close next year and the health authorities are expected to put the site on the
market.

Grampian Primary Care NHS Trust is in the process of choosing a firm to market
and value the site and advise if it should be sold in lots or as one package.

The suggestion that a new group could be established to look at ways in which
public agencies could work to make re-developing the site more attractive has
come from Aberdeenshire Council.

It is contained in a report drawn up by the council's economic development
service on future prospects for the site.

The report reveals that the remaining 73 residents at Ladysbridge will be
transferred to community care projects over the next few months.

This will be the culmination of a run-down over the last 15 years which has seen
patient numbers fall from 560 and staff numbers dwindle from 600 to the current
180.

As some of the community accommodation will not be ready by the end of this
year, when the trust plans to leave the hospital, projects will be run initially
from Ladysbridge.

Council official Morna Harper said: "The trust expects that all the projects
will have moved out by June to August next year and the hospital will then be
closed." She said the trust had not expected to look at future security of the
site until nearer the time the hospital closed but it was willing to reappraise
that decision.

Banff area councillors have already expressed concern about security plans for
the hospital and grounds.

Ms Harper said that in 1998, after the closure announcement was made, a report
was commissioned on the likely economic impact in the Banff area.

It concluded that around 90 people would be looking for jobs, assuming staff
were given help with re-training and finding other jobs.

Ms Harper said: "The present situation as to how many employees will be made
redundant is not clear. The management at the hospital have agreed to try and
estimate the numbers." She said some staff would be bussed daily to work in
kitchens at Aberdeen while other were leaving to work in community care.

She said: "Within the current economic climate, even a small number of
unemployed is a problem for the Whitehills, Banff and Macduff areas to absorb.

"The greatest potential for new jobs in the area is actually on the site itself.

"It is suggested a group be set up to look at how public agencies can work
together to make developing the site more attractive to potential developers.

"This group would also keep a watching brief on the redundancy situation." She
suggested the council, the health trust, Scottish Enterprise Grampian, the
employment service and Banff councillors John Cox and Jeanette McKee should be
represented on the group.

Banff and Buchan area councillors will consider the report tomorrow at a meeting
in Banff.

They will be asked to authorise council officials to set up a meeting with a
view to setting up the group.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal


                              149 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            January 30, 2009 Friday
                                  1 - Edition

New hospital hopes fade Treasurer far from optimistic

BYLINE: SUE NEALES

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436  words


THE State Government's unbridled enthusiasm for building a new $1 billion
hospital on the Hobart waterfront appears to be on the wane.

Treasurer Michael Aird expressed extreme caution yesterday about the prospect of
a state-of-the-art replacement Royal Hobart Hospital ever being built, when
commenting on the current state of the Government's finances.

Mr Aird admitted the global economic crisis and the straitened fiscal conditions
affecting the budget made it less likely the massive spending project would
proceed.

``I would have to say there is a greater doubt [about building a new Royal
Hobart Hospital now] than there has been in the past,'' Mr Aird conceded.

The treasurer's comments follow concerns expressed on Tuesday by former deputy
premier and Labor backbencher, Steve Kons, about the wisdom of proceeding with
such a massive capital expenditure project in Hobart during a global recession.

Mr Kons broke ranks with his Labor Government colleagues when he called for the
decision to build a new hospital serving all of Tasmania on the Hobart
waterfront to be reviewed.

He expressed grave reservations about the move, querying if spending $1
billion-plus on a single piece of hospital infrastructure based in Hobart might
not deprive Tasmania's North-West -- Mr Kons' home electorate -- of vital daily
health services.

``It's a massive investment during a difficult economic time that certainly
needs a re-look at,''' the outspoken Mr Kons said, to the anger of many of his
Labor colleagues.

``There's plenty of scope to do new things with the old [existing] hospital
site.''

The Government is considering a business case prepared by independent experts
detailing if it is better to build a greenfield new hospital on the former
railyards site or redevelop the existing city hospital in stages.

Mr Aird said Cabinet would make its decision on whether to go ahead with a new
waterfront hospital to be completed by 2016 in late February or early March.

The original proposal to build a new hospital was unexpectedly proposed by
former premier Paul Lennon in September 2006. It came at the height of bad
Government publicity over the Tasmanian Compliance Corporation building scandal
and the arrest and charging of former deputy premier Bryan Green.

Liberal leader Will Hodgman accused the Government yesterday of taking its eye
off the struggling local economy, letting the prospect of a new hospital slip
from its grasp.

Mr Hodgman said the admission by Mr Aird that there is doubt over the new
waterfront hospital for Hobart showed just how way off the pace the Government
is in dealing with the economic downturn.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                               November 06, 2008
                              Business Day Edition

Medi-Clinic upbeat on growth outlook

BYLINE: Tamar Kahn

SECTION: ECONOMY, BUSINESS & FINANCE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 456  words


Medi-Clinic upbeat on growth outlook

Science and Health Editor

PRIVATE hospital group Medi-Clinic says it is optimistic about growth prospects
despite the turmoil on international markets and a slowdown in domestic economic
growth.

The international credit crisis has stifled global economic growth, while here
at home the treasury expects the economy to grow only 4% this year, down from an
average of 5% over the past four years.

Cape-based Medi-Clinic is SA's third-largest hospital group, with about 24% of
the market. With local growth constrained by tight regulatory control, it has
grown its offshore operations. In 2006, it moved into Dubai, acquiring a
controlling stake in Emirates Healthcare Holdings, which opened its new City
Hospital three weeks ago. Last October, it bought Switzerland's biggest private
hospital group, Hirslanden, for $2,36bn

"Our business is relatively immune to economic downturns," Medi-Clinic chairman
Edwin Hertzog said yesterday. "We do find there is a drop-off in cash-paying
patients and some elective procedures like plastic surgery, but on the whole
people still need healthcare and operations," he said.

"Illness doesn't wait for economic cycles," said group CEO Louis Alberts.

In line with expectations, Medi-Clinic announced its acquisition of Hirslanden
knocked the group's interim profits for the six months to September. Headline
earnings per share fell 43% to 51,2c, down from 89,3c in the previous period.
"We fully anticipated these declines ... and informed shareholders," said
Hertzog.

The Hirslanden transaction was funded partly by a R4,5bn rights offer (of
198,7-million shares) last December. It resulted in higher finance charges, and
a 55% increase in the weighted number of ordinary shares for the period
resulting from the rights offer.

Funds raised in the rights offer were also used to finance regional expansion,
including Medi-Clinic's new Cape Gate hospital. The R278m facility will house
140 beds, and is due to be completed in 2010.

Group revenue rose 132% to R7,496bn, up from R3,228bn in the previous
corresponding period. Earnings before interest, tax, debt and amortisation rose
135% to R1,554bn, increasing from R661m last year. Revenue growth was driven by
increased patient volumes across the group, said Alberts.

Medi-Clinic announced a dividend per ordinary share of 21,6c, up 12% on the
19,3c dividend previously.

Hertzog said management intended to focus on exploiting the assets in its stable
and had no immediate plans for further acquisitions.

"We have a high debt burden, and we must make sure we don't overextend
ourselves. Usually the most profitable way to grow business is to deal with
bottlenecks and enlarge existing groups before buying new businesses," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                          February 16, 2005 Wednesday

In the State

SECTION: REGION

LENGTH: 746 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Task force to stimulate economic growth

State Treasurer Timothy Cahill has announced the creation of a task force to
help stimulate job growth in the state.

Members of the task force include representatives from Bank of America and
Sovereign Bank.

"Creating jobs and providing economic opportunity for people in Massachusetts is
the responsibility of all elected officials," Cahill said Monday. "I believe we
have a particularly strong role to play within the treasury, given that we
oversee the management of billions of dollars of taxpayer money and tough all
facets of state government."

The task force is expected to look at what the Treasury is already doing to
benefit the local economy and job market, find ways to leverage Treasury
initiatives for further job growth and identify potential new job growth
initiatives to explore. The group expects to present a set of recommendations in
60 days.

Statehouse hearing set on stem-cell research

BOSTON --The Legislature's Economic Development and Emerging Technologies
Committee is holding a hearing this morningon legislation supporting stem-cell
research. Senate President Robert Travaglini, D-East Boston, who sponsored the
legislation, plans to testify. The hearing will be held at 10 at the Statehouse.

Mass. hospitals see financial improvement

BOSTON --Massachusetts hospitals have seen some improvement in their financial
performance, but are not out of the fiscal woods, according to a Massachusetts
Hospital Association survey that tracked results for fiscal 2004, which ended
Sept. 30, 2004.

The median operating margin for hospitals that responded was 0.8 percent, an
improvement on the 0.1 percent recorded the year before.

Approximately 42 percent of the hospitals surveyed posted operating losses, a
slight improvement compared to the year before. The median total margin was 1.8
percent. Negative total margins were recorded by 25 percent of the hospitals
responding.

Joe Kirkpatrick, MHA vice president for health care finance, said the numbers
show some improvement compared to recent history.

"But even those hospitals that are doing better are not making enough to recover
fully from years of minimal or negative margins," he said. "Gains will have to
be greater in order for the hospital sector to invest as much as it should to
upgrade facilities or equipment."

Most financial experts say hospitals should maintain at least a 3 percent total
margin to be viable over the long term. Wall Street generally demands margins of
7 percent or better before awarding an AA bond rating.

UMass putting $1M into research program

LOWELL --University of Massachusetts President Jack Wilson announced yesterday
that $1 million from a university fund will be used to renew a program designed
to spark university research and to make the state a magnet for federal funds
and ground-breaking science.

Last year, the university distributed $1 million to fund seven initiatives that
involved all five campuses.

The UMass Science and Technology Initiatives Fund was designed to provide seed
funding for researchers who could then go on to compete for much larger grants.
The researchers who shared last year's $1 million in funding shaped proposals
for federal, state and private funding entities that total $40 million in
potential funding.

LNG port proposed off Massachusetts coast

BOSTON --A liquefied natural gas company announced plans this week to develop a
deep-water port for deliveries in federal waters off the coast of Massachusetts.

Neptune LNG LLC, a subsidiary of Tractebel LNG North America LLC, is proposing
to locate its port about 10 miles south of Gloucester and 22 miles northeast of
Boston.

The Neptune LNG operation will be designed to provide an average of 400 million
cubic feet of natural gas per day to the New England market -- enough to heat
about 1.5 million homes.

The port will be capable of mooring specially designed ships equipped to store,
to transport and to vaporize LNG into natural gas that can be sent to customers
using the existing subsea pipeline. The LNG carriers will moor at the proposed
deep-water port by means of a submerged unloading buoy system.

Neptune LNG anticipates the project's development phase, including regulatory
and public consultation and evaluation, and a formal project application review,
to take approximately 15 to 18 months.

Compiled by The Eagle's Boston Bureau

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

   Copyright 2005 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.


                              152 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Meridian Star (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 7, 2010 Sunday

John C. Stennis Hospital to impact community medically, economically

BYLINE: The Meridian Star, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 565 words


Nov. 07--MERIDIAN -- When the new John C. Stennis Memorial Hospital opens its
doors in February 2011, the facility not only will provide medical care for the
people of Kemper County and surrounding areas, but also will have a substantial
economic impact on the community.

Currently under construction on Highway 16 West in DeKalb, Stennis Memorial -- a
division of Rush Health Systems -- will be the only hospital in Kemper County.
The new facility is expected to have an economic impact of $10 million annually
in the community.

Chuck Reece, executive vice president of RHS, underscored Rush's commitment to
the community.

"We are dedicated to providing health care to the citizens of Kemper County and
surrounding areas, as we have in other communities," Reece said. "Working
together, we can improve the quality of life for citizens of Kemper County."

The sixth hospital in the Rush System, the 45,000-square-feet hospital will be
staffed with healthcare employees, including emergency-room physicians and
professional staff who will provide health care services daily.

"Rush is excited about providing a much-needed service for the Kemper County
area," said Fred Rogers, vice president, chief resource officer and facility
manager for Rush Health Systems. Rogers added that Rush is proud to have the
facility named after former U.S. Senator John C. Stennis.

"John C. Stennis was a real gentleman, and we feel like it was an honor and a
tribute for the hospital to be named after him, since he made such an impact,
not only in DeKalb, but also in the state of Mississippi," Rogers said.

Jason Payne, who will serve as the hospital's administrator, said the facility
will be an economic stimulus for the area.

"We are slated for different types of jobs, ranging from clinical to
nonclinical," he said. "We will be looking for nurses, radiology technicians,
lab, maintenance, housekeeping, pharmacy and respiratory therapy workers. There
will be a whole range of opportunities for employees."

Payne said the hospital will also serve an important function in the life of the
community.

"Our cafeteria will be open for our patients and their visitors and will also
serve the public for breakfast and lunch," he said. "We will have seating for
approximately 100, with a community room with space for meetings. We are excited
about being part of the community as health providers and active as community
leaders."

Brian Henson, executive director of the Kemper County Economic Development
Authority, stressed the long-term benefits of the hospital, in addition to its
immediate impact on the community.

"The John C. Stennis Memorial Hospital will provide the citizens of Kemper
County with quality health care for many years to come, adding much-needed
quality of life," he said.

"This quality of life will also aid in our efforts to recruit new industries and
expand existing ones while creating direct economic impact with the addition of
new jobs for our area."

To see more of The Meridian Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.meridianstar.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Meridian Star, Miss.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101107-ZG-John-C-Stennis-Hospital
-to-impact-community-medically-economically-1107-20101107

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZG


                        Copyright 2010 The Meridian Star


                              153 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                            South China Morning Post

                                 March 10, 2005

Private hospitals recover as patients flee public-sector queues

BYLINE: Mary Ann Benitez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 413 words


Private hospitals have staged a remarkable turnaround from the dark days of Sars
and are treating more patients now than at any time since 1997.

Doctors attribute the rise to employer-funded medical care and to long queues
for treatment at public hospitals.

The Baptist and St Teresa hospitals in Kowloon had reported 99 to 100 per cent
occupancy, said Alan Lau Kwok-lam, spokesman for the Private Hospitals
Association.  On Hong Kong Island, where six private hospitals compete with
public hospitals, occupancy had been between 70 and 80 per cent.

"Since the second half of last year there has been a constant increase in market
share," Dr Lau said.

In 2001, between six and seven in every 10 private hospital beds were empty. In
2002, in the depths of the economic downturn, four hospitals cut salaries and
two froze pay. The following year, Sars emptied private hospitals for a time.

Many private patients are among the 1 million whose employers provide medical
insurance.

Doctors say the attractiveness of private hospitals has more to do with long
waiting times at public hospitals than economic recovery.

David Fang Jin-sheng, medical superintendent at St Paul's Hospital, said:
"Patients have moved back from the public to private sector in substantial
numbers because queues for public operations have become unacceptably long."

Louis Shih Ta-cho, a private dermatologist and vice-chairman of the SynergyNet
health think-tank, said: "For non-urgent specialist consultation, the wait can
be over a year. A lot of people would like to be looked after in the private
hospitals, such as when they have cataract surgery and many elective
operations."

The Hospital Authority said the waiting time for patients needing urgent
treatment is about two weeks. Non-urgent cases wait at least two months.

Choi Kin, president of the Hong Kong Medical Association, said private family
doctors' patient numbers had also stabilised, and the past six months had seen a
steady flow of doctors from public hospitals into private practice.

The hospitals association believes there is a long way to go before the fee
differential between the public and private sectors narrows.

"Even if the in-patient charge were to be increased to $ 500 a day for the first
seven days at public hospitals, it would still be only a sixth to a seventh the
cost if the patient were to be admitted into a private hospital," Dr Lau said.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2005 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              154 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                              May 11, 2009 Monday

Hospitals expected to witness continued drop in patients

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 671 words


An analyst from Trinity Securities said last week that there was a signal of a
decline in foreign patients caused by the global economic slowdown since the
first quarter of last year and then, dramatically, by the airport closures at
the end of the year. The numbers of foreign patients of both Bumrungrad Hospital
and Bangkok Dusit Medical Services (BDMS) in the first three months of the year
dropped by 4 per cent. BDMS comprises Bangkok Hospital, BNH Hospital and
Samitivej Hospital.

The number of foreign patients flying to Thailand for complex-disease treatment
or surgery also declined. The global economic crisis has forced some foreign
patients to switch to lower-cost hospitals in India and elsewhere, the Trinity
analyst said.

"This factor will have a direct impact on the hospitals' gross profit margins.
If the first-half performances of Bumrungrad and hospitals under BDMS's umbrella
are hit continuously by the economic downturn, we may consider revising our
expectations on both companies," the analyst said.

Trinity forecasts Bumrungrad's net profit in the first quarter of this year to
show flat growth from a year earlier, while that of BDMS is expected to drop
drastically from its historic record of Bt700 million in the first quarter of
2008 to Bt350 million.

The Trinity analyst said he expected the A-H1N1 influenza would affect only the
country's big hospitals, and only in the short term, because the virus was less
severe than the Sars virus. The new influenza's death rate is only 6 per cent,
while that of SARS was 60 per cent. The broker expects the new virus to be
controlled within two months.

KGI Securities (Thailand) said in its research that the number of Bumrungrad's
foreign patients in the first quarter this year dropped by 5.1 per cent year on
year but increased by 10.1 per cent if compared with the fourth quarter of 2008,
to 105,000. Patients from the US have gradually declined. But those from the
Middle East are growing.

A 5.1 per-cent drop in Bumrungrad's foreign patients was better than KGI's 2009
full-year expected drop of 14 per cent. Meanwhile, the hospital's total patients
in the first three months of 2009 dropped by 2-3 per cent from the first quarter
of last year.

The broker forecasts Bumrungrad's first-quarter revenue to grow by 1.7 per cent
year on year and 5.1 per cent quarter on quarter. The average revenue per
patient is expected to increase by 11 per cent for inpatient and 12 per cent for
outpatient. The key drivers are the room-price adjustment after renovations and
the increase in complex disease treatment and surgery.

KGI expects the hospital's net profit in the first quarter this year to be Bt305
million, down by 3 per cent year on year.

Although the decline in foreign patients was less severe than the broker's
expectation, the country's political turmoil and concerns about the influenza
outbreak are the major factors keeping foreign patients away.

Meanwhile, medium-sized hospital operators such as Bangkok Chain Hospital, the
operator of Kasemrad Hospital, are forecast to see higher revenues in the first
quarter of this year thanks to the increase in medical benefits for members
members of the Social Security Fund.

Ayudhya Securities forecasted in its research that Kasemrad's first-quarter net
profit would grow by 16 per cent from the fourth quarter last year and 19 per
cent year on year. The hospital's operating result during 2009-2010 will
continuously increase, against the economic trend. Besides the increase from the
Social Security Fund, the growth of specialised-disease services have boosted
Kasemrad. Analysts say its gross profit margin is expected to grow from 20-25
per cent to 30 per cent this year.

The government increased its allowance for medical expenses for Social Security
Fund members by 23 per cent from last year, higher than the normal increase of
3-5 per cent per annum. The government has already adjusted those medical
expenses upwards by 9 per cent for 2010, better than Ayudhya's expectation of a
rise of 5 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                      November 1, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Implementation of the Regional Strategic Services
Maritime Trial Boutique Overall Economic Development

LENGTH: 2105  words


Beijing, Nov. 1 -- In recent years, the North Sea Maritime Court conscientiously
implement the Party Guangxi Higher People's Court of the relevant work plan,
based on maritime judicial functions, take the initiative to put into the work
of the Court Party committees and governments in planning and promoting the
overall work, and actively serve the overall situation of economic and social
development, has won the local party committee and government highly valued and
full support for the work of the Court to create a favorable external
environment, effectively promoted the building of the court itself, the trial
execution, infrastructure, logistics, party building and other work go hand in
hand, particularly in the strengthen the government website construction,
promote information technology, has made outstanding achievements in order to
achieve the overall development of the Court's career and complement each other.



*Based on the trial function, accurately grasp the Court's work combined with
the overall work of party committees and governments point, to the overall
economic and social development services.

*Adhere to the overall economic development around the service to conduct
research, positive for party committee and government decision-making reference.
In recent years, the hospital carried out closely around North Bay marine
economy, the West River golden waterway construction and the Lancang River
Maritime and Beihai Park to build three billion industry, the process of
economic development issues facing the legal research, trial work consciously
put the maritime placed in Guangxi Beibu Gulf economic construction and Beihai
City's overall economic construction to carry out the initiative of the Beibu
Gulf Economic Zone on the region's economic and social development of the legal
level brings new situations and problems, has formed a "Lancang - Mekong River
International shipping problem research "and" On the Nansha fishing vessels
after by foreign fishermen illegally snatch compensation research report on
legal issues "," three billion industry creating Beihai Park Legal Environment
"," Guangxi legal protection of marine fisheries development policy issues
research, "and many other articles of research results, and actively in
decision-making committees and government departments to provide a reference.
The hospital's research results lead to the regional and municipal party
committee and government attach great importance to the relevant departments.
July 2013, Beihai Municipal Committee, Municipal People's Congress Wang Xiaodong
right "to build three billion industry Beihai Park Legal Environment" article
fully affirmed and made important instructions: "'research report' overall
development around the North Sea to play learn professional advantages, in-depth
research, careful analysis, recommendations, has a certain reference value,
please note that draw upon the relevant departments and units, in order to
accelerate the build three billion dollar industry to provide protection. "

*Insist on the implementation of quality strategy maritime trial to trial
quality maritime service area overall economic development. Adhere to the
implementation Maritime Trial hospital quality strategy, fully committed to
China - ASEAN Free Trade Area, the North Bay Economic Zone Development Strategy
and the "two areas along the" construction, and other regional economic
development to provide quality maritime trial services. If, in response to China
- ASEAN Free Trade Area is established maritime economy on the new requirements
of the Marine trial, the hospital timely establishment of the "ASEAN maritime
cases involving special collegiate bench," from the hospital eight judges
elected senior collegial panel composed of judges Judges alternative libraries,
specialized trial involving ASEAN maritime cases. After the founding of the
collegial panel to promote foreign-related cases closely around the
implementation of brand strategy to serve China - ASEAN free trade zone
development as the core, adhere to the principle of equal protection of the law,
"mediation first, adjusting sentence combined with" the principle of open,
transparent and efficient principles and convenience principle, properly
concluded a large number of cases involving maritime ASEAN countries, has won
the praise of Chinese and foreign parties.

*Beihai four team leaders work on maritime court's concern and support,
effectively promoted the self-construction of the maritime court.

*Often concerned to intervene. Although the North Sea maritime court personnel,
financial management relations are not owned by the North Sea, but the four team
leaders Beihai has maintained care, concern the norm in hospital work, in
addition to the hospital by reading timer, periodic summary of the work and the
information presented Briefing to understand the work of the hospital, but also
adhere to an annual field trip to visit the hospital to listen to the House
leadership's work. The last three years, Beihai Municipal Committee (Chief
Municipal People's Congress) and the Municipal Committee, deputy director of the
NPC all, and all of the CPPCC Vice Chairman, Municipal Committee and secretary,
deputy city mayor and deputy mayor and other leaders have related went to the
hospital to guide research, trial function for the hospital to play full service
marine Beihai overall situation of economic and social development work and
achievements fully affirmed that the hospital overall high starting point, the
quality is good, the work "very standard, very legal , it is science and
technology, it is cultural, it is for the people. " August 2013, Beihai
Municipal Committee Wang Xiaodong Zeng Yan in the hospital listened to the work
report of the President of the Institute of Marine judicial functions into full
play full service Beihai overall situation of economic and social development
fully affirmed for the training of cadres specialized courts Use questions to
encourage and support the hospital Secretary Wang sent cadres to local
departments for testing and training exchanges, the current Municipal
Organization Department of the hospital has been sending cadres training issues
on the agenda.

*Actively solve problems. First, efforts to help resolve the hospital building
siting of new trials. The hospital because of the active area is too small trial
complex and can not be expanded at the site, you need to separate siting
relocation. In order to make the siting of the new building work, Zhou Jiabin
when he was mayor and vice mayor Sun Daguang very seriously and personally
instructed the relevant departments of the municipal government support, through
the efforts of the City Planning Commission finally decided the best in Beihai
City District Lots allocated 21.5 acres of land for the new trial to my hospital
building construction and municipal relevant departments to quickly complete
their respective approval. In addition, the land acquisition process, the
Municipal Committee held a meeting in person Mo Xiang also coordinate relevant
and timely completion of the demolition. Second, efforts to help the police
solve the housing problem. Police officers from all over the hospital, new staff
in the North Sea have no housing, in order to solve the vital interests of
police officers involved in the big problem, Beihai municipal government
emergency hospital's urgent, the multi-feasibility studies and try to get the
original hospital dormitory area a small piece of vacant land is changed to
commercial and residential land, allowing developers to build residential
buildings hospital after police organization buy, so that we can live and work.
Three family members employed in the police, schooling, medical care, etc.,
Beihai relevant units are also within the scope of the competence and
responsibility to give a great deal of care and convenience, to solve a lot of
police officers worries.

*Party support. Work was supported by the hospital's Party Beihai Municipal
Organization Department and the municipal committee support. In the municipal
leadership and care, municipal committee led many to the hospital serious
research, guidance of party building work, in 2010 by the party branch was
upgraded to the party committees, and annually thereafter was named outstanding
and other times, won the "North Sea City party building model "," excel advanced
grassroots party organizations, "" Top Ten learning party municipal authorities,
"and many other honors, the hospital continued work of party building to a new
level, and through the Party led by construction, which greatly promoted the
trial and other work.

*Full support for the trial. Duties in the trial on the appointment, Beihai
Municipal People's Congress in time for, but also through various channels
northward mirage Standing Committee of the hospital and the need to introduce
appointed judge, let everyone know the hospital's work and judge the situation,
so that each appointment can be highly ticket even unanimously, that the
appointment of Municipal People's Congress in the North Sea is relatively rare
work. In the case of treatment, Beihai City, four team leaders strictly
independent judicial principles, the handling of specific cases never writing
notes, greeting, toned. But the need for coordination between departments or
parties, the Municipal Committee, secretary of Politics and Law Committee in
particular, both personally coordinating the work.

* Actively promote the government website, and deepen the overall service
capabilities, using information technology to promote open and fair
administration of justice.

* Early planning, timely advance construction of government websites. May 3,
2012, Guangxi High Court held a "region's courts 'online office, online
investigators' on the spot." After the meeting, the North Sea Maritime Court
conscientiously implement the High Court Luodian Long president of information
technology on the spirit of the speech, carried out in August 2012 for
construction of government websites. After more than a year of effort, has
initially built a hospital owns all intellectual property rights by the new
concept, a new service concept of government websites. The process of building
the website, the hospital will the sun of justice, the idea of accessible
justice combining work and trial practice, and strive to improve trial
efficiency and litigation services to meet the needs of the parties, to ensure
the public's right to information, participation and supervision, to win
community to fully trust. Currently, the hospital's government website building
walking in the forefront of the region's courts.

* Government website features prominent, rich in content. Hospital-government
sites to "professional, practical, simple and effective" for the construction
principles, with the "target position clear, accurate and authoritative
information, services targeted, fully featured prominent, simple and practical
design," five characteristics. Administrative hospital site column content is
very rich, concentrated opened a "query services, online litigation, consulting
complaints suggested message announcements, public trial services, government
affairs, sent the court, the database" and twelve columns, consists of more than
70 sub- section. Each section has a different range of services and objects,
each sub-columns have specialized services, reflecting the "one-stop" service
principle. Currently, the hospital has embarked on two Internet sites
development work, and strive to build two Web sites will enhance both service
and openness to upgrade and improve and increase English, Traditional Chinese,
reflecting the characteristics of foreign maritime court, facing the
international openness. Increase online video mediation and online
questionnaires, such as columns, to better serve the public and the parties.

Significant effect on government sites, running well. The opening of the
hospital government website, to further reflect the hospital to perform "justice
for the people," the commitment is to the principle of public trial and the
effective administration of justice embodied, help improve trial efficiency and
promote the effective implementation of trial activities, help publicize the
image of the court , establish a judicial authority and credibility, is
conducive to social supervision, to ensure that judges honest, incorruptible
courts, judicial Qingming, help to promote and deepen the reform of the court.
The hospital will strive to Internet sites into a national-class maritime
specialized courts Administrative website.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                          The Weekender (South Africa)

                                November 6, 2008
                              Business Day Edition

Medi-Clinic upbeat on growth outlook

BYLINE: Tamar Kahn

SECTION: ECONOMY, BUSINESS & FINANCE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 458 words


Medi-Clinic upbeat on growth outlook

Science and Health Editor

PRIVATE hospital group Medi-Clinic says it is optimistic about growth prospects
despite the turmoil on international markets and a slowdown in domestic economic
growth.

The international credit crisis has stifled global economic growth, while here
at home the treasury expects the economy to grow only 4% this year, down from an
average of 5% over the past four years.

Cape-based Medi-Clinic is SA's third-largest hospital group, with about 24% of
the market. With local growth constrained by tight regulatory control, it has
grown its offshore operations. In 2006, it moved into Dubai, acquiring a
controlling stake in Emirates Healthcare Holdings, which opened its new City
Hospital three weeks ago. Last October, it bought Switzerland's biggest private
hospital group, Hirslanden, for $2,36bn

"Our business is relatively immune to economic downturns," Medi-Clinic chairman
Edwin Hertzog said yesterday. "We do find there is a drop-off in cash-paying
patients and some elective procedures like plastic surgery, but on the whole
people still need healthcare and operations," he said.

"Illness doesn't wait for economic cycles," said group CEO Louis Alberts.

In line with expectations, Medi-Clinic announced its acquisition of Hirslanden
knocked the group's interim profits for the six months to September. Headline
earnings per share fell 43% to 51,2c, down from 89,3c in the previous period.
"We fully anticipated these declines ... and informed shareholders," said
Hertzog.

The Hirslanden transaction was funded partly by a R4,5bn rights offer (of
198,7-million shares) last December. It resulted in higher finance charges, and
a 55% increase in the weighted number of ordinary shares for the period
resulting from the rights offer.

Funds raised in the rights offer were also used to finance regional expansion,
including Medi-Clinic's new Cape Gate hospital. The R278m facility will house
140 beds, and is due to be completed in 2010.

Group revenue rose 132% to R7,496bn, up from R3,228bn in the previous
corresponding period. Earnings before interest, tax, debt and amortisation rose
135% to R1,554bn, increasing from R661m last year. Revenue growth was driven by
increased patient volumes across the group, said Alberts.

Medi-Clinic announced a dividend per ordinary share of 21,6c, up 12% on the
19,3c dividend previously.

Hertzog said management intended to focus on exploiting the assets in its stable
and had no immediate plans for further acquisitions.

"We have a high debt burden, and we must make sure we don't overextend
ourselves. Usually the most profitable way to grow business is to deal with
bottlenecks and enlarge existing groups before buying new businesses," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BD


                    Copyright 2008 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Albany Herald, Ga.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday

Phoebe Putney Health System generates $1.2 billion for economy

BYLINE: Jennifer Parks, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words


Sept. 03--ALBANY -- In 2012, Phoebe Putney Health System generated more than
$1.2 billion in revenue for the Albany area and state economy, a recent report
by the Georgia Hospital Association showed.

The report also found that, during the same time period, Phoebe provided
approximately $56.85 million in uncompensated care while sustaining more than
9,484 full-time jobs throughout Southwest Georgia and the rest of the state.

The report revealed that Phoebe had direct expenditures of more than $541.91
million in 2012. When combined with the an economic multiplier developed by the
United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total
economic impact of those expenditures was $1.24 billion.

Georgia hospitals put nearly $40 billion into the state's economy that year, the
GHA said. The report also revealed that hospitals in the state employed more
than 126,000 full- and part-time workers and indirectly created more than
287,000 full-time jobs in Georgia.

Officials say, despite their economic contributions, the state's hospitals,
especially those in rural areas, are facing unprecedented financial challenges.
Since the beginning of 2013, four Georgia hospitals have closed, a fifth
recently announced plans to close and others are struggling. The 2012 Georgia
Department of Community Health Hospital Financial Survey revealed that 60
percent of rural hospitals lost money in 2012, while 42 percent of all hospitals
had negative margins.

A big strain on hospital finances continues to be the growth of uncompensated
care, while Georgia has opted to not expand Medicaid. The GHA study says Georgia
hospitals provided more than $1.6 billion in unpaid care, an increase of about
$60 million from 2011. Forty-five percent of all Georgia hospital patients are
insured through either Medicare or Medicaid. In 2012, Medicare paid 96 percent
of hospital costs, while Medicaid, the state and federal health insurance
program for low-income families, paid Georgia hospitals 87 percent of costs, GHA
said.

While commercial health insurance has traditionally made up for shortfalls in
payments from other sources, GHA officials say changing insurance market
dynamics are making that increasingly difficult. Many Georgians with private
health insurance, including many of those in the Affordable Care Act health
insurance exchanges, have significant annual deductibles that often go unpaid,
leaving hospitals with no payment.

This impact is felt at Phoebe, which serves a region that traditionally has a
higher population of Medicaid patients. Last October, there were 33 management
level positions at Phoebe eliminated followed by a staff reduction of 127
positions -- the latter of which was expected to reduce systemwide operating
costs by $10 million in Fiscal Year 2014.

A few weeks prior to that, merit pay increases and uniform bonuses were cut for
the fiscal year after the Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital failed to meet its
financial goals. In April 2013, officials at Phoebe announced that the hospital
was expected to lose $2 million annually over the course of nine years due to
Medicaid reimbursement reductions. The additional loss of funding caused by the
implementation of ACA resulted in the re-evaluation of management positions and
streamlining of the organization.

The employment multiplier considers the "ripple" effect of direct hospital
expenditures on the economy such as medical supplies, durable medical equipment
and pharmaceuticals.

___ (c)2014 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140903-1AH-Phoebe-Putney-Health-System-generates-1.2-billion-for-economy-0903-
20140903

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                                 Copyright 2014


                              158 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                            October 15, 2004 Friday
                                  City Edition

NEWSLINE - BUSINESS;
Children's hospitals will work together

BYLINE: Patriot Ledger News Services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 435 words


BOSTON - Two children's hospitals said yesterday they have tentatively agreed to
a partnership in maternal and pediatric care.

Children's Hospital Boston and the Floating Hospital for Children at Tufts-New
England Medical Center said they agreed to begin negotiating terms of the
partnership. Children's Hospital Boston was founded in 1869, and today is a
300-bed center for children and teenagers. The Floating Hospital for Children
began as an actual floating hospital that sailed Boston Harbor from 1894 to
1927.

Mortgage rates retreat once again

WASHINGTON - Mortgage rates fell this week, erasing most of last week's big
increase, Freddie Mac reported.

The mortgage giant reported in its weekly survey that 30-year mortgages
retreated to 5.74 percent this week, after climbing to 5.82 percent last week,
which had been the highest level in a month.

Rates on 30-year mortgages hit a high this year of 6.34 percent the week of May
13. Then during the late spring and early summer, rates slowly drifted downward
as economic activity cooled, easing fears about inflation. However, since late
August, rates have been exhibiting a seesaw pattern as markets responded to a
variety of mixed signals on economic growth.

National debt nears $7.4 trillion limit

WASHINGTON -Treasury Secretary John Snow announced that the government has begun
using various accounting procedures to avoid hitting the $7.4 trillion national
debt limit.

Snow made the announcement in a letter to Congress, which has not passed
legislation needed to boost the government's borrowing authority, which now
stands at a statutory limit of $7.4 trillion.

Democrats used Snow's announcement to attack the Bush administration's record
budget deficits, which will force Congress to raise the debt ceiling for the
third time in three years. FDA believes stents now on market safe

BOSTON - Regulators do not expect to take further action after reviewing Boston
Scientific Corp.'s recall of 100,000 heart stents because of a manufacturing
defect linked to three deaths and dozens of serious injuries, a Food and Drug
Administration official said.

Daniel G. Schultz, director of the FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological
Health, said the agency's review backs up the company's contention that it has
fixed the flaw that led to the summer recall, and that stents now on the market
are safe.

Schultz said the agency would continue to collect information on the recall and
could still take action if new reports of problems emerge.

Boston Scientific, based in Natick, employs about 460 people at a warehouse and
call center in Quincy. Patriot Ledger news services

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Patriot Ledger


                              159 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   September 10, 1998, Thursday, ALL EDITIONS

GROWTH & DEVELOPMENT;
World markets won't hurt Cobb, KSU expert says

BYLINE: Chris Reinolds

SECTION: COBB EXTRA; Pg. 07JG

LENGTH: 930 words


Robert Tuttrow, Kennesaw State University chairman of the economic and finance
department, sees a healthy future for Cobb County despite unstable national and
world markets.

"I think both nationally and locally you'll see a second half slower than the
first half (of 1998)," Tuttrow said. Even with the Asia slowdown, Cobb County is
one of the strongest counties in the metro area, he said.

"The labor market here is tight and the unemployment rate's low (in Cobb)," he
said.

The Southeast had less exposure to Asia in terms of exports, he said.

And Cobb's job growth has been in service sectors, not manufacturing which would
be affected by the problems in Asia, he said. Tuttrow, who is co-director of the
Econometrics Center at the university, recently completed a third-quarter
consumer confidence survey of metro Atlanta and it continues to be favorable.

KSU's Econometrics Center produces a monthly purchasing managers index and a
quarterly consumer confidence index, as well as provides economic forecasts for
regional and national groups and municipalities. Bringing it home To generate
more business, the Cobb County Convention & Visitors Bureau has started a new
campaign: "Bring Your Convention Home."

Billboards throughout the county are displaying the convention bureau's new logo
and tagline, "Cobb County, The Very Best of Atlanta," and encouraging residents
to bring their meetings home to Cobb. Convention and Visitors Bureaus do not
charge for their services as a liaison agency to match county meeting venues
with customers.

The billboard design was awarded a 1998 Best Ideas Award in the outdoor
advertising category by the Georgia Association of Convention & Visitors
Bureaus. Hospital reorganization Emory-Adventist Hospital at Smyrna, 3949 South
Cobb Drive, is planning a renovation and reorganization of its first floor in
the next 12 months. Hospital spokeswoman Merri Sheffield said construction will
begin late this year to make the hospital more accessible to outpatient clients
and their families.

The number of people who are using outpatient services has increased 10 percent
in the last year, Sheffield said. And the population growth in south Cobb has
spurred the hospital to upgrade services, redecorate and add new doctors as
well.

Sheffield said the demographics of the patients is shifting from primarily
elderly care to more families and younger patients.

The hospital will be changing the registration area, expanding the waiting rooms
and outpatient surgery rooms for pre- and post-operation care.

"We want to make sure we're using all the space efficiently," Sheffield said.

While patients might have to dust off their clothes a little during the
construction, the hospital will not shut down. The 100-bed hospital has 88
general acute beds and 12 beds in a skilled nursing unit.

The increase in the number of outpatients is due in part to more people on
managed care plans and hospitals shifting their focus toward more outpatient
procedures, Sheffield said. Bank company new name American Bankshares Inc., the
holding company for Riverside Bank, has changed its name to Riverside Bancshares
Inc. Kessel D. Stelling, chairman and chief executive officer, said the change
will allow the holding company to benefit from the Riverside name and
reputation.

Riverside Bancshares is a one-bank holding company with assets of about $ 133
million. Its subsidiary, Riverside Bank, is a full-service financial institution
in Cobb County. Preview of new theaters Regal Cinemas has announced plans to
revamp and rebuild two theaters in Austell and Town Center this year.

The Austell theater will be brand new and have a total of 20 screens. All seats
will be stadium style and theaters will be equipped with digital sound
technology --- the bells and whistles that modern day theater-goers expect.

The theater will seat about 4,500 people and be about 89,000 square feet.
Customers will be able to choose from popcorn and sodas to a gourmet cafe menu
that includes lattes, hot chocolates, ice cream and muffins.

Regal officials have not yet decided what to do with the old Austell theater.
The new theater is scheduled to open next spring.

The Town Center theater complex, currently 12 screens, will be adding four more
and converting all seats to stadium style. However, a gourmet cafe is not
planned for that site, Regal spokesman Phil Zacheretti said.

The renovated theater will seat about 3,700 people and expand to 65,000 square
feet. Pramac consolidation Eighteen months after opening a North American
distribution center in Kennesaw, Pramac Industries Inc. plans to open a
manufacturing plant in Cherokee. The Development Authority of Cherokee County
has approved measures that will enable Pramac to seek up to $ 8 million in
tax-exempt financing. Pramac will close its Kennesaw office.

The company, which manufactures materials handling equipment and generator sets,
expects to move into a 97,000-square-foot building in the Canton-Cherokee
Industrial Park by the end of January, said Richard Kennedy, president of Pramac
Industries Inc., the U.S. subsidiary of Florence, Italy-based Pramac
Industriale, which reported $ 110 million in sales in 1996.

Kennedy hopes to employ 44 people by the end of next year, and eventually double
the size of the company's new Cherokee plant serving the North and South
American markets. If you have any news about growth or development in Cobb
County, call Chris Reinolds at 770-509-4092 or e-mail at creinolds@ajc.com. Her
fax number is 770-509-4170.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Home

GRAPHIC: Photo :
 Cobb flexing economic strength: Smooth sailing lies ahead for Cobb's
 economy, says Robert Tuttrow, chairman of Kennesaw State's economic and
 finance department and co-director of the school's Econometrics Center,
 which provides economic forecasts for regional and national groups. /
 ANDY SHARP / Staff

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution


                              160 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday

Korea to ease rules for FEZ hospitals, schools

LENGTH: 372 words


The Park Geun-hye administration is considering easing a set of business
regulations on medical institutions and schools in free economic zones
nationwide.

During a policy briefing to the president on Thursday, the National Economic
Advisory Council unveiled a vision to develop the service industry by lifting
outdated barriers in terms of attracting foreign capital to the FEZs in Incheon
and other regions.

For the medical sector, the NEAC recommended eliminating the requirements that
foreign hospitals in the FEZs should employ a doctor staff of at least 10
percent expat doctors and that the hospital chief should be a foreigner.

In addition, it is necessary for policymakers to allow Korean hospitals in the
zones to hire foreign doctors, said the council.

The council also called on the government to abolish the rule that limits the
proportion of inpatients for expats in the FEZ hospitals to 5 percent of the
total sickbeds.

It also stressed the necessity of easing the investment rules, saying that
hospitals in FEZs should benchmark Jejudo Island.

Currently, any foreign hospital is entitled to operate in Jeju as long as its
investment capital exceeds $5 million with a foreign investor ratio of 50
percent.

Park and the advisory council also discussed the methods â[#x20ac]o though they
are still at the beginning stages â[#x20ac]o to promote Korean medical
institutions' advancement into the overseas market.

To draw renowned foreign educational institutions, the NEAC said the government
should allow foreign colleges and other schools in the zones to transfer
operational surplus to their countries.

Speaking on the positive effects of the free economic zone on the local economy,
the Committee on Northeast Asian Business Hub last month said the government
would ease regulations in the area to lure as much foreign investment as
possible.

The government plans to inject a total of 202 trillion won ($190 billion) into
the construction of the zone while trying to attract foreign investment worth
$27.6 billion by 2020, the committee said.

Of the total amount, $17.6 billion will be raised through direct foreign
investment while the remaining $10 billion will come from project financing, the
committee said.

By Kim Yon-se (kys@heraldcorp.c

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                           February 28, 2006 Tuesday

Hospital study counts benefits to county;
Economic impact

BYLINE: By BLYTHE BERNHARD , The Orange County Register

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 104 words


Hospitals are powerful economic drivers. So says a first-of-its- kind report
issued today by the Hospital Association of Southern California.

The study looked at hospitals in Southern California. It found that in 2004, 32
hospitals in Orange County supported about $11.5 billion in spending, roughly
7.7 percent of the county's total economic output. Medical spending included
wages, taxes, dry cleaning and phone bills, among many goods and services.

Economic impact

In 2004, hospitals and related businesses in Orange County:

Supported 80,000 jobs.

Paid wages of $4.2 billion.

Churned sales and income taxes of $299 million.

News 3

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: employment: The report says at least 5.5 percent of workers in Orange
County had medical jobs in 2004.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Orange County Register


                              162 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                        May 6, 2002 Monday, Home Edition

Downtown's three hospitals an economic powerhouse

BYLINE: DAVID PENDERED

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Business Horizon; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1672 words


Chad VanDenBerg used to spend his paycheck from Grady Memorial Hospital on rent
for a Virginia-Highland apartment, meals out, sports tickets and other
entertainment.

That was before he bought a condo in Midtown.

"A lot of my money now goes to Home Depot for paint, paint supplies and other
things for the condo," VanDenBerg says with a smile. "It's only 60 percent
finished with furniture and pictures on the wall. So there's a lot to buy."

VanDenBerg, a Grady administrator, is part of a sizable economic engine driven
by three big hospitals in downtown Atlanta.

Grady, Emory Crawford Long Hospital and Atlanta Medical Center --- formerly
Georgia Baptist --- generated an economic impact of $2.9 billion in 2000,
according to recently released studies. The three hospitals in downtown Atlanta
account for nearly 11 percent of the statewide impact of hospitals, studies
show.

"That's a chunk of change," says David Sjoquist, an economist at Georgia State
University.

To put the hospitals' impact in perspective, the three central city institutions
have an impact on the local economy greater than the $2.4 billion gross domestic
product of the Caribbean country of Barbados.

The hospitals, too, will churn more money than the proposed Northern Arc, a
59-mile toll road with a $2.4 billion price tag.

The $2.9 billion is an estimate of the ripple effect created by direct
expenditures by the three hospitals. Direct expenditures in 2000 totaled $937
million, according to studies of the most recent data by the Georgia Hospital
Association and Grady Health System, the umbrella that oversees the state's
largest public hospital, its health clinics and nursing home.

It's easy to overlook hospitals as an economic stimulant.

Most people don't like to think of hospitals until they need health care. Then,
thoughts often turn to trauma and drama and the final bill. Not to mention those
bothersome parking fees.

But downtown development officials are starting to think about how to harness
some of that financial power and keep it in the central city.

"At this point, we only know that the health care industry is a really big issue
for downtown," says Richard Reinhard, president of Central Atlanta Progress. He
realizes he has a challenge.

Hospitals, historically, have appeared to turn their backs on their
neighborhoods.

They aren't a destination point in the sense of a mall or tourist attraction.
And they typically offer in-house amenities that make it easy for workers and
visitors to stay inside rather than create a market for nearby retail and
restaurants.

At Atlanta Medical Center, for example, it's effortless to spend an entire day
without ever venturing outdoors. The hospital and its three medical office
buildings are connected with overhead walkways. Inside there's a post office,
bank, coffee shop, two fast-food restaurants, athletic club, drugstore and
chapel.

There's method to the apparent madness.

"The trend of health care development is to make the environment more friendly
for both the patients and their families," says Adrienne Wade of Atlanta
Medical. "The families don't want to be far from their loved ones, so they don't
want to have to go far to go to the post office or get something to eat. It's a
benefit to have all these services available on campus."

In this regard, downtown hospitals are somewhat like the old campus of Georgia
State University.

The old cluster of buildings provided a self-contained community where students
never had to venture beyond the perimeter. But under the leadership of GSU
President Carl Patton, the campus has expanded into the core business district.
Students who now stop at coffee shops, sandwich shops and convenience stores
create much of the bustle around Five Points.

Two hospitals are moving in the direction of being more interactive with their
community.

Behind what is to be a floral garden, a delightful atrium with towering
black-olive trees is the entry into Emory Crawford Long Hospital's new office
tower.

Grady Memorial Hospital opened a sidewalk plaza four years ago and has leased
land to Georgia State for a student housing high-rise. After a 40-year lease
worth $17.3 million to Grady, the land and all buildings will revert to the
hospital system.

"The concept is to create a livable center in the downtown area," says Edward
Renford, Grady's president and chief executive officer. "Georgia State is
developing the property to fulfill needs for student housing, and it may
eventually have some parking and retail. That definitely will have an economic
impact on the downtown area."

Tapping the synergy

Downtown business leaders are struggling to devise ways to capitalize on the
three hospitals, the incredible amount of money they generate and their
potential research capabilities to create valuable new treatments.

"I wish we knew the answers, but we don't know the answers," says CAP's
Reinhard.  "We've had discussions with the principals from the hospitals, the
educational institutions and some businesses. And there clearly is a synergy
between and among all those businesses here in downtown Atlanta."

CAP is in the early stages of figuring out how downtown can benefit from the
next technology boom. While neither Atlanta nor Georgia got much from the
telecom boom of the last decade, Gov. Roy Barnes is trying to position North
Georgia as a player in the expected health sciences research boom. Some
forecasters say biotech could be even more lucrative than the dot-com economy.

"We're joining with the Georgia Research Alliance to begin working on what the
downtown Atlanta part of the statewide strategy should be," Reinhard says of the
partnership that links research universities, the private sector and state
government. "There probably needs to be folks who look at the whole picture and
say what belongs where."

The state already is building a cancer research center at Grady. Scheduled to
open in January, it will be a key component of Barnes' $1 billion plan to put
Georgia on the map for cancer treatment and research. Barnes wants the state to
earmark up to $400 million of its tobacco settlement for the cancer program over
the next decade, with the rest of the investment to come from the private
sector.

At Grady, the state Board of Regents is overseeing a $24.4 million renovation of
60,000 square feet on two floors.

The center will house the Avon Breast Cancer Center and cancer research done
under auspices of the Georgia Cancer Center for Excellence at Grady.

Collegial competition

Meanwhile, the three downtown hospitals are making strides to continue thriving
despite the huge economic challenges facing hospitals nationwide. Although they
compete for paying patients, the competition appears to be collegial.

Just a mile north of Grady, Emory Crawford Long Hospital is finishing a $270
million renovation of its historic campus on Peachtree Street. The hospital is a
component of Emory HealthCare, Emory's clinical arm.

The project includes a new 20-story building that will provide 356,844 square
feet of medical office space atop a 500,000 diagnostic and treatment center.
Cousins Properties Inc. was the developer and will manage the office space.

Albert Blackwelder, Crawford Long's chief operating officer, says the hospital
plans to grow into several niche medical markets. The biggest growth area could
be for babies born early or in need of intensive care.

"We have no interest in being like Northside Hospital," Blackwelder says of the
baby factory near Sandy Springs. "The market we are trying to get is mothers who
are going to deliver small babies who need high-skill care. The neonatal unit
also could attract mothers who expect to deliver normally but want the comfort
of having this level of care if something is going to go wrong."

Crawford Long is not banking on a boom from the surge of residents --- like
VanDenBerg --- moving to the central city.

"What hasn't decided itself yet is whether the youngsters who buy condos and
come here for gynecological services will stay here when they start a family, or
move out to the suburbs," Blackwelder says. "We can't count on our local
neighborhood here, except the exceptionally wealthy areas like Ansley Park. We
do know that to address the situation we needed a facility that is modern and
convenient and easy to use and easy to get to."

Atlanta Medical Center also is renovating with an eye to building a niche
market. One goal is to continue growing its endoscopy business. AMC, owned by
California-based Tenet HealthCare Corp., is the only downtown hospital to report
that it performs endoscopies, procedures in which a fiber- optic tube is
inserted to examine internal structures.

Bloodless medicine is another growth area, says William Moore, AMC's president
and CEO.

There is an escalating demand for procedures in which donor blood is not used,
he says, because a growing number of patients have religious objections to
transfusions or are wary of the nation's blood supply.

Trickle-down effect

As the high-stakes hospital business swirls around, VanDenBerg --- a director in
Grady's medical affairs division --- and his fiancee engage in economic impact
of a more everyday nature. They meet for lunch at his Midtown condo.

VanDenBerg stopped by his neighborhood Publix and picked up two sandwiches, two
bananas and a big bag of chips. They sat at the kitchen counter in sunlight
streaming through the yawning windows of a renovated 1952 office building and
talked about how they love Midtown.

"There's so much to do around here," says his fiancee, Sarah Niec, who lives
near Emory and coordinates volunteers for the Girl Scouts.

"We're right by Piedmont Park. There are so many restaurants and so many people
walking around. There must be 10 to 20 new stores in the past year. And it's
nice to park the car and be able to walk to so many places.

"This is a great investment."

LOAD-DATE: May 06, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:
Downtown officials are seeking to build upon the economic impact of Grady
Hospital (above), Emory Crawford Long Hospital and Atlanta Medical Center./ BITA
HONARVAR / Staff Photo:
Demolition continues on an old building on the property of Crawford Long
Hospital./ BITA HONARVAR / Staff Photo:
Construction continues on a new cancer center at Grady Hospital./ BITA HONARVAR
/ Staff Photo:
Robert Jordan (left) and Andrew Johnson prepare for renovation of a cardiac
surgery room at Atlanta Medical Center./ BITA HONARVAR / Staff Graphic:
$2.9 BILLION ECONOMIC IMPACT
Three intown hospitals generate $2.9 billion for the local economy. And that
bank is getting bigger with extensive expansions and renovations under way at
all three. Downtown officials are hoping to harness some of that financial power
and keep it in the central city.
1. Crawford Long Hospital
550 Peachtree St.
Owner: Emory University
Type: Not for profit
Economic impact: $666.2 million
Beds set up and staffed: 408
Total physicians: 1,215
Total registered nurses: 604
Average daily total in-patient charge: $2,507
In-patient days: 112,944
Recent construction: $270 million expansion under way, including a 20-story
office tower that is to open in July.
2. Atlanta Medical Center
303 Parkway Drive
Owner: Tenet Health System, GB Inc.
Type: For profit
Economic impact: $594.1 million
Beds set up and staffed: 343
Total physicians: 524
Total registered nurses: 227
Average daily total in-patient charge: $4,717
In-patient days: 69,266
Recent construction: $12 million renovation of patient tower completed in May
2001; this year's $11 million capital improvement program includes renovation of
emergency room and equipment upgrades.
3. Grady Health System
80 Butler St.
Owner: Fulton-DeKalb Hospital Authority
Type: Hospital Authority (not for profit)
Economic impact: $1.5 billion
Beds set up and staffed: 622
Total physicians: 946
Total registered nurses: 1,070
Average daily total in-patient charge: $1,990
In-patient days: 167,507
Recent construction: $24.4 million renovation under way to house a state cancer
center; $318 million renovation finished in 1995.
Note: Grady reports in an internal study a $1.6 billion economic impact.
Source: Georgia Hospital Association, based on reports by hospitals to Georgia
Dept. of Community Health
/ JEROME THOMPSON / Staff Map:
Downtown Atlanta, with Crawford Long Hospital, Atlanta Medical Center and Grady
Health System pinpointed. Graphic:
FULL-TIME JOBS CREATED
All hospitals in the Atlanta area create more than 120,000 a year.
Line graph shows annual number of jobs, in thousands, created from 1996 through
1999 (129,376).

                Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              163 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               December 15, 2008

Economy sends physicians to hospitals for help

BYLINE: By Karen Caffarini, AMNews staff. Dec. 15, 2008

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1 Vol. 51 No. 47

LENGTH: 1688 words



HIGHLIGHT: Increasingly cash-strapped hospitals are willing to listen to
physicians' requests. But experts say that doesn't mean doctors can expect to
have leverage in negotiations.


Physicians and hospitals, each finding themselves in leaky financial ships,
often are climbing into the same lifeboat to stay afloat.

A recent American Hospital Assn. study finds that the recession is leading to a
financial crunch for its members. Hospitals are struggling with declines in
admissions, elective procedures, patient payments and investment income, while
dealing with a marked increase in interest expenses and a drying up of new
credit.

Meanwhile, the study finds physicians clamoring for hospital support, whether
through more pay for providing on-call or other hospital services, or hospital
assistance in funding equipment and technology purchases. The study also found
that some doctors express interest in becoming hospital employees or selling
their practices to hospitals.

"It is hard to tell how this will play out. We don't know how long and deep the
recession will be. Some hospitals have closed. It's hard to tell if others
will," said Caroline Steinberg, AHA vice president for trends analysis.

Hospitals are putting off major building projects or cutting administrative
staff. But experts say tough times have made hospitals more willing than ever to
work with doctors.

"Physicians are hospitals' revenue stream," Steinberg said.

Hospitals are willing to help physicians with much of what they're asking --
provided doing so is within the hospital's means, said recruiters and other
health care experts.

For their part, more physicians are taking on leadership roles in hospitals and
entering into joint ventures in areas such as imaging services and outpatient
surgery.

"The environment is changing; the payment system is changing. It requires close
economic cooperation between physicians and hospitals," said Richard Gundling,
vice president of the Healthcare Financial Management Assn., which represents
health care financial executives and leaders.

Tracking a crisis

The AHA study, "Report on the Economic Crisis: Initial Impact on Hospitals," was
conducted in October and released in late November. It was based on responses
from 736 hospital chief executive officers.

Steinberg said this is the first time AHA has done a study like this, so she had
no numbers for comparison. "We never had a situation like this before. We wanted
an early indication of what's going on."

The study also looked at financial details from 557 hospitals participating in
DATABANK, a Web-based reporting system used in 30 states. According to those
filings, declines in the stock market are most responsible for turning the
hospitals' collective $396.1 million in nonoperating revenue -- revenue not
directly related to patient care -- in the third quarter of 2007 into a
collective $831.5 million loss in the same quarter of 2008.

Meanwhile, 31% of the executives surveyed by the AHA said their hospitals fell
short of projected levels for elective procedures from September through
November, while 38% said they experienced a similar situation with admissions.
And those patients who came to the hospital were less likely to pay. DATABANK
figures showed an 8% increase in uncompensated care between the third quarters
of 2007 ($853.5 million) and 2008 ($923.6 million). The collective hospital
operating margin declined from 6.1% to minus 1.6%.

To get finances back in the black, 59% of hospital CEOs wanted to cut
administrative costs, 53% would reduce staff and 27% would consider cutting
services, according to the AHA study. The CEOs could choose more than one
option.

"We're just above where we need to be financially, but if something should
happen, it could go the other way, into the red. It's a scary thought," said
Renda Jones, practice manager for Margaret Mary Community Hospital in
Batesville, Ind. "We have no overtime. Some employees need to step up to the
plate and do double duty."

As hospitals' financial health declines, physicians are actively seeking help
from hospitals. Fifty-six percent of CEOs reported such requests at their
hospitals in the last three months, according to the AHA. Of those CEOs, 83%
reported physicians wanting more pay for on-call or other services, 69% heard
physicians ask about hospital employment, 31% got inquiries about whether they
would buy physician practices, and 23% got queries to partner on physician
equipment purchases.

But experts say their collective financial problems make it a good time for both
hospitals and physicians to make deals to work together. Hospitals could get
more admissions and patient revenue, while physicians could get more financial
stability.

"Hospitals want to work with physicians who are having a difficult time with
decreased reimbursements and higher insurance costs," said Ed Strogen, owner of
Strogen & Associates Inc., a Berwyn, Pa., consulting firm specializing in the
valuation and sale of medical practices. He said he is seeing both doctors and
hospitals actively recruiting each other.

"We may be in a situation now where it makes financial sense for both parties,"
Strogen said.

Who has leverage?

Past surveys have found physicians moving toward employed or hospital-based
situations long before today's economic crisis. For example, a survey by the
Center for Studying Health System Change found that there was a marked increase
in the percentage of physicians joining large, single-specialty groups and
employed situations. The survey, released in August 2006, covered 1996 to 2005.

Some experts say many hospital positions are still going begging.

"It is still a very attractive, viable market for physicians," said Ellen
Politi, president and director for the physicians service division of Medical
Staffing Associates Inc. in McLean, Va. "There are more opportunities than there
are doctors. Physicians still have bargaining power."

But hospitals are not necessarily giving physicians everything they want.

Jeffrey Bailet, president of Aurora Health Care, consisting of 13 hospitals and
two under construction in Wisconsin, said it is buying some elements of a
practice, like equipment, but physicians aren't making a windfall as a result.
The group, like many hospitals, is not paying for goodwill, which reflects the
cash value of intangible assets of a practice.

"The report reflects what we've been seeing -- independent-minded physicians
wanting to incorporate into Aurora. But this has been going on for a long time,
before the economy started to decline," Bailet said.

Experts say the best way for physicians to gain leverage is to lay out their
cash value for the hospital.

For example, neurosurgeons in some areas have received increased pay for on-call
services by showing hospitals that such pay is but a small reward for the amount
of business neurosurgeons bring in, said Robert E. Harbaugh, MD, chair of the
American Assn. of Neurological Surgeons/Congress of Neurological Surgeons'
Washington Committee and chair of the Dept. of Neurosurgery at Penn State
University.

What doctors are seeking

An American Hospital Assn. report found increased requests for jobs as well as
money. During the past three months, 56% of hospital CEOs said their facility
got more physician requests for aid. Of those CEOs:

83% reported more physicians wanting increased pay for on-call or other services
provided to the hospital.

69% reported more physicians seeking hospital employment.

56% reported an overall increase in doctors asking for financial aid.

31% reported more doctors looking to sell their practices to hospitals.

23% reported more doctors seeking to partner on buying equipment.

Source: "The Economic Crisis: Initial Impact on Hospitals," AHA survey, November
(www.aha.org/aha/content/2008/pdf/08-fullsurveyresults.pdf)

Money crunch

The American Hospital Assn. asked chief executive officers of all nonfederal
hospitals how the capital crisis is affecting their revenues and business
decisions. For hospital utilization increases and declines, percentages
represent CEOs who reported moderate to significant changes. For technology,
percentages represent CEOs reporting purchases postponed or reconsidered.
Capital crunch effects                  CEOs reporting
Uncompensated care increase             51%
Admissions decline                      38%
Variable-rate bond interest expense     33%
increase
Elective procedures decline             31%
Pension funding increases anticipated   31%
Bond issuance forestalled               11%
Debt acceleration                       7%
Cutbacks considered
Administrative costs                    59%
New capacity, renovations postponed,    56%
reconsidered
Staff                                   53%
Clinical technology/equipment           45%
Information technology                  39%
Hospital services                       27%
Asset divestiture                       12%
Mergers                                 8%
Capital crunch effects                  CEOs reporting
Uncompensated care increase             51%
Admissions decline                      38%
Variable-rate bond interest expense     33%
increase
Elective procedures decline             31%
Pension funding increases anticipated   31%
Bond issuance forestalled               11%
Debt acceleration                       7%
Cutbacks considered
Administrative costs                    59%
New capacity, renovations postponed,    56%
reconsidered
Staff                                   53%
Clinical technology/equipment           45%
Information technology                  39%
Hospital services                       27%
Asset divestiture                       12%
Mergers                                 8%

Source: "Report on the Economic Crisis: Initial Impact on Hospitals," AHA
survey, November (www.aha.org/aha/content/2008/pdf/08-fullsurveyresults.pdf)

Falling short

Hospitals are seeing lower levels of utilization than projected.
Measure                   Moderate decline           Significant decline
Elective procedures       25%                        6%
Admissions                29%                        9%
Measure                   Moderate decline           Significant decline
Elective procedures       25%                        6%
Admissions                29%                        9%

Source: "Report on the Economic Crisis: Initial Impact on Hospitals," AHA
survey, November (www.aha.org/aha/content/2008/pdf/08-fullsurveyresults.pdf)

Fewer patients, fewer procedures

Hospitals reported a decrease in volume of procedures in the third quarter,
compared with the same period in 2007.
Measure                                 Decrease
Discharges                              0.7%
Inpatient surgeries                     1.4%
Emergency visits                        1.0%
Ambulatory surgery visits               0.6%
Measure                                 Decrease
Discharges                              0.7%
Inpatient surgeries                     1.4%
Emergency visits                        1.0%
Ambulatory surgery visits               0.6%

Source: "Report on the Economic Crisis: Initial Impact on Hospitals," AHA
survey, November (www.aha.org/aha/content/2008/pdf/08-fullsurveyresults.pdf)

Weblink

"Report on the Economic Crisis: Initial Impact on Hospitals," American Hospital
Assn., November, in pdf
(www.aha.org/aha/content/2008/pdf/081119econcrisisreport.pdf)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

KL seeks $ 33m loan for health care

                                 June 12, 1998


Rising costs of drugs and an increase in the number of patients at government
hospitals are adding to the nation's health care costs

KUALA LUMPUR -Malaysia has requested a M$ 78 million (S$ 33 million) loan from
the World Bank to cope with the rising cost of drugs and increased number of
patients following the economic downturn.

The Star yesterday quoted Health Minister Datuk Chua Jui Meng as saying that
Malaysia needed the money because of an average 15-per-cent increase in drug
costs and 20-per-cent rise in the number of patients at government hospitals.

The increase in the cost of drugs is due mainly to the devaluation of the
Malaysian ringgit as the products are imported.

More people visit government hospitals now because of higher treatment costs at
private clinics and hospitals.

"Last year, we spent M$ 260 million for the purchase of drugs. However, this
year we need a M$ 274 million allocation, or an additional M$ 14 million, to
cope with the economic changes and increased number of patients," he said.

Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, he said World Bank loans had health and
education allocations and he had asked the Treasury to request for a M$ 78
million allocation under the loan to Malaysia.

He said that certain hospitals were experiencing difficulty in purchasing an
adequate supply of drugs due to insufficient funds and the ministry had to come
up with extra money.

He added that some hospitals had requested urgent action.

Citing a case, the minister said Hospital Bahagia in Tanjung Rambutan was found
to have insufficient food and drug supplies caused by misallocation of funds.

RISING COSTS

* An average 15-per-cent increase in drug costs. This is due to the devaluation
of the Malaysian ringgit. * A 20-per-cent rise in the number of patients at
government hospitals because of the higher treatment costs at private clinics
and hospitals.

SECTION: Malaysia; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 320 words

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1998 The Straits Times Press Limited


                              165 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday

Samitivej hospital defers Bt1-bn plan

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 423 words


Samitivej Hospital has delayed its three-year Bt1-billion investment plan
(2009-2011) because of the economic crisis.

"We decide to freeze all major investment plans and wait for an economic
recovery," managing director and CEO Raymond Chong said.

He said the company, in the third quarter of last year, had planned to allocate
roughly Bt1 billion to improve its medical services at its three hospitals -
Samitivej Sukhumvit, Samitivej Srinakarin and Samitivej Sriracha. But the plan
was deferred after the US economic meltdown spread to other countries, including
Thailand.

The Bt1-billion investment budget was formerly set to improve the dental and eye
departments at Samitivej Sukhumvit and expanding those divisions. There were
also plans to provide more medical technology to Samitivej Srinakarin as that
hospital had been the top performer with a 20-per-cent increase in revenue in
2008 compared with the other two hospitals of the Samitivej group.

The budget also included a provision to build the second building at Samitivej
Sri Racha. At present, occupancy rate of that hospital is 80 per cent, said
Chong.

The main reason for delaying the investment plan, he said, was that the hospital
this year has decided to maintain last year's medical treatment fees.

In addition, it has started a 30-per-cent discount campaign for patient rooms to
celebrate its 30th anniversary this year. The discount will run from now until
the end of June this year.

"Although medical inflation is expected to increase by 4 per cent this year, we
decided to absorb the increasing costs and extend our policy not to adjust
medical treatment fee for another year. We want to draw more patients to
Samitivej. We have to also maintain our medical treatment standard at the same
time. So we have to save more cash and focus on only medical services instead of
business expansion," he said.

Samitivej has also cut its Bt500-million budget for the connected-hospital
programme, which was aimed at improving the IT system at Samitivej Sukhumvit. It
will now spend only 30 per cent of the total budget this year, he added.

Chong said the company would revise its investment plan and the connected
hospitals programme in this year's third quarter.

However, the hospital would spend only 2-3 per cent of its total revenue on
improving staff capability, information-technology system and replacing some
medical instruments, said he.

Samitivej expected revenue growth of 15-16 per cent last year compared to 2007,
and is targeting revenue growth of 8-10 per cent for this year.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                   January 28, 2003 Tuesday Marshall Edition

Bremen council endorses expansion plans

BYLINE: By JOSHUA STOWE; Tribune Staff Writer

SECTION: NATION; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 280 words


BREMEN -- Community Hospital of Bremen could be one step closer to getting a $16
million U.S. Department of Agriculture loan that would help pay for a new
building.

The Town Council voted unanimously Monday night to favorably recommend the
hospital's loan request.

Duwaine Elliott, town manager and director of economic development for Bremen,
said an expanded hospital would strengthen the town's economy.

"I feel it would be an economic boost for Bremen," he said before the vote.
"From an economic development standpoint, I'd certainly ask the council's
support in the matter."

Hospital administrators applied for the loan in December. If approved, the loan
would pay for a 65,000-square-foot building that would better accommodate the
hospital's growing number of patients.

The loan is administered through the USDA's Rural Development division and is
designed for hospitals in communities with fewer than 10,000 residents.

If Community Hospital of Bremen's loan request is approved this year,
construction on the new building could begin next year and would be finished in
2005.

In other business, the council voted to extend David Holmes's contract as town
attorney for another year.

Council members also approved raising the Bremen Electric company's fines from
$10 to $25. The fines apply to late electric bill payments and to customers who
have their power disconnected twice or more in a year.

Bremen Police Chief Mathew Hassel announced that Trent Stouder and Dana Cole
have finished police training and are ready to join the Bremen Police Department
as patrol officers.

Staff writer Joshua Stowe:

jstowe@sbtinfo.com

(574) 936-1021


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2003 South Bend Tribune Corporation


                              167 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Fresno Bee (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             January 9, 2009 Friday

Saint Agnes lays off 28 employees

BYLINE: Tim Sheehan, The Fresno Bee, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 382 words


Jan. 9--More than two dozen jobs at Saint Agnes Medical Center are being cut as
the hospital copes with economic turmoil.

Saint Agnes officials announced Thursday that 28 employees were laid off from
the staff of more than 2,900 employees at the 436-bed hospital.

"This was a very difficult decision, but given the current economic environment
it became necessary for us to make these reductions to preserve our ministry,"
Thomas Anderson, the hospital's acting chief executive, said in a statement.
"Every industry nationwide is feeling the impact of the economy, and health care
is no exception."

Kelley Sanchez, director of communications at Saint Agnes, said all of the jobs
were spread throughout the hospital's various departments and that none involve
direct patient care. She said the hospital continues to recruit nurses and other
patient-care positions.

The layoffs were effective Thursday. Sanchez said each worker will receive 45
days of pay, plus a severance package based on years of service. The hospital
also is offering job-placement help for the workers. Anderson blamed rising
unemployment, an increase in the number of uninsured patients, a growing demand
for charity care and decreasing reimbursements by insurers Medi-Cal and
Medicare. He also said the hospital has suffered losses from investments.

Hospitals across California are feeling similar effects from the state's reeling
economy. A report issued Wednesday by the California Hospital Association says
the crisis in the financial markets is accompanied by declining state and
federal reimbursement, bad debts and other factors. C. Duane Dauner, the
association's president, said the economic amalgam "is leading to a decline in
the financial health of California's hospitals at the very time when demand for
health care services is growing."

The reporter can be reached at tsheehan@fresnobee.com or (559) 441-6319.

To see more of The Fresno Bee, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.fresnobee.com Copyright (c) 2009, The Fresno Bee, Calif. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090109-FR-Saint-Agnes-lays-off-28-employees-0109

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FR


                         Copyright 2009 The Fresno Bee


                              168 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             April 19, 2009 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

IMPACT ON TOTAL DANE COUNTY EMPLOYMENT GOES FAR BEYOND HOSPITAL WALLS

BYLINE: Compiled by Professor Steve Deller

SECTION: BUSINESS; ECONOMIC SNAPSHOT; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 205 words


In the first article in this series, we learned that businesses create jobs in
three ways. First, they hire employees (direct employment). Second, businesses
spend money on the goods and services they need to operate. This spending
supports additional employment in the firms that provide those goods and
services (indirect employment).

Finally, more jobs are created as people employed by the business and those
employed by their suppliers spend their wages and salaries (induced employment).

This is known as the employment multiplier effect.

A recent study of the economic impact of the hospital industry in Wisconsin
calculated an employment multiplier of 1.773 for hospitals. That means that
spending by Wisconsin hospitals, their employees and their suppliers' employees
translates into another 1.773 jobs outside the hospitals.

In 2006, hospitals in Dane County employed 12,286 people. Applying the
employment multiplier reveals that the hospital industry in the county supported
an estimated 21,783 jobs (12,286 x 1.773). The following chart includes the
direct, indirect and induced impact for hospitals in Dane County.

The full report is available at: http://www.uwex.edu/ces/cced/economies/d
ocuments/HealthyHospitals_web.pdf

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Employment.  Week 3:  The Multiplier Effect.

GRAPHIC: State Journal graphic Source: Wisconsin Department of Workforce
Development, Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages Employment by Dane County
hospitals Economic Snapshot is a weekly feature provided by the UW-Extension.
QUESTIONS: Contact Bill Pinkovitz, Center for Community and Economic
Development, UW-Extension at billpinkovitz@uwex.edu

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

Row over hospitals rekindled

BYLINE: Lee Ji-yoon

LENGTH: 481 words


Ministries failed to narrow differences over the introduction of profit-oriented
mega hospitals in their first joint analysis report released yesterday.

Under the current law, only individuals, schools and other non-profit entities
can establish a hospital here. However, if for-profit medical facilities are
allowed, anyone can set up a hospital and operate it as a listed company.

Currently among 30 member states of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, Korea, Japan and the Netherlands do not allow profit-oriented
hospitals.

The Ministry of Strategy and Finance has supported the proposal, saying it will
improve the nation's medical services and have a ripple effect on the entire
economy.

However, the Ministry for Health, Welfare and Family Affairs has claimed that
the deregulation would lead to overall price hikes in the medical service market
and widen the service quality gap between the haves and have-nots.

Amid controversies deepening, early November the two ministries had asked two
state-run research institutes to conduct a joint study on the need for
profit-seeking hospitals here in a bid to renew their discussions.

However, as predicted, the Korea Health Industry Development and the Korea
Development Institute yesterday released two conflicting analysis, reconfirming
the fierce differences between the two ministries. And their joint news
briefing, scheduled in the morning, was also cancelled.

In their separate reports, the two institutes agreed that profit-seeking
hospitals would revitalize the nation's medical industry and enough safety
measures should be made against possible side effects.

However, KDI put more emphasis on deregulation's positive economic effects,
while KHDI expressed concerns that the new measure could seriously unsettle the
public health care sector.

"According to the (KDI) report, profit-oriented hospitals would generate more
positive economic effects then side effects. Because the two institutes
suggested a compromise proposal, the side-effects would be reduced as well,"
said an official of the Finance Ministry.

However, the Health Ministry cautioned about the immediate revision of the
current medical law, saying that a full-fledged discussion over the issue has
just started.

"The Health Ministry is in charge of the medical law revision. If sufficient
remedial measures are not prepared before allowing for-profit hospitals, we
can't change the law," Health Minister Jeon Jae-hee said at a meeting with news
editors yesterday.

"It seems that the Finance Ministry is pushing the revision ahead as a way of
creating jobs and attracting investments. Despite such positive things, however,
the public nature of medical services should be maintained," she said.

"For now, there are no countermeasures. Further discussions (with the Finance
Ministry) need to be done and it will take a long time."

(jylee@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Broomfield Enterprise, Colo.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday

Children's Hospital to break ground Monday in Broomfield

BYLINE: Joe Rubino, Broomfield Enterprise, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 421 words


April 02--Children's Hospital plans to break ground in a ceremony Monday on the
new outpatient clinic it is building in Broomfield's Arista neighborhood.

The ceremony is scheduled to begin at 11:45 a.m. and is estimated to run until
12:15 p.m. Broomfield Mayor Pat Quinn and Jim Shmerling, president and CEO of
Children's Hospital, will be among the event's specials guests.

"We welcome the opportunity to build a new Network of Care location in
Broomfield, at the hub of the Northwest Corridor," Shmerling said in an e-mail.
"Undoubtedly, there will be a greater need to serve families in this growing
area and we will enthusiastically meet that need.

"We believe that children and their families deserve a way to access the same,
excellent care available on our main campus, but in their own backyards."

The new clinic, estimated to cost $2.1 million, will be the 16th network of care
clinic built by The Children's Hospital. Children's opened a 46,000-square-foot
clinic at 469 W. Colo. 7 in north Broomfield in 2008. The hospital's main
facility is on Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora.

The new 20,000-square-foot Broomfield facility will sit on the northwest corner
of Arista Place and Uptown Avenue across the street from the Aloft Broomfield
Denver Hotel in Arista. It will provide audiology, occupational therapy,
physical therapy, and speech and learning services. A sensory park will also be
built on the 3.46-acre property to aid some children in their sense-based
therapies. The park will be open to the public, according to developers.

Jessica Erickson, president and CEO of the public-private Broomfield Economic
Development Corporation, said Friday the new clinic will be an excellent
resource to Broomfield residents and be a source of economic growth in the
Arista area.

"Any new development in this economic climate is good news," Erickson said.
"Development of a hospital facility in any climate brings with it jobs, new
retail opportunities and tax revenue. BEDC is proud to have played a role in
bringing this project to Broomfield and is excited to celebrate the
groundbreaking on Monday."

Early estimates indicate the clinic will be open by the early fall.

To see more of the Broomfield Enterprise or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.broomfieldenterprise.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Broomfield Enterprise,
Colo. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110402-1BE-Children-s-Hospital
-to-break-ground-Monday-in-Broomfield-0402-20110402

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1BE


                      Copyright 2011 Broomfield Enterprise


                              171 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Private hospitals hit as patients turn to govt facilities

                                December 9, 1997


Regional Economic CRUNCH

BANGKOK -Private hospitals in Thailand, reeling under the economic crisis, are
looking for new ways to survive as patients flock to cheaper government
facilities.

The Nation newspaper reported yesterday that a 20-per-cent drop in the number of
patients has prompted private hospitals to offer attractive health-care
packages.

Some hospitals are also consolidating services and improving efficiency to stay
competitive.

Bangkok General Hospital, for example, has formed an alliance with two other
private establishments, Ramkhamhaeng Hospital and Kasemrat Hospital.

"Alliances are one way private hospitals can overcome the economic crisis, which
has seen patients moving to government hospitals or simply buying medicine from
pharmacies and treating themselves," managing director Pongsak Viddayakorn said.

The hospital is also discussing possible mergers with partners, he said.

This could include pooling of staff, medical equipment and joint purchasing.
Vibhavadi General Hospital's managing director Savek Taranat said the hospital
had arranged a share swap with Chaophraya Hospital and acquired a share in
Piyarat Hospital.

The partnership is aimed at sharing patients and medical equipment to reduce
overheads and overcome problems arising from an expected 10-per-cent fall in the
number of patients this year.

Vibhavadi General had projected revenue at 500 million bahts (S$ 20 million) for
this year.

It has set up a central warehouse for medicine and other pharmaceutical goods,
joining its two partners in the bulk purchase of medicines and equipment in a
bid to lower overall costs.

The hospital has no plans to lay off any of its 650 full-time staff, but will
rotate them through other tasks to improve efficiency.

Said Bumrungrad Hospital's chief executive Curtis Schroeder: "This is a good
time for private hospitals to improve efficiency.

"This will result in much more efficient hospitals once Thailand is out of the
recession."

The Nation report said middle-income earners would continue to move back to
government hospitals and rely on social-security services once they lose their
jobs and the benefits they were receiving ceased.

SECTION: South-East Asia half price, anyone?"; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 369 words

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1997 The Straits Times Press Limited


                              172 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                                 April 26, 2016

New Firm to Manage King Faisal Hospital

BYLINE: Julius Bizimungu

LENGTH: 506 words


The Government has signed a deal with Oshen Healthcare Rwanda Limited that will
see the latter manage King Faisal Hospital, Kigali.

The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the Rwanda Development Board
signed the concession agreement on behalf of the Government, expected to
facilitate maintenance, upgrading of hospital infrastructure, financing new
investments, and operating services that the hospital provides.

Under the deal, Oshen Healthcare Rwanda Limited is also expected to turn the
hospital into a multi-speciality regional referral facility.

The firm will invest Euro 21 million (about Rwf17 billion) for the next five
years, according to the deal.

The agreement grants permission to the investor to be able to operate in Rwanda
and documents the main roles and responsibilities of both the investor and the
Government of Rwanda to ensure King Faisal Hospital, Kigali, is able to operate
as a regional referral hospital with several specialities.

The Minister for Finance and Economic Planning, Amb. Claver Gatete, said: "This
investment comes at a time Rwanda's ambition is to become a medical hub for the
region. It is through right investments that the hospital can provide excellent
medical services, thus expanding its catchment area."

Rwanda Development Board chief executive Francis Gatare noted that such
initiatives help enhance economic values of the country.

"The provision of world class health care to all Rwandans is a priority for the
Government. The private investments to transform King Faisal Hospital into a
multi-speciality regional referral hospital provide great economic value," he
said.

The concession is based on performance indicators such as introduction of new
procedures, equipment and latest technologies, improvement of management
structure and offering training to local professionals in medicine and nursing
as well as maintaining the hospital's conformity to international standards.

"It's a challenge we are relishing. We have received the right support from
government and with the right people we look forward to transforming King Faisal
Hospital into a regional referral hospital," said Alex Lifschitz, the
vice-president of Sphere Global Health Care, the firm which is part of Oshen
Group SA.

Oshen Healthcare Rwanda Limited is wholly owned by Oshen Group SA, a company
incorporated in Angola.

Dr Emile Rwamasirabo, the chief executive of King Faisal Hospital, Kigali, said
the agreement is based on mutual understanding and will not affect the ownership
of the hospital as many might think.

"This is a service delivery-based concession agreement, and it's based on mutual
satisfaction agreed among partners. We have not tied it to a long period of time
but rather to the delivery of agreed upon services," Dr Rwamasirabo said.

"This is giving us the confidence to believe that this is the best agreement
while we are not having any partners rushing to recover investments over a short
period of time, but as a partnership meant for delivery of improved and
top-notch health care services."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                October 18, 2010

Economic credentialing policy struck down by Arkansas high court

BYLINE: By Amy Lynn Sorrel, amednews correspondent. Posted Oct. 18, 2010.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 20 Vol. 53 No. 42

LENGTH: 757 words



HIGHLIGHT: Justices rule that the state's largest hospital system was not
justified in denying staff privileges to physicians who owned shares in a rival
facility.


Arkansas' highest court unanimously rejected a hospital system's economic
credentialing policy, saying the facility was unjustified in denying staff
privileges to a group of physicians with an ownership stake in a competing
specialty hospital.

The Arkansas Supreme Court upheld a 2009 trial court decision that found Baptist
Health's policy of restricting privileges based on financial concerns interfered
with patient-physician relationships and suppressed competition, in violation of
state laws.

Little Rock-based Baptist, the largest hospital system in Arkansas, instituted
its economic conflict-of-interest policy in 2003, causing 12 staff cardiologists
who owned a competing specialty heart hospital to lose their privileges. The
physicians sued. The high court's final ruling permanently bars Baptist from
enforcing its policy.

"Baptist's motive was to discourage competition by physicians who considered
investing in specialty hospitals, and Baptist wanted to force patients to choose
between it and [their doctors]," the Sept. 30 opinion stated. "The [plaintiffs']
interest was in patient-physician relationships and continuity of care, which
outweighed Baptist's interest in protecting its economic viability because no
evidence supported Baptist's purported need for the policy."

The court also rejected Baptist's arguments that the doctors' case was
invalidated by a 2008 federal appeals court decision dismissing a separate
antitrust lawsuit brought by the physician investors in the Arkansas Heart
Hospital.

Representatives of organized medicine say the ruling affirms the sanctity of the
patient-physician relationship and helps to promote quality care by encouraging
competition and patient choice. Policies like Baptist's serve only to restrict
patient care, not protect it, said American Medical Association President Cecil
B. Wilson, MD.

"Patients benefit when physicians have admitting privileges at multiple health
care facilities," giving patients the option to choose a place that best suits
their needs, he said. "The primary factor in credentialing physicians should be
competency, not economic factors unrelated to quality."

The AMA and the Arkansas Medical Society joined the case as plaintiffs. The
Litigation Center of the American Medical Association and the State Medical
Societies contributed to the physician plaintiffs' legal expenses.

Impact of the ruling

The decision is believed to be the first of its kind by a state Supreme Court
and probably will guide courts nationwide in deciding the validity of hospital
economic credentialing policies, said Jack R. Bierig, who represented the AMA
and AMS.

"Other forms of economic credentialing are going to have to be decided on a
case-by-case basis as to whether they are consistent with the laws of that
state. But this is the first and strongest case that says hospital policies
based on economic interests will be scrutinized, and if the hospital goes too
far, [the policy] will be struck down," said Bierig, a health law and policy
professor at the University of Chicago Law School. "Courts are going to have to
look at what is the justification offered by a hospital; is the policy narrowly
tailored to meet that justification; and does [the policy] give physicians an
opportunity to present their case."

In a statement, Baptist said it had an "absolute right" to have a
conflict-of-interest policy, noting that the practice was commonplace in other
industries. The hospital system said it is evaluating the ruling to determine
its next steps.

Baptist had argued that its policy was aimed at protecting patients from
potential conflicts when physicians refer to their own facilities, and that such
actions can undermine hospitals' livelihoods when they are left with
unprofitable charity care.

"Certainly, patients have a right to be treated where they want," said Elisa M.
White, vice president and general counsel at the Arkansas Hospital Assn., which
was not involved in the case.

But concerns about the potential for physicians' outside interests to interfere
with their treatment decisions have been raised by the health care industry at
large, White said. Although the Supreme Court agreed that "society has a strong
interest in Baptist's continued viability, the evidence showed that its finances
were never at risk. These factors, and others, led to the [trial] judge's
ultimate finding that Baptist had acted improperly."

Justices did, however, reverse a portion of the lower court ruling that
Baptist's policy violated the state's Deceptive Trade Practices Act.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                October 18, 2010

Economic credentialing policy struck down by Arkansas high court

BYLINE: By Amy Lynn Sorrel, amednews correspondent. Posted Oct. 18, 2010.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 20 Vol. 53 No. 42

LENGTH: 757 words



HIGHLIGHT: Justices rule that the state's largest hospital system was not
justified in denying staff privileges to physicians who owned shares in a rival
facility.


Arkansas' highest court unanimously rejected a hospital system's economic
credentialing policy, saying the facility was unjustified in denying staff
privileges to a group of physicians with an ownership stake in a competing
specialty hospital.

The Arkansas Supreme Court upheld a 2009 trial court decision that found Baptist
Health's policy of restricting privileges based on financial concerns interfered
with patient-physician relationships and suppressed competition, in violation of
state laws.

Little Rock-based Baptist, the largest hospital system in Arkansas, instituted
its economic conflict-of-interest policy in 2003, causing 12 staff cardiologists
who owned a competing specialty heart hospital to lose their privileges. The
physicians sued. The high court's final ruling permanently bars Baptist from
enforcing its policy.

"Baptist's motive was to discourage competition by physicians who considered
investing in specialty hospitals, and Baptist wanted to force patients to choose
between it and [their doctors]," the Sept. 30 opinion stated. "The [plaintiffs']
interest was in patient-physician relationships and continuity of care, which
outweighed Baptist's interest in protecting its economic viability because no
evidence supported Baptist's purported need for the policy."

The court also rejected Baptist's arguments that the doctors' case was
invalidated by a 2008 federal appeals court decision dismissing a separate
antitrust lawsuit brought by the physician investors in the Arkansas Heart
Hospital.

Representatives of organized medicine say the ruling affirms the sanctity of the
patient-physician relationship and helps to promote quality care by encouraging
competition and patient choice. Policies like Baptist's serve only to restrict
patient care, not protect it, said American Medical Association President Cecil
B. Wilson, MD.

"Patients benefit when physicians have admitting privileges at multiple health
care facilities," giving patients the option to choose a place that best suits
their needs, he said. "The primary factor in credentialing physicians should be
competency, not economic factors unrelated to quality."

The AMA and the Arkansas Medical Society joined the case as plaintiffs. The
Litigation Center of the American Medical Association and the State Medical
Societies contributed to the physician plaintiffs' legal expenses.

Impact of the ruling

The decision is believed to be the first of its kind by a state Supreme Court
and probably will guide courts nationwide in deciding the validity of hospital
economic credentialing policies, said Jack R. Bierig, who represented the AMA
and AMS.

"Other forms of economic credentialing are going to have to be decided on a
case-by-case basis as to whether they are consistent with the laws of that
state. But this is the first and strongest case that says hospital policies
based on economic interests will be scrutinized, and if the hospital goes too
far, [the policy] will be struck down," said Bierig, a health law and policy
professor at the University of Chicago Law School. "Courts are going to have to
look at what is the justification offered by a hospital; is the policy narrowly
tailored to meet that justification; and does [the policy] give physicians an
opportunity to present their case."

In a statement, Baptist said it had an "absolute right" to have a
conflict-of-interest policy, noting that the practice was commonplace in other
industries. The hospital system said it is evaluating the ruling to determine
its next steps.

Baptist had argued that its policy was aimed at protecting patients from
potential conflicts when physicians refer to their own facilities, and that such
actions can undermine hospitals' livelihoods when they are left with
unprofitable charity care.

"Certainly, patients have a right to be treated where they want," said Elisa M.
White, vice president and general counsel at the Arkansas Hospital Assn., which
was not involved in the case.

But concerns about the potential for physicians' outside interests to interfere
with their treatment decisions have been raised by the health care industry at
large, White said. Although the Supreme Court agreed that "society has a strong
interest in Baptist's continued viability, the evidence showed that its finances
were never at risk. These factors, and others, led to the [trial] judge's
ultimate finding that Baptist had acted improperly."

Justices did, however, reverse a portion of the lower court ruling that
Baptist's policy violated the state's Deceptive Trade Practices Act.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                February 8, 2010

Hospital mass layoffs hit new high in 2009

BYLINE: By Victoria Stagg Elliott, amednews staff. Posted Feb. 8, 2010.

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 446 words



HIGHLIGHT: The number of workers affected by layoffs of 50 or more people also
was high in ambulatory health services settings.


Hospitals in 2009 experienced the greatest number of mass layoffs since the
Bureau of Labor Statistics started tracking those numbers in 1996, according to
a report the Dept. of Labor agency issued Jan. 27.

"The economic downturn has continued to impact many hospitals nationwide," said
Matt Fenwick, American Hospital Assn. spokesman. "Hospitals may be particularly
vulnerable now because the effect on the health care system can be lagged."

A mass layoff is defined as 50 people losing their jobs from a single employer.
Hospitals had 152 such incidents in 2009, leading 11,787 to claim unemployment
benefits. The year 2008 was the second-highest on record, with 112 mass layoffs
involving 9,268 people. But the number of people who lost their jobs in the
health care sector in 2009 fell short of 2005's record of 13,282, a number
exacerbated by layoffs from facilities that were damaged by Hurricane Katrina.

The monthly totals declined near the end of 2009, with seven mass layoffs apiece
in both November and December, the only months in which there were not more than
10 mass layoffs. However, the decline may be due to seasonal variation,
according to the bureau.

According to an American Hospital Assn. survey released Nov. 11, 2009, 51% of
the 768 CEO respondents reduced staff in response to economic pressures. In
addition, 84% cut administrative expenses, and 20% reduced services. Other
surveys have found hospitals' bottom lines improving in 2009 thanks to the
cutbacks, as well as improved investment markets.

The impact of the economic downturn also is being reflected in surveys at the
state level. According to one by the New Jersey Hospital Assn. released Jan. 13,
43% of member institutions laid off employees and 28% eliminated vacant
positions. Approximately 82% were experiencing an increase in charity care
patients, and all experienced declines in donations to support this work.

"Hospitals are not recession-proof," said NJHA President and CEO Betsy Ryan.
"They face the same burdens and fiscal pressures as any other industry when the
economy sours. But patients need health care services -- recession or not -- and
they continue to turn to hospitals. This combined burden places tremendous
pressures on hospitals. For many of them, cost-cutting measures such as layoffs
are unavoidable."

Ambulatory health care services, a category that includes physician offices,
also were hit by the recession. A total of 85 mass layoffs occurred in 2009, the
second-highest total since the numbers were first tracked in 1996. The 2009
layoffs led to 6,630 workers claiming unemployment, the most ever recorded by
the BLS in the ambulatory health care services category.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                February 8, 2010

Hospital mass layoffs hit new high in 2009

BYLINE: By Victoria Stagg Elliott, amednews staff. Posted Feb. 8, 2010.

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 446 words



HIGHLIGHT: The number of workers affected by layoffs of 50 or more people also
was high in ambulatory health services settings.


Hospitals in 2009 experienced the greatest number of mass layoffs since the
Bureau of Labor Statistics started tracking those numbers in 1996, according to
a report the Dept. of Labor agency issued Jan. 27.

"The economic downturn has continued to impact many hospitals nationwide," said
Matt Fenwick, American Hospital Assn. spokesman. "Hospitals may be particularly
vulnerable now because the effect on the health care system can be lagged."

A mass layoff is defined as 50 people losing their jobs from a single employer.
Hospitals had 152 such incidents in 2009, leading 11,787 to claim unemployment
benefits. The year 2008 was the second-highest on record, with 112 mass layoffs
involving 9,268 people. But the number of people who lost their jobs in the
health care sector in 2009 fell short of 2005's record of 13,282, a number
exacerbated by layoffs from facilities that were damaged by Hurricane Katrina.

The monthly totals declined near the end of 2009, with seven mass layoffs apiece
in both November and December, the only months in which there were not more than
10 mass layoffs. However, the decline may be due to seasonal variation,
according to the bureau.

According to an American Hospital Assn. survey released Nov. 11, 2009, 51% of
the 768 CEO respondents reduced staff in response to economic pressures. In
addition, 84% cut administrative expenses, and 20% reduced services. Other
surveys have found hospitals' bottom lines improving in 2009 thanks to the
cutbacks, as well as improved investment markets.

The impact of the economic downturn also is being reflected in surveys at the
state level. According to one by the New Jersey Hospital Assn. released Jan. 13,
43% of member institutions laid off employees and 28% eliminated vacant
positions. Approximately 82% were experiencing an increase in charity care
patients, and all experienced declines in donations to support this work.

"Hospitals are not recession-proof," said NJHA President and CEO Betsy Ryan.
"They face the same burdens and fiscal pressures as any other industry when the
economy sours. But patients need health care services -- recession or not -- and
they continue to turn to hospitals. This combined burden places tremendous
pressures on hospitals. For many of them, cost-cutting measures such as layoffs
are unavoidable."

Ambulatory health care services, a category that includes physician offices,
also were hit by the recession. A total of 85 mass layoffs occurred in 2009, the
second-highest total since the numbers were first tracked in 1996. The 2009
layoffs led to 6,630 workers claiming unemployment, the most ever recorded by
the BLS in the ambulatory health care services category.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MORRISANIA;
'Anchor' for Neglected Area

BYLINE: By ANDREA K. WALKER

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 428 words


For 20 years, the abandoned Morrisania Hospital building was a symbol of
everything that had gone wrong in the Bronx. Vagabonds and drug addicts shared
the dank, dark space with rats. The windows were broken and missing, the floors
and walls had been stripped bare. Forgotten and empty, it towered over its
equally overlooked neighborhood, the poorest Congressional district in the
nation.

Now, after 14 months of reconstruction, the hospital, whose opening in the
1920's was seen as a sign of the borough's rising prosperity, has been reborn.
The sprawling block-long building will soon become home to more than 100
low-income families as well as a training center for child-care and catering
industry jobs.

The story of Morrisania Hospital's rebirth is about more than just renovating a
gutted shell. It is also about erasing a major remaining sign of urban decline
and giving an impoverished neighborhood a core for economic development. "It
means all sorts of wonderful things," said Margarita Hunt, district manager for
Community Board 4. "We now have much-needed new homes and an anchor to the
community that will spur economic development."

The transformation of Morrisania was the first big job of the Women's Housing
and Economic Development Corporation, in collaboration with other groups. The
huge neo-Renaissance building had been all but ignored since the hospital closed
in 1976. But securing the right to use it for apartments tested the political
savvy and determination of the fledgling group. Among the difficulties were
rallying political support and gathering the needed $23 million in state,
Federal and private money.

Of 132 new apartments, 48 have been set aside for the homeless. Tenants are to
begin moving in next month. A day-care center for 72 children has been created,
as well as a clinic and a state-of-the art kitchen for local residents to learn
professional cooking and catering. A small building, once the ambulance garage,
has been turned into a community gym. A public school will eventually occupy an
adjacent building.

"Lots of times people see new residents coming into their neighborhood and
getting services," said Nancy Biberman, president of the development
organization, "and they feel as if they've lived here and gotten nothing. This
is for the community."

Hurdles remain, including funding to run the day-care center and cooking and
catering classes. But last week Ms. Biberman was delighted to learn that Brooke
Astor had donated $1 million to the building's reserve fund.   ANDREA K. WALKER

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Morrisania Hospital building, abandoned for 20 years, will
soon house 100 low-income families. The renovation project was spearheaded by a
development corporation headed by Nancy Biberman (right). (Photographs by Chris
Maynard for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday

Nurses, patients returning to public system amid economic downturn

BYLINE: Amy Nip

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 307 words


More nurses and patients are returning to public hospitals from the private
sector, the Hospital Authority says.

In the past week, the authority had recruited more than 10 nurses from private
hospitals, non-government organisations and from overseas, authority chief
manager (nursing) Sylvia Fung Yuk-kuen  said.

Some had shifted from public hospitals to private ones less than a year ago, she
said.

The nurses had not been laid off by private hospitals but had found it difficult
adapting to the private-sector environment.

And clinics and emergency rooms in public hospitals had seen a rise in the
number of patients in recent months, she said.

She suggested the economic downturn could be driving a shift by patients from
private to public hospitals, a phenomenon that would increase the authority's
need for nurses. The Hospital Authority planned to recruit about 720 nurses next
year, 10 more than the target set this year.

Ms Fung also expected fewer nurses would quit their jobs in public hospitals as
private-sector recruitment decreased in the near future. One in 20 nurses
working in public hospitals quit this year, according to the authority.

In the long term, the authority would train more registered nurses, Ms Fung
said. Nursing schools at Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Tuen Mun Hospital and Caritas
Medical Centre were now running programmes that would produce 900 qualified
nurses in the next three years.

Salaries for nurses working in private care centres could be lower than in
public hospitals, said Tang Wai-fun, a nurse working in a home for elderly
people.

The Hospital Authority paid cash allowances to nurses while the private sector
would not, she said.

Private hospitals, on the other hand, may pay bonuses and a 13th month to
compensate for the lack of cash allowances, said Claudia Leung, a public
hospital nurse.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Whitehorse Leader (Australia)

                          November 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 1 - WH Edition

A shot in the arm Group says hospital project a must

BYLINE: Development | James Dowling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 270  words


IMMEDIATELY redeveloping the Box Hill Hospital will create a much needed boost
for eastern Melbourne's economy, a key business lobby group says.

The Victorian Employer Chamber of Commerce and Industry listed the ``shovel
ready'' project as a short-term infrastructure priority.

The lobby group released its infrastructure wishlist at its Victoria Summit on
November 14. VECCI spokesman Chris James said the economic meltdown gave
governments good reason to accelerate building vital infrastructure that was
languishing.

Mr James said the hospital's plans were well advanced and just needed approval
in the State Budget.

``The infrastructure will be needed because of the growing population in the
eastern suburbs and the old hospital needs to be replaced,'' Mr James said.

``Given we are coming out of an economic slowdown it would be an ideal
public-private infrastructure project.''

Mr James said the project, which is tipped to cost more than $1 billion, would
provide extra building industry jobs.

Government spokesman Chris Owner could not give a specific date on when a
funding announcement would be made, but reiterated it would be by the end of the
year.

Mr Owner referred all project-related questions to Box Hill Hospital's operating
body, Eastern Health.

Box Hill Hospital general manager Clare Douglas said the hospital completed the
$38 million stage one development last December and had prepared the site for
construction of stage two. ``We are ready to progress as soon as funding is
available.''

There are four State Parliamentary sitting dates remaining this year and 36 days
until year's end. Details: vecci.org.au

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: WHV


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                        Gazeta Mercantil Online (Brazil)

                           September 26, 1997, Friday

Hospital charges to be investigated_

SECTION: National News

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: BRASILIA, 09/26/97


The vice president of the Committee for the Integration of Closed Health
Programs (Ceifas), Joilson Rodrigues Ferreira, delivered to the president of the
Justice Department's Economic Defense Council (Cade) an accusation against
hospitals overcharging health insurance programs. According to Joilson, in a
stable economy with low levels of inflation, as in Brazil, hospitals are
charging "incompatible" prices for material used by patients. He accused the
hospitals of charging an average 35% fee above the normal price of the products.
A spokesman for the Secretariat of Economic Defense (SDE) said it will
investigate whether the hospitals are charging abusive prices.  (Gazeta
Mercantil) (SB)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LANGUAGE-SPOKEN: PORTUGUESE

ORIG-LANGUAGE: PORTUGUESE

                      Copyright 1997 Gazeta Mercantil Inc.


                              181 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo)

                             July 8, 1999, Thursday

Prescription for change / Hospital inspections should be made public

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 998 words


Every patient wants to be provided with the best treatment available, but in
reality treatment techniques and their success rates vary greatly depending on
medical institutions and doctors. To make matters worse, this information is not
available to patients.

Aki Yoshikawa, a researcher at the U.S. National Bureau of Economic Research,
was surprised to learn in a medical economics study of the two nations that
Japanese hospitals fail to collect information on treatment methods that best
suit certain patients.

Yoshikawa, who conducted a comparative study of five Japanese hospitals'
treatment methods for heart attacks involving cardiac infarction, found that one
hospital only employed bypass operations, while another mainly used drugs to
dissolve blood clots. One hospital mostly employed a method to expand the
passageway in veins with a catheter. Yoshikawa also found death rates varied as
much as fivefold between hospitals.

After World War II, the government introduced universal access to medical care
with low costs to patients through state-supported, mandatory health-insurance
programs.

However, the quality of medical care and treatment methods were not stressed.

Shigekoto Kaihara, director of the public National Okura Hospital in Setagaya
Ward, Tokyo, said: "A doctor's authority, rather than scientific data, tends to
be respected here. Treatment methods are not standardized yet."

In the United States, 5,200 hospitals, about 80 percent of all hospitals, are
inspected by a nonprofit organization that is financially supported by various
medical associations including hospitals.

Inspections are wide in scope, typically covering facilities, management of
medical records, whether explanations are given to patients and whether nursing
care methods are appropriate. Results of the inspections are made public through
the media and the Internet. Concerning operations, death rates per hospital and
surgeon are also made public.

In Japan, the Health and Welfare Ministry, the Japan Medical Association and
other organizations have established the Japan Council for Quality Health Care
foundation, which started two years ago to rate hospitals in terms of
facilities, supervision of drugs and personnel management.

However, only about 230 hospitals, 2 percent of all medical institutions in
Japan, have been screened. Moreover, the results of the inspections were only
reported to the institutions, and not made public.

Some U.S. critics argue that doctors become dispirited when the number of
patients who die while in their care becomes public knowledge, while others say
that the treatment of seriously ill patients is shunned for fear that a
hospital's death rate would increase.

The current situation in Japan is far from patient-oriented, since medical
information is not disclosed.

A new hospital evaluation organization that includes representatives of health
insurance associations and patients should be created, free from the influence
of hospitals and doctors. Results of the inspections, including the success rate
of treatments and the degree of patient satisfaction have to be made public.

If such an independent organization were formed, high-quality hospitals and
clinics would benefit from the publicity, while those below standard would be
forced to improve. If rankings were made public, waiting three hours to see a
doctor for three minutes would probably become less common.

When general hospitals cooperate with high-quality regional clinics and share
information on patients through the digitization of medical records, inefficient
practices such as repeating medical checkups or concentrating large numbers of
patients at major hospitals could be stopped.

Another problem is shortages of medical staff. There are seven staff members per
10 inpatients in Japanese hospitals, compared to 28 in the United States. The
total number of hospital beds in Japan is less than half that in the United
States. This is hardly an environment in which medical treatment can be received
comfortably.

Yoshinori Hiroi, assistant professor at the Chiba University law and economics
department, argues that the medical structure is of "a developing-nation type,"
which focuses on quantity rather than quality, and that it should be transformed
into a "mature-economy type," which focuses on quality and cost.

The medical reimbursement system, in which the government reimburses hospitals
for the costs of drugs prescribed and treatment, should also be reviewed. Drug
costs are quite high and charges for treatment not high enough. Doctors' fees
should be evaluated in a reform of the system.

At Japanese hospitals, doctors and nurses tend to rely on their instincts and
experience. Therefore, it is quite rare for them to think about quality control,
which is common in the manufacturing sector.

The Musashino Red Cross Hospital in Tokyo has begun efforts to prevent medical
accidents, which were prompted by its payment of a huge sum in an out-of-court
settlement of a medical accident. Doctors at the hospital launched a
risk-management committee to analyze incidents that stopped just short of
causing an accident to enable them to compile risk-management manuals.

In March, the Okubo Hospital in Mito became the first hospital to obtain the
ISO9001, an International Standard Organization certificate for quality control,
in an attempt to introduce strict quality- control methods comparable to the
manufacturing sector.

However, these innovations are rare in the country. Health-care professionals
should make every effort to prevent accidents.

Patients want satisfactory information not only about their condition and
methods of treatment, but also about the level of quality of hospitals and
clinics they attend. Therefore, the evaluation of medical practices and
disclosure of this information is indispensable. This is the key to whether a
truly patient-oriented health-care system will be realized.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Yomiuri Shimbun


                              182 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Daily Inter Lake, Kalispell, Mont.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 18, 2013 Thursday

EDITORIAL: Hospitals are economic bright spot

BYLINE: Daily Inter Lake, Kalispell, Mont.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 510 words


April 18--The Flathead Valley's top-notch medical facilities have made this area
a regional center for health care, and North Valley Hospital is responding to
the need for increased services.

The Whitefish-based hospital just broke ground on a fourth operating suite to
keep pace with a surgery volume that's increased 22 percent over the last four
years -- the same years the Flathead otherwise has been in an economic slump.

Equally as encouraging is North Valley's plans to expand its Birth Center. It
was built in 2007 with a plan for 250 births a year, but the number of births
has reached nearly 500 annually, indicating the need for additional labor and
delivery rooms, postpartum rooms and a larger nursery. A capital campaign is
quietly underway.

North Valley Hospital's expansion comes on the heels of a major surgery addition
to Kalispell Regional Medical Center. It's clear our hospitals are becoming huge
economic drivers in our community. That bodes well not only for those needing
quality heath care but also the local economy as a whole.

More good news in Kalispell

Elsewhere on the economic front, a proposed new vehicle dealership in south
Kalispell passed its first hurdle Monday when the Kalispell City Council gave
initial approval to a planned unit development for Glacier Volkswagen.

This is a positive step toward DePratu Ford and Volkswagen's plan to build the
dealership on vacant land on the southeast corner of U.S. 93 and Lower Valley
Road.

There still are other challenges that the project will have to surmount,
including concerns over water and sewer connections, but the possibility of a
major car dealership is a positive step for the south end of town.

Problem bears and you

Being bear aware should be more than an afterthought at this time of year,
particularly in foothill areas in the eastern Flathead Valley along the Swan
Range, where there has definitely been some bear activity recently.

Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks officials are aware of a female grizzly bear
with two yearling cubs that were encountered by a turkey hunter. The next day,
another hunter spotted sign from the family group. A motion camera captured the
image of a large male grizzly bear in the same area.

The thing is, this is not unusual.

The foothills are prime bear habitat, particularly when natural food sources are
more scarce at higher elevations. Folks living in bear country should do
everything possible to make sure these bears don't pick up bad habits that
encourage them to stick around rural homes.

Keeping bird feeders inside, along with securing garbage and other attractants
should be a priority. Problem bears shouldn't be regarded as other people's
concern. They commonly move on to cause trouble elsewhere, so let's all work
together to make sure the problems don't happen in the first place.

Editorials represent the majority opinion of the Daily Inter Lake's editorial
board.

___ (c)2013 the Daily Inter Lake (Kalispell, Mont.) Visit the Daily Inter Lake
(Kalispell, Mont.) at www.dailyinterlake.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130418-KG-EDITORIAL-Hospitals-are-economic-bright-spot-0418-20130418

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KG


               Copyright 2013 Daily Inter Lake, Kalispell, Mont.


                              183 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             April 27, 2009 Monday

Small hospitals in Okla. make large impact on community care

BYLINE: Brian Brus

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612  words


The economic impact of Weatherford's new critical access Regional Hospital was
quickly felt as its staff grew from about 100 people just a few years ago to
more than 160 now and continues to attract physicians, Chief Executive Debbie
Howe said.

Darrel Morris, chief executive at Drumright Regional Hospital, saw similar
growth when his hospital opened in 2005 - "In terms of economic development, you
create 60-70 jobs in a community the size of Drumright - about 2,900 - it's a
big impact," he said.

Oklahoma Office of Rural Health Director Val Schott said Drumright and
Weatherford are two good examples of the value of building new hospitals to
provide critical access care to small communities, even in a recession. The
health care experts are scheduled to attend this week's 2009 Rural Health
Conference in Midwest City.

"There is a niche for these small hospitals, and in my view we can (do) a better
job in some of these rural hospitals than in the big cities," Schott said.
"They're extremely valuable to their communities and well worth the investment,
even now. "

A critical access hospital, or CAH, is certified to receive cost-based Medicare
reimbursements under a more flexible set of participation conditions than other
acute care hospitals. Congress' goal in creating the system was to improve those
small hospitals' financial performances and reduce closures, Schott said. To
earn the designation, a CAH must be at least 35 miles from the next-closest
hospital, have no more than 25 beds and the average patients' stay is no more
than 96 hours.

According to the state Department of Health, 34 of Oklahoma's 97 non-special
hospitals are considered critical access facilities, the sole community
emergency health providers for their surrounding communities.

Schott said in most cases it's possible for a hospital to fund upgrades and
conversion to a CAH, but many towns have stepped up to help because of the need
for improved health care and economic development.

Drumright Regional, for example, was funded largely by revenue bonds, in
addition to donated land and a $700,000 investment by a local hospital
foundation. It opened in 2005 under the city's ownership and was acquired by
HMC/CAH Consolidated in Kansas City, Mo., this month, Morris said.

The Weatherford hospital was financed through revenue bonds, Howe said. The
hospital is still owned and operated by the city of Weatherford through a trust
authority.

 "It was a struggle to jump through all the hoops to get financing, but it's
worth it in the end to provide a better facility and equipment," she said.

Morris said the Drumright hospital, with just 15 beds, is treating twice the
number of patients originally projected in a feasibility study and revenues have
increased accordingly. The hospital provides standard acute care and has
developed a minor niche in knee and hip surgeries that draws patients from as
far away as Tulsa.

Weatherford, at 25 beds, has made the most of its three labor delivery rooms as
another developing specialty - "I know that's a little strange for a local
access hospital that's trying to focus on Medicare, but we deliver close to 300
babies a year," Howe said.

Howe agreed with Schott that even in a recession, small hospitals should
consider upgrades and access to CAH access to Medicare, for health care
improvements as well as economic development.

"Physician recruitment was one of the things we really wanted when we started
out," she said. "We weren't getting anybody to look at us before. Now our
physicians have built a new medical office building just north of the hospital,
and we're looking to add on another operation room in the next year to year and
a half. "

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)

                            January 8, 2009 Thursday

Uniontown Hospital cuts staff, freezes wages

BYLINE: Chris Foreman

LENGTH: 483 words


Uniontown Hospital administrators informed employees this week of 11 pending
layoffs because of the economic downturn and asked workers represented by
Teamsters Local 491 to agree to a wage freeze starting in July.

The announcement comes about two months after administrators said Fayette
County's largest employer was experiencing a $2 million lag in profits, but was
still on stable financial ground.

Hospital officials on Tuesday announced the elimination of the equivalent of 50
full-time union and nonunion positions on Jan. 25, although some of the cuts are
coming through the reduction of hours for several employees. Of the 50 jobs, 27
1/2 are vacancies that will not be filled.

Wages for nonunion workers, scheduled for a Jan. 1 increase, already have been
frozen.

Patients are delaying or avoiding health care services, leading to lower patient
volumes for hospitals, administrators said.

"We anticipated a slowdown in patient activity, which mirrors the experience of
hospitals across the country," James D. Pound, the hospital's vice president of
human resources, said in a prepared statement. "In response, we have been
holding on (to) a number of vacancies for several months now. The 11 employees
who will actually be laid off represent less than 1 percent of the 1,500
employees who work for the hospital and its related organizations."

At an Oct. 30 board meeting open to the public, Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer Steven Handy reported the $2 million lag in profits. The
hospital's fiscal year runs from July 1 through June 30.

"We are convinced that we must take these actions to sustain our progress and
thrive in the future," President and CEO Paul Bacharach said in the hospital's
statement. "Failure to respond to an economic event of this magnitude would not
only be irresponsible, but would put the organization, our people and our
mission in jeopardy."

The Teamsters said hospital officials outlined the proposed cost-cutting
measures at a meeting Tuesday, when they requested union members agree to a wage
freeze beginning July 1. The union represents 450 nonprofessionals.

A union committee of hospital stewards, union representatives and legal counsel
will meet again with hospital administrators later this month or in February.

The Teamsters then will vote to decide whether to accept the hospital's
proposal.

"It is our intention to review this request very carefully to scrutinize whether
the proposal is supported by actual economic conditions at the hospital and that
all options for cost-cutting measures are being explored," said Vito Dragone,
the Teamsters' secretary-treasurer. "Our number one priority is to protect our
members employed at the hospital, and the union will approach this situation
from that perspective."

Uniontown Hospital is in the midst of a $59 million expansion project, which
officials have said will create 216 jobs.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 17, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Columbia sells 34 surgery centers

BYLINE: KRIS HUNDLEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 458 words



Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. sold nearly three dozen outpatient surgery
centers and named President Reagan's former economic adviser to its board.

The moves reflect the Nashville, Tenn., hospital chain's efforts to regain
credibility and market focus during the ongoing government investigation of  the
company.

Martin Feldstein, a Harvard University professor and president of the  National
Bureau of Economic Research, joins the Columbia board, expanding it  to 13
members. Columbia had been under pressure from a union pension fund to  add
outside directors and last month brought on three additional members:  Frederick
W. Gluck, John H. McArthur and Kent C. Nelson.

Meanwhile, Columbia sold 34 outpatient surgery centers to HealthSouth Corp.  for
$ 550-million in cash. The acquisition makes the Birmingham, Ala., company  the
biggest operator of facilities that do surgery without overnight stays,  with
212 centers. HealthSouth operates 24 outpatient surgery and  rehabilitation
centers in the Tampa Bay area.

None of Columbia's eight outpatient surgery centers in the bay area were
included in the sale, which targeted centers in markets where Columbia had no
other facilities. The sale leaves Columbia with 114 outpatient surgery centers
nationwide.

As Columbia moves forward on efforts to improve its image, the government's
investigation against the company appears to have stalled. Three mid-level
managers were indicted in late July on charges of overbilling Medicare in cost
reports for Columbia Fawcett Memorial Hospital in Port Charlotte. Those  charges
are pending and though the federal prosecutor said additional  indictments would
be filed by late March, none has been made public.

Columbia's activities also are being investigated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission and by federal prosecutors in Texas and Tennessee. The
company is expected to pay at least a $ 1-billion fine to reach a settlement
with the government.

As part of its restructuring, Columbia has been trying to sell its home  health
business. The company also expects to seek Internal Revenue Service  approval
within the next few weeks for a tax-free spinoff of about one-third  of its 340
hospitals.

Peter Costa, an analyst with ABN AMRO in Boston, was encouraged by  Columbia's
announcements Thursday.

"I think they got a real good price on the surgery centers," said Costa,  who
has a buy recommendation on Columbia stock. "And the company has added  four new
outside directors, all of whom are very well respected and high  caliber, in the
past few weeks. It's a smart move to try to gain some public  confidence."

Columbia's shares closed Thursday at $ 32.81 1/4, down 31 1/4 cents.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              186 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Bond Buyer

Bond Calls & Redemptions

                            August 5, 1997, Tuesday

DATELINE: PENNSYLVANIA


       Allegheny County Hospital Development Authority (Pittsburgh),
hospital gross revenue bonds,   n/a   n/a   Jul 1, 98   Aug 8, 97
Mellon Bk   TR
       Series A, 1973 (Suburban General Hospital, Sublessee)
       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
taxable development revenue   2,100,000   n/a   Dec 1, 09   Jul
1, 97   Mellon Bk   SU
       bonds, 1994 Series D7 (Southpointe Rink Associates, L.P. Project)

       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
taxable development revenue   100,000   n/a   Aug 1, 15   Aug 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       bonds, 1995 Series B1 (Charapp Family Limited Partnership Project)

       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg).
economic development   100,000   n/a   Aug 1, 05   Aug 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       revenue bonds, 1995 Series D1 (Alpha Carb Enterprises, Inc.
Project)


SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 190 words

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 The Bond Buyer, Inc.


                              187 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 2003, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  Spring, 2003

                         Vol. 36, No. 2, HOSPLW Pg. 247

LENGTH: 25843 words

TITLE: Article: The New Economic Credentialing: Protecting Hospitals from
Competition by Medical Staff Members

AUTHOR: Elizabeth A. Weeks *


* Ms. Weeks is an associate at the Houston office of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P, and
a Visiting Assistant Professor at The University of Georgia for the 2003-2004
academic year, where she teaches health law.

 TEXT:

   ABSTRACT: This Article addresses hospitals' use of economic criteria to
determine an individual's qualifications for staff privileges. Hospitals are
resorting to economic conflict-of-interest credentialing policies in an attempt
to ensure physician's loyalty and maintain their own economic viability.
Physicians, however, argue that entrepreneurial activities are necessary for
them to meet the economic challenges posed by declining reimbursements and
rising insurance costs. The Article surveys the numerous legal theories that
physicians (and, in some cases, the federal government) could employ in
attacking these new types of credentialing policies and concludes that, on
balance, hospitals should be able to implement their policies in ways that
minimize liability in most jurisdictions. The Article concludes by discussing
other issues that economic credentialing policies raise, including those
implicating tax-exempt status and nonlegal considerations.

   Physician income is under assault by declining reimbursements and
skyrocketing medical malpractice insurance costs. To compensate for their lost
income, many physicians have turned to various entrepreneurial activities, such
as investing in or becoming part owners of healthcare facilities, pharmacies, or
supply companies; opening specialty clinics and hospitals; entering joint
ventures with other physicians, hospitals, or clinics; or participating in other
healthcare enterprises. n1 These physicians typically have staff privileges or
medical staff membership at hospitals in the same geographic market as the
facilities in which they have ownership or investment interests.



   n1 See Mark Taylor, Doc Investors in For-Profit Hospitals Denied Staff
Privileges: Ohio Not-For-Profit System Fear Loss of Market Share to Specialty
Hospitals Owned By Physicians, MODERN HEALTHCARE, July 15, 2002, at 12. See also
Richard A. Feidstein, Economic Credentialing and Exclusive Contracts, HEALTH LAW
(ABA), Fall 1996, at 1 ("hospitals, integrated delivery systems, physician
groups, and managed care organizations face increasing pressure to cut costs and
increase efficiencies in order to compete in the marketplace").

   For example, a group of orthopedic surgeons may open a specialty hospital or
ambulatory surgical center while maintaining staff privileges at the local,
general, acute-care hospital. Depending on the type of procedure to be performed
or care to be provided, these orthopedic surgeons could choose to refer a
patient for treatment at either the specialty hospital in which they have an
economic investment or the general, community hospital at which they have
admitting privileges. The community hospital's concern is that physician owners
or investors will "cherry pick" the more profitable cases for treatment at their
own specialty hospital and will refer the most expensive and least profitable
cases, such as the difficult-to-treat and uninsured, to the general hospital. n2




   n2 Taylor, supra note 1, at 12.

   Facing their own economic crisis as a result of declining reimbursement and
rising insurance costs, hospitals are taking steps to protect their revenue
streams. General, full-service hospitals are able to offer essential but
unprofitable services, such as an emergency room, labor and delivery services,
pediatrics, and critical care, as well as charity care, by maintaining other,
profitable practice areas, such as orthopedics and cardiology. n3 If profitable
cases are no longer referred to the general hospital, but rather to a
physician-owned specialty clinic, the decrease in revenue threatens not only a
for-profit hospital's ability to make a profit but also any hospital's ability
to remain operational. n4



   n3 See Sarah A. Klein, AMA: Limiting Privileges Hurts Patients, AM. MED.
NEWS, Mar. 6, 2000, at 1, available at
www.ama-assn.org/sci-pubs/amnews/pick_00/gvl10306.htm (last visited Mar. 28,
2003) (discussing arguments in a brief filed by Avera St. Luke's, a nonprofit
hospital in Aberdeen, South Dakota, regarding necessity of decision to deny
staff privileges to orthopedic surgeons who opened a competing for-profit
specialty clinic).


   n4 This "collision course" has long been predicted by scholars. As Paul Starr
observed in 1982:

        Doctors who develop group practices to capture ancillary profits
     represent an economic threat to hospitals . . . . On the other hand,
     hospitals are developing satellite clinics and other outpatient
     facilities to assure themselves of a steady flow of referrals. As a
     result, doctors and hospitals may be on a 'collision course' as
     doctors invade institutional services and hospitals invade ambulatory
     care.

   PAUL STARR, SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION OF AMERICAN MEDICINE 425-26 (1982).

   In response to increasing competition from their physicians, many hospitals
are adopting policies to limit, or effectively prohibit, certain competitive
behavior. For example, hospitals may refuse to grant initial or continuing staff
privileges to physicians who own or have other financial interests in competing
healthcare entities, refer patients to competing entities, have staff privileges
at any other area hospitals, or fail to admit some specified percentage of their
patients to the hospital. n5 Alternatively, the hospital might require a
physician seeking privileges to sign a loyalty oath or pledge to perform a
certain percentage of medical services at the hospital. n6



   n5 See Tanya Albert, South Dakota Hospitals Can Choose Which Physicians Get
Privileges, State Supreme Court Rules, AM. MED. NEWS, Feb. 5, 2001, at 10,
available at www.ama-assn.org/sci-pubs/amnews/pick_01/prsa0205.htm (last visited
Mar. 28, 2003); Taylor, supra note 1, at 12 (describing hospitals' strategies).


   n6 See Klein, supra note 3.

   The overall effect of such policies is to restrict or prohibit physicians who
apply for or hold medical staff privileges at the hospital from owning or
investing in competing facilities. Hospitals maintain that policies limiting or
prohibiting physicians' economic conflicts of interest are necessary to ensure
physician loyalty and maintain economic viability. Physicians, however, contend
that such policies impair their ability to practice medicine and provide quality
care to patients at the best possible, or most convenient, facility. This
Article addresses the legal and operational implications of these economic
conflict of interest credentialing policies.

I. Background

   As a general rule, a hospital has the "unquestioned right to exercise some
control over the identity and number of doctors to whom it accords staff
privileges." n7 Courts have noted that "hospitals are not public utilities,
required to grant staff privileges to anyone with a medical license." n8 It is
well established that a physician has no constitutional right to staff
privileges at a hospital, public or private, merely because he is licensed to
practice medicine. n9 Thus, a hospital may "close its doors to certain
physicians." n10 Traditionally, a hospital's decision to deny or revoke staff
privileges has been based on physician qualifications or quality of care
concerns. n11 For example, medical staff privileges might be conditioned on
certain educational or training requirements, or a physician might be denied or
removed from the medical staff because of a history of malpractice claims or
adverse treatment events.



   n7 Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 30 (1984).


   n8 Blue Cross & Blue Shield United v. Marshfield Clinic, 65 F.3d 1406, 1413
(7th Cir. 1995).


   n9 Sosa v. Bd. of Managers of the Val Verde Mem'l Hosp., 437 F.2d 173, 175
(5th Cir. 1971).


   n10 Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160 (S.D. 2001).


   n11 See John D. Blum, The Evolution of Physician Credentialing Into Managed
Care Selective Contracting, 22 AM. J.L. & MED. 173, 176 (1996) ("From the
hospital's perspective, credentialing is a necessary quality control that is
central to the institutional mission and to the welfare of patients."); Jane C.
Taber & Janna P. King, Caught in the Crossfire: Economic Credentialing in the
Health Care War, 1994 DETROIT C.L. REV. 1179, 1181-82 ("The steadfast premise
behind physician credentialing is that of ensuring the competency of physicians
who are granted staff privileges, which will result in a higher standard of
patient care.").

   In the early 1980s, many hospitals invoked the general right to "close their
doors to certain physicians" n12 and entered into exclusive contracts with
hospital-based specialists. An exclusive contract is an arrangement between a
hospital or healthcare institution and a physician or group of physicians, by
which the hospital grants the contracting physician or physician group the
exclusive right to provide specified medical services at the hospital in
exchange for the services and managerial tasks the physicians provide. n13
Exclusive contract arrangements might also be based on granting a physician or
physician group exclusive access to certain equipment, facilities, or
laboratories, or by granting an exclusive right to perform certain procedures.
Hospitals have relied on exclusive contract arrangements primarily for
specialties such as anesthesiology, pathology, radiology, and other ancillary
services that require extensive coverage and rely on referrals from other
physicians. n14



   n12 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 160.


   n13 Feidstein, supra note 1, at 8.


   n14 Id.

   Hospitals justified these exclusive contract arrangements on the theories
that they enhanced hospital efficiency, increased the hospital's control over
departmental operations, insured full-time availability of services, permitted
better scheduling of facilities, reduced costs through standardization of
procedures and centralized administrations, and improved the quality of
particular services by assuring that physicians perform a sufficient quantity of
procedures to remain proficient. The effect of an exclusive contract arrangement
is to deny staff privileges to new applicants for the particular hospital
department to which the exclusive contract applies. Further, staff privileges
for current members of the affected department who are not parties to the
exclusive contract are revoked or denied. These excluded physicians frequently
challenged hospitals' exclusive contract arrangements, asserting that the
policies were arbitrary or unreasonable, interfered with the rights of
physicians to practice medicine, denied patients the right to select their own
physicians, intruded upon the physician-patient relationship, or operated as
unlawful restraints on trade. Such challenges, however, were almost uniformly
unsuccessful. n15



   n15 See, e.g., Balaklaw v. Lovell, 14 F.3d 793, 795 (2d Cir. 1994); Capital
Imaging Assoc., P.C. v. Mohawk Valley Med. Assoc., Inc., 996 F.2d 537, 539 (2d
Cir. 1993); Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs v. Radiology, Ltd., 924 F.2d 1484,
1486 (9th Cir. 1991); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138, 139 (6th Cir.
1990); Roland Mach. Co. v. Dresser Indus., Inc., 749 F.2d 380, 395 (7th Cir.
1984); Konik v. Champlain Valley Physicians Hosp. Med. Ctr., 733 F.2d 1007, 1009
(2d Cir. 1984); Bellam v. Clayton County Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488, 1493
(N.D. Ga. 1990); Drs. Steuer and Latham, P.A. v. Nat'l Med. Enter., 672 F. Supp.
1489, 1492 (D.S.C. 1987); Gonzalez v. San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d
436, 437 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994).

   In the leading case of Jefferson Parish Hospital District, No. 2 v. Hyde, the
United States Supreme Court held that a hospital's decision to enter into an
exclusive contract with a group of anesthesiologists did not constitute an
illegal tying arrangement because anesthesiology could not be viewed as a
distinct product that was "tied" to other hospital services. n16 Furthermore,
the Court held that the arrangement did not violate the Sherman Act as an
unlawful restraint of trade because the hospital's market share of thirty
percent was not so great that medical services consumers had no choice but to
purchase anesthesiology services from the exclusive contracting group. n17 The
exclusive contract, therefore, would not harm competition in the relevant
market. n18 Since Jefferson Parish, courts generally have upheld exclusive
contract arrangements challenged on antitrust grounds. n19



   n16 Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 31-32 (1984).


   n17 Id. at 7, 25.


   n18 Id. at 29-30.


   n19 See, e.g., Balaklaw, 14 F.3d at 795 (anesthesiologist challenging
exclusive contract); Capital Imaging, 996 F.2d at 539 (radiologists challenging
exclusive contract); Pudlo v. Adamski, No. 92-1854, 1993 WL 306105 (7th Cir.
Aug. 9, 1993) (hospital terminated radiologist's contract); Lie v. St. Joseph
Hosp., 964 F.2d 567, 568 (6th Cir. 1992) (physician's surgical privileges were
suspended); Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs, 924 F.2d at 1486 (radiologists
challenging exclusive contract); Bhan v. NME Hosps., Inc., 929 F.2d 1404, 1407
(9th Cir. 1991) (anesthetist was excluded by policy of allowing only physicians
to perform anesthesia services); Todorov v. DCH Healthcare Auth., 921 F.2d 1438,
1441 (11th Cir. 1991) (physician denied radiology privileges); Nurse Midwifery
Assoc. v. Hibbett, 918 F.2d 605, 607-08 (6th Cir. 1990) (midwives and
obstetrician alleged they were prevented from operating a maternity practice or
offering midwifery services at hospitals); Beard, 912 F.2d at 139 (radiologist
challenging exclusive contract); Goss v. Mem'l Hosp. Sys., 789 F.2d 353, 353-54
(5th Cir. 1986) (physician's privileges terminated); Konik, 733 F.2d at 1011
(anesthesiologist challenging exclusive contract); Dos Santos v.
Columbus-Cuneo-Cabrini Med. Ctr., 684 F.2d 1346, 1347 (7th Cir. 1982) (vacating
preliminary injunction granted to anesthesiologist challenging exclusive
contract); Scara v. Bradley Mem'l. Hosp., No. CIV-1-91-28, 1993 WL 404150, at *1
(E.D. Tenn. Feb. 4, 1993) (anesthesiologist challenging exclusive contract);
Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 814 F. Supp. 1254, 1256 (W.D. Pa. 1992) (physician's
privileges terminated); Jackson v. Radcliffe, 795 F. Supp. 197, 200 (S.D. Tex.
1992) (hospital terminated radiologist's contract); Purgess v. Sharrock, No. 91
Civ. 621 (LFJ), 1992 WL 349683, at *1 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 9, 1992)
(anesthesiologist's privileges terminated); Brown v. Our Lady of Lourdes Med.
Ctr., 767 F. Supp. 618, 620 (D.N.J. 1991) (surgeon denied privileges);
Anesthesia Advantage, Inc. v. Metz Group, 759 F. Supp. 638, 654 (D. Colo. 1991)
(hospital terminated negotiations with anesthetists); Robles v. Humana Hosp.
Cartersville, 785 F. Supp. 989, 992-93 (N.D. Ga. 1992) (hospital terminated
obstetrician's contract); Bellam, 758 F. Supp. at 1495 (preliminary injunction
denied to anesthesiologists challenging exclusive contract); Castelli v.
Meadville Med. Ctr., 702 F. Supp. 1201, 1203 (W.D. Pa. 1988) (radiologist
challenging exclusive contract).

   As an alternative to an exclusive contract, a hospital may adopt a "closed
staff" policy to close certain hospital departments, or the entire hospital
medical staff, to new applicants. A hospital may offer various business
justifications for closing its medical staff, such as assuring the economic
survival of the hospital, producing efficient administration of the department
or service, coping with overcrowding and bed limitations, maintaining particular
skills by ensuring that physicians will perform an adequate number of
specialized procedures, attaining economy and efficiency of operations, lowering
mortality rates, furthering teaching and research, fostering teamwork, and
limiting access to sophisticated and unique equipment. n20 Courts addressing
closed staff policies tend to view such arrangements in the same light as
exclusive contract arrangements. n21



   n20 See, e.g., Redding v. St. Francis Med. Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806, 808 (Ct.
App. 1989); Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 905 (Ct. App. 1978);
Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 669-70 (N.J. 1986); Mahan v.
Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160 (S.D. 2001).


   n21 See, e.g., Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 158. In Mahan, the plaintiff-physicians
attempted to distinguish the closed medical staff model from an exclusive
contract. The court rejected the distinction, however, noting that by closing
its medical staff to new orthopedic surgeons, the hospital had, in essence
"entered into an implied exclusive contract with all current orthopedic spine
surgeons." Id. at 159. See also Feidstein, supra note 1, at 8 (noting that
exclusive contracts often are used to create closed departments).

   A recent decision by the Supreme Court of South Dakota, Mahan v. Avera St.
Luke's, n22 expressly recognized that a closed staff policy could be justified
solely by economic concerns. In Mahan, a physician alleged that a nonprofit
hospital's decision to close its medical staff constituted a breach of contract.
The hospital, Avera St. Luke's, had decided to recruit one or two new
neurosurgeons and two new orthopedic surgeons to the hospital, which is located
in Aberdeen, South Dakota. n23 Avera St. Luke's had difficulty attracting
applicants, given the small size of the community and the fact there were
orthopedic spinal surgeons already practicing in the area. n24 At about the same
time that Avera St. Luke's was engaged in its recruitment effort, several
orthopedic surgeons in Aberdeen were building a new ambulatory orthopedic
surgery center that would compete directly with the hospital. In response to
this direct competition and the hospital's need for neurosurgeons, the hospital
board of directors determined that it was economically necessary to close
medical staff privileges to perform spinal surgery and general orthopedic
surgery to new applicants. n25 This closed staff policy affected only new
applicants; privileges of the physicians already on the medical staff remained
intact.



   n22 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 160.


   n23 Id. at 152.


   n24 Id.


   n25 Id. at 153.

   Dr. Mahan, an orthopedic surgeon who specialized in spinal surgery, was
recruited by the physicians who ran the ambulatory surgery center. Dr. Mahan
applied for privileges at Avera St. Luke's, but the hospital denied his
application based on its new closed staff policy. n26 Dr. Mahan and the
orthopedic surgeons who recruited him sued the hospital, alleging breach of
contract based on the hospital's medical staff bylaws. n27 The Supreme Court of
South Dakota upheld the policy, finding the hospital's closed medical staff
arrangement was soundly within the discretion of the hospital's board of
directors. n28 Specifically, the court noted:

        The Board's decision to close the hospital's facility for certain,
     named procedures was a reasonable administrative decision. It had
     determined that the [staff] closures were necessary to insure the
     continued economic viability of the hospital. The Board must be
     allowed to make such reasonable, independent decisions if it is to
     continue to provide comprehensive medical services to the Aberdeen
     community. n29





   n26 Id.


   n27 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 153.


   n28 Id. at 156.


   n29 Id. at 160 (emphasis added).

   The court expressly recognized that the hospital relied on "the profitable
neurosurgical services" in order to be able to continue offering "other
unprofitable services" in the Aberdeen area. n30 The court's decision seemed
informed by the unique economics of hospital financing that require
cost-spreading as a way of funding treatment for uninsured and underinsured
patients.



   n30 Id. at 156.

   The Mahan decision is consistent with the general tendency of courts to
uphold a hospital's legitimately adopted policy and not to substitute the
court's judgment for that of hospital management. n31 As long as the hospital's
board is acting in good faith, a decision to exclude new physician applicants
may be based upon "any reasonable basis, such as the professional and ethical
qualifications of the physician or the common good of the public and the
Hospital." n32 Although it is generally accepted that hospitals may consider
quality of care issues in staff privileging decisions, it is less well accepted
that hospitals may consider other factors, particularly economic factors, when
denying or revoking a physician's staff privileges. The Mahan decision is one of
the few cases squarely recognizing a hospital's right to base staff privileging
decisions on economic concerns rather than physician qualifications.
Specifically, the Mahan court held that concern about the hospital's "continued
economic viability" justified the hospital board's policy decision to exclude
certain physicians from the medical staff. n33



   n31 See, e.g., Hayman v. City of Galveston, 273 U.S. 414, 417 (1927); Sosa v.
Board of Managers of the Val Verde Mem'l. Hosp., 437 F.2d 173, 177 (5th Cir.
1971); Cobb Co.-Kennestone Hosp. Auth. v. Prince, 249 S.E.2d 581, 585-86 (Ga.
1978) (holding that hospitals' administrative policies are not subject to
judicial intervention and that a court's function is limited to whether the
hospital's decision to adopt the rule was arbitrary and unreasonable); Gonzalez
v. San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d 436, 441 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994)
(exclusive contract for anesthesiology services upheld as reasonable exercise of
board's power to provide proper management of the hospital).


   n32 Foster v. Mobile County Hosp. Bd, 398 F.2d 227, 230 (5th Cir. 1968)
(emphasis added).


   n33 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 160. See also Taber & King, supra note 11 at 1182
(noting that proponents of credentialing policies based on both clinical and
economic criteria assert that such an approach "is crucial to a hospital's
economic survival").

   Courts tend to scrutinize credentialing decisions based on economic factors
more closely than credentialing decisions based on quality of care or
professional competency. "Economic credentialing" involves a hospital
considering factors relating to the efficient management of the organization to
determine medical staff membership or privileges. n34 Economic credentialing may
be based on various factors, including the frequency of a physician's use of the
hospital, bed capacity, n35 the physician's ability to use hospital facilities
in an economically efficient manner, patient profiles, diagnosis-related groups
and average lengths of stay, n36 types and quantity of services and supplies
that the physician orders for patients, n37 payor mix, level of reimbursement
generated by the physician's admissions, n38 or a particular physician's
contribution to the economic success of the organization. n39 Such credentialing
policies that address hospitals' concerns over appropriate resource utilization
and overall efficiency seem justified in today's increasingly cost-conscious
healthcare market. n40



   n34 See Feidstein, supra note 1, at 1 (noting that there is little agreement
on the definition of economic credentialing but offering the "simple definition"
that "it is the use of economic criteria in making credentialing decisions").
The American Medical Association (AMA) defines "economic credentialing" as "the
use of economic criteria unrelated to quality of care or professional competency
in determining an individual's qualifications for initial or continuing hospital
medical staff membership or privileges." AMA POLICY H-230.975, Economic
Credentialing, available at www.ama-assn.org/apps/pf_online/pf_online (last
visited March 30, 2003). See Albert, supra note 5 (observing "nationwide trend
of hospitals' denying privileges based on economic reasons rather than
qualifications"); Taber & King, supra note 11, at 1208 (defining "pure economic
credentialing" as "a review process based on identifiable financial components
of a physician's practice, considered separate and apart from clinical
expertise").


   n35 See Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 905 (Ct. App. 1978);
Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 669-70 (N.J. 1986); Maltz v. N.Y.
Univ. Med. Ctr., 503 N.Y.S.2d 570, 571 (App. Div. 1986) (upholding hospital's
decision to limit number of physicians in certain specialty because of limited
bed capacity).


   n36 See Using Fraud and Abuse Laws to Challenge Purely Economic
Credentialling, 6 Health L. Rep. (BNA), Nov. 13, 2002, at 841 (listing cases in
which courts have upheld hospital decisions to either deny privileges or refuse
to renew privileges because the hospital felt the physicians where overutilizing
services).


   n37 See Knapp v. Palos Cmty. Hosp., 465 N.E.2d 554, 560 (Ill. App. Ct. 1984)
(supporting decision to reduce staff privileges of a physician based on evidence
of overutilization of lung scans and medications, excessive use of certain
diagnoses, and improper testing and treatment, which demonstrated that the
physician's costs were higher than other physicians).


   n38 See generally Blum, supra note 11 (discussing the use of credentialing
and selective contracting by managed care organizations).


   n39 Id. at 182-84 (discussing various data considered by hospitals in
economic credentialing policies).


   n40 See Feidstein, supra note 1, at 5.

   Credentialing based on physicians' economic conflicts of interest, however,
is relatively uncharted territory. These policies, based on ownership,
investment, or affiliation with competing facilities are subject to many
challenges. Specifically, physicians argue that hospitals' economic
conflict-of-interest policies, such as the policy approved in Mahan, that have
the effect of directing or limiting where physicians can refer their patients
for treatment, are inconvenient and could endanger patients. n41 The American
Medical Association (AMA) announced in 2000 that the organization "strongly
opposes the practice of economic credentialing." n42 In particular, the AMA
opposes conditioning staff privileges on physicians' signing loyalty oaths,
requiring physicians to refer a specified percentage of their patients to the
hospital, or requiring physicians to sever all ties with competing institutions,
even if such institutions could offer higher quality patient care than the
hospital. n43



   n41 See Albert, supra note 5 (quoting Randolph D. Smoak Jr., President of the
AMA, as saying, "It's a huge inconvenience for a physician to try to practice in
the community and it may put patients at risk").


   n42 AMA Policy H-230.975, supra note 34.


   n43 See Staff Privileges: AMA Calls 'Exclusive Credentialing' by Hospitals a
Fraud Violation, 9 HEALTH L. REP. (BNA) 344 (Mar. 9, 2000) (listing examples of
economic credentialing that the AMA considers "especially worrisome"); Klein,
supra note 3 (discussing AMA's objections).

   Few legal challenges have been brought against these new economic conflict of
interest policies. The policies, however, are vulnerable to challenges similar
to those brought against "traditional" economic credentialing policies, such as
exclusive contracts and closed staff arrangements. In particular, a hospital
adopting a policy that restricts or prohibits physicians on its medical staff
from engaging in competitive behavior or enterprises could expect to face
antitrust, due process, and breach of contract claims. In addition, a hospital
should consider other factors bearing on the decision to adopt such a policy,
such as the risk of civil or criminal sanctions under federal healthcare
statutes, difficulty in enforcing policies that operate as covenants not to
compete, endangerment of a nonprofit hospital's tax-exempt status, and the
possibility of a public relations backlash.

II. Legal Challenges

   By conditioning staff privileges on a physician's agreement to forego
investments in or associations with other healthcare facilities, a hospital
erects a barrier to competition, a business practice that implicates antitrust
law. Further, when a hospital adopts such a policy, it may effectively terminate
staff privileges of current medical staff members who already own or have
invested in competing specialty clinics, hospitals, or other businesses. Such
termination raises due process issues and may require the hospital to provide
excluded physicians with individual hearings or other procedural rights before
adopting the policy. In addition, some courts view medical staff bylaws as
contracts between hospitals and their medical staff members. Such contracts may
prevent the hospital board or administration from unilaterally amending the
bylaws or adopting new policies, limit the grounds on which a medical staff
member can be terminated, or specify certain procedures that must be followed
before termination. A physician, therefore, might allege breach of contract
based on the hospital's adopting a new economic credentialing policy in
violation of the bylaws.

A. Antitrust Challenges

   Hospital policies or decisions that deny or terminate a physician's medical
staff membership for economic reasons, such as ownership or investment in
competing enterprises, may impair physicians' ability to practice their
profession and operate a business. Accordingly, physicians may challenge such
economic conflict-of-interest policies under federal and state antitrust laws.
n44 The federal antitrust claims can be separated into two groups: (1) those
alleging joint activity under Section 1 of the Sherman Act; and (2) those
alleging unilateral action under Section 2 of the Sherman Act based on
monopolizing or attempting to monopolize the market.



   n44 See, e.g., Balaklaw, 14 F.3d at 795 (anesthesiologist challenging
exclusive contract); Capital Imaging, 996 F.2d at 539 (radiologists challenging
exclusive contract); Pudlo v. Adamski, No. 92-1854, 1993 WL 306105 (7th Cir.
Aug. 9, 1993) (hospital terminated radiologist's contract); Lie v. St. Joseph
Hosp. 964 F.2d 567, 568 (6th Cir. 1992) (physician's surgical privileges were
suspended); Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs, 924 F.2d at 1486 (radiologists
challenging exclusive contract); Bhan v. NME Hosps., Inc., 929 F.2d 1404, 1407
(9th Cir. 1991) (anesthetist was excluded by policy of allowing only physicians
to perform anesthesia services); Todorov v. DCH Healthcare Auth., 921 F.2d 1438,
1441 (11th Cir. 1991) (physician denied radiology privileges); Nurse Midwifery
Assoc. v. Hibbett, 918 F.2d 605, 607-08 (6th Cir. 1990) (midwives and
obstetrician alleged they were prevented from operating a maternity practice or
offering midwifery services at hospitals); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d
138, 139 (6th Cir. 1990) (radiologist challenging exclusive contract); Goss v.
Mem'l Hosp. Sys., 789 F.2d 353, 353-54 (5th Cir. 1986) (physician's privileges
terminated); Konik, 733 F.2d at 1011 (anesthesiologist challenging exclusive
contract); Dos Santos v. Columbus-Cuneo-Cabrini Med. Ctr., 684 F.2d 1346, 1347
(7th Cir. 1982) (vacating preliminary injunction granted to anesthesiologist
challenging exclusive contract); Scara v. Bradley Mem'l. Hosp., No. CIV-1-91-28,
1993 WL 404150, at *1 (E.D. Tenn. Feb. 4, 1993) (anesthesiologist challenging
exclusive contract); Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 814 F. Supp. 1254, 1256 (W.D. Pa.
1992) (physician's privileges terminated); Jackson v. Radcliffe, 795 F. Supp.
197, 200 (S.D. Tex. 1992) (hospital terminated radiologist's contract); Purgess
v. Sharrock, No. 91 Civ. 621 (LFJ), 1992 WL 349683, at *1 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 9,
1992) (anesthesiologist's privileges terminated); Brown v. Our Lady of Lourdes
Med. Ctr., 767 F. Supp. 618, 620 (D.N.J. 1991) (surgeon denied privileges);
Anesthesia Advantage, Inc. v. Metz Group, 759 F. Supp. 638, 654 (D. Colo. 1991)
(hospital terminated negotiations with anesthetists); Robles v. Humana Hosp.
Cartersville, 785 F. Supp. 989, 992-93 (N.D. Ga. 1992) (hospital terminated
obstetrician's contract); Bellam, 758 F. Supp. at 1495 (preliminary injunction
denied to anesthesiologists challenging exclusive contract); Castelli v.
Meadville Med. Ctr., 702 F. Supp. 1201, 1203 (W.D. Pa. 1988) (radiologist
challenging exclusive contract).

1. Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act

   Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act prohibits contracts, combinations, and
conspiracies in restraint of trade. n45 "To prevail on a section one claim,
plaintiffs must show that the defendants (1) engaged in a conspiracy (2) that
produced some anti-competitive effect (3) in the relevant market." n46
Accordingly, the first element of a Section 1 claim is the existence of a
conspiracy or proof of joint activity. n47 Unilateral action is not illegal
under Section 1. Some courts have held that a hospital is legally incapable of
conspiring with its medical staff based on the rule that a corporation cannot
conspire with its officers and directors. n48 Other courts have concluded that a
conspiracy is possible in this situation. n49



   n45 15 U.S.C. § 1 (2003) ("Every contract, combination in the form of trust
or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States, or with foreign nations, is declared to be illegal.").


   n46 Johnson v. Hosp. Corp. of Am., 95 F.3d 383, 392 (5th Cir. 1996).


   n47 See, e.g., Canady v. Providence Hosp., 903 F. Supp. 125, 127 (D.D.C.
1995) (requiring surgeon challenging termination of staff privileges on
antitrust grounds to show "concerted action between at least two legally
distinct persons or entities").


   n48 See, e.g., Potters Med. Ctr. v. City Hosp. Assoc., 800 F.2d 568, 573 (6th
Cir. 1986); Weiss v. York Hosp., 745 F.2d 786, 817 (3d Cir. 1984); Canady, 903
F. Supp. at 125.


   n49 See, e.g., Bolt v. Halifax Hosp. Med. Ctr., 851 F.2d 1273, 1280 (11th
Cir. 1988).

   Assuming that a hospital is legally capable of conspiring with its own
medical staff, the plaintiff must still provide evidence of a conspiracy.
Whether the conspiracy requirement of a Section 1 claim is met will turn on the
facts in each individual case. For example, if an excluded physician could show
that two separate entities conspired to exclude him from the market, a court
could conclude that there is evidence of a conspiracy. When economic
credentialing activities are performed by the hospital alone, without any
physician involvement, the Section 1 conspiracy requirement likely will not be
met, and the antitrust challenge will fail. n50 To avoid a Section 1 challenge,
therefore, hospital boards of directors might consider making economic
credentialing decisions alone, without physician involvement. If the hospital's
board or credentialing committee includes physicians, the board or committee
could recuse those physician members from credentialing decisions based on
economic criteria.



   n50 See Todorov v. DCH Healthcare Auth., 921 F.2d 1438, 1459-62 (11th Cir.
1991) (decision by board of trustees of hospital to deny privileges constituted
unilateral act outside the scope of Section 1, despite the fact decision
followed medical staff's recommendation).

   Even assuming that a court concludes that there is a conspiracy, Section 1
also requires proof of anticompetitive effect. Some types of restraints on trade
are considered per se illegal without any need to analyze the relevant market.
n51 The per se rule is limited to activities that "always or almost always tend
to restrict competition and decrease output." n52 If the activity is not per se
illegal, courts will analyze the anticompetitive effect of a particular policy
under a rule of reason analysis. n53



   n51 See State Oil Co. v. Kahn, 522 U.S. 3, 10 (1997); Jefferson Parish Hosp.
Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 9 (1984) ("A price fixing agreement between
competitors is the classic example of such an arrangement."); Nat'l Soc'y of
Prof'l Eng'rs v. United States, 435 U.S. 679, 692 (1978); Int'l Salt Co. v.
United States, 332 U.S. 392, 396 (1947); United States v. Trans-Mo. Freight
Ass'n, 166 U.S. 290, 328 (1897) (establishing rule that price-fixing is a per se
antitrust violation). Group boycotts, such as when businesses with market power
boycott suppliers or customers to discourage them from dealing with competitors,
are typically analyzed under the per se rule. See, e.g., F.T.C. v. Ind. Fed'n of
Dentists, 476 U.S. 447, 458 (1986); Minn. Ass'n of Nurse Anesthetists v. Unity
Hosp., 208 F.3d 655, 659 (8th Cir. 2000). Because proof of market power is still
required for a group boycott claim, the analysis resembles the rule of reason
analysis. Ind. Fed'n of Dentists, 476 U.S. at 458.


   n52 Broadway Music, Inc. v. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., 441 U.S. 1,
19-20 (1979). See Kahn, 552 U.S. at 10 ("We have expressed reluctance to adopt
per se rules with regard to restraints imposed in the context of business
relationships where the economic impact . . . is not immediately obvious.").


   n53 Bus. Elec. Corp. v. Sharp Elecs. Corp., 485 U.S. 717, 717 (1988)
("Ordinarily, whether particular concerted action violates § 1 [of the Sherman
Act] is determined through case-by-case application of the rule of reason.").

   The per se analysis generally is inappropriate in the medical staffing
context because "there is nothing obviously anticompetitive about a hospital
choosing one staffing pattern over another or in restricting the staff to some
rather than many, or all." n54 Thus, hospital credentialing activities generally
are not considered per se anticompetitive; courts considering medical staff
cases invariably apply a rule of reason analysis. n55 A threshold question under
the rule of reason analysis is whether the defendant possesses "market power" in
the relevant market. n56 The plaintiff must present evidence to define the
geographic market allegedly affected. n57 Absent evidence defining the relevant
market n58 or demonstrating market power, there is no need to examine
competitive justifications or effects because the court presumes that the
activity will have no anticompetitive effect. n59 Accordingly, to challenge a
hospital's economic credentialing policy under Section 1, a physician first
would have to define the relevant market and demonstrate that the hospital has
sufficient market power to unlawfully restrain trade. n60 Otherwise, the Section
1 antitrust challenge will fail at the outset.



   n54 Minn. Ass'n of Nurse Anesthetists, 208 F.3d at 661 (holding that
antitrust challenge to exclusive contract was properly analyzed under rule of
reason); BCB Anesthesia Care, Ltd. v. Passavant Mem'l Area Hosp. Ass'n, 36 F.3d
664, 667 (7th Cir. 1994) (affirming dismissal of antitrust challenge to
anesthesiology exclusive contract). See Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 446 U.S.
at 43-44 (O'Connor, Burger, Powell, & Rehnquist, JJ., concurring); Burnham
Hosp., 101 F.T.C. 991, 993-94 (1993) (Exclusive contracts have numerous
beneficial effects, such as facilitating efficient delivery of services,
increasing control over departmental operations, lowering costs though
standardization, improving staff supervision, improving working relationships,
and increasing quality of care.).


   n55 BCB Anesthesia Care, 36 F.3d at 667; Oksanen v. Page Mem'l Hosp., 945
F.2d 696, 709 (4th Cir. 1991); Hassan v. Indep. Practice Assocs., 698 F. Supp.
679, 690 (E.D. Mich. 1988) (refusing to apply per se analysis because setting
price of laboratory tests was a reasonable and necessary function of the
physician independent practice association).


   n56 Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 466 U.S. at 27 (holding that evidence of
30% market share did not "establish the kind of dominant market position that
obviates the need for further inquiry into actual competitive conditions"); Goss
v. Mem'l Hosp. Sys., 789 F.2d 353, 355 (5th Cir. 1986) (noting that plaintiff is
required to prove that defendant had "market power" as a threshold matter).


   n57 See Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 466 U.S. at 18. See also Surgical Care
Ctr. v. Hosp. Serv. Dist. No. 1, 309 F.3d 836, 841 (5th Cir. 2002) (To prevail
on a § 1 claim, plaintiff was required to prove that the defendant public
hospital (1) has "appreciable economic power" in the market for inpatient care,
and (2) the anticompetitive arrangement "affects a substantial volume of
commerce" in the market for outpatient surgical care) (citing Eastman Kodak Co.
v. Image Technical Servs., Inc. 504 U.S. 451, 462 (1992)).


   n58 Surgical Care Ctr., 309 F.3d at 842 (holding that plaintiff's failure to
define the relevant geographic market was fatal to § 1 illegal tying claim).


   n59 See Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 672 (N.J. 1986)
(rejecting antitrust claims because plaintiff failed to establish market power
or market area).


   n60 See Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 466 U.S. at 2, 25-27.

   If the court concludes that the hospital possesses market power, the court
then would balance the anticompetitive effects of the economic credentialing
policy against the pro-competitive benefits or justifications for the policy.
n61 The hospital would need to demonstrate a legitimate business purpose for the
challenged policy, such as to maintain the hospital's economic viability or
improve efficiency. n62



   n61 See Bd. of Trade v. United States, 246 U.S. 231, 238 (1918); Doctor's
Hosp. v. Southeast Med. Alliance, Inc., 123 F.3d 301, 307 (5th Cir. 1997).


   n62 See, e.g., Redding v. St. Francis Med. Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806, 808 (Ct.
App. 1989) (justifying hospital's closed staff policy for cardiovascular surgery
as an appropriate way to address the facility's problems including: the
mortality rate for such procedures, failure of cardiac physicians to conduct
peer review, inability to schedule needed surgeries, and unavailability of
surgeons for needed backup); Desai, 510 A.2d at 669-70 (acknowledging hospital's
assertions that its closed staff policy was necessary because of an extremely
high rate of bed occupancy and over-utilization of equipment and facilities).
See also Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 466 U.S. at 43 (O'Connor, J., concurring)
("From the viewpoint of hospital management, [the sole provider agreement for
anesthesia] ensures 24-hour anesthesiology coverage, aids in standardization of
procedures and efficient use of equipment, facilitates flexible scheduling of
operations, and permits the hospital more effectively to monitor the quality of
anesthesiological services."); Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160
(S.D. 2001) (noting that hospital board had legitimately determined that closed
medical staff was necessary to insure continued economic viability of hospital).

   Most challenges to medical staff determinations brought under Section 1 of
the Sherman Act have failed. n63 As one court noted:

        The cases involving staffing at a single hospital are legion.
     Hundreds, perhaps thousands of pages in West publications are devoted
     to the issues those circumstances present. . . .

        Those hundreds or thousands of pages almost always come to the same
     conclusion: the staffing decision at a single hospital was not a
     violation of section 1 of the Sherman Act. n64





   n63 See e.g., Balaklaw v. Lovell, 14 F.3d 793, 795 (2d Cir. 1994); Capital
Imaging Assoc., P.C. v. Mohawk Valley Med. Assoc., Inc., 996 F.2d 537, 538 (2d
Cir. 1993); Oksanen v. Page Mem'l Hosp., 945 F.2d 696, 710 (4th Cir. 1991);
Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs v. Radiology, Ltd., 924 F.2d 1484, 1489 (9th
Cir. 1991); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138, 139 (6th Cir. 1990); Konik v.
Champlain Valley Physicians Hosp. Med. Ctr., 733 F.2d 1007, 1018 (2d Cir. 1984).


   n64 BCB Anesthesia Care, Ltd. v. Passavant Mem'l Area Hosp. Ass'n, 36 F.3d
664, 667 (7th Cir. 1994). As a defense to § 1 antitrust challenges to
credentialing policies, hospitals also may assert the "state action" doctrine,
arguing that the decision that ultimately led to the physician's exclusion was
mandated by state laws requiring hospitals to review the qualifications of
applicants for medical staff privileges. See Patrick v. Burget, 486 U.S. 94,
99-100 (1988) (considering state action defense to claim alleging that peer
review process was implemented to reduce competition rather than improve patient
care); Cal. Retail Liquor Dealers Ass'n v. Midcal Aluminum, Inc., 445 U.S. 97,
105 (1980) (describing state action doctrine). This defense seems likely to fail
because state laws requiring hospitals to implement credentialing processes do
not result in the state's "ultimate control" over the policies. See Patrick, 486
U.S. at 101.

   Accordingly, given the difficulty in establishing a conspiracy and in
defining the relevant market in these cases, an economic conflict-of-interest
policy may survive a Section 1 Sherman Act challenge.

2. Section 2 of the Sherman Act

   Physicians also may attempt to challenge economic credentialing policies
under Section 2 of the Sherman Act, which prohibits the willful acquisition or
maintenance of monopoly power in a relevant market. n65 Section 2 also prohibits
the attempt to acquire a monopoly. n66



   n65 15 U.S.C. § 2 (2003) ("Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to
monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or persons, to
monopolize any part of the trade or commerce amount the several States, or with
foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty of a felony . . . ."). See United States
v. Grinnell Corp., 384 U.S. 563, 570-71 (1966).


   n66 15 U.S.C. § 2 (2003). See United States v. American Airlines, Inc., 743
F.2d 1114, 1118 (5th Cir. 1984). An attempted monopolization claim would require
proof that "(1) [the hospital] has engaged in predatory or anticompetitive
conduct with (2) a specific intent to monopolize and (3) [that there is] a
dangerous probability of achieving monopoly power." Spectrum Sports, Inc. v.
McQuillan, 506 U.S. 447, 455-56 (1993).

   To prevail on a monopolization claim, an excluded physician would have to
prove both that the hospital possesses monopoly power in the relevant market and
that it willfully acquired or maintained such power. "Monopoly power is the
power to control prices or exclude competition." n67 Market share is typically
used as a proxy for monopoly power. n68 Market power is usually difficult to
assess and even more difficult to prove in court. n69 Failure to prove market
power will defeat a Section 2 claim, just like a Section 1 claim, from the
outset. n70



   n67 United States v. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., 351 U.S. 377, 391
(1956).


   n68 Grinnell Corp., 384 U.S. at 571. See also Domed Stadium Hotel, Inc. v.
Holiday Inns, Inc., 732 F.2d 480, 490 (5th Cir. 1984) ("market shares between of
seventeen and twenty-five percent are not legally sufficient to uphold a finding
of monopolization") (citing Dimmitt Agri. Indus., Inc. v. CPC Int'l Inc., 679
F.2d 516, 521 (5th Cir. 1982)).


   n69 See Blue Cross & Blue Shield United v. Marshfield Clinic, 65 F.3d 1406,
1411-12 (7th Cir. 1995).


   n70 See Surgical Care Ctr. v. Hosp. Serv. Dist. No. 1, 309 F.3d 836, 840 (5th
Cir. 2002) (concluding that plaintiff failed to present sufficient evidence
defining the geographic market, much less market power, thus both § 1 and § 2
claims failed); Bellam v. Clayton County Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488, 1493
(N.D. Ga. 1990).

   Another element of a Section 2 Sherman Act claim is proof that the hospital
willfully acquired or maintained monopoly power. n71 Business growth or
development that results from "a superior product, business acumen, or historic
accident" does not violate the antitrust laws. n72 Consequently, an economic
credentialing policy that is intended to limit staff physicians from owning or
acquiring an interest in a competing facility could show that a hospital
"willfully maintained" monopoly power. One argument that a hospital could make
against an allegation of willfully maintaining a monopoly is that the economic
credentialing policy excludes physicians from the medical staff, rather than
controls or restricts the physician market. As noted by one court, a hospital
would be more likely to "maximize its revenues by giving staff privileges to
every qualified doctor who applied." n73 By contrast, a policy that is intended
to exclude physicians from the medical staff "is likely to weaken [a hospital's]
monopoly position in the long run, since a potential rival . . . would have an
incentive to provide competing services for the [physicians] excluded." n74 That
argument might support a conclusion that the hospital was not monopolizing the
market vis a vis other full-service, acute-care community hospitals. But
physicians typically do not wish to open full-service hospitals, but rather
specialty hospitals. Therefore, a court could hold that a policy expressly
prohibiting physicians from owning or investing in competing facilities
unlawfully impairs the operation of and erects a barrier to entry for such
specialty hospitals.



   n71 15 U.S.C. § 2.


   n72 Grinnell Corp., 384 U.S. at 571 (1966).


   n73 Weiss v. York Hosp., 745 F.2d 786, 828 n.60 (3d Cir. 1984).


   n74 Id.

   A hospital also could argue that its board adopted an economic
conflict-of-interest policy based on a reasonable business judgment that the
hospital would rather lose potential patient referrals from excluded physicians
than allow such physicians to cherry pick profitable patients. Such a rationale
would not suggest an intent to willfully maintain monopoly power and, therefore,
could defeat a Section 2 antitrust challenge.

3. Decisions Upholding Antitrust Challenges to Economic Conflict-of-Interest
Policies and Practices

   Despite courts' tolerance for certain types of economic credentialing
policies, such as exclusive contract or closed staff arrangements n75 and
policies intended to promote efficiency, n76 courts appear less willing to
uphold policies based on physicians' membership in competing organizations,
admission of patients to competing facilities, or ownership interests in
competing healthcare facilities. One purpose of antitrust law is to maximize
consumer welfare by policing practices that tend to restrict competition.
Accordingly, a policy that protects a hospital's revenue stream by conditioning
medical staff privileges on physicians restricting or refraining from
competition in the relevant healthcare market presents a particular risk of
liability under antitrust law. Hospitals have begun to adopt such policies only
recently; therefore, there are relatively few cases directly addressing the
antitrust and other issues raised by such policies. The following cases
illustrate that courts may be willing to uphold antitrust challenges to such
inherently anticompetitive credentialing policies, even though courts generally
reject antitrust challenges to more benign, or "traditional," forms of economic
credentialing.



   n75 See, e.g. Balaklaw v. Lovell, 14 F.3d 793, 795 (2d Cir. 1994); Capital
Imaging Assoc., P.C. v. Mohawk Valley Med. Assoc., Inc., 996 F.2d 537, 539 (2d
Cir. 1993); Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs v. Radiology, Ltd., 924 F.2d 1484,
1486 (9th Cir. 1991); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138, 139 (6th Cir.
1990); Konik v. Champlain Valley Physicians Hosp. Med. Ctr., 733 F.2d 1007, 1009
(2d Cir. 1984); Roland Mach. Co. v. Dresser Indus., Inc., 749 F.2d 380, 395 (7th
Cir. 1984); Drs. Steuer & Latham, P.A. v. Nat'l Med. Enter., 672 F. Supp. 1489,
1492 (D.S.C. 1987); Bellam, 758 F. Supp. at 1493 (N.D. Ga. 1990); Gonzalez v.
San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d 436, 437 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994).


   n76 See, e.g., Hassan v. Independent Practice Assocs., 698 F. Supp. 679, 694
(E.D. Mich. 1988); Freidman v. Del. Co. Mem'l Hosp., 672 F. Supp. 171, 195 (E.D.
Pa. 1987); Redding v. St. Francis Med. Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806, 808 (Ct. App.
1989).

   First, in Reazin v. Blue Cross & Blue Shield, n77 the court upheld an
antitrust claim brought by a physician, a hospital, and two insurance companies
owned by the hospital against Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Kansas (Blue Cross
Kansas). The complaint alleged that Blue Cross threatened to terminate the
hospital's contracting provider agreement because of the hospital's affiliation
with competing insurers. The plaintiffs alleged that this threatened termination
had the effect of making other hospitals reluctant to affiliate with Blue Cross
Kansas's competitors, thereby reducing competition in the health insurance
market and preventing healthcare consumers from enjoying the benefits of
competition. The jury agreed with the plaintiffs, and the appeals court upheld
the verdict. n78



   n77 635 F. Supp. 1287 (D. Kan. 1986), aff'd in part, remanded in part, 899
F.2d 951 (10th Cir. 1986).


   n78 Id. at 1293.

   Similarly, in Potters Medical Center v. City Hospital Ass'n, n79 the court
held that restricting a physician's ability to practice at competing facilities
may constitute monopolization. Potters, an acute-care hospital, together with a
diagnostic imaging center and a minor emergency clinic, brought an antitrust
action against City Hospital, the only other acute-care hospital in the
geographic area. The complaint alleged that that City Hospital refused to grant
staff privileges to doctors with Potters' privileges and engaged in various
intimidation and pressuring tactics to discourage physician competition. The
court denied the defendants' request to dismiss the complaint because there was
adequate evidence of anticompetitive intent and other elements of an antitrust
violation. n80



   n79 800 F.2d 568 (6th Cir. 1986).


   n80 Id. at 577.

   Likewise, in Miller v. Indiana Hospital, n81 the court allowed a surgeon's
antitrust claim to reach a jury. The court concluded that there was sufficient
evidence that a hospital unreasonably terminated a surgeon's staff privileges
when the surgeon opened a competing facility and that the termination of
privileges was not due to professional incompetence as alleged by the hospital.
n82 Several years after obtaining staff privileges at the hospital, the surgeon
opened a five-office medical building (including physicians' offices, an on-site
laboratory, and radiology services) two miles away from the hospital. A few
years after the surgeon opened the medical office building, the hospital
terminated his staff privileges, ostensibly because of inadequate care provided
to one patient who died at the hospital. The surgeon alleged that the hospital
actually revoked his staff privileges to stifle competition from his facility.
Based on affidavits of former hospital administrators revealing the hospital's
concern over competition from the surgeon's facility, evidence that the medical
staff encouraged other practitioners to break their contracts with the surgeon's
facility, and evidence that physicians who committed more serious infractions
regarding patient care were not terminated, the court declined to dismiss the
antitrust action. n83



   n81 843 F.2d 139 (3d Cir. 1988).


   n82 Id. at 144-45.


   n83 Id.

   Also, in Blue Cross v. Kitsap Physicians Service, n84 the court granted Blue
Cross of Washington and Alaska's (Blue Cross Washington's) request for a
preliminary injunction to stop Kitsap Physicians Service (KPS), the dominant
health insurer in the area, from enforcing an amendment to its bylaws that would
have denied membership to any physician who contracted with a health maintenance
organization (HMO) that utilized a "closed panel" of physicians. Blue Cross
Washington alleged that KPS adopted the bylaw as a defensive measure to remain
competitive with Blue Cross Washington. The court concluded that KPS enjoyed
substantial market share and that the bylaw amendment had an anticompetitive
effect by obstructing Blue Cross Washington's ability to attract physicians to
its plan. n85



   n84 No. C81-918V, 1981 WL 2198, at *1 (W.D. Wash. Oct. 28, 1981).


   n85 Id. at *4-*5.

   In justifying its bylaw under a rule of reason analysis, KPS argued that the
Blue Cross Washington closed-panel policy itself adversely affected competition
because it created a conflict of interest for physicians who belonged to both
the KPS plan, a fee-for-service arrangement, and the Blue Cross Washington HMO.
KPS asserted that physicians participating in both plans would have an incentive
to steer healthy patients to the Blue Cross Washington plan and more needy
patients to the KPS plan, which would cause KPS's costs (and rates) to rise. The
court determined that if such steering occurred, it would not produce
anticompetitive effects, but rather, "the very type of competitive pressure that
the HMO concept seeks to introduce." n86 In the court's estimation, healthier
patients should be drawn to HMOs, which offer lower prices, instead of
fee-for-service arrangements, under which they subsidize less healthy patients.
Although one could quibble with the court's analysis of the economic incentives
under various medical insurance models, the Kitsap decision is significant
because it considered and rejected a cherry-picking argument analogous to the
one that hospitals may make regarding medical staff members' economic conflicts
of interest.



   n86 Id. at *5.

   These cases demonstrate courts' willingness to strike down credentialing
policies that have the intent or inherent effect of restricting competition in
the relevant healthcare market. Although protection of competition for
competition's sake is not the primary purpose of antitrust laws, a court might
allow an antitrust challenge to a hospital's credentialing policy that
specifically prohibits or restricts medical staff members from competing with
the hospital. Such a policy could harm consumers by limiting the availability,
reducing the quality, or increasing the cost of healthcare services.

4. Decisions Supporting a Hospital's Right to Exclude Physicians Based on
Conflicts of Interest

   The rule of reason analysis calls for courts to weigh the anticompetitive
effects of a particular business practice against the pro-competitive benefits
of the practice. Accordingly, in deciding an antitrust challenge to a hospital's
credentialing policy that excludes physicians who have economic conflicts of
interest, a court could conclude that such a policy does not violate antitrust
law if the hospital offers a legitimate business justification. Cases decided on
antitrust grounds, as well as cases decided in other contexts based on economic
policies and principles of competition, have recognized a hospital's need to
maintain economic viability as a legitimate business justification for economic
credentialing.

   As discussed, the Mahan n87 court held that a hospital's interest in
protecting itself from competition was a sufficient business justification for
restricting staff privileges on a breach of contract challenge to the bylaws.
Such reasoning could be borrowed in the antitrust context. In Mahan, a group of
orthopedic surgeons built an orthopedic surgery center that directly competed
with the hospital. The hospital board responded by adopting a closed staff
policy with respect to three specific spinal procedures and all new applicants
for orthopedic surgery privileges. After being denied staff privileges, Dr.
Mahan sued the hospital claiming the closed staff policy was anticompetitive and
constituted a breach of the medical staff bylaws. n88 The Supreme Court of South
Dakota concluded that the hospital's closed staff policy was necessary to
"insure the continued viability of the hospital." n89 The court upheld the
policy because the hospital board acted in good faith and within its authority
in adopting the policy. n90 Mahan supports the proposition that reducing or
preventing competition that could threaten a hospital's ability to remain
operational may be a valid exercise of the hospital board's management power,
even if such policy has anticompetitive effects. In a footnote, the Supreme
Court of South Dakota recognized the conflict of interest inherent in physicians
owning competing healthcare facilities:

        How can a doctor who is a part owner of the forprofit [orthopedic
     surgery group] be expected to fulfill his or her duties toward his or
     her co-owners and in the same instance fulfill the duties towards the
     [the hospital], who is a not for profit hospital? This does not imply
     ill-will on the part of the doctor, it simply faces fundamental
     medical issues such as at which institution does the doctor place his
     or her patients . . .? We have often stated that an agent cannot serve
     two masters. This rule applies to medical professionals as well. n91





   n87 Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001).


   n88 Id. at 153.


   n89 Id. at 160.


   n90 Id. at 161.


   n91 Id. at 161 n.8.

   Accordingly, Mahan seems to recognize that a hospital policy which restricts
or prohibits physicians' ownership or investment in competing entities could be
viewed as being supported by a valid business justification because there is no
other way to ensure that physicians remain loyal to the hospital and avoid the
temptation to cherry pick patients.

   The Mahan decision is significant for its strong deference to the hospital
board's authority to protect the hospital from competitive market forces. The
court was persuaded that the hospital provided essential medical care to the
Aberdeen community, which services might be unavailable if the hospital were
forced to close. Accordingly, the court concluded that "[the hospital] surely
has the power to attempt to insure [its] economic survival." n92 The court did
not adequately explain, however, why the community demand for such medical
services could not be filled by another, perhaps more efficient, healthcare
provider.



   n92 Id. at 156 (emphasis added).

   Also recognizing a healthcare provider's legitimate interest in maintaining
economic viability, a New York court in NYSARC, Inc. v. Syed, n93 upheld a
noncompete clause in a contract between a nonprofit medical clinic and a
physician. The court noted that the medical clinic alleged "that enforcement of
the covenant is necessary to protect its legitimate interests because it is a
not-for-profit organization operating its clinic at a loss and because the
patient revenue is crucial to its ability to continue providing services. If it
loses patients who have insurance or can otherwise afford to pay for services it
will be unable to continue serving those patients who cannot afford to pay for
services." n94 NYSARC, like Mahan, seems to recognize the quasi-public nature of
healthcare services and the multiple-payor cost-spreading methods by which
hospitals finance their services. In light of these factors, courts may be more
willing to uphold anticompetitive business practices in the healthcare context
than in other markets.



   n93 747 N.Y.S.2d 327 (Sup. Ct. 2002).


   n94 Id. at 328.

   Other cases suggest that courts may be influenced by the unique economics of
healthcare financing and the considerable discretionary power of hospital boards
of directors when ruling on challenges to economic conflict-of-interest
credentialing policies. For example, in an unreported Florida decision,
Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center, n95 the court
squarely addressed a hospital's authority to exclude a physician based solely on
an economic conflict of interest. A nonprofit hospital excluded the physician
because he was head of the cardiology department at a competing hospital. The
physician sued, but the court dismissed his claims, relying in part on language
in a Florida statute listing the criteria that a hospital may consider in
deciding whether to grant staff privileges, including "such other elements as
determined by the governing board." n96 The court determined that "other
elements" could include economic conflicts of interest. n97



   n95 No. 91-589 (Fla. Cir. Ct. 1992). See Judith E. Orie, Economic
Credentialing: Bottom-Line Medical Care, 36 DUQ. L. REV. 437, 450-51 (1998).


   n96 FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.0191 (West 2002).


   n97 Orie, supra note 95, at 450.

   Further, a recent case from Louisiana upheld a hospital's policies that had
the effect of limiting competition from a physician-owned facility because there
was a valid business justification for the policies. n98 In Surgical Care Center
v. Hospital Service District No. 1, the court rejected the surgical center's
antitrust challenge to various practices of the hospital, such as negotiating
exclusive contracts with insurance companies, refusing patient-transfer and
blood-type-and-cross-match agreements with the surgical center, refusing to lend
equipment, and making threats that could have deterred physicians from working
at the competing surgical center. n99 The court concluded that these practices
either had no effect on the surgical center or were justified as pro-competitive
conduct. n100 With respect to other monopoly and tying claims, the court
determined that the plaintiffs failed to prove market power; therefore, the
antitrust claims failed. n101



   n98 Surgical Care Ctr. v. Hosp. Service Dist. No. 1, No. Civ.A. 97-1840, 2001
WL 8586, at *1 (E.D. La. Jan. 3, 2001), aff'd, 309 F.3d 836 (5th Cir. 2002)
(holding that antitrust claims failed because plaintiff failed to present
evidence defining the relevant geographic market).


   n99 Id.


   n100 Id. at *11-*12.


   n101 Id. at *3-*10. See Surgical Care Ctr. v. Hosp. Serv. Dist. No. 1, 309
F.3d 836, 839-42 (5th Cir. 2002).

   Another case has upheld the right of healthcare providers and managed care
insurance providers to negotiate exclusive contracts. In Park Avenue Radiology
Associates v. Methodist Health Systems, Inc., n102 the court held that two
physicians and their outpatient radiology practice lacked standing to bring an
antitrust challenge to the exclusive contract. The court noted that exclusive
contracts between providers and health plans that offer discounts and other
financial incentives to refer patients to the provider are consistent with the
selective nature of managed care insurance plans, are pro-competitive, and have
the desirable effect of reducing healthcare costs. n103



   n102 No. 98-5668, 1999 WL 1045098 (6th Cir. Nov. 10, 1999).


   n103 Id. at *4-*5.

   Also, in Lister v. Methodist Medical Center, n104 the court upheld a
hospital's closed staff policy for anesthesia services, noting: "the by-laws do
not limit the hospital from taking actions which affect the plaintiff's staff
privileges unrelated to competency or conduct. The parties concede that the
hospital decided to terminate plaintiff's clinical privileges solely due to
business considerations, an entitled deference . . . ." n105 Lister and the
other cases discussed above suggest that courts may be willing to accord
considerable discretion to hospitals with economic credentialing policies, even
when such policies have the inherent effect and evident purpose of limiting
competition. n106 Maintaining economic viability and ensuring delivery of needed
healthcare services may justify an otherwise impermissible restraint on trade.



   n104 No. 03A01-9305-CH-186, 1993 WL 481402 (Tenn. Ct. App. Nov. 18, 1993).


   n105 Id. at *2 (emphasis added).


   n106 See United States v. American Tobacco, 221 U.S. 106, 179 (1911) (rule of
reason antitrust violations may include contracts or agreements "which, either
because of their inherent nature or effect or because of the evident purpose of
the acts, etc., injuriously restrained trade").

   Another argument available to defeat a monopolization challenge to an
economic credentialing policy is the long-recognized right of a trader or
manufacturer freely to exercise his own independent discretion as to parties
with whom he will deal, in the absence of any purpose to create a monopoly.
Based on such reasoning, the Fifth Circuit, in Martin v. Memorial Hospital,
rejected a physician's monopoly challenge to a hospital's exclusive agreement
governing staff privileges at the county's only authorized end stage renal
disease (ESRD) units. n107 At the time, Mississippi law prohibited the operation
of an ESRD unit without first obtaining a certificate of need (CON) from the
state department of health. Memorial Hospital at Gulfport (MHG) acquired control
of both CONs issued by the state for ESRD units and entered into an exclusive
contract with a physician under which only that physician, or the physician's
designated representative, could perform chronic outpatient dialysis in MHG's
ESRD units. An excluded nephrologist sued MHG and its board of trustees,
alleging violations of state antitrust laws. n108 The Fifth Circuit held that
the exclusive contract did not violate Mississippi's anti-monopoly law because
to hold otherwise would be inconsistent with the CON statute, which clearly
contemplated anticompetitive conduct. n109



   n107 Martin v. Mem'l Hosp., 130 F.3d 1143 (5th Cir. 1997).


   n108 Id. at 1146.


   n109 Id. at 1151. CONs, like patents, are a form of government-sanctioned
monopoly.

   These cases provide potential arguments that a hospital could use to defeat a
physician's antitrust challenge to an economic conflict-of-interest policy. Even
if the hospital possesses market power, the hospital may be able to demonstrate
that the anticompetitive effects of the economic credentialing policy are
outweighed by pro-competitive benefits or legitimate business justifications for
the policy. In particular, these cases demonstrate that courts tend to defer to
hospital management regarding efficiency and other operational matters.
Specifically, a hospital's need to maintain economic viability and a patient mix
that includes high-reimbursement cases to offset low-reimbursement or indigent
care cases could justify a policy that limits or prohibits competition by
medical staff members. Such policies, however, are inherently anticompetitive
because they force physicians to limit or forego certain entrepreneurial or
investment activities in order to maintain full staff privileges at a general,
acute-care facility, which arguably are essential for most physicians'
practices. n110 Accordingly, courts could deem hospitals' new economic
credentialing policies to constitute illegal methods of maintaining monopoly
power or barring new entry. The incidence of hospitals adopting policies to
limit or prohibit competition by their medical staff members is likely to
increase, as both physicians and hospitals address problems of declining
revenue. Therefore, additional challenges to these policies likely will be
brought, and the antitrust case law regarding such policies will continue to
evolve.



   n110 See, e.g., Koniak v. Champlain Valley Physicians Hosp. Med. Ctr., 561
F.Supp. 700, 705 (N.D.N.Y. 1983), aff'd 733 F.2d 1007 (2d Cir. 1984); see
generally Scott D. Makar, The Essential Facilities Doctrine and the Health Care
Industry, 21 FLA. ST. U. L. REV. 913 (1994). See also Phillip Areeda, Essential
Facilities: An Epithet in Need of Limiting Principles, 58 ANTITRUST L.J. 841
(1989).

B. Due Process Challenges

   The decision to deny or terminate a physician's staff privileges based on an
economic conflict of interest also raises issues regarding the physician's
entitlement to procedural due process. A physician who is effectively prevented
from providing services at a hospital at which he possesses staff privileges
because of the existence of a policy that conditions staff privileges on his
refraining from competition with the hospital may allege that the hospital
failed to provide procedural due process before reducing or revoking his
privileges. In other words, must a hospital give a physician an individual
hearing before enforcing an economic credentialing policy, or may the board
adopt such a policy as an administrative matter, without providing a hearing or
other due process to physicians whose clinical privileges are affected by the
new policy? These due process arguments may arise under the Fourteenth Amendment
of the United States Constitution or under state law.

   Even if a hospital is not required to provide an individual hearing and other
procedural due process rights to a physician affected by an economic
credentialing policy, the hospital should consider giving the physician due
process protection to take advantage of the immunity provisions under the Health
Care Quality Improvement Act (HCQIA). n111 Hospitals and peer review
participants are immune from liability for monetary damages for conducting
professional review activities if certain HCQIA requirements, including adequate
notice and hearing, are met. n112 Thus, despite the time, energy, and expense
potentially required to provide individual hearings for all physicians affected
by an economic credentialing policy, it may be worth the trouble for a hospital
to do so.



   n111 Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (HCQIA), Pub. L. No. 99-660,
100 Stat. 3784 (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (2003)).


   n112 See 42 U.S.C. §§ 11111 (regarding immunity), 11112(b) (regarding
requirements for adequate notice and hearing).

1. Right to a Hearing

   Physicians who lose staff privileges as a result of a hospital implementing
an economic conflict-of-interest policy may argue that the policy violates their
constitutional rights. The acts of public hospitals are considered "state
actions" and, therefore, must comport with the provisions of the United States
Constitution. n113 Specifically, excluded physicians may argue that the hospital
violated the Fourteenth Amendment Due Process clause by terminating their
medical staff privileges without a hearing.



   n113 See Sosa v. Board of Managers of the Val Verde Mem'l Hosp., 437 F.2d
173, 174 (5th Cir. 1971) (noting that because the hospital is a public body "its
acts are thus state acts and must comport with the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment"). See also Greenwood v. N.Y. Office of Mental Health, 163 F.3d 119,
121 (2d Cir. 1998) (considering constitutional claims of psychiatrist on staff
of New York State Office of Mental Health). Private hospitals generally are not
considered state actors merely because they receive federal funding or are
subject to state regulation. See Canady v. Providence Hosp., 903 F. Supp. 125,
126 (D.D.C. 1995) (holding that fact hospital accepts Hill-Burton funds does not
suffice to render the conduct of its staff and administration state action); St.
Mary's Hosp. v. Radiology Prof'l Corp., 421 S.E.2d 731, 736 (Ga. Ct. App. 1992)
(noting that extensive state regulation of private hospital and its status as
business affecting public interest do not establish state action). Thus, there
is generally no issue of constitutional due process for private hospitals.

   It is well established that a physician has no constitutional right to staff
privileges at a hospital, public or private, "merely because he is licensed to
practice medicine." n114 "A hospital is not a mere hostery [sic] providing room
and board and a place for physicians to practice their craft . . . ." n115 Once
a physician has been granted staff privileges, however, those privileges are a
property interest protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. n116 Under the
Fourteenth Amendment Due Process clause, a person's "property or liberty may not
be permanently diminished or abrogated without first being accorded that
procedural protection designed to ensure a principled and even-handed
examination of the basis for any such deprivation." n117 Accordingly, a public
hospital may be required to grant a physician "some kind of hearing" before
terminating his medical staff privileges. n118 In addition, some state statutes
require hospitals to accord certain due process or hearing rights to physicians
before denying or revoking staff privileges. n119 Under such statutes, private
as well as public hospitals may be required to provide some due process
protections before implementing a policy that impairs or terminates a
physician's medical staff privileges. n120



   n114 Sosa, 437 F.2d at 175.


   n115 Tenet Health Ltd. v. Zamora, 13 S.W.3d 464, 471 (Tex. Ct. App. 2000).


   n116 Patel v. Midland Mem'l Hosp. & Med. Ctr., 298 F.3d 333, 339 n.11 (5th
Cir. 2002); Northeast Ga. Radiological Assoc. v. Tidwell, 670 F.2d 507, 510 (5th
Cir. 1982).


   n117 Martin v. Mem'l Hosp., 130 F.3d 1143, 1147 (5th Cir. 1997).


   n118 Caine v. Hardy, 943 F.2d 1406, 1412 (5th Cir. 1991) (quoting Cleveland
Bd. of Educ. v. Loudermill, 470 U.S. 532, 546 (1985), and noting that "this may
consist of no more than a meeting at which the employer states the ground for
dismissal and gives the employee an opportunity for rebuttal"). See Patel, 298
F.3d at 339 n.12; Darlak v. Bobear, 814 F.2d 1055, 1061-62 (5th Cir. 1987);
Northeast Ga. Radiological Assoc. v. Tidwell, 670 F.2d 507, 509 n.3, 511 (5th
Cir. 1982) (concluding that physician was entitled to hearing because agreement
with hospital provided that he could be terminated only for cause); Daly v.
Sprague, 675 F.2d 716, 727 (5th Cir. 1982). Cf. Smith v. Cleburne County Hosp.,
870 F.2d 1375, 1381 (8th Cir. 1989) (clarifying that physicians who are
independent contractors, not just direct salaried employees, of public hospital
have constitutional rights). The Mathews v. Eldridge test for adequate due
process requires consideration of:

        (1) the private interest that will be affected by the official
     action; (2) the risk of erroneous deprivation of such interest through
     the procedures used, and the probable value, if any, of additional or
     substitute procedural safeguards; and (3) the Government's interest,
     including the function involved and the fiscal or administrative
     burdens that the additional or substitute procedural requirement would
     entail.

   424 U.S. 319, 321 (1976).


   n119 See, e.g. CAL. BUS. & PROF. CODE § 809.2 (West 2003) (requiring hearing
before peer review body before final action); FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.0193 (West
2003) (regarding fair hearing requirements for denial of staff privileges); GA.
CODE. ANN. § 31-7-7 to 31-7-8 (2003) (providing that refusal or revocation by
public hospital of staff privileges requires some minimal procedural due
process); IND. CODE § 34-30-15-5(b)(1) (2003) (requiring hearing if any charges
are brought against physician that are required to be reported to state
licensing board or if similar disciplinary action is filed); MASS. GEN. LAWS.
ch. 111 § 203(b) (West 2003) (providing that "provider whose privileges are
suspended shall be entitled to notice and a prompt hearing following
suspension"); TEX. HEALTH & SAFETY CODE ANN. § 241.101(c) (West 2003) (providing
that hospital's "process for considering applications for medical staff
membership and privileges or the renewal, modification, or revocation of medical
staff membership and privileges must afford each physician . . . procedural due
process").


   n120 See, e.g., Lake Hosp. & Clinic, Inc. v. Silversmith, 551 So. 2d 538,
539-40 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1989).

   Nevertheless, a number of courts hold that due process rights are not
triggered by a hospital adopting a generally applicable, nondiscriminatory
administrative policy that has the effect of denying or revoking a physician's
staff privileges. n121 Specifically, courts may hold that exclusive contract
arrangements or other economic credentialing policies do not give rise to the
full panoply of Fourteenth Amendment Due Process rights. Some courts have
concluded that the underlying rationale for holding a hearing is not present
when the hospital's decision was not based on a particular physician's
professional competence or unethical conduct. n122 In other words,
implementation of a hospital policy may be deemed an administrative or
"quasi-legislative" decision for which a judicial-type hearing is not required.
n123 As one court noted: "Neither a private nor public hospital may unreasonably
or arbitrarily exclude a physician otherwise qualified from membership on its
staff. However, it does not necessarily follow that the governing authority of a
hospital may not make a policy decision or adopt a rule of general application .
. . ." n124



   n121 See, e.g., Benell v. City of Virginia, 104 N.W.2d 633, 636 (Minn. 1960)
(right of physician to practice medicine in public hospital not invaded by
hospital's administrative policy requiring attending physicians to consult with
hospital radiologist regarding X-ray administration and dosage); East Tex. Med.
Ctr. Cancer Inst. v. Anderson, 991 S.W.2d 55, 63 (Tex. App. 1998) (holding that
procedural due process requirements "were not intended to cover cases in which a
doctor's staff privileges have been affected by some administrative decision not
directly involving [the doctor]"); Gonzalez v. San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880
S.W.2d 436, 440 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994). Generally, courts that have considered due
process claims brought by physicians whose staff privileges were affected by
exclusive contracts or similar arrangements have not distinguished between
public and private hospitals. See, e.g., Letsch v. Northern San Diego Co. Hosp.
Dist., 246 Cal. App.2d 673, 677 (1967) (closed staff operation of radiology
department was reasonable and, therefore, did not interfere with right of
physician to use public hospital facilities; relying on earlier California Court
of Appeals decision that was substantially identical "except for the fact the
hospital in the instant case is operated by a public agency whereas the hospital
operated in the case cited was operated by a corporation").


   n122 See, e.g., Hutton v. Mem'l Hosp., 824 P.2d 61, 64 (Colo. Ct. App. 1991).


   n123 See, e.g., Major v. Mem'l Hosps. Assoc., 84 Cal. Rptr. 2d 510, 521 (Ct.
App. 1999) ("In a quasi-legislative proceeding there is no constitutional right
to any hearing."). See also Benell, 104 N.W.2d at 636; Adler v. Montefiore Hosp.
Ass'n, 311 A.2d 634, 645 (Pa. 1973).


   n124 Holt v. Good Samaritan Hosp. & Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d 1318, 1321 (Ohio
Ct. App. 1990). Other courts, however, have held that a physician is entitled to
due process regardless of the reason for exclusion. See Bilek v. Tallahassee
Mem'l Reg'l Med. Ctr., No. 91-973 (Fla. Cir. Ct. 1991) (holding that closed
staff policy was de facto revocation of physician's clinical privileges in
therapeutic radiology, which privileges constituted protected property interest
that cannot be revoked without due process); Jeffrey L. Cohen, Court Rulings
Affect Hospital-based Physicians, FLORIDA OBSTETRIC AND GYNECOLOGIC SOCIETY, at
www.flobgyn.org/ln/current.php (last visited March 30, 2003). See also Lewisburg
Community Hosp., Inc. v. Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756, 761 (Tenn. 1991) (holding
hospital breached bylaws by failing to provide radiologist with hearing after
entering exclusive contract arrangement that "significantly reduced"
radiologist's privileges by denying access to hospital equipment and staff),
abrogation by statute recognized in City of Cookeville ex rel. Cookeville Reg'l
Med. Ctr. v. Humphrey, No. M2001-00695-COA-R3-CV, 2002 WL 31558101 (Tenn. Ct.
App. Nov. 20, 2002).

   Recently, the Tennessee Court of Appeals, in City of Cookeville ex rel.
Cookeville Regional Medical Center v. Humphrey, n125 departed from established
precedent of the Supreme Court of Tennessee and held that due process was not
implicated by a hospital credentialing policy. The Humphrey court held that,
under a new state statute, a public hospital was not required to accord due
process rights to radiologists whose staff privileges were affected by the
hospital entering into an exclusive contract for radiological services. In 1996,
the Tennessee General Assembly expressly authorized hospitals to enter into
exclusive contracts "regardless of the competitive consequences thereof." n126
In Humphrey, the trial court ruled in favor of the hospital, but failed to
address the Supreme Court of Tennessee's 1991 decision in Lewisburg Community
Hospital, Inc. v. Alfredson, n127 which held that a physician whose staff
privileges were significantly reduced by a hospital's exclusive contract
arrangement had a contractual right to a hearing pursuant to the hospital's
bylaws. The trial court instead "followed the apparently universal rule applied
in other jurisdictions, which is contra to Alfredson." n128 In affirming the
trial court, the court of appeals discussed and cited various decisions from
other jurisdictions regarding due process rights in relation to exclusive
contract arrangements. n129



   n125 No. M2001-00695-COA-R3CV, 2002 WL 31558101 (Tenn. App. Ct. Nov. 20,
2002).


   n126 TENN. CODE ANN. § 7-57-501(b) (2002).


   n127 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).


   n128 Humphrey, 2002 WL 31558101, at *7.


   n129 Id.

   The court also discussed the legislative history of the new statute, which
recognized that the healthcare market

        is rapidly changing as is the way and manner in which such services
     are purchased and delivered; that the market for hospital and health
     care services is becoming increasingly competitive; and that the
     hospital and other health care providers need flexibility to be able
     to respond to changing conditions by having the power to develop
     efficient and cost-effective methods to provide for hospital, medical
     and health care needs. n130

   In light of the new statute, the weight of authority from other
jurisdictions, and the emerging healthcare market factors, Humphrey concluded
that it was not bound by Alfredson. n131 Accordingly, Humphrey recognized the
reasonableness of the hospital's exclusive contract arrangement and held that
four radiologists whose medical staff privileges were affected by the hospital's
decision to enter into an exclusive contract with a different radiology group
were not entitled to individual hearings. The reasoning in Humphrey, like the
reasoning in the antitrust and other "business justification" cases,
demonstrates judicial recognition of the unique economic factors and increasing
competition faced by hospitals. Accordingly, courts may give hospital management
more leeway to adopt policies intended to shield the hospital from the
vicissitudes of the competitive marketplace than they would give management of a
different type of business entity. The result of this deference in the due
process context is that hospitals may be relieved of the burden of giving
excluded physicians individual hearings or other procedural protections.



   n130 Id. at *10 (referencing TENN. CODE ANN. § 7-57-501(b) (1998)).


   n131 Id. at *9 ("As an intermediate appellate court, we are bound by
Alfredson, and unless the case has been legislatively overruled . . . we are
bound to follow it.")

   Courts have also held that due process is not required when hospitals adopt
economic credentialing policies because such policies did not actually affect
physicians' staff privileges. In Adler v. Montefiore Hospital Ass'n, n132 the
court held that a part-time physician at a public teaching hospital did not have
a constitutional right to a hearing when the hospital adopted a policy allowing
only full-time physicians to use the cardiac catheterization laboratory. The
court concluded that the physician's "rights to admit patients and to prescribe
treatment, and the remainder of the cluster of privileges accorded to all staff
members, have in no way been diminished, but remain in all respects equal to
those of other staff members." n133 Thus, a hearing was not required. The
decision, however, ignores the reality that denying a physician access to
facilities or equipment central to his area of specialty, such as a
catheterization laboratory to a cardiologist, has the practical effect of
denying privileges.



   n132 311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973).


   n133 Id. at 645.

   Similarly, in Faucher v. Rodziewicz, n134 the court concluded that no actual
termination of staff privileges occurred when a public hospital adopted a policy
that made a physician's services less valuable but did not actually terminate
her staff privileges. The physician had been providing anesthesiology services
under an exclusive contract with the hospital for several years. The hospital
decided to hire a clinical director and asked the anesthesiologist to apply for
the new position. She declined, objecting strongly to certain terms of the
contract. The hospital then hired a new clinical director, but not under an
exclusive contract. The original anesthesiologist's staff privileges were not
affected by this staffing change. The clinical director, however, implemented a
policy requiring surgeons to give twenty-four-hours notice if they wished to use
the services of the original anesthesiologist, which made her services less
valuable than before the notice policy was implemented. n135 Under these facts,
the court concluded that no termination of staff privileges had occurred and
that the anesthesiologist's "real claim is that the economic value of her
medical staff privileges decreased" after the new clinical director was hired.
n136 The constitutional right to a hearing was not triggered because the
economic value was not a property interest protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment.



   n134 891 F.2d 864 (11th Cir. 1990).


   n135 Id. at 866-67.


   n136 Id. at 869.

   A hospital might rely on the Adler and Faucher line of reasoning to defend a
due process challenge to an economic conflict-of-interest policy that restricts,
rather than denies, staff privileges of competing medical staff members. The
hospital could argue that the policy does not actually revoke or even reduce a
physician's staff privileges, even though it may have an economic effect on him
by requiring the physician to forego investment or entrepreneurial opportunities
in another, unrelated healthcare facility. Constitutional Due Process is not
implicated when there is no loss of liberty or property.

   By contrast, the court in Northeast Georgia Radiological Associates v.
Tidwell n137 held that a hearing was required for a physician affected by an
exclusive contract arrangement at a public hospital. n138 The hospital had an
exclusive contract with one radiological group, but decided to terminate that
contract and enter into a new exclusive contract with a different group. The
radiologist who wholly owned the excluded group sued, alleging breach of
contract, tortious interference with contract, and deprivation of constitutional
rights. On the Fourteenth Amendment claim, the court concluded that the
radiologist was entitled to a hearing before termination of his staff privileges
because his radiological group's exclusive contract expressly provided that it
could be terminated only "for cause." n139 The Tidwell court did not consider
the argument relied on by Adler and Faucher that the radiologist's staff
privileges were merely affected by an administrative policy decision, as opposed
to a decision bearing on the radiologist's professional competency or ethics.



   n137 670 F.2d 507 (5th Cir. 1982).


   n138 Id. at 511.


   n139 Id. at 509 n.3, 511.

   The different reasoning and result in Tidwell may be explained by the unique
facts of the hospital terminating one exclusive contract, without cause, in
favor of another exclusive contract. A court might be more likely to view a
hospital's decision to implement an exclusive contract arrangement for the first
time as an administrative policy decision, as opposed to a decision to terminate
an established exclusive contract, without cause, in order to enter a new
exclusive contract with a different provider. The latter decision by a hospital
board more directly implicates the individual property rights of the physicians
in the now-excluded group. n140 Although Faucher also involved termination of an
exclusive contract in favor of a new staffing arrangement, the facts are
distinguishable since the anesthesiologist was given the option of applying for
the new position and did not actually lose her staff privileges.



   n140 Cf. Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483, 489 (Md. Ct.Spec.
App. 1981) (no due process rights implicated when exclusive contract with one
group of radiologists came to specified end of term and was not renewed in favor
of contract with a different group).

   Relatively few cases have addressed the due process implications of economic
conflict-of-interest policies. The decisions regarding traditional economic
credentialing policies, however, generally conclude that a physician whose
property interest in medical staff privileges is affected by an administrative
decision of the hospital does not have a right to an individual hearing. n141 As
such, a court is likely to conclude that a new economic credentialing policy
that limits or prohibits medical staff members from owning or investing in
competing facilities does not implicate due process or other constitutional
rights. A court will find either that the policy does not actually deprive a
current medical staff member of privileges or that it was adopted as a
quasi-legislative or administrative decision, rather than as an adjudication of
a particular physician's professional competency or ethics.



   n141 See, e.g., Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 905 (Ct. App.
1978) (quasi-legislative decision to operate renal hemodialysis facility on
closed staff basis did not implicate due process rights); Garibaldi v.
Applebaum, 742 N.E.2d 279, 280 (Ill. 2001) (physician affected by hospital's
exclusive contract for open heart surgical services with different physician
group did not have a right to hearing under bylaws); Dutta v. St. Francis Reg'l
Med. Ctr., 867 P.2d 1057, 1060 (Kan. 1994) (radiologist not entitled to a
hearing with regard to hospital's managerial decision to limit use of radiology
facilities because his staff privileges remained intact); Bartley v. Eastern
Maine Med. Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020, 1021 (Me. 1992) (no right to hearing when staff
privileges were not actually revoked by new contract requiring emergency room
physicians to be employed by different group); Van Valkenburg v. Paracelcus
Healthcare Corp., 606 N.W.2d 908, 918-19 (N.D. 2000) (no right to hearing for
emergency room physicians who declined to join group that was given exclusive
contract because there was no allegation of individual misconduct); Holt v. Good
Samaritan Hosp. & Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d 1318, 1321 (Ohio Ct. App. 1990) (
hospital's decision to enter exclusive contract for emergency room services was
policy decision or rule of general application that did not require due process
for affected physicians; noting that holding otherwise "would be the death knell
of exclusive contracts for medical services").

   Moreover, as the Tennessee Court of Appeals noted in Humphrey, the weight of
authority in jurisdictions across the country holds that hospitals, public or
private, are not required to accord due process hearing rights to physicians
whose staff privileges are affected by generally applicable administrative
policies. n142 The Humphrey decision is noteworthy because it turned, in part,
on recognition of the increasing competitive pressures on hospitals in the
current healthcare market and the need to give hospital administrators the
flexibility to respond to those pressures. Therefore, if a physician challenges
an economic conflict-of-interest policy on due process grounds for deprivation
of property, a court would probably conclude that the affected physician does
not have a constitutional right to a hearing.



   n142 City of Cookeville ex rel. Cookeville Reg'l Med. Ctr. v. Humphrey, No.
M2001-00695-COA-R3CV, 2002 WL 31558101, at *7-*8 (Tenn. App. Ct. Nov. 20, 2002).
See also Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp., 432 A.2d at 489 ("Indeed, in every case
brought to our attention in which a hospital's operation of a facility on a
'closed-staff' basis was challenged, the decision of the governing authority of
the hospital has been upheld.").

2. HCQIA Immunity

   Even if a hospital is not required by the United States Constitution or state
law to provide due process to a medical staff member who is affected by a new
economic credentialing policy, there remains a strong incentive to do so. This
incentive is the result of HCQIA, n143 under which hospitals are immune from
liability for monetary damages for conducting professional review activities.
n144 An economic conflict-of-interest policy that results in loss of staff
privileges by a particular physician could be deemed a professional review
action under HCQIA. A specific exception, however, appears to remove economic
conflict-of-interest credentialing policies from the ambit of the statute.



   n143 Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (HCQIA), Pub. L. No. 99-660,
100 Stat. 3784 (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (2003)).


   n144 Id. § 11111(a)(1). There are, however, limits to immunity. Physicians
may still sue for injunctive or declaratory relief. Also, there is no immunity
from damages for violations of federal or state civil rights laws. Id.

   Congress enacted HCQIA in 1986 to address concerns over increasing incidents
of medical malpractice and an overall nationwide decline in the quality of
healthcare. n145 Congress determined that these problems "warrant greater
efforts than those that can be undertaken by any individual State." n146 HCQIA
requires hospitals and certain other healthcare entities that conduct peer
review activities to report physicians who lose staff privileges or are
otherwise subject to a decision "adversely affecting" n147 their staff
privileges to a national data bank. n148 The National Practitioner Data Bank is
intended to prevent incompetent physicians from moving from state to state. n149
To encourage hospitals to review healthcare professionals' qualifications and to
report to the data bank, HCQIA grants immunity to hospitals for these
activities.



   n145 Id. § 11101(1).


   n146 Id.


   n147 "The term 'adversely affecting' includes reducing, restricting,
suspending, revoking, denying, or failing to renew clinical privileges or
membership in a health care entity." 42 U.S.C. § 11151(1) (2003).


   n148 See National Practitioners Data Bank for Adverse Information on
Physicians and Other Health Care Practitioners, 45 C.F.R. §§ 60.1-60.14 (2003)
(regulations regarding The National Practitioner Data Bank).


   n149 "There is a national need to restrict the ability of incompetent
physicians to move from State to State without disclosure or discovery of the
physician's previous damaging or incompetent performance." 42 U.S.C. § 11101(2)
(2003). See generally Brenda T. Strama & Elizabeth A. Weeks, The National
Practitioner Data Bank: Has it Accomplished its Objectives?, HEALTH LAW. NEWS
(AHLA), Feb. 2002, at 6.

   The HCQIA reporting requirement and immunity provisions apply only to
"professional review actions" taken by hospitals and other specific healthcare
entities:

        The term "professional review action" means an action or
     recommendation of a professional review body which is taken or made in
     the conduct of professional review activity, which is based on the
     competence or professional conduct of an individual physician (which
     conduct affects or could affect adversely the health or welfare of a
     patient or patients), and which affects (or may affect) adversely the
     clinical privileges n150. . . of the physician. Such term includes a
     formal decision of a professional review body not to take an action or
     make a recommendation described in the previous sentence and also
     includes professional review activities relating to a professional
     review action. n151

   Specific exceptions exist under the statute. One exception provides that "an
action is not considered to be based on the competence or professional conduct
of a physician if the action is primarily based on . . . the physician's fees or
the physician's advertising or engaging in other competitive acts intended to
solicit or retain business." n152 Under this definition, HCQIA may not apply
when a physician's staff privileges are affected by a hospital's credentialing
policy that prohibits or limits physician ownership or investment in competing
businesses. This is true because the action would be based on the physician's
engaging in competitive acts, not on his competence or professional conduct.
n153



   n150 "The term 'clinical privileges' includes privileges, membership on the
medical staff, and the other circumstances pertaining to the furnishing of
medical care under which a physician or other licensed health care practitioner
is permitted to furnish such care by a health care entity." 42 U.S.C. § 11151(3)
(2003).


   n151 Id. § 11151(9) (emphasis added).


   n152 Id. § 11151(9)(B) (emphasis added).


   n153 This HCQIA exception from the definition of "professional review action"
for actions based on physicians' competitive acts or business ventures provides
indirect support for the conclusion that a physician who loses staff privileges
as a result of a hospital's new economic conflict of interest policy does not
have a right to an individual hearing or other due process.

   If a hospital's economic credentialing decision is considered a professional
review action, however, the hospital would want to avail itself of HCQIA
immunity. Under HCQIA, immunity is presumed if the hospital meets certain
requirements. Specifically, the professional review action must be taken:

        (1) in the reasonable belief that the action was taken in the
     furtherance of quality health care,

        (2) after a reasonable opportunity to obtain the facts of the
     matter,

        (3) after adequate notice and hearing procedures are afforded to
     the physician involved or after such other procedures as are fair to
     the physician under the circumstances, and

        (4) in the reasonable belief that the action was warranted by the
     facts known after such reasonable effort to obtain facts and after
     meeting the requirements of paragraph (3). n154

   Once the hospital establishes a presumption of immunity by satisfying these
elements, the burden shifts to the physician to overcome the presumption that
the hospital complied with the HCQIA requirements. n155



   n154 42 U.S.C. § 11112(a)(1)-(4) (2003).


   n155 See Sugarbaker v. SSM Health Care, 190 F.3d 905, 912 (8th Cir. 1999).

   The above elements of HCQIA immunity may be met fairly easily by hospitals,
especially considering that the physician bears the burden to show the
hospital's actions were objectively unreasonable. n156 Thus, if the
implementation of an economic credentialing policy is deemed a "professional
review action," a hospital would have a strong incentive to afford affected
physicians with at least minimal procedural protections in order to avail its
peer review committee members of immunity from liability.



   n156 See, e.g., Mathews v. Lancaster Gen. Hosp., 87 F.3d 624, 633 (3d Cir.
1996); Austin v. McNamara, 979 F.2d 728, 734 (9th Cir. 1992).

C. Breach of Contract Challenges

   Physicians who lose their staff privileges as a result of a hospital's
adopting a policy that prohibits or restricts them from engaging in activities
that compete with the hospital also may allege that the new policy constitutes a
breach of contract. A physician may argue that the medical staff bylaws create a
contract between the physician and the hospital and that the physician has a
contractual right to retain his privileges unless those privileges are removed
according to the procedures set forth in the bylaws. For example, if the bylaws
allow termination of a medical staff member only for quality-of-care reasons, a
physician might allege that economic conflicts of interest are not related to
quality of care. Termination of staff privileges on such grounds, therefore,
would constitute a breach of contract.

   If the bylaws specify certain due process or hearing procedures that must be
followed before staff privileges are terminated, a physician might allege that
the new economic credentialing policy effectively terminated his staff
privileges without proper notice and hearing. Adoption of the policy, therefore,
constitutes a breach. A physician might also allege that the board breached the
bylaws by adopting the policy unilaterally without medical staff involvement.
For these breach of contract arguments to succeed, a court first would have to
conclude that the hospital bylaws constitute a contract between the hospital and
physician. Some courts have concluded that bylaws are contracts, n157 while
other courts have concluded that they are not. n158 Even courts in the same
state do not always agree on this issue. n159



   n157 See, e.g., Bartley v. Eastern Maine Med. Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020, 1021-22
(Me. 1992) (noting that bylaws can create contractual rights but concluding that
contract was not breached by hospital's adoption of closed staff policy because
hospital board had authority to manage all affairs of hospital, including
decisions regarding how to operate individual departments); St. John's Hosp.
Med. Staff v. St. John Reg'l Med. Ctr., Inc., 245 N.W.2d 472, 474 (S.D. 1976)
(applying "general rule, [that] the bylaws of a corporation, so long as adopted
in conformity with state law, constitute a binding contract between the
corporation and its shareholders" to medical staff bylaws); Keane v. St. Francis
Hosp., 522 N.W.2d 517, 522 (Wis. Ct. App. 1994) (noting that hospital bylaws can
establish binding contract between a hospital and its staff but not addressing
whether hospital breached contract). See also Pariser v. Christian Health Care
Sys., Inc., 816 F.2d 1248, 1251 (8th Cir. 1987); Lewisburg Cmty. Hosp., Inc. v.
Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756, 759 (Tenn. 1991).


   n158 See, e.g., Monroe v. AMI Hosps., 877 F. Supp. 1022, 1029 n. 5 (S.D. Tex.
1994) ("Under Texas law, a hospital's medical staff bylaws do not constitute a
contract between a hospital and its medical staff members."); Murdoch v.
Knollwood Park Hosp., 585 So. 2d 873, 876 (Ala. 1991) (holding that medical
staff bylaws do not constitute contractual rights); Stein v. Tri-City Hosp.
Auth., 384 S.E.2d 430, 433 (Ga. Ct. App. 1989); Keskin v. Munster Med. Research
Found., 580 N.E.2d 354, 359 (Ind. Ct. App. 1991); Zipper v. Health Midwest, 978
S.W.2d 398, 416-17 (Mo. Ct. App. 1998) (concluding that Missouri law is in
accordance with the "minority approach" that hospital bylaws do not constitute
binding contract between the medical staff and the hospital).


   n159 In Texas, as a general rule, medical staff bylaws do not create
contractual rights. In Weary v. Baylor Univ. Hosp., 360 S.W.2d 895 (Tex. Civ.
App. 1962), the court stated that bylaws created by the organized medical staff
of the hospital, and not the hospital's governing board, cannot limit the power
of the hospital and its board of trustees in any way. Id. at 897. See Ivey v.
Galen Hosps., No. 05-97-00435-CV, 2000 WL 329900, at *9 (Tex. Ct. App. Mar. 30,
2000) (medical staff bylaws did not obligate hospital to two-year, rather than
one-year, reappointments to medical staff). There is authority to the contrary,
however. See East Tex. Med. Ctr. Cancer Inst. v. Anderson, 991 S.W.2d 55, 63
(Tex. Ct. App. 1998) (holding that "procedural rights created in a medical
organization's by-laws may constitute contractual rights in favor of a doctor
with staff privileges"); Gonzalez v. San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d
436, 439 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994).

   The physician's claim in Mahan n160 was based on breach of contract. The
court concluded that there was no breach because the hospital's implementation
of a closed staff policy was a decision soundly within the discretion of the
hospital board of directors. n161 The physicians alleged that the medical staff
bylaws trumped the decisionmaking power of the board as to all decisions
relating in any way to, or incidentally affecting, medical personnel issues.
Thus, any decision by the board in violation of the medical staff bylaws was
allegedly a breach of contract. n162 The court acknowledged that the medical
staff bylaws gave the medical staff authority to evaluate the professional
competence of applicants for staff privileges. n163 The court, however,
clarified that medical staff bylaws derive from corporate bylaws, much as
statutes derive from a constitution. n164 Therefore, the medical staff has no
authority over any corporate decision unless the corporate bylaws or state law
specifically grant such authority. n165 The court concluded that no such power
had been granted to the Avera St. Luke's medical staff; therefore, the board's
decision to close its orthopedic staff was a "reasonable administrative
decision," within the authority of the board under the corporate bylaws. n166
Thus, there was no breach of contract under the medical staff bylaws, even
though the decision incidentally affected the medical staff.



   n160 Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160 (S.D. 2001).


   n161 Id. at 156.


   n162 Id. at 154-55.


   n163 Id. at 155.


   n164 Id.


   n165 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 155.


   n166 Id. at 160.

   Some courts, such as a Missouri court in Zipper v. Health Midwest, n167 have
not parsed the distinction between corporate bylaws and medical staff bylaws to
the same extent as Mahan. These courts have concluded on more straightforward
contract law reasoning that medical staff bylaws do not constitute a contract
because there is no consideration and no bargained-for exchange. n168
Accordingly, "the exclusion of a physician or surgeon from practicing in a
private hospital is a matter that rests in the discretion of the managing
authorities." n169 The Zipper court concluded: "The hospital retains authority
to restrict or revoke a staff member's privileges by reasonable and
nondiscriminatory rules and regulations." n170 In another case examining
Missouri law, Madsen v. Audrain Health Care Inc., n171 the Eighth Circuit
rejected a physician's breach of contract claim under the medical staff bylaws
because "the medical staff bylaws were not incorporated into the physician
agreement" and, therefore, were not a part of such contract. n172 The court
concluded that mere reference in the physician agreement to the medical staff
bylaws does not make the entirety of those bylaws part of the contract. In
addition, the court noted that the state's expressed policy is "the assurance of
quality health care, which is unduly impinged by allowing a physician to seek
damages for an alleged failure of a hospital to follow the procedures
established by its bylaws." n173



   n167 978 S.W.2d 398 (Mo. Ct. App. 1998).


   n168 Id. at 415-16 (noting split of authority on question whether bylaws
constitute contract and citing cases for both views).


   n169 Id. at 417.


   n170 Id. See Cobb County-Kennestone Hosp. Auth. v. Prince, 249 S.E.2d 581,
585-86 (Ga. 1978) (holding that hospitals' administrative policies are not
subject to judicial intervention unless new rule was arbitrary and
unreasonable.); Stein v. Tri-City Hosp. Auth., 384 S.E.2d 430, 432 (Ga. Ct. App.
1989).


   n171 297 F.3d 694 (8th Cir. 2002).


   n172 Id. at 699.


   n173 Id. (citing Zipper v. Health Midwest, 978 S.W.2d 398, 417 (Mo. Ct. App.
1998)).

   Other courts, by contrast, have held that the medical staff bylaws do
constitute a contract between the hospital and the medical staff. When a court
concludes that medical staff bylaws constitute a contract between the hospital
and a medical staff member, a physician's breach of contract claim premised on
failure to comply with the due process procedures outlined in the bylaws likely
will be treated in a manner analogous to constitutional or statutory due process
claims. That is, due process will not be required for generally applicable
administrative decisions by a hospital. n174 Breach of contract claims based on
other provisions of the bylaws may be unsuccessful as well, as long as the
hospital can show that the economic conflict of interest policy is a reasonable,
non-arbitrary exercise of hospital management authority, rather than a decision
pertaining to medical staff personnel issues falling within the medical staff's
authority. n175 A more troubling implication of a court's holding that the
medical staff bylaws are a contract is that the hospital board may be unable to
unilaterally amend the bylaws to adopt a new credentialing policy without the
participation and approval of the medical staff. n176 Such a holding presents a
potential impediment to the board's action, because economic
conflict-of-interest credentialing policies are likely to be unpopular with the
medical staff.



   n174 Most cases addressing a breach of the bylaws in the exclusive contract
context have found that an administrative decision by the hospital board of
directors, such as entering into an exclusive contract, does not give an
adversely-affected physician the right to the hearing and appellate procedures
set forth in medical staff bylaws. See, e.g., Bartley v. Eastern Maine Med.
Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020, 1023 (Me. 1992) (holding that physicians were not entitled
to invoke notice and hearing provisions of medical staff bylaws because they
were not facing "major corrective action"); East Tex. Med. Ctr. Cancer Inst. v.
Anderson, 991 S.W.2d 55, 62-63 (Tex. Ct. App. 1998) (holding that cancer center
bylaws gave physician certain contractual rights but that such rights were not
implicated by adoption of exclusive contract arrangement); Gonzalez v. San
Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d 436, 440 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994). But see
Northeast Ga. Radiological Assoc. v. Tidwell, 670 F.2d 509 (5th Cir. 1982)
(holding that contract providing physician could be terminated only "for cause"
was breached by change in exclusive contract arrangement).


   n175 See, e.g., Cobb County-Kennestone Hosp., 249 S.E.2d at 586 (noting that
"practical considerations of hospital operation permit hospital administrators
to conclude that specialty services can best be provided by entering into
exclusive medical service contracts").


   n176 See, e.g., St. John's Hosp. Med. Staff v. St. John Reg'l Med. Ctr.,
Inc., 245 N.W.2d 472, 475 (S.D. 1976) (holding that board breached its
contractual relationship with the medical staff by unilaterally amending the
bylaws and that new bylaws were null and void). But see Stein v. Tri-City Hosp.
Auth., 384 S.E.2d 430, 432-33 (Ga. Ct. App. 1989) (holding that hospital may
unilaterally amend its bylaws even if change results in termination of
individual physician's staff privileges as long as new policy is reasonable and
not arbitrary).

D. Summary of Legal Challenges

   Antitrust challenges to hospital credentialing policies, including exclusive
contract or closed staff arrangements, generally have not been successful, even
though such policies are inherently exclusionary. Courts have accepted
hospitals' legitimate business justifications for these policies, such as
increasing efficiency, maintaining control over hospital operations, ensuring
availability of services, and improving quality of care. Recent cases suggest
that courts may be more receptive to antitrust challenges to new economic
credentialing policies that are expressly intended to prevent medical staff
members from competing with hospitals at which they have privileges.

   Other cases, including cases outside the antitrust context that relied on
market factors, suggest that courts might uphold such policies in order to
ensure the continued economic viability of community hospitals and essential
medical care. Such an outcome seems especially likely if the court views the
purpose of antitrust laws as maximizing consumer welfare in the broader social
sense, rather than the narrower economic sense. Similar recognition of the
increasingly competitive nature of healthcare delivery and hospital management's
authority to operate the facility could persuade courts to allow hospitals to
implement economic credentialing policies as a matter of administrative policy,
without imposing the burdens of providing individual due process. Nevertheless,
a hospital should consider providing at least minimal due process when adopting
such a policy in order to gain immunity from liability. Finally, the case law
discussing medical staff bylaws as contracts between hospitals and medical staff
members presents additional challenges to hospitals adopting and enforcing these
new economic credentialing policies.

III. Other Considerations

   In addition to the legal challenges that hospitals may face from physicians
who are affected by credentialing policies that limit or prohibit competition,
these new policies raise novel issues under federal healthcare program statutes,
state laws on covenants not to compete, federal tax law on exempt organizations,
and hospital operations regarding management of medical staff and public
relations.

A. Federal Healthcare Statutes

   Hospitals considering adopting policies to protect themselves from
competition by medical staff should carefully consider the potential risks of
civil or criminal sanctions under the Anti-Kickback Statute n177 and the Stark
Law. n178 If a federal regulator or court determines that hospital staff
privileges constitute "remuneration" from the hospital to the physician or
establish a financial relationship between the hospital and physician, these
statutes could be implicated. Organizations representing physicians, on one
side, and hospitals, on the other, have taken strong opposing views in this
current debate.



   n177 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b (2003).


   n178 Id. § 1395nn.

   In December of 1999, the AMA, in an eleven-page letter, formally requested
that the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of
Inspector General (OIG) issue a fraud alert to warn hospitals and physicians of
the implications of economic credentialing practices, such as hospital-imposed
exclusivity policies and prohibitions on affiliations with competing entities.
The AMA warned that "the potential for damage with exclusive credentialing is
greater than in many other kickback situations." n179 The AMA also adopted a
policy strongly opposing hospitals' basing staff privileging decisions on
economic criteria unrelated to patient care or professional competency. n180
According to the AMA, the OIG has sought additional information from the AMA
regarding various types of economic credentialing practices. In addition, the
OIG has repeatedly expressed a commitment to review the issue and to involve the
AMA in any draft alert that is issued. n181 The OIG has responded to the AMA's
concerns by soliciting public comments regarding the legality of economic
credentialing policies under federal fraud and abuse laws, specifically the
Anti-kickback Statute. n182 Although the OIG has received substantial comments
from groups on both sides of the issue, it remains unclear what its final
position will be.



   n179 See Klein, supra note 3 (quoting letter signed by Dr. E. Ratcliffe
Anderson, Jr., M.D., AMA Executive Vice President).


   n180 See Albert, supra note 5.


   n181 AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, BOARD OF TRUSTEES REPORT 15-A-02, SUBJECT:
APPLYING PRESSURE ON DHHS OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR RESOLUTION OF ECONOMIC
CREDENTIALING ISSUE (2002), available at
www.ama-assn.org/ama1/upload/mm/annual02/BOT15A02.doc (last visited Mar. 28,
2003). The report notes that:

        The AMA continues to receive calls from physicians who are affected
     by economic credentialing policies, loyalty oaths, or other medical
     staff criteria related to economics rather than professional
     competence. The practice of economic credentialing remains an
     important issue for physicians. The AMA believes that publication of a
     properly crafted fraud alert could provide useful guidance for
     physicians, hospitals, and health care organizations.

Id.


   n182 Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special Fraud Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg.
72,894, 72,895 (Dec. 9, 2002).

1. Anti-Kickback Statute

   The federal illegal remuneration statute, commonly referred to as the
Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of
any remuneration, directly or indirectly, covertly or overtly, in cash or in
kind: (1) in return for the referral of patients, or arranging for the referral
of patients, for the provision of items or services for which payment may be
made under any federally funded healthcare program, other than the Federal
Employee Health Benefit Program; or (2) in return for the purchase, lease, or
order, or arranging for the purchase, lease, or order, of any good, facility,
service or item for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs.
n183



   n183 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b(b) (2003). Persons who violate the Anti-Kickback
Statute may be subject to civil monetary penalties. Id. § 1320a-7a(a)(7). In
addition, civil monetary penalties may be imposed against any person who "offers
to or transfers remuneration to any individual eligible for benefits under
[federal health care programs] that such person knows or should know is likely
to influence such individual to order or receive from a particular provider,
practitioner, or supplier any item or service for which payment may be made, in
whole or in part, under [federal health care programs]." 42 U.S.C. §
1320a-7a(a)(5) (2003).

   The OIG has asked, as a threshold matter, whether staff privileges should be
considered "remuneration," given the current managed care climate, in which
access to patients may depend on a physician having privileges at the proper
hospital. n184 In particular, the OIG asked: "Should the determination whether
staff privileges have monetary value turn on the particular factual
circumstances (e.g., in a given market does access to privileges have a
demonstrable monetary value)?" n185 The OIG also requested comments on the
cherry picking problem, or, in the OIG's words, the "implications of a
hospital's denial of privileges to a physician who competes with the hospital."
n186 The OIG noted that "these physicians may be in a position to steer
profitable business or patients to their own competing business through their
control of referrals." n187 Further, the OIG noted that several credentialing
practices of which it is aware appear to "raise substantial risks under the
anti-kickback statute (i.e., privileges are conditioned on a sufficient flow of
referred business)." n188 The OIG also asked: "Can privileges ever be
conditioned on referrals, other than minimums necessary for clinical
proficiency?" n189 Although the OIG's Federal Register issuance is merely a
request for public comments, the nature and slant of the questions suggest that
federal regulators have reason to believe that economic credentialing policies
could violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or other federal laws.



   n184 Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special Fraud Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg.
72,894, 72,895 (Dec. 9, 2002).


   n185 Id.


   n186 Id.


   n187 Id.


   n188 Id.


   n189 Id. at 72,896.

   On the OIG's threshold question, credentialing alone should not be viewed as
"remuneration" because of the permissive nature of medical staff privileges,
which allow, but do not require, a physician to use hospital facilities. n190
The fact that a physician is granted privileges at a particular hospital does
not obligate him to direct any patients to or generate any revenue for the
hospital. Staff privileges, therefore, should not be "remuneration" within the
meaning of the Anti-Kickback Statute. Accordingly, an economic
conflict-of-interest policy that conditions medical staff membership on a
physician's agreeing to refrain from owning or investing in a competitive
facility should not be considered remunerative as long as there is no referral
requirement. Such a policy, as a practical matter, could--and may even be
intended to--increase the hospital's revenue by limiting the presence of
competing healthcare facilities. But that effect does not mean that the hospital
is offering remuneration, in the form of staff privileges, in exchange for
patient referrals. By contrast, a hospital policy that conditions privileges on
the physician's agreeing to direct his patients to the hospital rather than a
physician-owned facility, more easily could be viewed as offering or paying the
physician remuneration in the form of staff privileges in exchange for referring
patients to the hospital.



   n190 See Letter from Beth Schermer, Counsel for Arizona Hospital and
Healthcare Association, to Janet Rehnquist, Inspector General, U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services 5 (Feb. 5. 2003) (on file with the author).

2. Stark Law

   The Stark Law provides that if a physician (or a family member of the
physician) has a financial relationship with an entity: (1) the physician may
not make a referral to the entity for the furnishing of designated health
services n191 paid for by Medicare and Medicaid; and (2) the entity may not bill
Medicare or Medicaid for designated health services furnished pursuant to a
prohibited referral. n192 A financial relationship may be an ownership interest
(through debt, equity, or otherwise) or a compensation arrangement, and may be
direct or indirect. n193 The referral and billing restrictions are inapplicable
if the arrangement qualifies for an exception. n194 The statutory sanctions are
applicable to both the referring physicians and the entity billing for the
designated health service. n195 In sum, to establish a violation under the Stark
Law, the following three factors are required: (1) the existence of a financial
relationship between a physician and an entity; (2) a referral of a Medicare or
Medicaid patient by the physician to the entity for a designated health service;
and (3) the absence of an exception.



   n191 The statutory definition of "designated health services" is as follows:


        Designated health services means any of the following services
     (other than those provided as emergency physician services furnished
     outside of the U.S.) ... (1) Clinical laboratory services. (2)
     Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech-language pathology
     services. (3) Radiology and certain other imaging services. (4)
     Radiation therapy services and supplies. (5) Durable medial equipment
     and supplies. (6) Parental and enteral nutrients, equipment, and
     supplies. (7) Prosthetics, orthotics, and prosthetic devices and
     supplies. (8) Home health services. (9) Outpatient prescription drugs.
     (10) Inpatient and outpatient hospital services.

   42 U.S.C. § 1395nn(h)(6) (2003).


   n192 Id. § 1395nn(a)(1).


   n193 Id. § 1395nn(a)(2). Billing in violation of the Stark Law can result in
the application of several sanctions, including the denial of payment, demand
for refund of claims paid, civil money penalties of up to $ 15,000 for each
service, and/or exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. See id. §§
1395nn(g)(1)-(4).


   n194 Id. § 1395nn(b)-(e) (listing various exceptions applicable to in-office
ancillary services, certain investments in publicly traded securities and mutual
funds, rural providers, leases of office space and equipment, bona fide
employment relationships, physician recruitment, and other arrangements or
investments); 42 C.F.R. § 411.357 (2003).


   n195 42 U.S.C. § 1395nn(1)(A), (B) (providing that physicians making
prohibited referrals and entities receiving prohibited referrals may not bill
for the services provided).

   Despite the AMA's intimations, economic conflict of interest credentialing
policies do not appear to implicate the Stark Law. Primarily, the first element
of a Stark Law violation does not seem to be met because the competing
physicians do not have a financial relationship with the hospital, the entity
facing a potential Stark violation. Instead, the physicians have a financial
relationship with their competing specialty facilities or clinics. n196 A
prohibited referral for Stark Law purposes requires the physician to have an
economic interest in the entity to which he is referring. As such, the only way
that the Stark Law would be implicated by an economic credentialing policy is if
staff privileges themselves are deemed to constitute such an economic interest.
Just as hospital privileges should not be viewed as "remuneration" for purposes
of the Anti-Kickback Statute, they should not be considered to create a
financial relationship between a hospital and a physician under the Stark Law.



   n196 The physicians could be in violation of the Stark Law with respect to
their own physician-owned specialty hospitals or clinics if they are referring
patients for designated health services to be provided at those facilities. Id.
§ 1395nn(h)(6) (listing designated health services).

   Employing somewhat unclear reasoning, some interested parties have suggested
that restrictions on competition, such as noncompetition clauses and covenants
not to compete in physician contracts, could be called into question by the
Stark Law. n197 In an earlier rulemaking discussion, the OIG resolved such
concerns and confirmed that covenants not to compete do not necessarily
implicate the Stark Law. The OIG should adopt a similar position in the
analogous context of hospital credentialing policies that prohibit competition
by medical staff members.



   n197 Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Physicians' Referrals to Health Care
Entities With Which They Have Financial Relationships, 66 Fed. Reg. 856, 878-79
(Jan. 4, 2001).

   In the preamble to the Stark regulations, n198 OIG acknowledged the concerns
of some commentators that the way in which the OIG proposed to interpret the
"volume or value" requirement of many of the Stark Law exceptions n199 could
implicate the legality or enforceability of covenants not to compete. One
criterion of certain Stark Law exceptions is that the charges, consideration, or
compensation are not determined in a manner that takes into account the volume
or value of any referrals or other business generated between the physician and
the other party to the contract. The commentators were concerned that the OIG's
proposed interpretation of the "volume or value" standard as including fixed
payments tied to referrals could adversely impact covenants not to compete. The
OIG found the commentators' reasoning for this concern "unclear," but confirmed
that a noncompete clause is distinguishable from a policy requiring a physician
to refer a certain volume or value of patients to a hospital. The latter type of
agreement, however, could raise an issue under the Anti-Kickback Statute:

        A requirement to refer to a specific provider is different from an
     agreement not to establish a competing business. In other words, a
     covenant not to compete might prevent a physician from setting up a
     private practice or offering services that compete with the entity
     that purchased his or her practice. If an agreement also included the
     requirement that the physician refer business to the purchaser, the
     agreement would be suspect under the anti-kickback statute. n200

   Likewise, a physician's agreement to refrain from establishing or owning a
competing business in exchange for a hospital granting him staff privileges
should not raise Stark Law issues.



   n198 Id.


   n199 See, e.g., 42 C.F.R. §§ 411.357(a)(5) (2003) (space rental), (b)(4)
(equipment rental), (c)(2)(ii) (bona fide employment relationship), (d)(1)(v)
(personal services), (e)(3) (physician recruitment), (h)(5) (group practice at
hospital).


   n200 Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Physicians' Referrals to Health Care
Entities With Which They Have Financial Relationships, 66 Fed. Reg. at 879.

   In sum, a hospital's credentialing policy based on physicians' economic
conflicts of interest would not seem to expose the hospital to a risk of
sanctions under the Stark Law, unless staff privileges are viewed as creating a
financial relationship between the physician and hospital. A Stark Law violation
would also require a referral of a federal healthcare program patient for
designated health services and the absence of any exception.

3. Public Comments

   The American Hospital Association (AHA) recently submitted comments in
response to the OIG's solicitation on behalf of its nearly 5,000 member
hospitals and other healthcare entities, opposing the OIG's suggestion that
economic credentialing might be a form of illegal remuneration or should be
regulated under the Stark Law. n201 The AHA urged the OIG not to abandon its
long-held view that staff privileges are not a form of "remuneration" because
granting privileges does not involve the transfer of something of value from
hospitals to physicians. n202 The AHA suggested that effective regulation of
staff privileges as remuneration would require detailed descriptions of the
exact configurations in a particular market, such as number of patients, number
and size of competing hospitals, and role of managed care networks in the area.
n203 Such facts would be required to determine whether granting staff privileges
would confer a monetary benefit on a physician in the specific locale. The AHA
asserted that any less-specific regulations would result in uncertainty and
chilling of legitimate credentialing policies. n204



   n201 Letter from Rick Pollack, Executive Vice President, American Hospital
Association, to Janet Rehnquist, Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health &
Human Services (Feb. 5, 2003), available at
www.hospitalconnect.com/aha/advocacy-grassroots/advocacy/comment/2003/cl030205cr
edential.html.


   n202 Id.


   n203 Id.


   n204 Id.

   The idea of determining whether staff privileges constitute "remuneration"
based on the particular market in which such privileges are sought was suggested
in one of the OIG's questions. This idea is problematic for several reasons.
First, as noted in the antitrust discussion, defining and proving these sorts of
market factors can be very challenging. Moreover, the analysis of market factors
and the effect of anticompetitive business practices falls in the realm of
antitrust, rather than anti-kickback, enforcement. In addition, tying the
definition of "remuneration" to market analysis would create considerable
uncertainty regarding a hospital's ability to adopt not only new conflict of
interest, but also traditional economic credentialing policies. n205



   n205 See Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 190, at 6-7.

   Regarding the Stark Law, the AHA also cautioned that if staff privileges are
viewed as remuneration, then any referral of a federal healthcare program
patient to a hospital would be prohibited. n206 Under a broad reading of the
Stark Law, the AHA suggested that the statute prohibits any compensation
arrangements between a hospital and a referring physician that involve any
remuneration. n207 If staff privileges constitute remuneration, then a
physician's referral of any federal healthcare program patient to a hospital at
which the physician holds privileges would violate the Stark Law. Such an
interpretation obviously has dramatic implications for the existing healthcare
delivery system. Finally, the AHA suggested that interjecting the OIG into the
relationship between physicians and hospitals would impair hospitals' ability to
operate efficiently and provide quality care. n208 These comments, contrasted
with the AMA urging strict government regulation of economic credentialing,
underscore the debate between hospitals and physicians over this contentious
issue. It is far from clear that regulation of economic credentialing under
federal healthcare statutes is appropriate or will bring any balance to the
competing interests at stake.



   n206 Letter from Rick Pollack, supra note 201.


   n207 Id.


   n208 Id.

B. Covenants Not to Compete

   A hospital that is considering adopting an economic credentialing policy to
limit or prohibit competition by medical staff members should consider not only
the potential for legal liability and damages implicated by such a policy, but
also the possibility that a court will refuse to enforce the policy as a
contractual restraint on trade that violates public policy. As the Stark Law
preamble discussion suggested, an economic credentialing policy that denies or
revokes a physician's staff privileges based on investing, owning, or
affiliating with a competing facility is a restraint of trade similar to a
covenant not to compete in a physician employment contract. Accordingly, state
law on covenants not to compete may shed light on the enforceability of a
hospital's economic credentialing policy.

   State laws on the enforceability of covenants not to compete and other
restraints on trade vary widely and are based on both statutory and common law.
n209 As one example, Texas has statutorily defined the criteria for
enforceability of a covenant not to compete, which requirements are similar to
other states' laws. First, the agreement must be ancillary to a valid contract,
transaction, or relationship. n210 Second, the restriction must contain
reasonable limitations as to time, geographical area, and scope of activity.
n211 Finally, these limitations must "not impose a greater restraint than is
necessary to protect the goodwill or other business interest" of the party
seeking to impose the restraint. n212



   n209 Compare COLO. REV. STAT. § 8-2-113(3) (2003) (prohibiting enforcement of
physician covenants not to compete), and DEL. CODE ANN. tit. 6, § 2707 (2002)
(same), and Falmouth Ob-Gyn Assoc. v. Abisla, 629 N.E.2d 291, 293 (Mass. 1994)
(interpreting Massachusetts statute as prohibiting noncompetition covenants),
with Wall v. Firelands Radiology, Inc., 666 N.E.2d 235, 247 (Ohio 1996)
(upholding restrictive covenant against radiologist as no greater than required
for radiology group's protection) and Rifkinson-Mann v. Kasoff, 226 A.D.2d 517,
517-18 (N.Y. 1996) (enforcing restrictive covenant) and Weber v. Tillman, 913
P.2d 84, 96 (Kan. 1996) (same).


   n210 TEX. BUS. & COM. CODE ANN. § 15.50(a) (Vernon 2003).


   n211 Id.


   n212 Id.

   If a court analyzed a hospital credentialing policy that prohibits physicians
from owning or investing in competing entities as a covenant not to compete
under the Texas statutory criteria, the court might conclude that the policy is
an unreasonable restraint on trade. The credentialing policy would meet the
first criterion because the noncompetition requirement is ancillary to an
otherwise valid medical staff membership or privileges agreement. A medical
staff noncompetition requirement, however, might not meet the second criterion
because it is not limited in terms of geographical area or scope of activity.
Concerning the third requirement, the policy would probably be considered
reasonable as to time if it applies only during, not after, termination of the
employment, contract, or relationship. In other words, if the duration of a
hospital's economic conflict-of-interest policy is coterminous with the
underlying agreement or contract for staff privileges or medical staff
membership, then the time restriction could be considered reasonable. Unless the
hospital's economic conflict of interest policy was limited in terms of the
geographical area and scope of activity, however, a court might refuse to
enforce it.

   In addition, the hospital would have to show that there was no less
restrictive way to protect its goodwill or other business interest than a policy
prohibiting physicians from owning or affiliating with competing businesses.
Traditionally, courts have closely scrutinized covenants not to compete,
especially covenants involving physicians and other professionals, because they
restrict an individual from exercising his chosen profession. The burdens on the
employee or individual, however, must be balanced against the benefits to the
employer or other entity. A hospital could argue that the restriction on
ownership or investment in competing entities is necessary to prevent a
physician from cherry picking the higher paying, more profitable cases to the
specialty facility in which he has an interest, while referring the unprofitable
or uncompensated cases to the community hospital, which justification is similar
to the arguments made by the hospitals in Mahan n213 and NYSARC. n214 Under
Texas law, however, there is no authority that clearly authorizes a restraint on
trade based on this particular business justification.



   n213 Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001).


   n214 NYSARC, Inc. v. Syed, No. K1-2002-000766, 2002 WL 31015545 (N.Y. Sup.
Ct. Sept. 4, 2002).

   The Texas covenant not to compete statute contains special provisions
regarding physicians, n215 which require that the covenant not deny the
physician access to his patient lists and medical records. n216 These
requirements are designed to avoid interference with the physician-patient
relationship and to ensure that patient care is not compromised. n217 The Texas
statutory provisions on physicians contemplate that covenants not to compete
apply for a period of time after the employment or contract has ended. n218 This
policy is consistent with the general purpose of covenants not to compete, which
is to prevent an employee from competing with his former employer after he
leaves such employment. The new economic credentialing policies generally
restrict competition during rather than after termination of employment.
Therefore, this special provision regarding physicians' covenants not to compete
would not seem to govern the enforceability of a hospital policy prohibiting
physicians from competing while on the medical staff. The concerns expressed in
this part of the statute regarding interference with the physician-patient
relationships and promotion of quality care, however, are similarly implicated
by a hospital credentialing policy that limits or restricts medical staff
members from affiliating with competing facilities. A physician or patient might
prefer such specialty facilities because they provide more convenient, higher
quality, or more appropriate care than the general service hospital. State
statutory and common law on covenants not to compete is not directly applicable
to these new economic credentialing policies, but the general criteria for
enforceability of one type of restraint on trade could inform a court's decision
whether to enforce a different type of restraint on trade.



   n215 TEX. BUS. & COM. CODE ANN. § 15.50(b) (Vernon 2003).


   n216 Id. § 15.50(b)(1)(A)-(B) (2003).


   n217 Id. § 15.50(b)(3) (2003).


   n218 See id. § 15.50(b)(1)(A) (2003) (regarding physician's right to access
list of patients "whom he has seen or treated within one year of termination of
the contract or employment").

C. Section 501(c)(3) Tax-Exempt Status

   A nonprofit hospital's decision to adopt a policy to restrict or eliminate
competition by medical staff members may affect the hospital's status as a
charitable organization. For an organization to be tax-exempt under Section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Review Code, it must be both organized and operated
exclusively for charitable purposes. n219 A credentialing policy adopted
expressly to protect a hospital from market competition could suggest that the
hospital is operating for profit-making or other noncharitable purposes and,
thus, could endanger the hospital's tax-exempt status.



   n219 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) (2003). A tax-exempt organization is defined as:


        Corporations, and any community chest, fund, or foundation,
     organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable,
     scientific, testing for public safety, literary, or educational
     purposes, or to foster national or international amateur sports
     competition (but only if no part of its activities involve the
     provision of athletic facilities or equipment), or for the prevention
     of cruelty to children or animals, no part of the net earnings of
     which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual,
     no substantial part of the activities of which is carrying on
     propaganda, or otherwise attempting, to influence legislation... and
     which does not participate in, or intervene in (including the
     publishing or distributing of statements), any political campaign on
     behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office.

Id.

   In Revenue Ruling 69-545, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) identified
various factors relevant to whether a nonprofit hospital claiming exemption
under Section 501(c)(3) is operated to serve public, charitable purposes rather
than private interests. The factors include:

        . A governing board composed of prominent civic leaders rather than
     solely of hospital administrators or physicians;

        . A medical staff open to "all qualified physicians" in the area,
     consistent with the size and nature of its facilities;

        . Operation of a full-time emergency room, open to everyone,
     regardless of ability to pay;

        . Provision of non-emergency care to everyone in the community who
     is able to pay directly or indirectly through private health
     insurance, or with the aid of public programs such as Medicare or
     Medicaid; and

        . Use of net earning to further the charitable purpose and not to
     inure directly or indirectly to the benefit of any private shareholder
     or individual. n220

   Under these factors, adopting a policy that prevents certain physicians,
namely, those with economic conflicts of interest, from holding staff
privileges, could endanger a hospital's tax-exempt status. Such a policy appears
to violate the criterion that the medical staff be open to "all qualified
physicians in the area." Also, an economic conflict-of-interest credentialing
policy has the appearance of placing the financial bottom-line of the hospital
--and, accordingly, the benefit of hospital administrators and
shareholders--above charitable purposes. Both of these factors could cause the
IRS to question whether the hospital is organized and operated exclusively for
charitable purposes.



   n220 Rev. Rul. 69-545, 1969-2 C.B. 117.

   The Revenue Ruling noted, however, that "the absence of particular factors
set forth above or the presence of other factors will not necessarily be
determinative." n221 Rather, "the [IRS] will weigh all of the relevant factors
and circumstances." n222 An economic conflict-of-interest credentialing policy,
therefore, may not in and of itself defeat a hospital's tax-exempt status.
Moreover, as Mahan and other cases suggest, such a policy may be justified for
the very purpose of ensuring that essential medical services and charity care
are available to the community. Nevertheless, if the IRS determines that the
underlying purpose of a hospital's credentialing policy is not to benefit the
community but rather to benefit private interests, such as the interests of
current medical staff members or hospital owners, the hospital could lose its
tax-exempt status.



   n221 Id.


   n222 Id.

D. Public Relations Concerns

   As indicated by the AMA's strong stance against economic credentialing, the
adoption of an economic conflict-of-interest policy would likely be extremely
unpopular with a hospital's medical staff. A hospital, therefore, would be
required to expend considerable resources addressing the concerns of a
disgruntled, disruptive medical staff as well as the political and public
relations issues that surely would arise with the announcement of such a policy.
In addition, economic credentialing policies may invite criticism in the popular
media because such policies could be perceived as placing hospital finances
above concern for quality patient care.

   Moreover, even if a physician's legal challenge to an economic credentialing
policy were unsuccessful, a hospital would still bear the considerable expense,
adverse media exposure, and distractions of defending a lawsuit. Further, even
in the face of weak challenges, a lawsuit always involves the risk of losing and
being held liable to the excluded physician for considerable damages.

   Instead of adopting a policy prohibiting staff physicians from owning or
investing in a competing enterprise, a hospital might consider a less
restrictive policy. For example, a policy that restricts a medical staff
member's ability to hold certain leadership positions at the hospital, such as a
medical director, medical staff officer, or department head, could accomplish
similar objectives of ensuring loyalty and fiduciary commitment to the
hospital's interests. n223 Alternatively, a hospital might adopt a credentialing
policy that requires an applicant for medical staff privileges merely to provide
certain disclosures. Such disclosures would concern whether the physician has an
investment interest in an entity that would cause the physician's interests to
be substantially in conflict with the hospital's or that would provide a
significant economic incentive to refer patients to other facilities. These
less-restrictive alternatives do not appear to rise to the level of actionable
restraints of trade. Moreover, they might be less likely to raise the ire of the
medical staff and seem justifiable on common business principles.



   n223 One way to accomplish this policy would be to amend the medical staff
bylaws to describe conflicts of interest and prohibit appointment or election to
office if the medical staff member owns a competing facility. The board also
could refuse to ratify the appointment or election of an officer who has an
ownership interest in a competing facility.

   In addition to potential liability in a lawsuit brought by a physician who is
affected by a hospital's new economic credentialing policy, such a policy could
expose the hospital to civil or criminal sanctions under evolving
interpretations of certain federal healthcare statutes. Moreover, a
credentialing policy that protects the hospital from competition by medical
staff members might be unenforceable in a state that prohibits contractual
noncompetition clauses for professionals, such as physicians. Also, the adoption
of such a policy by a nonprofit hospital could endanger the hospital's
tax-exempt status. Finally, a hospital considering implementing such a policy
should carefully consider the additional burdens of addressing medical staff and
public relations objections to a policy that appears to give an unfair and
improper competitive edge to the hospital at the expense of patient care.

IV. Conclusion

   The use of economic criteria unrelated to quality of care or professional
competency in determining an individual's qualifications for initial or
continuing hospital medical staff membership or privileges is a recent and
controversial idea. Courts have upheld certain forms of "traditional" economic
credentialing, such as exclusive contract arrangements and closed staff
policies, because they promote efficiency and are recognized as a reasonable
exercise of the board's authority to administer the business of the hospital.
Policies that exclude physicians based on ownership or investment in competing
entities, however, are more difficult to justify on the basis of efficiency or
other legitimate business concerns. Moreover, these new economic credentialing
policies inherently restrict competition and, therefore, may violate antitrust
law and policy.

   Thus far, only a few courts have considered the enforceability and liability
implications of these new economic credentialing policies. The courts that have
done so were persuaded that such self-protective policies were necessary to
maintain the economic viability of the hospital and the availability of
essential community medical services. This justification is questionable under
traditional antitrust policies and reveals a certain discomfort by courts with
treating the healthcare marketplace the same as any other competitive
marketplace. This same bias may influence courts' decisions regarding the due
process implications of a hospital's adoption of a policy that has the effect of
depriving a current medical staff member of protected property interests. Legal
challenges to these new policies also call for new interpretation and
application of state laws on contract formation, breach, and noncompetition
clauses.

   Such policies also raise new questions under federal statutes that regulate
physicians and other providers participating in federal healthcare programs,
which issues are being fiercely debated by physician and hospital administration
interest groups on opposing sides. The outcome of this debate over federal
regulatory policy could significantly impact both new and traditional
credentialing policies and other hospital operations. Economic credentialing
policies based on physician conflicts of interest also present operational
concerns related to hospitals' tax-exempt status and medical staff and community
relations.

   In the current healthcare market of declining reimbursement and rising costs,
economic conflict-of-interest policies are likely to become more commonplace as
physicians enter investment and entrepreneurial activities to supplement their
income and hospitals seek novel strategies to protect their revenue streams. As
more hospitals implement self-protective credentialing policies, there will be
more legal challenges by physicians whose staff privileges are affected, and the
case law will continue to clarify the respective rights and interests of
hospital administrators and medical staff members. In the meantime, a hospital
considering whether to adopt such a policy should carefully consider the risks
of unenforceability, liability, government sanctions, administrative costs, and
adverse public relations that would likely arise.


                              188 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 The Tribune-Democrat (Johnstown, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday

Report: Hospitals healthy for local economy

BYLINE: David Hurst, The Tribune-Democrat, Johnstown, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 424 words


June 05--JOHNSTOWN -- The area's hospitals injected a healthy dose of economic
aid into the economy in 2012, a Harrisburg-based statewide hospital group said
Wednesday.

The Conemaugh Health System alone, with its hospitals in Johnstown, Hastings and
Meyersdale, contributed more than $938 million into the region's economy, a
figure that includes employee salaries and other data, Conemaugh CEO Scott
Becker said.

"There is no doubt the Conemaugh Health System plays a major role in the
economic and social well-being of our community," he said, calling Conemaugh "a
safety net for our most vulnerable citizens."

Nonprofit and investor-owned hospitals across Pennsylvania contributed nearly
$104 billion into state and local economies, according to The Hospital &
Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania. The statewide hospital advocacy group
has been collecting the economic impact information since 2004, Vice-President
of Research Martin Ciccocioppo said.

Windber Medical Center contributed $79 million into the area economy in 2012,
according to the same data, hospital spokeswoman Amy Jeffords said.

Its total included $2.4 million in community benefit, she added.

"We're a true community-based hospital. Our mission is to ensure people in the
community can acess high-quality care and services right in their backyard,"
Jeffords said.

She said the area can expect to see more invested into the community in the
coming year, as plans for community speakers and health screenings are in the
works.

Conemaugh's community benefit for 2012 was listed at $8.9 million. The health
system employs more than 4,500 people in the area, its website shows.

Windber Medical Center employs 471 people, Jeffords said.

Cicciocioppo said employment and salary numbers were one of several indicators
the The Hospital & Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania used to formulate
its totals. It used a multiplier equation adopted by the state Department of
Economic Analysis to determine the "ripple effect" those employees have on their
area's economy, noting the workers shop and dine locally and rely on area
services for their needs.

They also look at IRS tax forms that not-for-profit hospitals file annually and
cost reports provided to the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
Cicciocioppo said.

David Hurst is a reporter for The Tribune-Democrat. Follow him on Twitter at
www.twitter.com/tddavidhurst

___ (c)2014 The Tribune-Democrat (Johnstown, Pa.) Visit The Tribune-Democrat
(Johnstown, Pa.) at www.tribune-democrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140605-JO-Report-Hospitals-healthy-for-local-economy-0605-20140605

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JO


                      Copyright 2014 The Tribune-Democrat


                              189 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday

Provider integration a trend in health care

BYLINE: Laura Oleniacz, Sun Journal, New Bern, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 779 words


Dec. 02--The consolidation of health care providers is not unique to New Bern.
It's occurring elsewhere in the state and nation, according to officials from
several health care advocacy organizations.

Eastern Carolina Internal Medicine, one of the largest private physician
practices in the New Bern area, and CarolinaEast Health System leaders are
discussing the possible integration of ECIM into the public hospital system.

The number of physicians employed by hospitals across the country increased by
35 percent from 2000 to 2008, said Caroline Steinberg, vice president of trends
analysis for the American Hospital Association. That includes hospital-based
physicians as well as primary care physicians working in outpatient offices.

Steinberg said economic pressures, administrative hassles, as well as angst
about what the future holds for health care are factors driving that trend.

She said she's seen anecdotal evidence that the trend of clinical integration is
increasing as providers form relationships needed to implement reforms that can
lead to financial incentives.

For example, she said that if providers form Accountable Care Organizations,
which she said are groups that accept the responsibility for all of the care for
a defined patient population, they can benefit from a share in cost savings they
achieve compared with a control group.

Other factors that have pushed the integration trend include penalties through
Medicare for not making an investment in electronic medical records, she said,
as well the state of the economy.

"During the economic downturn, hospitals (were) reporting that physicians more
and more were approaching hospitals wanting to sell their practices," she said.

Don Dalton, spokesman for the N.C. Hospital Association, said he expects to see
a "significant amount of movement" toward integration in the state in the next
few years.

"I think there's probably a lot of discussion going on, but those discussions
haven't, for the most part, come to fruition," Dalton said. "It's kind of like
the duck. Everything's calm on the surface, but they're paddling like crazy
below the surface."

Bob Seligson, executive vice president and CEO of the N.C. Medical Society that
represents about 12,000 physicians across the state, said physicians are looking
for ways to put themselves in a position to survive the current economic
environment.

"The hospitals' purchasing of physician practices is happening all over the
state," Seligson said, and some of those efforts toward joint integration have
already taken place. "I think hospitals in Raleigh have bought a lot of primary
care practices, in some cases cardiology practices, to keep a base of patients
coming into their hospitals."

Seligson said factors driving that are health care reform, an impending
significant cut to physician reimbursements for providing care to Medicare
patients that Congress voted recently to delay until Jan. 1, and a shortfall of
several billion dollars that is projected in the state's budget for the next
fiscal year that he fears could impact state funding for Medicaid.

"We have concerns about that budget being cut," Seligson said. "And so, because
of health system reform, it has caused competition to intensify, it has caused
physicians and hospitals to be looking at different models to prepare for the
changes that may or may not come."

He said that hospitals may be better situated to face those economic and
administrative pressures.

"In the current economic environment, both hospitals and physicians are
experiencing draconian cuts from the federal and state level budgets," Seligson
said. "(But) they are usually better financed and have more resources at their
disposal than physician (practices) will and have the vehicle to strategically
plan out things, do the market research, and to come up with a plan to
strategically position that hospital for the future."

Steinberg said integration can cause increased efficiency, leading to lowered
costs.

"(There are) economics of scale in implementing information systems, economies
of scale in terms of investing in research to figure out what is the best way to
provide patient care," she said. "It's easier to diffuse new technology and new
techniques when you're in a large organization."

Laura Oleniacz can be reached at 252-635-5675 or at loleniacz@freedomenc.com

To see more of the Sun Journal or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.newbernsunjournal.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Sun Journal, New Bern,
N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101202-NS-Provider-integration-a-trend-in-health-care-1202-20101202

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NS


                           Copyright 2010 Sun Journal


                              190 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Muskogee Phoenix (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

Stimulus to fund roads to hospital

BYLINE: Liz McMahan, Muskogee Phoenix, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words


Jul. 9--The president's economic stimulus plan will pave a new road to Muskogee
Community Hospital, it was announced Wednesday.

U.S. Rep. Dan Boren, D-Oklahoma, announced an $843,052 Economic Development
Administration grant to the city and county for the project.

District County Commissioner Gene Wallace said the project calls for a new road
to be built on Main Street from Shawnee Bypass north to Harris Road and then
east to Oklahoma 16.

In a media release, Boren said he supported the project for a number of reasons.

"Muskogee is the largest community in the Second Congressional District and its
economic health is essential to eastern Oklahoma," he said. "I supported the
stimulus package because it contained critical infrastructure and economic
development funding for communities like Muskogee and Muskogee County.

"This project will provide jobs in the short term and will boost private
investment in the county by improving the transportation system that is
necessary to support long term business expansion and job creation," Boren said.

In the media release, Wallace said building better roads to the hospital will
greatly expand health care opportunities and patient access to the $65 million
hospital complex.

"Opportunities created by this private investment provide generations of
patients with a better quality of life," Wallace said.

Wallace also expressed his appreciation to Boren and Eastern Oklahoma
Development District for their assistance in obtaining the grant.

"This has been a Herculean effort," Wallace said. "I would especially thank
Congressman Boren for his support and EODD for virtually changing this part of
Oklahoma."

Wallace said the portion of the project that has been funded is labeled as Phase
1. Phase 2, if it is funded, will rebuild Harris Road west of Main Street to
U.S. 69 as well as improvements to North 11th, North 17th and North 24th
streets, Wallace said.

Wallace said he expects Phase 2 to be funded when Phase 1 is complete.

In Phase 1, the complete roadbed is expected to be dug out and replaced. How
soon work will begin depends on whether additional right of way will have to be
acquired and whether utilities have to be moved, he said.

The county will advertise for contractor bids on the work as soon as possible,
he said.

Reach Liz McMahan at 684-2926 or lmcmahan@muskogeephoenix.com

To see more of the Muskogee Phoenix or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.muskogeephoenix.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Muskogee Phoenix, Okla.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090709-XK-Stimulus-to-fund-roads-to-hospital-0709

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XK


                                 Copyright 2009


                              191 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                           December 14, 2004 Tuesday
                                  ROP Edition

CEO: Hospital is 'economic engine';
Points to study that Quincy Medical ordered as it looks to expand

BYLINE: Julie Jette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 559 words


The Patriot Ledger

QUINCY - A report commissioned by Quincy Medical Center shows the hospital
contributed nearly $30 million in one year to the region's economy, with $10
million of that in the city of Quincy.

The hospital released the report, which was written by the Beacon Hill Institute
at Suffolk University in Boston, as it looks to expand its presence outside the
city.

Christine Schuster, the hospital's chief executive, said yesterday that the
hospital seeks an additional location for its occupational health services.

The occupational health department has contracts with a number of towns on the
South Shore, including Hingham, Weymouth, Hull and Scituate. Hospital
spokeswoman Bonnie Goldsmith said the hospital needs space for the expanding
program, which works with 230 employers, and would like to have a new location
south of Quincy.

Schuster said the hospital commissioned the report in part to answer questions
about the $33 million that the city contributed to the hospital in several
annual installments to help bail it out of financial difficulty since 1999, when
it nearly closed. The state, meanwhile, loaned the hospital $12 million, and the
hospital also has been seeking a federal contribution since that time.

"For ever dollar that they spent, the city of Quincy got $2 back," Schuster
said. "I think clearly the study indicates (that the hospital) is an economic
engine."

The study looked at the hospital's local spending on salaries, goods and
services, and spending by its employees and local vendors.

The authors of the report calculated that the 232-bed hospital was directly or
indirectly responsible for $28.6 million in the local economy in 2003, based on
the hospital's spending that year.

That figure only partially reflects the roughly $38 million the hospital spent
in 2003 to pay salaries and benefits for its 1,000-plus employees. The report's
authors used only the salaries for employees who live in Norfolk County to
calculate the hospital payroll's impact on the local economy.

The Beacon Hill Institute said the report likely understates the hospital's
total economic contribution to the entire South Shore, because the report looked
only at communities in Norfolk County.

One economist said the estimated contribution could just as likely be an
overstatement.

Alan Clayton-Matthews, an economist at UMass-Boston, said that economic-impact
studies often tend to ignore the fact that if a particular business didn't
exist, something else might be there to take its place.

The hospital has significantly reduced its operating deficit since the bailout,
which provided an infusion of cash from the city and state, and linked it
clinically with Boston Medical Center. In 2000, Quincy Medical posted an $8
million loss, compared to a $3.8 million loss in fiscal 2003.

A number of doctors from the Boston hospital now work part time in Quincy, but
the two institutions remain financially independent.

The hospital has not yet released its financial reports for the 2004 fiscal year
that ended in September, but Schuster said the institution will report a loss.

She said a major contributor to that loss was a reduction in state reimbursement
for free care provided by the hospital. Quincy Medical had expected to be paid
88 percent of its costs for care and instead was paid 63 percent. Julie Jette
may be reached at jjette@ledger.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Patriot Ledger


                              192 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                    The Land

                           November 2, 2016 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

RBA governor makes debut

BYLINE: Scrutineer

LENGTH: 384 words


IN ANOTHER relatively quiet week for economic data, equity markets traded in a
relatively narrow range with most markets slightly higher.

The Australian market was lower over the past week primarily due to declines in
several stocks such as Crown Resorts, BHP and Healthscope. Over the past week,
the uptrend in long term government bond yields took a breather. In currency
markets the Australian Dollar and British Pound were both stronger against the
US Dollar, helped by higher coal prices and higher inflation respectively.

New Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) Governor Phil Lowe chose an
expos&Atilde;&copy; on inflation and monetary policy for his first official
speech as Governor and the RBA also released this month's board minutes. The
near-term policy debate seems a little more lively than had been previously
considered with the RBA board. The Governor remained uncertain about momentum in
the labour market and the housing market. He said new consumer price index
inflation data for the September quarter and an update of the forecasts would be
available at the next meeting. This would provide an opportunity to consider the
economic outlook, assess the effects of previous reductions in the cash rate and
review conditions in the labour and housing markets.

Private healthcare operator Healthscope Limited provided a first quarter FY17
trading update. A company spokesman said various data points across the industry
showed the average rate of hospital volume growth has generally slowed. This has
impacted a number of hospitals resulting in increased variability in volumes and
case mix month to month in the first quarter, particularly in September.
Healthscope's focus would continue to be on driving revenue growth and cost
control. However, if the trend for the first quarter was to continue, it is
likely that operating earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortisation (EBITDA) growth for its hospitals division would be flat year on
year.

Consensus expected 8.1pc revenue growth and 10.9pc EBITDA growth in FY17.

I believe the market has potentially overreacted to the news, given one quarter
does not make a year.

As management highlighted, the hospital expansion program pipeline remains
firmly in place over several years providing strong earnings growth over the
long term.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Stimulus That's Short Of Stimulating

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 733 words


The shining city of New York opened for business Tuesday morning, one day after
the normally very obedient and housebroken City Council rose up against the
mayor and voted down a heavily subsidized shopping mall development at the
Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx.

The developer could not, or would not, promise that the stores would pay more
than the minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. Once the mall was open, public funds
still would have been needed to provide subsidies for people working at wages
that would most likely have left  them far below the poverty line. The mayor
argued that low-paying jobs were better than none.

In any case, there were more primal forces at work than a debate over the
economics of the living wage. It turns out that even the docile Council has
decided that it's safe to stick a finger in Michael R. Bloomberg's eye. This may
turn out be a long four years for him, and not just because of a frisky Council
with notions of its own independence.

Take the events of Tuesday morning. In a meeting on William Street, the city's
Economic Development Corporation drew $19.5 million out of a purse labeled
''American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009'' for the construction of a
six-story parking garage at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx.

Currently, about 25 people are employed as parking attendants and valets at the
hospital. The new garage, where drivers will park themselves, will have jobs for
6.

Officials from the hospital and the city spent a good part of the day arguing
that the project really wasn't all that grim -- many of the attendants would get
jobs at parking lots elsewhere in the city, or could be hired as security guards
at the hospital, and so on.

However you slice it, building the garage would result in a loss of about 20
parking positions.

''This financing is from an agency whose sole goal is to create jobs,'' said
Bettina Damiani, director of Good Jobs New York, a research group that analyzes
the city's economic development strategies. ''So why are they funding projects
that will lose jobs?''

The answer, said David Lombino, a spokesman for the Economic Development
Corporation, is that the project will help buttress the central mission of St.
Barnabas, which is losing money on its current parking setup. The hospital
argues that a lack of parking facilities will thwart its ability to hire capable
people and serve patients.

But there's more. In truth, the city is financing the project because it has
federal money and apparently doesn't have all that many other great ways to
spend it.

In its earliest days, the Obama administration sponsored stimulus legislation
that included money, in the form of tax-free bonds, to get stalled construction
projects moving. Among the requirements: the money could only be used for retail
or commercial purposes, not to build housing, and it had to be done by
for-profit entities. The work had to be ''shovel ready'' and is supposed to be
finished by the end of 2010.

St. Barnabas set up a for-profit corporation to build the parking garage. That
is being run by Scott Cooper, the chief executive of the hospital, who was paid
$934,536 last year, including a bonus of $150,000 when the hospital lost
millions. Dr. Cooper will not be paid extra for his work on the parking garage
corporation, said Steve Clark, a hospital spokesman.

IT was a mistake, Mr. Clark said, to think about the garage project simply in
terms of the lost positions. ''That's the easy way of looking at it,'' he said.
''It's a community hospital and it needs a garage. Its economic viability
depends on it. There are 2,200 other people working in the hospital, and not
having this garage could jeopardize their jobs.''

In seeking the financing, the hospital noted that it was surrounded by deep
poverty, which the city and hospital officials emphasized in making their case.
Ms. Damiani said that simply invoking the difficulties of the neighborhood
should not have carried the day. ''They're flaunting the poverty in the Bronx
without guaranteeing that the people of the Bronx will get anything,'' she said.

The government is fighting over scraps. One day it is over jobs in a shopping
mall that pay $7.25. The next day it is about financing $19 million to build a
garage that will  cost only 20 jobs, and supposedly head off the loss of
thousands of others. We are in an era of threadbare ambition.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

MDA to take up Natchez Regional issue next week

BYLINE: Rod Guajardo, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


June 11--NATCHEZ -- The Natchez Board of Aldermen approved a resolution to help
the sale of Natchez Regional Medical Center Tuesday, but a state economic
development agency won't discuss the matter until next week.

To facilitate the sale structure of the county-owned hospital to Community
Health Systems, the Adams County Board of Supervisors applied last week to the
Mississippi Development Authority for the sale to be considered a Regional
Economic Development Act (REDA) project.

The move would allow CHS to prepay property taxes as part of the sales process.
Those prepaid taxes would be part of an overall purchase price that would be
sufficient to pay off the bankrupt hospital's debt.

The REDA designation allows multiple municipalities to apply jointly to issue
revenue bonds based on the anticipated future tax revenues of an economic
development project, MDA spokesman Jeff Rent said.

The bond proceeds can be used to build or improve infrastructure needed for the
project, and the taxes collected from the project are used to service the debt
on the bonds.

Rent said NRMC was not on the agenda for the MDA board's Tuesday meeting.

Hospital attorney Walter Brown said Tuesday evening that MDA officials told him
the matter would not be discussed until the board's June 17 meeting.

The Natchez Board of Aldermen adopted its REDA resolution Tuesday, which was
needed before an approval from MDA.

The county hopes to convince MDA that the hospital's sale should be considered
an economic development project because it would consolidate the local
healthcare market and help bring in new doctors, including specialists the area
currently doesn't have, and likely would result in the construction of a new
hospital in the near future.

NRMC opened in 1960 as Jefferson Davis Memorial Hospital. Its $2.4 million
construction was underwritten by an $800,000 local contribution and state and
federal funds.

It has been financially independent since 1974 and does not receive tax support,
but is backed by a 5-mill standby tax that the Mississippi Development Bank
required the hospital to get in 2006 when it asked for the MDB to reissue its
revenue bond.

The hospital board of trustees announced in February its intention to declare
bankruptcy, citing at the time a $3-million deficit between financial assets and
liabilities.

The county supervisors appoint the hospital's volunteer trustees. The board of
trustees includes White, John Serafin, Dr. Linda Godley, Bill Ernst, Lionel
Stepter, Lee Martin and Dr. Jennifer Russ.

___ (c)2014 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140611-YY-MDA-to-take-up-Natchez-Regional-issue-next-week-0611-20140611

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2014 The Natchez Democrat


                              195 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                  Long Island Business News (Long Island, NY)

                            December 17, 2004 Friday

Study by Healthcare Assn. of NY State shows hospitals as important economic
component

BYLINE: LIBN Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 118 words


Hospitals provide an intangible service to the community by caring for the sick.
But they are also an important component of our economy - something people tend
to forget.

A new study by the Healthcare Association of New York State serves as a good
reminder. The study, based on a model developed by the federal Bureau of
Economic Analysis, reports that Long Island's 26 hospitals contribute $10.1
billion to the region in terms of wages, supplies, taxes and the ripple effect
of that spending. Local hospitals are often the largest employers in their
communities - collectively paying the wages of 43,000 people on Long Island.
Hospitals, clearly, are an important part of a healthy economy.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: General news

                      Copyright 2004 Dolan Media Newswires
                                All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

Hospitals strive to expand services offered in Edmond

BYLINE: AARON CRESPO, Staff Writer<br>acrespo@opubco.com

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: EDMOND


EDMOND - Construction on one new Edmond hospital is expected to begin soon,
while another medical property is still in the planning stages.

The construction of Integris Edmond Health Medical Center is scheduled to begin
this summer. Ground was broken in October, but building was delayed because of
the economic downturn, hospital President Avilla T. Williams said.

The $90 million project, which will be on the east side of Interstate 35 between
Second and 15th streets, will feature 40 beds and will give Edmond its first
hospital birth unit since Renaissance Women's Hospital closed in 2005.

While it is too early to begin hiring, Williams said they're currently working
to establish relationships with physicians in the area.

Mercy Health Center hasn't decided what to do with 25 acres of property it
purchased on Sooner Road between 15th and 33rd streets.

"Nothing has really changed. We're still in the plans," Mercy spokeswoman Nancy
Woodard said.

Edmond Medical Center, meanwhile, continues to serve Edmond with 94 beds for
medical, surgical and outpatient care as well as an intensive care/coronary care
unit. The hospital also has a 17-bed geropsychiatric unit, the Autumn Life
Center.

Owned by the Hospital Corp. of America, Edmond Medical employs about 550 people.
It is Edmond's fourth-largest employer, according to the Edmond Economic
Development Authority.

Recently the hospital began offering community programs.

"Right now, there's a program we do with junior high kids called Health Explore
to get them interested in medical careers," said spokeswoman Leslie Buford.

Other programs the group is offering include Adopt-a-School and offering tours
for new patients.



LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MY EDMOND
The user's guide for fun and essential living in Edmond 2009-10

GRAPHIC: Photo 1: This is a drawing of Integris Edmond Health Medical Center
planned east of Interstate 35 and north of Henderson Hills Baptist Church. -
DRAWING PROVIDED
Photo 2: The emergency room entrance of Edmond Medical Center at Second Street
and Bryant Avenue. - PHOTO BY PAUL HELLSTERN, OKLAHOMAN ARCHIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

Hospitals strive to expand services offered in Edmond

BYLINE: AARON CRESPO, Staff Writer<br>acrespo@opubco.com

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: EDMOND


EDMOND - Construction on one new Edmond hospital is expected to begin soon,
while another medical property is still in the planning stages.

The construction of Integris Edmond Health Medical Center is scheduled to begin
this summer. Ground was broken in October, but building was delayed because of
the economic downturn, hospital President Avilla T. Williams said.

The $90 million project, which will be on the east side of Interstate 35 between
Second and 15th streets, will feature 40 beds and will give Edmond its first
hospital birth unit since Renaissance Women's Hospital closed in 2005.

While it is too early to begin hiring, Williams said they're currently working
to establish relationships with physicians in the area.

Mercy Health Center hasn't decided what to do with 25 acres of property it
purchased on Sooner Road between 15th and 33rd streets.

"Nothing has really changed. We're still in the plans," Mercy spokeswoman Nancy
Woodard said.

Edmond Medical Center, meanwhile, continues to serve Edmond with 94 beds for
medical, surgical and outpatient care as well as an intensive care/coronary care
unit. The hospital also has a 17-bed geropsychiatric unit, the Autumn Life
Center.

Owned by the Hospital Corp. of America, Edmond Medical employs about 550 people.
It is Edmond's fourth-largest employer, according to the Edmond Economic
Development Authority.

Recently the hospital began offering community programs.

"Right now, there's a program we do with junior high kids called Health Explore
to get them interested in medical careers," said spokeswoman Leslie Buford.

Other programs the group is offering include Adopt-a-School and offering tours
for new patients.



LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MY EDMOND
The user's guide for fun and essential living in Edmond 2009-10

GRAPHIC: Photo 1: This is a drawing of Integris Edmond Health Medical Center
planned east of Interstate 35 and north of Henderson Hills Baptist Church. -
DRAWING PROVIDED
Photo 2: The emergency room entrance of Edmond Medical Center at Second Street
and Bryant Avenue. - PHOTO BY PAUL HELLSTERN, OKLAHOMAN ARCHIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               December 19, 2001

(pounds) 268m plan to revamp Mater and children's hospital

BYLINE: By EITHNE DONNELLAN

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words


Plans for a (pounds) 268 million hospital development on Dublin's northside
which will see the Mater and Temple Street Children's Hospitals coming together
on one site, have been approved by the Department of Health.

Planning permission will now be sought for the first stages of the project,
which is expected to begin in autumn 2002 on a derelict car- park site at the
Mater Hospital on Eccles Street. The project is expected to be complete by 2008.

The development control plan for the new hospital campus was unveiled yesterday
by the Minister for Health, Mr Martin. It will result in a significantly
extended Mater Hospital and a new purpose-built children's hospital. The present
Temple Street hospital site will be retained for future medical/community use.

Treatment of adults and children will be provided separately but "back to back"
on the new campus. Both hospitals will still have separate entrances and car
parking will be provided in the basement of the new buildings.

The old Mater Hospital building will be refurbished as a 70-bed day hospital. It
is expected to take pressure off the new acute hospital, which will have 546
beds, the same as at present.

The new children's hospital will have seven theatres and 170 beds, 38 more than
it has now. Also included in the complex will be facilities for the new national
heart/lung transplant programme. It is the largest health project in the
National Development Plan (NDP).

A special company, the Mater & Children's Hospital Development Ltd, was set up
two years ago to oversee the project. It is a joint initiative of the Sisters of
Charity, who run Temple Street, and the Sisters of Mercy, who run the Mater
Hospital.

Mr Martin said he was confident, despite the economic downturn, that the
development would be completed. "This year we have provided sufficient capital
to meet the implications of the NDP for 2002 and we will continue to do that
over the lifetime of the plan (to 2006). Obviously there will be extra costs
coming on stream in terms of both inflation and development issues, but I am
very, very confident that the plans we have so far committed and the hospital
projects we have committed to will be realised," he said. "We have entered into
this project and I've now approved it to stage three. I wouldn't do that if I
wasn't committed to getting the project completed".

Sister Helena O'Donoghue, provincial of the Mercy Congregation, said the
approval of the plans was a significant milestone. "We are very excited today
about the stage that we have come to because we are having the opportunity to
celebrate something visible," she said.

Mr Paul Cunniffe, chief executive of Temple Street Children's Hospital, said the
staff of the hospital, its children and their families, looked forward with
"eager anticipation" to the development. "Not only are we building a new
hospital, but by moving onto the campus of our sister hospital, we are helping
to pioneer a new model of paediatric hospital. This will enable us to share
specialists' facilities and open up new opportunities for both our hospitals".

Mr Martin Cowley, chief executive of the Mater Hospital, described the unveiling
of a model of the development plans as a very exciting day for the Mater
Hospital. "We have been waiting a long time for this." He said it would result
in better working facilities for everyone which would bring about higher morale.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


                              199 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               December 19, 2001

(pounds) 268m plan to revamp Mater and children's hospital

BYLINE: By EITHNE DONNELLAN

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words


Plans for a (pounds) 268 million hospital development on Dublin's northside
which will see the Mater and Temple Street Children's Hospitals coming together
on one site, have been approved by the Department of Health.

Planning permission will now be sought for the first stages of the project,
which is expected to begin in autumn 2002 on a derelict car- park site at the
Mater Hospital on Eccles Street. The project is expected to be complete by 2008.

The development control plan for the new hospital campus was unveiled yesterday
by the Minister for Health, Mr Martin. It will result in a significantly
extended Mater Hospital and a new purpose-built children's hospital. The present
Temple Street hospital site will be retained for future medical/community use.

Treatment of adults and children will be provided separately but "back to back"
on the new campus. Both hospitals will still have separate entrances and car
parking will be provided in the basement of the new buildings.

The old Mater Hospital building will be refurbished as a 70-bed day hospital. It
is expected to take pressure off the new acute hospital, which will have 546
beds, the same as at present.

The new children's hospital will have seven theatres and 170 beds, 38 more than
it has now. Also included in the complex will be facilities for the new national
heart/lung transplant programme. It is the largest health project in the
National Development Plan (NDP).

A special company, the Mater & Children's Hospital Development Ltd, was set up
two years ago to oversee the project. It is a joint initiative of the Sisters of
Charity, who run Temple Street, and the Sisters of Mercy, who run the Mater
Hospital.

Mr Martin said he was confident, despite the economic downturn, that the
development would be completed. "This year we have provided sufficient capital
to meet the implications of the NDP for 2002 and we will continue to do that
over the lifetime of the plan (to 2006). Obviously there will be extra costs
coming on stream in terms of both inflation and development issues, but I am
very, very confident that the plans we have so far committed and the hospital
projects we have committed to will be realised," he said. "We have entered into
this project and I've now approved it to stage three. I wouldn't do that if I
wasn't committed to getting the project completed".

Sister Helena O'Donoghue, provincial of the Mercy Congregation, said the
approval of the plans was a significant milestone. "We are very excited today
about the stage that we have come to because we are having the opportunity to
celebrate something visible," she said.

Mr Paul Cunniffe, chief executive of Temple Street Children's Hospital, said the
staff of the hospital, its children and their families, looked forward with
"eager anticipation" to the development. "Not only are we building a new
hospital, but by moving onto the campus of our sister hospital, we are helping
to pioneer a new model of paediatric hospital. This will enable us to share
specialists' facilities and open up new opportunities for both our hospitals".

Mr Martin Cowley, chief executive of the Mater Hospital, described the unveiling
of a model of the development plans as a very exciting day for the Mater
Hospital. "We have been waiting a long time for this." He said it would result
in better working facilities for everyone which would bring about higher morale.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


                              200 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily News (Jacksonville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 25, 2010 Monday

Bad debt causes hospital costs to mount

BYLINE: Suzanne Ulbrich, The Daily News, Jacksonville, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 636 words


Oct. 25--It's not just individuals hurting financially.

Onslow County Memorial Hospital and Carteret General Hospital officials say they
foresee a rise in bad debt and charity care expenses.

As more and more people lose insurance they fall between the cracks in the
healthcare system, said Tim Strickland, the spokesman for Onslow Memorial
Hospital.

"Basically the folks that qualify for charity care are often the working poor.
Their income is not enough for them to be able to afford insurance," he said.
"(This fiscal year) we're looking at almost 11 percent of what we expect to take
in, in total patient revenues, going to charity care and bad debt."

Onslow budgeted $5,591,420 for this fiscal year, which began Oct.1, for charity
care, Strickland said. It budgeted $5,195,006 the previous fiscal year.

"So we projected $396,414 (more) in charity care, which amounts to a 7.6-percent
increase," he said.

Onslow budgeted $32,849,594 this fiscal year for bad debt versus $30,520,660 the
previous year, which also amounts to a 7.6-percent increase, Strickland said.

"So that is an increase of $2,328,934," he said.

He said the economy has put more patients in the bad debt category.

"Even though Onslow County is weathering the economic storm better than other
parts of the county, that does not mean it is not affected by the economic
storm," he said. "The impact of charity care and bad debt is based on economic
indicators, though we look more closely at what is going on in our region."

Likewise, Carteret General Hospital expects slight increases in charity care and
unpaid medical bills, said Beth Beswick, the spokeswoman for the hospital.

"Our bad debt went up about .2 percent, from $11,984,645 to $13,405,746," she
said.

Charity care went from $2,858,132 to $2,298,004.

"We have seen a shift in payor mix," she said. "Commercially insured patients
have declined by about 1.3 percent and Medicaid has increased about the same. We
assume this is due to low income individuals who had employer based insurance
and have lost that, for whatever reason, and qualified for Medicaid."

The upward trend in charity care costs has been evident in hospitals across the
state, said Don Dalton, spokesman for the N.C. Hospital Association.

In fiscal year 2008, the average estimated cost of treating charity care
patients at 110 of the organization's member hospitals was $5.7 million. That
average estimated cost increased to $6.3 million in fiscal year 2009, Dalton
said.

He said the economy and rising healthcare costs contributed to that increase.

Between fiscal year 2008 and 2009, the average hospital saw its estimated
un-reimbursed cost of providing Medicaid services increase by a similar margin.
Those rising costs put "tremendous pressure" on hospitals, he said.

"We have hospitals that have been forced to lay off employees because of
downturns, because of the growing un-reimbursed charity care and Medicaid and
Medicare issues as well," he said.

At this point, Onslow Memorial Hospital is not planning a workforce reduction,
Strickland said.

"Our employees receive modest raises, and we use a great degree of caution to
make sure the number of employees did not increase substantially," he said.
"Every hospital in the country deals with that -- we have to learn to work
creatively."

Contact staff writer Suzanne Ulbrich at 910-219-8454 or sulbrich@freedomenc.com

To see more of The Daily News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.jacksonvilledailynews.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Daily News,
Jacksonville, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
more information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101025-JN-Bad-debt-causes-hospital-costs-to-mount-1025-20101025

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JN


                         Copyright 2010 The Daily News


                              201 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                              May 3, 1999, Monday

Patients Exposed to Higher Risk of Medical Accidents

LENGTH: 418 words


   An increasing number of hospital patients are becoming the victims of medical
accidents as financially-strapped hospitals slash jobs amid the financial and
economic downturn.

Civic groups claimed yesterday that patients have been forced to pay more for
medical treatment since the nation was battered by the 1997 Asian crisis, while
the quality of medical services has deteriorated.

The Citizens' Coalition for Economic Justice and other activist groups said in a
joint statement that hospitals have at the same time been trying to make profits
by providing excessive amounts of treatment and prescription medicine to some
patients.

Concerned about a decline in earnings in the wake of the financial and economic
crisis, hospitals have charged patients exorbitant amounts for treatment to make
up for their losses,'' CCEJ said in a press conference.

The civic group pointed out that many hospitals have been pushing for drastic
manpower cuts, which has only led to a drop in the quality of their medical
services.

Despite surging medical costs, patients are receiving poorer quality
treatment,'' the civic group charged.

It cautioned that more and more patients are now exposed to greater risk of
medical mishaps due to sharp cuts in hospital manpower, including nurses.

The civic group's claims were based on survey of 992 patients hospitalized in 28
hospitals across the nation.

According to the survey, a total of 404 medical accidents took place in those
hospitals last year.

Some 145 patients were found to have suffered injuries from falls from their
beds due to a lack of proper care by medical staff members.

About 88 patients received wrong prescriptions, while 171 were victimized by
mistakes in medical tests and checkups.

Too drastic manpower cuts can directly explain why a growing number of medical
accidents have taken place,'' said a CCEJ representative.

In a separate survey of nurses, 89.7 percent of those polled said hospitals are
suffering from severe staff shortages amid the painful restructuring of
hospitals.

Meanwhile, the number of patients rose by 53.2 percent in 1998 compared with the
figure in 1997.

Medical staff members, including nurses, have thus been suffering from heavier
workloads, leading to a poorer quality of medical services.

At the same time, patients had to shoulder higher medical bills.

Hospital patients had to pay 2.33 million won on average per month in 1998, a
two-fold increase from the pre-crisis years.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                          Copyright 1999 Hankook Ilbo


                              202 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 The Tribune-Democrat (Johnstown, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 21, 2009 Wednesday

BRIEF: NEW -- Hospital announces layoffs

BYLINE: Randy Griffith, Tribune-Democrat, Johnstown, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 208 words


Jan. 21--JOHNSTOWN -- Decreasing patient volume and loss of investment income
during the current economic downturn prompted layoff notices for 47 Memorial
Medical Center employees today.

Layoffs hit management and employees in support areas and did not include
hospital nursing staff, the hospital announced.

"Careful planning and much thought went into this process and our goal was to
maintain as many jobs as possible while meeting our fiscal responsibilities in
this unprecedented economic environment," hospital President Steve Tucker said
in the press release.

The cutback represents just more than 1 percent of Memorial's 3,700 employees.

Severance packages, counseling and help with finding another job is being
offered to affected employees. Some may be able to take new positions within the
Conemaugh Health System.

To see more of The Tribune-Democrat or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribune-democrat.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Tribune-Democrat,
Johnstown, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090121-JO-BRF-NEW-Hospital-announces-layoffs-0121

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JO


                      Copyright 2009 The Tribune-Democrat


                              203 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 29, 2016 Tuesday

New York: Economic Development Corp, NYC Issues Solicitation for "NYC HEALTH +
HOSPITALS: CDBG-DR FUNDED ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING DESIGN, AND RELATED
CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR METROPOLITAN HOSPITAL RFP"

LENGTH: 208  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Albany: Economic Development Corp, NYC has issued requirement for "NYC HEALTH +
HOSPITALS: CDBG-DR FUNDED ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING DESIGN, AND RELATED
CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR METROPOLITAN HOSPITAL RFP"



 Reference No.: 63070001



 Solicitation Type: General



 Description: New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC) for the
benefit of NYC Health and Hospitals is seeking a consultant or consultant team
to provide design and construction administration services for a new Flood
Mitigation System at Metropolitan Hospital in Manhattan. In October 2012,
Metropolitan Hospital suffered extensive flood damage as a result of Hurricane
Sandy. Since then, Metropolitan Hospital has temporarily restored its damaged
areas. The Flood Mitigation System is envisioned to consist of perimeter flood
protection with increased storm water capacity and additional flood protection
measures.





 Deadline for All responses: 03/29/2015



 Contact Information:



 Economic Development Corp, NYC

 Contracts/Procurement

 Bibi Rashid

 Ms.

 110 William St.

 4th Floor

 New York, NY 10038

 United States

 Ph: 212-618-5796

 Fax: 212-312-3918

 brashid@edc.nyc



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                October 19, 2000

ESRI report says State subsidises private care
Public hospitals 'recouping only half of costs' of private patients from
insurers

BYLINE: By NUALA HAUGHEY

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; ERSI HOSPITAL CARE REPORT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 634 words


Public hospitals recoup only half the cost of caring for private patients from
insurance companies, with the taxpayer making up the shortfall, a study released
today reveals.

The report, by the Economic and Social Research Institute, shows that private
patients in public hospitals are being substantially subsidised by the State. It
concludes that a phased increase in health insurance premiums to fill this gap
would not drive people away from private insurers.

The study, Private Practice in Irish Public Hospitals, was written by Prof Brian
Nolan, the ESRI's research professor and Prof Miriam Wiley, head of its health
policy research centre. It shows that private patients account for one-fifth of
all hospital stays in acute public hospitals, yet about a quarter of the
hospitals' total expenditure on in-patient care is spent on them.

The State spent about (pounds) 130 million in 1996 to provide in-patient care in
public hospitals to private patients. This is about double the income raised by
the hospitals through charges paid by private patients or their insurers.
Private patients are further subsidised by the State through tax relief on
health insurance premiums, the study notes.

Speaking at a press briefing on the report yesterday, Prof Wiley said the extent
of the State's subsidy of private patients in public hospitals was likely to be
at least the same today as it was in 1996, given increases in State expenditure
on hospital care in recent years.

The Government's policy was to move towards charging private patients the full
cost of providing care for them in public hospitals, she said.

"We now know the extent of the subsidy currently being applied to supporting
private patients in public hospitals and what's clear is that a substantial
increase in the daily charges by the hospital will be required if we are to
actually get to the point of charging the full economic cost of private patients
in public hospitals," she added.

"Given that most of that income is coming from insured patients, then that has
obviously implications for charges levied against insurance companies, and
presumably subsequently for premium levels charged by insurance companies as
well."

If the level of charges for private care in public hospitals was doubled to
redress the current funding imbalance, then annual claims faced by insurers
would increase by one quarter, the report estimates.

However, if this cost was immediately passed on to private patients through a 25
per cent increase in health insurance premiums, there would be a decline in the
numbers of people taking out health insurance, it adds.

The authors say a phased increase in premiums of 5 per cent per year over five
years would not produce a dramatic fall-off in the numbers of people buying
insurance. "We drew the conclusion that the scale of increase in the price of
insurance required to move up towards charging the cost of the care provided, if
it was phased in over a number of years, would not be likely to burst the bubble
and lead to a sharp decline in the numbers of people on health insurance," Prof
Nolan said.

"This is contingent on continued healthy economic growth per annum of 4 to 5 per
cent and no radical shift in people's perceptions of the public system, because
what's fuelling demand for private insurance is what people think their options
are if they don't have it."

Prof Wiley said the report did not assess the impact of the subsidy for private
patient care on the quality of care for public patients. "We feel that there
would be an important need for research on issues addressing quality of care,
given that our survey of attitudes of people who buy health insurance suggested
that a lot of people buy it because they could feel that there is a quality
difference," she added.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2000 The Irish Times


                              205 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             India Investment News

                        June 7, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

ITG Market Research Releases New Hospital Executive Survey

LENGTH: 500  words


New Delhi, June 7 -- ITG Market Research today released the results of a recent
survey showing that most US hospital executives believe that the overall US
economy will expand in 2013, but they are not convinced that this growth will
translate into improved business conditions for the hospital industry.



"Our Hospital Executive Confidence Index showed its greatest improvement in
three years, buoyed by recent positive economic news. Even in the latter half of
2012, we were capturing a lot of negative sentiment among hospital executives,
but the proportion expecting economic conditions to deteriorate in 2013 has
fallen by over 50% this quarter. It is a very promising indicator," said Graeme
Christianson, Vice President of Healthcare Market Research at ITG.

At the same time, the study highlights significant challenges that are specific
to the hospital industry. Almost 50% of surveyed executives reported that some
investment has been postponed or cancelled because of reimbursement cuts
embedded in the federal budgetary sequester, and many continue to report
uncertainty regarding the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act.

Furthermore, almost half of the surveyed executives reported that patient
volumes fell below expectations in the first quarter of 2013. The lower volumes
translated into lower than expected revenues and profits, making Q1 2013 the
worst quarter in terms of reported performance since ITG Market Research
initiated its Hospital Executives syndicated report series in 2011.

"We've already heard from some big players like HMA (NYSE: HMA), HCA (NYSE:
HCA), and Tenet (NYSE: THC) that patient volumes were soft, especially in the
latter half of the first quarter," said Christianson, "but we were still
surprised that executives from so many different types of facilities reported
lower volumes. It may be true that the healthcare industry has avoided the full
brunt of recent economic difficulties, but the industry now faces some uniquely
challenging conditions."

The survey results show that hospitals are responding to the difficult climate
by aggressively implementing new reimbursement and care models, including
accountable care programs, pay-for-performance initiatives, and risk-based
contracting. Furthermore, cost containment strategies for medical devices and
implants have been prioritized, with executives reporting increased focus on
vendor consolidation, market-share discounting, and other aggressive supply
chain management strategies.

About HOSPITAL EXECUTIVES

HOSPITAL EXECUTIVES is a syndicated report series that tracks and analyzes
leading indicators and key metrics that define the US hospital industry. These
bi-annual reports provide timely insights and forward-looking projections to
support more informed decision-making regarding the impact of new products,
changing economic conditions, financial pressures, regulatory constraints,
managed care policies, and governmental regulations on hospital purchasing plans
and market dynamics.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday

'Hospital site will not be sold in current climate';
East Hull: Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust has confirmed its
Princess Royal Hospital site will not be sold before the end of the financial
year.

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 154 words


The trust said the current national economic climate will have an impact on the
timing of the disposal of the site in Saltshouse Road.

David Haire, director of business development and strategy for the trust, said:
"We have vacated the major part of the site and are exploring disposal options.

"Within the current economic climate, disposal is not likely to be achieved in
the short term.

"We have formerly declared it surplus to requirements and we are looking at how
best to dispose of it."

Mr Haire said the trust needs to ensure it gets the best value for the site.

He said: "The economic downturn will influence land sales generally and this
will impact on the timing of the disposal."

As reported in the Mail in December, X-ray and physiotherapy services will
remain at the site.

Patients were transferred from the Saltshouse Road hospital to the oncology and
haematology centre at Castle Hill Hospital in Cottingham last summer.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday

'Hospital site will not be sold in current climate';
East Hull: Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust has confirmed its
Princess Royal Hospital site will not be sold before the end of the financial
year.

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 154 words


The trust said the current national economic climate will have an impact on the
timing of the disposal of the site in Saltshouse Road.

David Haire, director of business development and strategy for the trust, said:
"We have vacated the major part of the site and are exploring disposal options.

"Within the current economic climate, disposal is not likely to be achieved in
the short term.

"We have formerly declared it surplus to requirements and we are looking at how
best to dispose of it."

Mr Haire said the trust needs to ensure it gets the best value for the site.

He said: "The economic downturn will influence land sales generally and this
will impact on the timing of the disposal."

As reported in the Mail in December, X-ray and physiotherapy services will
remain at the site.

Patients were transferred from the Saltshouse Road hospital to the oncology and
haematology centre at Castle Hill Hospital in Cottingham last summer.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Private hospitals highlight danger of job losses zz NHI 'should use Hasa beds'

BYLINE:  Londiwe Buthelezi

SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 655 words


Private hospital groups would remain a catalyst for job creation in South
Africa's health-care sector as the country moved towards the National Health
Insurance (NHI) system, health economists said yesterday.

A study, commissioned by the Hospital Association of SA (Hasa) and undertaken by
independent economic research groups Econex and Quantec Research, sought to
quantify the economic contribution of Hasa members, which provide over 85
percent of South Africa's private hospital capacity.

It showed that the hospital groups directly and indirectly supported an
estimated 218 000 jobs in 2010, contributing R52.2 billion, or 2.2 percent, to
gross domestic product.

Private hospitals employed 64 000 workers on a full-time equivalent basis in
2010, of whom about 55 000 were employed on a permanent basis.

Hasa indicated that, while total employment contracted by 5.8 percent during the
recent recession between 2008 and 2010, the number of permanent employees at
Hasa hospitals increased by 4.4 percent.

Currently, Hasa members operate 209 private hospitals with 27 789 beds, or more
than 85 percent of the industry total. Members include Life Healthcare, Netcare
and Mediclinic.

The hospitals' labour income was about R9.27bn and they contributed an estimated
R5.8bn to the National Treasury in tax revenue.

When the contributions of the hospitals' direct and indirect suppliers were
considered, as well as the income effects through the economy, the total tax
revenue generated, together with upstream and downstream partners, stood at 2.5
percent of the government's total tax haul during 2010.

MarinÃ© Erasmus, a senior economist at Econex, cautioned that with the
introduction of the NHI, there was a risk that private hospitals would not be
utilised fully if people could not afford to pay both their medical scheme
contributions and NHI levies.

"The direct and indirect economic effect would improve if business increased in
the private sector because it provided services to the NHI. I think what this
tells us is that the sector should not be forgotten under the NHI because it
would harm lots of jobs if the sector shrinks," she said.

Alex van den Heever, the chair of social security systems administration at the
Wits University Graduate School of Public and Development Management, said Hasa
did not commission this study because it felt the private health-care sector's
existence was threatened under the NHI, but rather to address negative
impressions created about the sector.

Turning to the impact of NHI on employment, the Department of Health said it
would spend R1.24bn in the next three years on training new health
professionals.

Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi said 122 nursing colleges would be
revitalised, a medical school would be built and two academic hospitals
established as part of the NHI human resources strategy.

Apart from this, the National Planning Commission's National Development Plan,
published in November last year, envisaged that between 700 000 and 1.3 million
community health workers would be recruited and deployed by the public sector to
implement community-based health care programmes funded by the NHI by 2030.

According to the Health Professions Council of SA (HPCSA), 150 509 qualified
health practitioners were registered with the council in 2010.

But Lize Nel, the communications officer at the HPCSA, said some practitioners
were still registered with the council although they were practicing in other
countries and had chosen to have dual registration.

Van den Heever said the country could not compensate for inactive economic
sectors by hiring more people into the few sectors that were active.

He said the country's health-care sector would continue to grow normally under
the NHI but that it could not be a driver of economic growth.

"The health sector is not the sector that can change the situation. It's not a
key turner to drive economic growth," Van den Heever said. page 16

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          November 17, 2004, Wednesday

Koreans allowed to use foreign hospitals in FEZ

BYLINE: By Sim Sung-tae

LENGTH: 433 words



The government yesterday decided to allow Koreans to use the foreign-invested
hospitals envisioned for the free economic zones.

But foreigners-only pharmacies operating in the zones will not be allowed to
sell medicine to locals, the Ministry of Finance and Economy said in a
statement.

The decision came as the Cabinet approved a bill aimed at facilitating the
establishment of foreign hospitals and other facilities in these special zones.

"We will soon submit the approved bill to the Assembly to have it approved by
the end of this year," said Cho Sung-ik, head of the Free Economic Zone Planning
Team, a government agency working on establishing zones.

Korea is developing free economic zones in three port cities - Incheon, Busan
and Gwangyang - in the hope that they will become hubs of business, finance and
logistics for Northeast Asia.

During the Cabinet meeting, policymakers also endorsed a revision of the
immigration law to prevent discrimination against foreign residents.

According to a recent poll, 80.7 percent of the general public said locals
should be allowed to use the foreign hospitals in the free economic zones.

The survey, jointly conducted by Korea Gallup and Kyung Hee University's medical
research center, also showed 68.6 percent of the general public want foreign
hospitals to be built in the zones.

The foreign hospitals issue has been a source of contention between the
government, which supports the move, and those in the medical profession and
civic groups who oppose the idea.

The government says that over the long term, bringing in foreign hospitals could
help improve the quality of medical care in Korea.

However, many medical groups and civil organizations says it is unfair to
provide such benefits only to the foreign hospitals and not offer the same
service to locals.

Capitalizing on its geographical advantage and superb logistics and industrial
infrastructure, the government says Korea is poised to reinvent itself as the
economic nerve center of Northeast Asia.

At the core of the plan is a trio of free economic zones in Incheon,
Busan-Jinhae and Gwangyang, complete with ports, industrial towns, tourist
attractions and financial institutions.

In these special zones, foreign-invested companies and their employees can enjoy
exceptional benefits and incentives compared with the rest of the country,
including tax breaks, expanded foreign-exchange circulation, language services,
labor flexibility, relaxation of greater-Seoul restrictions, and establishment
of foreign education and medical centers. (saintsim@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2004 The Korea Herald


                              210 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday

Logan County escapes closure of prison - for now

BYLINE: By Edith Brady-Lunny;eblunny@pantagraph.com

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 569 words


LINCOLN - When the 2011 economic scorecard is tallied for Logan County, what was
not lost could be more important than what was gained.

Lincoln and Logan County officials and residents breathed a sigh of relief in
November after Gov. Pat Quinn ditched a plan to close seven state facilities,
including the Logan Correctional Center with its 350 workers and 2,000 inmates.

The community came together in September in a campaign to prevent what could
have been a massive economic loss comparable only to the closing of the former
Lincoln Developmental Center, said Michael Maniscalco, director of the Lincoln &
Logan County Economic Development Partnership.

But the economic development leader is urging residents to keep the T-shirts and
yard signs from last year's campaign to save the prison.

"We do have that fear that it could happen again," said Maniscalco, as the state
continues to struggle with huge deficits.

Loss of the Lincoln prison could have drained $21.7 million in lost worker
income and $73 million in total economic losses to the area, according to an
economic impact study.

Maniscalco took over as director of the economic development agency several
weeks before the prison closure debate began.

Since the prison crisis ended in November, he has focused on a countywide master
plan for residential and business growth. Among the priorities of the plan are
finding ways to capitalize on Logan County's centralized location and hopes to
become a leader in wind energy.

Lincoln also is looking forward to a major boost in the number of affordable
housing units available in the community. A Chicago developer has announced
plans to build 43 townhomes that will help with a shortage of homes in the
$100,000 to $160,000 range, said Maniscalco.

New hospital opens

One of the major boosts to the Logan County area came with the March opening of
the new Abraham Lincoln Memorial Hospital on Stahlnut Drive, a $50 million
facility that replaced a facility built in 1954 in the middle of town.

The new hospital reflects a shift from inpatient care to a greater emphasis on
outpatient services. The 116,000-square foot medical center takes care of 160
outpatients a day.

The community financial support - almost $5.5 million-is a reflection of how
important the hospital is to residents, said hospital spokeswoman Amy Denney.

The contributions "speak volumes for how people feel about their community
hospital," said Denney.

The 290-person workforce at ALMH puts the facility among the top employers in
the county and serves as an incentive for potential new residents, said
Maniscalco.

"This is one of those things you show off to new people. When you're looking for
a place to live, it's all about the schools and the hospital," for some people,
he said.

Legal expense looms

Logan County taxpayers face a potential mountain of legal bills associated with
the trials of two brothers accused of killing five members of a Beason family in
2010. The Logan County Board has earmarked about $1 million in estimated revenue
the county could receive from wind farms expected to locate in the area for the
pending cases against Christopher and Jason Harris.

The repeal of the death penalty in Illinois ended state funding for defense
costs in capital murder cases.

The responsibility of paying the legal bills for those accused of slaying Rick
and Ruth Gee and three of their children now rests with Logan County.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Pantagraph


                              211 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                              The Sligo Weekender

                                January 20, 2009

New private hospital for Sligo is still on the cards

SECTION: IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


WHILE doubts have arisen about some planned new private hospitals in the
country, the HSE have confirmed that the proposal for a new co-located hospital
attached to Sligo General is still on track.

There has been speculation recently about whether banks would be prepared in the
current economic climate to put up the finance for new private hospitals and how
this would impact on government plans for co-located private hospitals on the
grounds of public hospitals.

However, a spokesperson for the HSE told the Sligo Weekender this week that work
towards the signing of an agreement for the building of the new hospital in
Sligo was progressing. "The bidder and the HSE are in regular contact to
facilitate this".

However, it is understood that while there is confidence that the development
will go ahead, it may be a few months before the contract is signed.

It was announced in 2007 that the Mount Carmel Medical Group, which owns St
Joseph's private hospital, Garden Hill, have been selected to build a new 96-bed
co-located hospital alongside Sligo General Hospital. They would then move their
operation from St Joseph's to there.

It is planned that a new common entrance would link the two hospitals. The new
facility, expected to cost around    90 to    100 million, would be constructed
on the car park side of the hospital and there would be a new multi-storey car
park to serve both hospitals.

It had been expected that the contract would have been signed by now as it had
been suggested that the hospital could be up and running within three years.

It was initially suggested that the signing of the contract for new hospital
would happen by the end of May last. When that date passed it was stated at the
end of August that it was likely to be within three to four weeks. However, a
further inquiry in October elicited the response that it would be "in the near
future".

A senior banking source was recently reported in the Sunday Business Post as
saying that the co-location initiative always presented a challenge to financial
institutions, even in the good times and that the economic downturn had
complicated matters, as banks were now less prepared to take on underwriting
risks on deals.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                            August 29, 2000, Tuesday

HOSP HAS ROOM TO SPARE CITY SEEKS DEVELOPMENT BIDS FOR 3 SITES NEAR NE W
FACILITY

BYLINE: BY DONALD BERTRAND DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SUBURBAN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523 words

As the new $147 million Queens Hospital Center nears completion, the city
Economic Development Corp. is looking for development proposals for three sites
on the campus that will become surplus when the hospital is finished next
spring.

The new 200-bed hospital will feature Centers of Excellence in cancer care,
diabetes and women's health.

The city is seeking proposals for uses such as assisted senior living,
biomedical research, staff housing and wellness/health or child-care centers,
said corporation spokeswoman Janel Patterson.

"By offering this surplus property for development, we are once again promoting
the Giuliani administration's priority of transforming underused city properties
into valuable assets," said corporation President Michael Carey.

"The development of biomedical research facilities, wellness- care centers and
senior housing will generate increased economic activity while providing
residents with access to top-quality health care services," said Carey.

The sites offered for reuse include the current hospital building site, the
10-story former Triboro Hospital for Tuberculosis and the hospital's main
parking area between the two other sites.

It is expected that the city will build a high school on the site of three other
buildings on Goethals Ave.

The morgue and steam plant will continue to function in their current
capacities.

A three-story building now used for materials receiving and handling at the
corner of Parsons Blvd. and Goethals Ave. may also be considered for
redevelopment as part of the Triboro Hospital site. But it has yet to be
determined whether it is feasible to move the current operations to a new
location.

Triboro Hospital, on Parsons Blvd., is a 10-story building of approximately
267,000 square feet that is considered to be historically significant.

It is a striking example of 1930s period architecture, with large windows,
extended solariums and open sun decks on cantilevered concrete decks.

Preferences will be given to proposals that create age-restricted, medically
supportive housing for this parcel, said Patterson.

"The brand-new Queens Hospital Center will provide state-of-the-art services in
a modern setting that will significantly benefit the Queens community. The
campus for health-related purposes will support and greatly enhance the mission
of Queens Hospital Center," said Pete Velez, senior vice president of the Queens
Health Network, which includes Queens and Elmhurst hospital centers.

Patterson said the city and the Health and Hospitals Corp. are most interested
in long-term leases for the properties that would run up to 99 years.

Proposals for sale of the properties will be considered if a substantial benefit
in terms of quality of development and other public benefits can be realized
through a sale, she said.MAP: QUEENS HOSPITAL CENTER1. Site of new 200-bed
hospital (nearly completed)SITES OFFERED FOR REUSE:2. Former Triboro Hospital3.
Hospital parking lot4. Site of current hospital (to be demolished when new
hospital is completed)5. City morgue and steam plant (to remain)6.  Possible
site of new high school


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEIL SCHNEIDER ROOM TO BUILD New Queens Hospital Center is being built
next to site of former hospital. The city's Economic Development Corp. is
seeking building plans for three sites that will be available when the new
hospital is completed next spring.  JIM WILLIS DAILY NEWS

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                              213 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                 April 8, 1998

Private hospitals, clinics face drop in number of patients

BYLINE: By Stephanie Rajendram

SECTION: National; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 701 words

DATELINE: Kuala Lumpur


KUALA LUMPUR, Tues. - Private clinics and hospitals are beginning to feel
the crunch of the economic problem with more people turning to the cheaper
government hospitals.

Health Ministry director-general Tan Sri Abu Bakar Sulaiman confirmed he
had received feedback that more people were opting for government
hospitals due to the economic slowdown.

He said government hospitals were experiencing an increase in the number
of patients seeking affordable subsidised healthcare.

However, he said it was too soon to quantify the shift in preference as
there was insufficient data on the matter.

"For example, there was an increase in the number of patients visiting
government hospitals in February compared to January.

"However, there is always a drop in patient number around January due to
the two festivals celebrated then," he said.

The department would be able to gauge the true situation at the end of
April.

On whether the "patient influx" from private to public healthcare
systems would place an extra burden on government hospitals, he said:

"One must appreciate that we are equally concerned over the matter. We
have to accommodate our budgets for the purpose."

During the last recession, government hospitals experienced a 10 to 15
per cent increase in workload.

"We have to be prepared for such an eventuality and that is why we are
monitoring the situation closely."

Malaysian Medical Association president Dr Milton Lum said the private
sector was certainly not immune from the effects of the economic slowdown.

He confirmed that although the MMA did not have statistical back-up,
general practitioners and specialists had noted a decrease in the number
of patients in either general practitioner clinics or private hospitals.

Meanwhile, a random check by the New Straits Times in the Klang Valley
revealed that five-star comfort and services are no longer a draw.

Private hospitals, for example, are witnessing a decline in the number
of patients being admitted, although most are tight-lipped about the
issue.

Sources say the decline could be as much as 50 per cent although those
interviewed said they have been recording about a 15 per cent decrease in
the number of patients admitted.

Regional department general manager for Kumpulan Perubatan Johor,
Aminudin Dawam, said the company recorded a "slight drop in the number of
patients" coming to their hospitals since the end of last year.

Kumpulan Perubatan Johor owns and manages Pusat Pakar Tawakal, Ampang
Putri Specialist Hospital and Damansara Specialist in the Klang Valley.

Aminudin said he was unable to provide statistics but said they would be
able to gauge the full extent of the problem by the end of April.

Meanwhile, business development manager with Pantai Medical Centre, Lum
Sau Mei, said they had experienced a 10 per cent decrease in the number of
patients being admitted in the last two months.

"We are, however, not sure if the contributing factor is the economic
slowdown, as we are currently undergoing renovations."

Private clinics, on the other hand, are recording a decrease of as much
as 40 per cent.

Skin specialist Dr Low Bin Tick said he had experienced a decrease by 40
per cent in the number of patients seeking treatment since the end of last
year.

Dr Low, who operates a clinic in Jalan Raja Chulan, said the decrease
could be attributed to the economic slowdown.

"The cost of medicines has gone up by about 30 per cent, so it is not
surprising that patients are reluctant to patronise private
establishments," he said.

A general practioner in Bangsar, who did not wish to be named, said
there was a 15 per cent decrease in the number of patients seeking
treatment.

"They are coming only if they are really sick. Those who used to come
for routine checks like for their cholesterol levels or blood sugar levels
are not coming anymore.

"Generally, there has been a drop in cash patients, but no drop in
company patients as the companies foot the employees' bill," he said.

Dr S. Sellamah of Klinik Setapak and Surgeri said the clinic in Setapak,
which has three doctors, experienced a 20 per cent decrease since
December.


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 1998 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              214 of 994 DOCUMENTS



             The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise (Alma, Kansas)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               February 14, 2013

Kansas Hospitals and Health Care Systems Boost State Economy

BYLINE: The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise staff

LENGTH: 734  words


As the fifth largest producer of total income and sales in the state, the Kansas
health sector is a powerful economic force. The contributions of the health care
systems to the state's economy are often overlooked, including the number of
people employed, the impact of hospital and health system purchases and the
impact of employees' spending and tax payments.

A January 20 13 report entitled The Importance of the Health Care Sector to the
Kansas Economy, produced by researchers at the Office of Local Government,
K-State Research and Extension, estimated the "gross" impacts associated with
the health care sector on economic activity in the State of Kansas. The report
identified three general areas of health care's importance to the state's
economy: 1) health care attracts and retains business and industry; 2) health
care attracts and retains retirees; and 3) health care creates jobs in the local
economy.

"Hospitals and health services truly represent an economic anchor in our state,"
said Tom Bell, president and CEO of the Kansas Hospital Association. "This
report documents the relative importance of the health care sector to the Kansas
economy. While the estimates of economic impact are substantial, they are only a
partial accounting of the benefits that health care in general, and community
hospitals in particular, provide to the state. Kansas community hospitals help
to not only stabilize the population base, but also invigorate their communities
and contribute significantly to the quality of life."

According to the report, Kansas hospitals employ 81, 931 people or 4.4 percent
or all job holders in the state. This is a one percent increase over last year's
findings. The report calculated economic multipliers and estimated that
hospitals account for another 61.855 jobs throughout all businesses and
industries in the state. Thus, the hospital sector employment had a total impact
on state employment of 143, 786jobs. This means that for each job created in the
hospital sector, another 0.75 jobs were supported in other business and
industries in Kansas.

Furthermore, the entire health sector in Kansas employs 226, 333 people or 12.0
percent of all jobholders in the state. This puts Kansas ahead of the national
average of 10.1 percent of al 1 jobholders in the United States working in
health care services. The total employment impact of the health services sector
in Kansas resulted in an estimated 358.025 jobs in the Kansas economy. The
health care sector is the fourth largest aggregate employer in the state.

The study found that Kansas hospitals generate approximately 4.9 billion in
direct labor income to the Kansas economy each year. For every one dollar of
income generated in the hospital sector, another $0.48 was generated in other
business and industry. Thus, the hospital sector had an estimated total impact
on income throughout all business and industry of nearly $7.2 billion.

Funds spent to buy goods and services flow from hospitals to businesses and then
ripple throughout the economy. The impact of hospitals on area retail sales
generates more than $2.2 billion to the Kansas economy each year. Additionally,
it is estimated that the hospital sector generates more than $142 million in
sales tax for the state, which is largely used to fund state programs.

'"While these raw numbers indicate the importance of community hospitals and
health services to the Kansas economy, they also make it clear that the
challenges faced by our state cannot be met by those directly responsible for
health care administration alone," said Bell. "These challenges require a
community-wide response involving government, business and civic leaders. They
also require supportive state- and federal-level policies and programs that
don't take for granted the access to care provided by the community hospital"

The full statewide report and links to county reports can be found on the KHA
Web site at: www.kha-n et.org.

The Kansas Hospital Association is a not-for-profit association of health care
provider organizations and individuals that are committed to the health
improvement of their communities. KHA membership includes 217 member facilities,
of which 126 are full-service community hospitals. Founded in 1910, KHA
maintains its vision of "an organization of hospitals working together to
improve access, quality and the affordability of health care for all Kansans."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Health

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WAB

                      Copyright 2013 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
             Copyright 2013 The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise


                              215 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 9, 2014 Wednesday

Board looks back on Keokuk Hospital, grants funds

BYLINE: Sarah Tomkinson, The Hawk Eye, Burlington, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 584 words


April 09--KEOKUK -- Lee County Supervisors had a change of heart Tuesday
regarding funds requested by the Keokuk Area Hospital.

During its meeting at Heritage Senior Center in Keokuk, the board voted 4-1 to
give the struggling hospital roughly $103,000. The hospital will use the funds
as a match for state funding.

Keokuk-area farmer Bob Leu told the supervisors he didn't understand why the
board turned down the funds originally.

"Nobody can understand the board's decision not to give the hospital $100,000,
especially when you give $80,000 to showers for conservation," he said. "I just
can't understand your thinking."

Supervisors Rick Larkin and Ernie Schiller said they took a lot of heat from
residents for rejecting the request in March, but Larkin advised the hospital
this is the last time.

"I will vote to pass it this time," Larkin said. "This is it for me. Don't come
back next year and be surprised when I vote it down."

Schiller, Larkin and Supervisor Ron Fedler voted against the contribution in
March because they were told last year it was a one-time deal.

On Tuesday, Fedler was the lone opposing vote. He said his hesitation is because
there doesn't appear to be a stopping point.

Duane Fitch, president of Fitch Healthcare, the Oak Brook, Ill.-based health
care consulting company that manages the Keokuk hospital, told supervisors the
hospital's financial challenges "are due less to activity, but more on the
economic downturn and people's inability to pay."

He said 71 percent of the hospital's patients use Medicare or Medicaid and the
state owes about $3 million for those patients.

"We are an underfunded agency of the government," he said, noting the hospital
has a $21 million annual budget.

Keokuk Mayor Tom Marion and Keokuk City Council members Roger Bryant and Mike
O'Connor were at the meeting to encourage the county board to approve the funds.

Last Thursday, Keokuk City Council voted unanimously to contribute $103,000 to
the hospital.

"It seems the progress they've made is significant," O'Connor said about the
hospital. "Right now they are at a critical point where they might be turning a
corner."

Since last June, the hospital has added staff members, including three surgeons,
and is starting to see more cash flow, despite having a large debt hanging over
its head.

In March, hospital CEO Kathy DeVine told the board the hospital had paid off
more than $1 million in debt to various organizations.

On Tuesday, Fitch told the board the administration continues to seek ways to
adjust the remaining debt.

Lee County Economic Development Group Executive Director Steve Bisenius joined
in showing support for the hospital and its staff.

"One goal of any economic group is the retention of jobs," Bisenius said. "It is
fundamental to the community."

The hospital employs more than 360 area residents and sees more than 12,000
emergency room patients a year.

Last year, KAH received $100,000 from the city of Keokuk and another $100,000
from the county. The funds were met with a 140 percent match by the Iowa
Department of Human Services and Iowa Medicaid Enterprise, and the hospital
received more than $490,000 in funding.

To receive similar funding this year, the city and county had to increase
contributions to more than $103,000.

Financial problems arose in 2011 when officials announced they were in danger of
closing the hospital's doors.

___ (c)2014 The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa) Visit The Hawk Eye (Burlington,
Iowa) at www.thehawkeye.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140409-QW-Board-looks-back-on-Keokuk-Hospital
-grants-funds-0409-20140409

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QW


                          Copyright 2014 The Hawk Eye


                              216 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                     February 18, 1994 Friday Final Edition

Do bed cuts mean less care?

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 285 words


SHOULD YOU worry if there are fewer hospital beds in local hospitals?

Nurses say it's a problem that will affect all of us, but health policy analyst
Jonathan Lomas says extensive research shows hospital beds are a poor barometer
of the state of our health.

A person's health is only related to a 'very small degree' to the number of
hospital beds, doctors and other health care providers in a community, said Mr.
Lomas, co-ordinator of the Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis at
McMaster University.

He was commenting after Hamilton Civic Hospitals announced this week that it
will close beds and reduce employment at Hamilton General and Henderson
hospitals on April 1.

'Ultimately, how healthy the community is, is far more related in
Hamilton-Wentworth to how effectively we are engineering economic growth and
full employment, than how many hospital beds we have.'

Earlier this week, Bev Mathers, president of Local 70 of the Ontario Nurses'
Association, said the cuts will mean fewer beds, longer waiting lists for
surgery, some cancellations, and longer waits in emergency rooms.

However, Mr. Lomas said the state of the economy is the key to people's health.

People with no hope of a job, who are insecure about losing the one they have,
or find their work meaningless 'cannot resist any kind of disease to the extent
of somebody who is satisfied and secure in their job,' he said.

Twenty-five years of research shows that the nature of a person's employment,
and whether they work, is a major determinant of their long-term health, he
said.

With fewer hospital beds in Hamilton, Mr. Lomas said it's imperative that access
to existing beds is co-ordinated effectively.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPECTATOR GRAPHIC E. PAWCZUK Area hospitals cut a total of 243 beds
since 1992 (SEE PRINT COPY OR MICROFILM FOR DETAIL)

                    Copyright 1994 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              217 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                            January 16, 2009 Friday

Wisconsin's Doyle Brings Back Plan for New Hospital Assessments

BYLINE: Yvette Shields

SECTION: THE REGIONS; Pg. 6 Vol. 367 No. 33047

LENGTH: 571  words


CHICAGO - Winning the praise of many lawmakers and business and health care
groups, Wisconsin Gov. Jim Doyle this week resurrected a plan to impose a new
assessment on hospitals with the aim of raising an additional $300 million
annually in federal Medicaid funds.

"In these challenging economic times, it is more important than ever that we
move forward with a hospital assessment in order to reward hospitals that
consistently provide high-quality health care to Medicaid patients," Department
of Health Services Secretary Karen Timberlake said of the new proposal that was
submitted to lawmakers.

Doyle first proposed such a tax, similar to one imposed in neighboring Illinois
and 21 other states, in 2007 but it was opposed by hospital groups, and the
Legislature's Republicans, who controlled the House, killed it. Democrats now
hold a majority in both of the Legislature's chambers. The failed proposal was
expected to leverage an additional $450 million annually in federal matching
reimbursements.

Under the new three-year program that would include the current fiscal year,
about 72 hospitals would be assessed a 1.4% tax on their gross patient revenues.
Most hospitals would receive federal reimbursement equal to their payments and
about 59 will receive $200 million in additional funds based on their level of
Medicaid patients. The state would also use a piece of the new federal dollars
to cover state health care costs, freeing up money in the general fund as the
state grapples with a $5.4 billion, two-year budget deficit.

Unlike the governor's original proposal, its successor received a ringing
endorsement from various health care groups. It comes as hospitals across the
state are struggling with declining revenue and investment returns and a heavier
load of bad debt and charity care as they treat more uninsured and under-insured
patients.

The latest economic turmoil has contributed to what is already a roughly $600
million annual shortfall between the costs hospitals incur in treating Medicaid
recipients and what they receive back. About 58 critical access and state
psychiatric hospitals are excluded from the program because they automatically
receive a 100% Medicaid reimbursement.

"Wisconsin hospitals have been hit hard by the recent economic downturn with
both charity care and bad debt increasing by 20% over the past year, and these
numbers will get worse," Wisconsin Hospital Association president Steve Brenton
said in a statement. "Medicaid utilization is also increasing and the
combination of those factors, left unaddressed, could jeopardize access to
important health care programs in communities all across the state."

House Speaker Mike Sheridan, D-Janesville, predicted swift passage. "I believe
that the hospital assessment is a smart way to help bridge our budget gap. The
assessment on hospital revenues could attract several hundred million dollars in
federal money to help reimburse hospitals for care provided to patients on
Medicaid," he said in statement.

While Democrats praised the plan, some Republicans remained skeptical, including
Senate Republican Leader Scott Fitzgerald of Juneau, who raised concerns that
the state would use the funds for non-health care related expenses.

"I am fearful ... revenue will be skimmed off and used as a quick source of cash
for unrelated projects, which has occurred in the past with the transportation
fund," Fitzgerald said in a statement.

URL: http://www.bondbuyer.com/

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BB


                        Copyright 2009 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                            December 12, 2008 Friday

Economy delays HMC project

BYLINE: Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 127 words


HERSHEY (AP) -- Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center is delaying
construction of a new children's hospital because of concerns over the global
economic crisis.

The center's chief executive officer, Dr. Harold Paz, said yesterday the
economic climate hampers the hospital's ability to borrow money for the $235
million children's hospital project.

Groundbreaking had been scheduled for January, pending the approval of
architectural designs and financing plans by the hospital's board and Penn
State's trustees.

Paz says officials are continuing to raise money for the children's hospital. He
says they've secured $58 million in private donations so far.

Paz says the delay won't affect several other expansion projects already in
progress at the medical center.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The Economic Times

                           December 11, 2005, Sunday

Wolf Knittlingen plans subsidiary in Gurgaon

BYLINE: By Priya Saini

LENGTH: 412 words



NEW DELHI -- Richard Wolf Knittlingen, one of world's leading endoscopy
equipment makers, plans to open an Indian subsidiary in Gurgaon.

This will be the group's seventh overseas subsidiaries after the U.S., France,
Austria, Belgium, U.K. and U.A.E. With an annual turnover of $ 100 million, the
German group is number two globally and owns 20 percent of the Indian endoscopes
market (the overall market in the country stands at $ 25 million).

Its latest and most sophisticated endoscopy equipment CORE (an integrating
operating room) will also be launched in India with the subsidiary, in which the
group has invested Rs 5 crore.

Globally, the group has more than 5,000 products, one-third of which are used in
India. Wolf plans to bring all the products to the country and expects a minimum
of 8-10 percent growth in revenues here.

"The Indian healthcare sector is growing at an average of 8 percent annually.
Our new subsidiary will help us monitor the Indian market more carefully in
terms of new techniques and changing trends. It would also mean better relations
with our customers and agents in the country," said Alfons Notheis,
director-marketing, Richard Wolf.

Most of the big hospitals in India like Jaslok Hospital, Hiranandani Hospital,
Escorts, Faridabad, CMC, Vellore, Manipal Hospital, Worckhardt Hospital, Kolkata
and Apollo hospitals across the country are equipped their products, which are
currently brought through the group's distributors across the country, including
Delhi-based Eagle Medical Systems.

Richard Wolf also has a tie-up with Wockhardt Hospitals, wherein six of their
new hospitals being set up will be equipped with the products. Talks are on with
Fortis on the same lines.

Even though the group is leveraging its alliances with major private hospitals,
it is also involved with government hospitals across the country. It is looking
at a Rs 20-25 cr revenue line from the government sector in the next three
years, while the tie-ups in the private sector are expected to yield
approximately Rs 5-10 cr this year.


-----

To see more of The Economic Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com Copyright (c) 2005, The Economic Times,
India

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: ET-MEDI-EQUIP-20051211

JOURNAL-CODE: ET

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                       Copyright 2005 The Economic Times


                              220 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 The Tribune-Democrat (Johnstown, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 21, 2009 Wednesday

Memorial blames economy for 47 layoffs

BYLINE: Randy Griffith, Tribune-Democrat, Johnstown, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 575 words


Jan. 21--Decreasing patient volumes and loss of investment income during the
economic downturn led the layoffs of 47 Memorial Medical Center employees
Tuesday.

Layoffs affected employees in support areas but did not include hospital nursing
staff, hospital executives announced.

"Careful planning and much thought went into this process, and our goal was to
maintain as many jobs as possible while meeting our fiscal responsibilities in
this unprecedented economic environment," hospital President Steve Tucker said
in a news release.

The cutback represents a little more than 1 percent of Memorial's 3,700
employees.

Severance packages, counseling and help with finding another job are being
offered to affected employees.

Some may be able to take new positions within the Conemaugh Health System.

"We know that even one job lost is one too many," Tucker said.

"Every effort was made to keep the number of impacted employees to a minimum
through attrition and other fiscal interventions."

Those fiscal interventions include adjustments to employee benefit packages,
fewer outside consultants and other belt-tightening measures, sources said.

Dr. David Carlson, Conemaugh's chief medical officer, said, "We have seen a
decline in volume at Memorial Medical Center in the past few months due to the
economy.

"This is concerning, not just for the financial impact to the hospital but to
the health and well-being of the patients who are not seeking the care they
need."

Memorial is not alone. A Hospital & Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania
report issued earlier this month showed three-quarters of the state's hospitals
expect a moderate to significant effect on their financial stability this year.

"The current economic crisis imperils hospitals -- our community safety net --
and the patients who depend on them," association President Carolyn Scanlan said
in the report.

Financially wary patients are delaying elective surgeries, which often are the
more profitable procedures for a hospital, association spokesman Roger
Baumgartner said.

Cutbacks in other industries have sent more patients to emergency and behavioral
health departments, often without the means to pay.

"We get more people in this economy coming in who are uninsured or
underinsured," Baumgartner said. "There are more people using emergency
departments as the primary support."

Community hospitals such as Memorial can't turn away patients in need,
Baumgartner added.

The Conemaugh Health System provides more than $34 million in uncompensated care
each year, including $2 million in charity care.

"These really are challenging times; however, we are confident in our continued
ability to provide outstanding health care to our region," Tucker said.

"This current national economic challenge does not change our commitment to
continue to grow and excel."

In the past, hospitals have relied on income from investments to offset declines
in patient revenue.

But the association's report showed 83 percent of Pennsylvania hospitals have
seen investment income decline.

To see more of The Tribune-Democrat or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribune-democrat.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Tribune-Democrat,
Johnstown, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090121-JO-Memorial-blames-economy-for-47-layoffs-0121

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JO


                      Copyright 2009 The Tribune-Democrat


                              221 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             January 5, 1998 Monday
                                  Late Edition

HCoA plans $200m expansion in Asia;
HEALTH

BYLINE: LEONIE WOOD

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 400 words


Australia's largest private hospitals group, Mayne Nickless's Health Care of
Australia, yesterday signalled it intended doubling its proposed investment in
Asia to about $200 million as new opportunities emerged in Indonesia and the
Philippines.

In a bullish assessment of Asia's economic outlook, the head of HCoA, Dr Barry
Catchlove, said lower land prices meant HCoA could now consider buying existing
hospitals in South-East Asia as well as developing new sites.

"Assets that six months ago were priced at prohibitively high levels are now
looking a lot more attractive," Dr Catchlove said.

He argued that the continuing economic turmoil in Asia would not greatly affect
the expected demand for healthcare in the region, and instead opened more doors
for private providers of healthcare.

"The current crisis restricts the capacity of governments to allocate public
funding for hospital developments, which creates the opportunity for HCoA to
expand its role as a regional healthcare operator," Dr Catchlove said.

He said HCoA, which at present has about $50 million invested in Asia, has
previously indicated it would like to channel about $100 million into a network
of private hospitals and partnerships in the region.

"It's fair to say it's early days, . . . but if the right opportunities present
themselves, I do not think the (Mayne Nickless) board would be averse to, over
three, four, five years, doubling that investment," Dr Catchlove said.

"We would be looking to aggressively expand our opportunities in the region."

Dr Catchlove specifically singled out Indonesia and the Philippines as countries
offering the most potential for healthcare providers, and while HCoA would like
to expand in Malaysia and Thailand, it was yet to find suitable investment
partners in those countries.

"We have never been able to compete with Asian investors for hospitals or
property before because they place such enormous value on the underlying land,"
Dr Catchlove said.

Contrary to many forecasters, Dr Catchlove argued that Asia's present economic
crisis should be considered part of a normal economic cycle in the same way as
industrialised nations endured economic cycles.

HCoA is already in partnerships in Indonesia where it is presently operating a
250-bed hospital in Jakarta and is building three more hospitals in Jakarta and
Surabaya.

It also has a joint venture with the Oberoi group in New Delhi, India.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1998 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                      BtoB

                                January 18, 2010

Health care execs seek cutback cures;
Marketers must demonstrate product's value while understanding provider's values

BYLINE: MARY E. MORRISON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0013

LENGTH: 915 words


U.S. HOSPITAL EXECUTIVES currently face a number of challenges, including
keeping finances afloat in a difficult economy, ensuring patient safety and
quality despite personnel shortages, and keeping doctor-hospital relations
strong.

In addition, it's unclear at the moment how pending health care reform
legislation will affect those issues, said Deborah Bowen, exec VP-chief
operating officer of the American College of Healthcare Executives.

"Everybody's concerned about health care reform-what is that going to mean to
our operations, what is that going to mean to how we do business going forward,"
Bowen said. "They're concerned about the unknown; they're worried they'll get
paid less for treating more people, and that presents certain challenges."

Though health care providers have a guaranteed stream of income from government
programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, they still suffered as a result of the
economic recession, said Fawn Lopez, VP-publisher of Crain Communications Inc.'s
Modern Healthcare (see Q&A, this page). "High unemployment from the devastating
economic recession has greatly affected providers' revenues, and revenues have
not been keeping pace with the rapidly rising costs," she said.

INVESTMENT INCOME DOWN

Also, the turmoil in the financial market and investment portfolio losses have
negatively impacted providers' balance sheets, she said. "Historically,
providers have relied on their investment income to fund certain operational
expenses," she explained. "When that money is not there, providers have had to
make tough decisions such as postponing capital expenditures on needed
construction projects or IT systems, or reducing work force and employee
benefits."

Those cuts in personnel and capital spending have been widespread, according to
an April report from the American Hospital Association, "The Economic Crisis:
Ongoing Monitoring of Impact on Hospitals." In fact, between September 2008 and
March 2009, nine in 10 hospitals had made cutbacks to address economic concerns,
with eight in 10 cutting administrative expenses and nearly half reducing staff.
Between the beginning of 2008 and March 2009, eight in 10 hospitals had cut
capital spending for facility upgrades, clinical technology and/or information
technology, the survey found. (The survey was sent in March to community
hospital CEOs via fax and e-mail, and drew 1,078 responses.)

Despite these challenges, there are some bright spots for vendors that sell
products or services to hospitals. For example, Under the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act (the government stimulus package), health care providers that
can prove they are "meaningful users" of certified electronic health record
technology may be eligible for incentive payments beginning in 2011; those that
are not actively using such technology by 2015 will be subject to financial
penalties.

As a result, spending on hospital IT applications is expected to grow, according
to the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, from an estimated
$4.7 billion in 2009 to approximately $6.8 billion in 2014.

HOW TO REACH THEM

Marketers hoping to cash in on such opportunities should remember to keep
messaging focused on how products or services can solve health care
organizations' problems and how they can help executives deliver quality patient
care, Bowen said. "Health care is a business, but it's a business with a cause;
and therefore, there are always values associated with it," she said. "[A lot of
the ads] ? are about reminding people what business we're in. It's all about the
patient."

Using credible sources in testimonials can be very effective for reaching this
audience, Lopez said. "Providers look to one another to learn about new trends
and best practices," she said.

Marketers should also make their messages as specific as possible, she added.
"Health care is a local and regional kind of business," she said. "You really
have to speak to the providers on that level and not just with a general, global
kind of message."

Cathy Wolfe, director of marketing services for Toshiba America Medical Systems
(see case study, page 14), said the company often relies on testimonial
marketing, using customers in its communications whenever possible.
"Word-of-mouth is huge in health care," she said. "We feel that's the strongest
way to be successful in a market like this."

As for the best media to reach this audience, print advertising remains a
staple, Lopez said, while new media such as webinars are also very effective,
particularly since so many health care organizations' travel budgets have been
cut.

EFFECTIVE TRADE SHOW EXPERIENCE

Trade show marketing efforts-especially those that create an experience for
visitors-are also very effective, said Heather Rosenow, VP-marketing for Derse
Inc., a face-to-face marketing agency. "This segment has embraced experiential
marketing far above and beyond what we've seen in other industries," she said.

Many marketers in the health care industry, such as those selling medical
devices or pharmaceuticals, are subject to regulations limiting what they can
give prospects. "Experiential" marketing that is focused on education and
stresses the benefits of the product or service encourages message retention,
she said. "If you tell me about something, I hear what you have to say," she
said. "But if you show me and I'm immersed in it, I really retain that
information and it may impact how I feel."

Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: bb


                      Copyright 2010 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

Report: Hospitals support 1 in 9 U.S. jobs

LENGTH: 130  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release:



 Hospitals supported one in nine U.S. jobs and more than $2.8 trillion in
economic activity in 2015, according to the AHA's latest annual report on
hospitals as economic anchors in their communities. Hospitals were one of the
top sources of private-sector jobs, directly employing more than 5.7 million
people. Each hospital job supports about two additional jobs, with every dollar
spent by a hospital supporting roughly $2.30 of additional business activity.
The report shows the total economic impact of U.S. hospitals by state, including
jobs, payroll and hospital expenditures.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

Report: Hospitals support 1 in 9 U.S. jobs

LENGTH: 130  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release:



 Hospitals supported one in nine U.S. jobs and more than $2.8 trillion in
economic activity in 2015, according to the AHA's latest annual report on
hospitals as economic anchors in their communities. Hospitals were one of the
top sources of private-sector jobs, directly employing more than 5.7 million
people. Each hospital job supports about two additional jobs, with every dollar
spent by a hospital supporting roughly $2.30 of additional business activity.
The report shows the total economic impact of U.S. hospitals by state, including
jobs, payroll and hospital expenditures.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LOCAL

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 471  words


Forum set on economic development

Economic-development officials and government and business leaders from Volusia,
Flagler and St. Johns counties will gather in Ormond Beach next week to discuss
business-growth initiatives in their respective areas and for the overall
three-county region.

The "Regional Overview of Economic Development" forum will take place Oct. 21,
from 10 a.m. to noon, at the Halifax Plantation Clubhouse, 3400 Clubhouse Drive.
Registration begins at 9:30 a.m. "We put on educational programs every other
month, and the topics differ," said Dave Castagnacci, executive director for the
Volusia County Association for Responsible Development (VCARD), the event's
primary organizer.

Castagnacci said to his knowledge this is the first time the three counties have
teamed up to put on an economic-development forum.

VCARD has teamed up to put on the forum in partnership with the Flagler County
Association for Responsible Development (FCARD), Team Volusia Economic
Development Corp., Surfcoast Chapter of the Florida Planning & Zoning
Association, the Volusia League of Cities, the Daytona Regional Chamber of
Commerce, Flagler County Chamber of Commerce, and St. Johns County Chamber of
Commerce.

FCARD is an affiliate of VCARD.

Mark Watts, VCARD chair, will give a presentation on the impact of state
legislation passed this year to streamline the process for permit reviews.

Castagnacci said he expects a turnout of more than 100 people for the event.

The cost to attend is $30. For more information, call 386-257- 4169.-- Valerie
Whitney

HOSPITAL NEWS

New VP named

DELAND -- Rick Robinson has been named vice president of physician services for
both Florida Hospital DeLand and Florida Hospital Fish Memorial in Orange City.

In his new role, Robinson will oversee the operations of DeLand Medical
Associates and Southwest Volusia Medical Associates, manage relationships with
hospital-based physicians such as hospitalists and radiologists, and provide
leadership to physician-recruitment activities.

Robinson has more than 20 years of experience in physician relations and
practice management, has built a hospital-based physician group and is an
exceptional physician advocate.

He most recently was a Florida Region vice president, working with all of the
Florida Hospital physician groups in Florida, outside of Orlando.-- Staff Report

DELAND CHAMBER

Economic official to speak

DELAND -- Tammie Nemecek, director of partner development for the Florida
Economic Gardening Institute at the University of Central Florida, will be the
featured speaker at the DeLand Area Chamber of Commerce's "DeLand Means
Business" luncheon today.

The noon event will be at the DeLand Conference & Business Center, 1301
International Speedway Blvd. Registration begins at 11:30 a.m.

For more information, call 386-734-4331.-- Staff Report

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              226 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 22, 2014 Monday

Report highlights health system's contribution to economy

BYLINE: Lindsey Adkison, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 548 words


Sept. 22--The Southeast Georgia Health System continues to be a driving economic
force in Glynn and Camden counties.

The health system recently released a statement outlining just how great an
impact it has on the areas.

According to the Georgia Hospital Association, the state's largest hospital
trade association, Southeast Georgia Health System had direct expenditures,
payments to employees, suppliers, contractors and other beneficiaries totaling
around $234 million in 2012, the latest figures available.

Utilizing the economic multiplier formula developed by the U.S. Department of
Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the health system was able to determine
the total economic impact or the "ripple" effect of those expenditures, which
tops $533 million.

The report shows the health system maintains 1,464 full- and part-time jobs, not
including positions in the health system's two Senior Care centers or the
strategic affiliates, which include four Family Medicine Centers, three
Immediate Care Centers and 43 physician practices. When these additional health
care providers are factored into the mix, the number of jobs reliant on the
health system jumps to 2,269. All of these employees and affiliates are able to
re-invest much of their health system-dependent salaries back into the local
community.

It's something that makes Gary R. Colberg, president and CEO of the Southeast
Georgia Health System, very proud.

"This new report shows that as the state's economy continued its slow rebound
from years of economic downturn, Southeast Georgia Health System maintained an
enormous positive impact on our local economy," Colberg said in the release. "We
thank our communities for their unwavering support of our hospitals and will
continue to work hard to ensure that the residents of our communities have
access to health care services that are second to none in safety, quality and
affordability."

Southeast Georgia Health System continues to thrive, though the story is not the
same for the state's hospital community as a whole.

The report indicates that 42 percent of all hospitals in Georgia are operating
with negative margins.

The economic struggle is largely contributed to cuts in Medicare and Medicaid
payments and an increasingly uninsured population.

Colberg hopes state lawmakers will work to protect Georgia's health care system
with the same fervor that they do other initiatives like education and public
utilities.

"We're extremely concerned with the current operating environment for hospitals,
" Colberg said.

"We've made a commitment to every citizen of the communities we serve to be on
call for them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. However, our ability to do so is
being compromised when a growing number of our patients are either uninsured or
severely underinsured. It is our hope that our elected lawmakers will do what is
necessary to protect our local health care system and preserve access to health
care for every resident of southeast Georgia."

-- Reporter Lindsey Adkison writes about business and other local topics.
Contact her at ladkison@thebrunswicknews.com, on Facebook or at 265-8320, ext.
346.

___ (c)2014 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140922-GE-Report-highlights-health-system-s-contribution-to-economy-0922-20140
922

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2014 The Brunswick News


                              227 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business
                                 Print Version

                               February 10, 2014

OPINION

SECTION: Pg. 8 Vol. 30

LENGTH: 429  words


Just how long can Crittenton go solo?

Can an independent hospitals afford to go it alone? That's a question reporter
Jay Greene considered in his Jan. 27 report, "Local hospital merger talks are in
the air."

Garden City Hospital, included in that roundup, announced last week it would be
acquired by a for-profit, physician-led hospital company based in California.

Hospitals generally seek mergers to save money, increase efficiency or gain
access to capital for improvements. As payments from federal programs (Medicare
and Medicaid) drop and new formulas pay for outcomes versus each individual
service, hospitals are forced to look for ways to operate more efficiently.
Bigger can be better.

That's why Crittenton Hospital's go-it-alone strategy in Rochester Hills will be
interesting to watch. With a new CEO hired last July, that hospital's leadership
wants to remain independent.

Yet it's tempting to consider another scenario. McLaren Health Care Corp. has
been fighting regulators to build a new 200-bed hospital in Clarkston. Critics
say more hospital beds will add cost to the region. But what if Crittenton and
McLaren merged? Both hospitals would come out ahead - and so might Oakland
County.

Jackson leaves solid legacy

The rumor mill has been spinning since George Jackson announced he would step
down as CEO of the Detroit Economic Growth Corp. on March 31. Was Jackson pushed
out by the new Duggan administration that had installed F. Thomas Lewand as
economic development chief? Or did he leave to create a consulting firm
voluntarily?

Jackson says it was just time, and he will continue to serve on the board now
chaired by retired General Motors Corp. executive Rod Gillum, who also will
chair the search for Jackson's successor.

As a quasi-city agency, the DEGC has a tool kit of economic incentives and
programs not always available to the city itself. As Gillum notes: "We have the
flexibility to operate as a private entity, but with a public objective."

Jackson and his team succeeded on many projects, from knocking down cement silos
on Detroit's riverfront to redeveloping the Westin Book Cadillac Detroit Hotel
to smaller projects like the Garden Theater block in Midtown. Also important was
using the agency's independence as a buffer from politics; some developers
credit Jackson with protecting them from shakedowns during the Kilpatrick
pay-to-play era.

The search committee will include DEGC vice chairs, board members and Lewand. A
successor may be named before Jackson leaves. Whoever he or she is, Jackson has
left a strong foundation on which to build.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CD


                      Copyright 2014 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 30, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

NURSES OK NOTICE OF ACTION AT ST. JOHN'S;
 TALKS ARE IN 23RD MONTH; WORK SLOWDOWN, STRIKE OR CALL FOR BOYCOTT IS POSSIBLE

BYLINE: Judith VandeWater Of The Post-Dispatch Jeremy Kohler Of The
Post-Dispatch Contributed To This Report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 665 words


After 22 months of negotiations, registered nurses at St. John's Mercy Medical
Center in Creve Coeur authorized their union Wednesday night to give notice of
an economic action against the hospital.

That action could mean a call for a community boycott of the hospital, a work
slowdown, a work stoppage, a refusal to work overtime or other actions.

In a series of three meetings at Queeny Park on Wednesday that were closed to
the news media, nurse negotiators sought the authority to call for an "economic
action" against St. John's, one of the area's largest hospitals. The three
meetings yielded about a 91 percent approval of authorizing the notice of an
economic action, union officials said. About 700 attended the meetings.

In a separate issue, hospital administrators confirmed Wednesday that nurses
opposed to the union were in the early stages of an effort to decertify United
Food and Commercial Workers Local 655 as the collective bargaining agent for the
approximately 1,500 registered nurses at St. John's.

A decertification vote would be scheduled if supporters presented the National
Labor Relations Board with petitions signed by 30 percent of the nurses.

When nurses authorized the union as their collective bargaining agent in July
1999, the election was the first major victory for an AFL-CIO union in hospital
organizing in this area. St. John's and the union negotiating team have been in
initial contract talks since the fall of 1999 and have reached a tentative
agreement on all contract matters except wages and benefits.

The union charges that the hospital is stalling now, and it launched a publicity
campaign to turn up the pressure.

The hospital said in a statement issued Wednesday that both sides have been
working hard and in good faith to reach agreement and negotiations are
continuing.

Hospital spokeswoman Amy Zimmerman said she would not comment on the vote to
authorize the notice until the hospital had been formally notified of the vote
by the union.

The union is required by law to give the hospital 10 days' notice of an economic
action.

Kathy Smith, a nurse who broke from the union Sunday and resigned her seat on
the negotiating committee, held a series of open meetings at the hospital
Wednesday to express her "alarm at the path the union is taking and the
potential end result." Smith said that the union is moving toward a strike or a
work action that could affect patient care. "A strike is against my principles,"
she said.

Union supporters said the authority to take economic action of some sort is a
bargaining tool - it is not a strike authorization, and it is unlikely that they
would take the most drastic action as an early tactic.

About 14 nurses and representatives of the national union attended Smith's 2
p.m. meeting Wednesday in the hospital cafeteria, one of 18 she scheduled over
five days. Some in the audience asked why Smith had waited to speak out against
the union and the contract it is negotiating.

Carey Thacker, a nurse and union supporter, said hospital administrator s
allowed nurses to leave their assignments while still on the clock to attend
Smith's meeting - a privilege not afforded to those attending union meetings at
the hospital.

"She has some hospital backing," Thacker said of Smith. Thacker said she was
disappointed in Smith. "She says, 'Put your faith in the hospital.' I'd rather
put my faith in my co-workers," Thacker said.

Smith said the international union did not offer enough direct support to Local
655 in negotiations. "In my opinion, the union does not have the expertise at
this local in the complexities of health care negotiations," she said. Smith
said that in 22 months of bargaining, the union has made no real advances for
nurses and has kept nurses in the dark about details of the contract that have
been tentatively agreed to by both sides.

Local 655 President Nick Torpea said the union has made efforts to keep nurses
apprised of contract progress.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Judith VandeWater:; E-mail: jvanderwater@post-dispatch.com;
Phone: 314-340-8201

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by J. B. FORBES/POST-DISPATCH - Nurses at St. John's Mercy
Medical Center in Creve Coeur stand to express their votes Wednesday night when
Sean Harrigan of the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 655 asks who
supports authorizing the union to give notice of an economic action against the
hospital. The meeting was held at Queeny Park.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              229 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday

Report: Hospitals support 1 in 9 U.S. jobs

LENGTH: 131  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release

  Hospitals supported one in nine U.S. jobs and more than $2.8 trillion in
economic activity in 2015, according to the AHA's latest annual report on
hospitals as economic anchors in their communities. Hospitals were one of the
top sources of private-sector jobs, directly employing more than 5.7 million
people. Each hospital job supports about two additional jobs, with every dollar
spent by a hospital supporting roughly $2.30 of additional business activity.
The report shows the total economic impact of U.S. hospitals by state, including
jobs, payroll and hospital expenditures.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday

New York: Economic Development Corp, NYC Issues Solicitation for "NYC HEALTH AND
HOSPITALS CDBG-DR AND FEMA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT, RESIDENT ENGINEER AND
RELATED CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR METROPOLITAN HOSPITAL RFP"

LENGTH: 217  words

DATELINE: New York



 Albany: Economic Development Corp, NYC has issued requirement for "NYC HEALTH
AND HOSPITALS CDBG-DR AND FEMA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT, RESIDENT ENGINEER
AND RELATED CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR METROPOLITAN HOSPITAL RFP"



 Reference No.: 63070002



 Solicitation Type: General



 Description: New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC) for the
benefit of NYC Health and Hospitals is seeking a consultant or consultant team
to provide construction management, resident engineering, and related services
for a new Flood Mitigation System and pre-connections at Metropolitan Hospital
in Manhattan. In October 2012, Metropolitan Hospital suffered extensive flood
damage as a result of Hurricane Sandy. Since then, Metropolitan Hospital has
temporarily restored its damaged areas. The Flood Mitigation System is
envisioned to consist of perimeter flood protection with increased storm water
capacity and additional flood protection measures.





 Deadline for All responses: 09/07/2016



 Contact Information:



 Economic Development Corp, NYC

 Contracts/Procurement

 Bibi Rashid

 Ms.

 110 William St.

 4th Floor

 New York, NY 10038

 United States

 Ph: 212-618-5796

 Fax: 212-312-3918

 brashid@edc.nyc



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday

Barber: OMHS in good economic health

BYLINE: Rich Suwanski, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


Mar. 13--Owensboro Medical Health System hasn't been affected by the problems
that caused Jewish Hospital in Louisville to cut 500 positions this week, said
Jeff Barber, OMHS' president and CEO.

Jewish Hospital officials said the company struggled with the effects of the
economic downturn, and cut the positions.

"It hasn't affected us," Barber said. "We've had about a 5.1 percent jump in the
past three years in hospital admissions, and the trend continues.

"I think what it boils down to is that we've been focused on our strategic
direction of improved quality, and that's helped us gain more admissions and
reduce our costs considerably.

"We've been doing well."

Barber said OMHS hospital admissions were 17,791 in 2007 and 18,700 in 2009.

He added that OMHS has increased its employment by "about 15 percent" during
that time. OMHS is set to start construction on a new hospital, and at the time
it announced that project, officials said it would need to fill about 500 new
jobs.

"We're still going to add jobs and it looks like admissions are going to grow to
the extent that they can in this facility," Barber said. "I suspect they'll grow
even greater in the new one."

Jewish Hospital officials said its move included layoffs of about 250 workers,
some involving middle- and senior-level management positions, as well as some
back-office functions. About half of the cuts will come through attrition and
the elimination of open positions.

Few of the positions will come from hands-on-care providers, and schedules of
the remaining employees will be adjusted to compensate for staff reductions.

"Because of our unique status as a regional provider, we haven't felt the impact
like facilities in Louisville, St. Louis or Nashville," Barber said. "Health
care, whatever shape or form it might take, will have a greater effect on
hospitals in large urban areas than it will on areas like ours.

"We still remain a pretty protected environment because we're the safety net
hospital for a pretty large area."

OMHS and Jewish Hospital had a working agreement until last June in which Jewish
was instrumental in recruiting two cardiothoracic surgeons after OMHS' cardiac
program shut down in 2003. The contact also provided OMHS with some purchasing
power for some supplies and equipment.

Their contract was not renewed.

Rich Suwanski, 691-7315, rsuwanski@messenger-inquirer.com

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100313-OW-Barber-OMHS-in-good-economic-health-0313

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2010 Messenger-Inquirer


                              232 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             April 27, 2015 Monday
                              MON REGIONAL Edition

Hospital fee shouldn't count toward spending cap

BYLINE: Kelly Brough

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 642 words


In Colorado, we're committed to getting things right. From the business
community to the floor of the statehouse, time and time again we seize
opportunities to correct errors and make improvements. And this legislative
session presents an opportunity to do just that by tweaking the design of the
Hospital Provider Fee and its impact on the Taxpayer's Bill of Rights (TABOR).

Earlier this month, Gov. John Hickenlooper proposed doing so as part of a five
point plan to ease what he calls Colorado's "fiscal thicket." In the absence of
action, we risk losing hundreds of millions of dollars for roads, bridges and
even schools.

TABOR limits government spending of revenues that exceed a growth cap determined
by inflation and population growth. Colorado is on track to go above the TABOR
cap in coming years, which would result in a taxpayer refund of the amount
exceeding the cap.

The refund isn't up for debate. We're supportive of it because our state
constitution is clear that when we hit the TABOR cap, a tax refund is triggered.
But let's make sure that cap accurately represents what voters signed on for in
1992 when TABOR passed and again in 2005 when Referendum C reset the formula.
Today's cap formula includes more than $500 million not from economic growth,
but from the Hospital Provider Fee.

The Hospital Provider Fee was established in 2009 (four years after we reset the
TABOR cap) and is assessed solely to hospitals based on bed occupancy. It
generates more than $500 million a year for health care in Colorado. You can
imagine that bundling an additional half billion dollars a year into general
revenue would easily push our state over the TABOR cap. But these funds don't
actually reflect economic growth; instead, they represent a new revenue source,
one that was endorsed by those paying into it and that is already set aside for
a very specific purpose: expanding health care access in Colorado.

Plainly put, the Hospital Provider Fee reflects economic and state revenue
growth that shouldn't be considered for TABOR purposes. It's not too late to
recognize that the Hospital Provider Fee could have been implemented
differently.

That's why we're in agreement with Gov. Hickenlooper that provider fee dollars
should be appropriately accounted for in a separate enterprise fund, and not
counted as general revenue.

Not only is it more accurate accounting for the numbers people, it also helps
the state continue to invest in critical places like education and
transportation. Because to complicate matters, another law, Senate Bill 228 from
2009, requires that when the state issues a TABOR refund, funding for
transportation projects is cut in half or eliminated completely.

That's a frightening prospect given how far behind we are in terms of
maintenance of our roads and bridges throughout the state.

But the solution is there: Establish a separate enterprise for the Hospital
Provider Fee by repealing and reauthorizing the fee into an enterprise fund.
Colorado has almost two dozen enterprises that finance or administer government
programs using specific revenues like a fee assessed only to hospitals for
specific purposes, like health care coverage and provider reimbursements.

Placing the Hospital Provider Fee revenues into a government enterprise protects
the will of voters who supported TABOR and passed Referendum C.

As the governor put it in a recent letter to legislative leadership, "Without a
change, rebates that result because of the Hospital Provider Fee will be paid at
the expense of our roads, schools and other items supported by the general
fund."

We don't like the sound of that. It's important that our elected officials know
we support solutions that address this issue with the formula and get us back to
investing in critical needs.

Kelly Brough is the president and CEO of the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Hospital Provider Fee was established in 2009 (four years after we
reset the TABOR cap) and is assessed solely to hospitals based on bed occupancy.
(AP file)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Hickory Daily Record (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday

Commissioners OK loan for Catawba Valley Medical Center

BYLINE: Dee Henry, Hickory Daily Record, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 602 words


Jul. 21--NEWTON -- Catawba Valley Medical Center will refurbish and expand its
surgery suite with loan money that comes with refunds from the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act of 2009.

"The construction plan addresses certain critical needs at the hospital," said
Tony Rose, hospital president.

The plan addresses the size of the hospital's operating rooms, which covers the
first phase of a $70 million three-phase renovation project. The plan will give
the hospital 13 operating rooms within the next three years at a cost of $25
million.

Hospital officials asked the Catawba County Board of Commissioners on Monday for
access to Build America Bonds and Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds for
the project. Commissioners unanimously approved the request.

"This was not a fast decision," said Barbara Lail board co-chairwoman. "It is
consistent with what we wanted to do and with the economy. We spent lots of
hours at different banks, but I think it will pay off."

Both types of bonds give refunds on the interest incurred on loans. The plan is
to put two-thirds of the $25 million under Build America Bonds, which will give
35 percent credit on the interest on the loan. The remaining one-third will be
put under an Economic Recovery Zone Bonds, which gives a 45 percent rebate on
the interest.

"We have been advised this is the best, least costly financing option at this
time," Rose said.

The first phase will begin in August. Rose said at least 12 operating rooms will
remain functional at all times during the renovation.

Hospital staff had hoped to break ground for the project this past January and
had planned to issue a hospital revenue bond to finance it. However, the state
of the credit market resulted in the recommendation to break the project into
phases. Future phases of the project will be considered as more affordable fixed
rate credit becomes available.

A resolution to approach the commissioners for the funding was approved by the
hospital board of trustees June 22.

The hospital was constructed 40 years ago.

In other action, the commissioners approved giving County Manager Tom Lundy
authority to enter a lease agreement with Duke Energy Carolinas. That agreement
will allow the county to keep the Sherrills Ford Convenience Center operational,
possibly for another 10 years.

The lease, director of county Utilities and Engineering Barry Edwards said, is
for 10 years in two five-year periods. The lease amount to be paid by the county
is $1,000 each year for the first five years, $1,100 a year for the second five
years.

The center had been threatened when Carolina Centers bought the property,
including the tract on which the center is located, in 1986 from original owners
Crescent Land & Timber. Since that time, the county has been trying to work out
a lease agreement, like the one it had with Crescent since 1976, to no avail.
However, when the property changed hands again this year to Duke Energy
Carolinas, an agreement was reached that pleases both sides.

"I just want to express our gratitude to Duke Power for working this out," Lail
said. "They came right to the table in working this out and it's something
positive for the county and its citizens."

To see more of the Hickory Daily Record or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.hickoryrecord.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Hickory Daily Record, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090721-HI-MED-CENTER-LOAN-20090721

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HI


                      Copyright 2009 Hickory Daily Record


                              234 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

EMPLOYMENT MULTIPLIER EFFECT IS OFTEN MISUNDERSTOOD

BYLINE: Compiled by Steve Deller, professor of Applied and Agricultural
Economics at UW-Madison

SECTION: BUSINESS; ECONOMIC SNAPSHOT; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 237 words


The employment multiplier is a commonly used, sometimes misused, and often
misunderstood concept.

For example, the 2006 employment multiplier for hospitals in Wisconsin was an
estimated 1.773. That simply means that every 1,000 jobs in hospitals supported
another 773 jobs outside hospitals.

A recent study on the economic impact of Wisconsin hospitals helps explain the
source of these jobs and how they were generated.

Wisconsin hospitals ranked second in the state in total jobs in 2006 with
112,780 direct employees. However, that only tells part of the story.

Hospitals purchased goods and services needed to operate their facilities and
deliver their services. This spending supported additional employment in the
businesses that provided those goods and services. This indirect employment was
an estimated 47,219 jobs in 2006.

Similarly, induced employment occurred as direct and indirect employees spent
their earnings, thus generating more jobs.

In 2006, spending by direct and indirect employees supported an estimated 39,959
in induced employment in Wisconsin.

Total employment (direct, plus indirect, plus induced) attributable to hospitals
in Wisconsin totaled 199,957 in 2006.

The employment multiplier is calculated by dividing total employment by direct
employment.

The complete report, "Healthy Hospitals. Healthy Communities," is available at:
http://www.uwex.edu/ces/cced/economies/documents/HealthyHospitals_web.pdf

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: State Journal graphic Source: Wisconsin Department of Workforce
Development, Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages Employment by Wisconsin
hospitals Economic Snapshot is a weekly feature provided by the UW-Extension.
QUESTIONS: Contact Bill Pinkovitz, Center for Community and Economic
Development, UW-Extension at billpinkovitz@uwex.edu

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday

Mass. Merger Could Boost Debt Costs

BYLINE: Michelle Kaske

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 Vol. 373 No. 33362

LENGTH: 952  words


Massachusetts hospitals and higher educational institutions could face higher
borrowing costs in the future as the state plans to fold the Massachusetts
Health and Educational Facilities Authority into the Massachusetts Development
Finance Agency.

The initiative is included in an economic development reorganization bill, S.
2582, that was passed by lawmakers. Gov. Deval Patrick is now reviewing it. The
administration worked on the measure with the legislature. Patrick proposed
merging the two bonding agencies last year.

"Merging these two quasi-public agencies will ensure greater transparency,
efficiency, and equity in financing to a critically important sector of our
economy," Kofi Jones, spokeswoman for the executive office of housing and
economic development, said in an e-mail.

Overall, S. 2582 aims to make the Bay State more competitive for business growth
and to attract new businesses. The bill includes authorization of $75 million of
general obligation bonds for economic development and tax initiatives.

It also establishes regional economic development organizations to assist the
private sector, requires all governors to file an economic development plan by
the end of his or her initial year in office, and facilitates more small
business lending, among other initiatives.

If Patrick signs the bill into law, it would abolish HEFA by Oct. 1 and blend
its operations within MassDevelopment. Colleges and universities currently issue
debt through HEFA or MassDevelopment while hospitals sell through HEFA.

Many borrowers are concerned that consolidating economic development, higher ed
and health care borrowing under one bonding agency will increase the cost of
borrowing.

HEFA charges its clients five basis points, with a minimum fee of $15,000 and a
limit of $95,000.

By comparison, borrowers that issue through MassDevelopment pay 50 basis points,
according to fee schedules the authorities released to The Bond Buyer in April
2009. HEFA declined to confirm its fee schedule.

MassDevelopment spokeswoman Kelsey Abbruzzese said the agency charges higher
education and cultural institutions lower HEFA rates while other borrowers pay
50 basis points.

That means a $10 million HEFA hospital sale would cost $15,000 - the minimum fee
- while MassDevelopment would charge, as of now, $50,000 for a hospital deal of
the same size. For a $100 million transaction, borrowers would pay $50,000 at
HEFA compared to $500,000 at MassDevelopment.

The legislation would freeze, from now through fiscal 2013, current borrowing
costs at HEFA and MassDevelopment's fiscal 2010 levels.

After that, MassDevelopment would then hold a public hearing before establishing
new bonding fees.

According to Sen. Karen Spilka, D-Middlesex, sponsor of S2582 and chair of the
Joint Committee on Economic Development and Emerging Technologies, combining
HEFA with MassDevelopment will make the borrowing process more open.

"We blended [the agencies] and we said by merging them that as MassDevelopment
sets its fees, it has to do three things, it has a public hearing, it has to
publish them so they're transparent," Spilka said. "And there has to be a
three-year fee freeze because a lot of people were concerned that if we merged
and if there wasn't that competition, then fees would go up dramatically."

It remains to be seen what MassDevelopment's fees would look like after three
years and whether they might resemble MassDevelopment's current fee schedule.

"This is up to the board of MassDevelopment to figure out, not the legislature,"
Spilka said. "We were concerned with transparency and fairness so suddenly fees
won't spike up."

Health care borrowers said they are concerned that terminating HEFA will result
in higher fees in the long run.

Ronald Bartlett, chief financial officer at Boston Medical Center, also pointed
to HEFA's ability to negotiate lower costs for outside professional services on
borrowings.

"We thought they brought a lot of expertise and we thought their fees were very
reasonable based on the work they did," Bartlett said. "And additionally, they
were very helpful in regard to getting the best fees from the consultants,
whether it be the attorneys or investment bankers, etc."

Others question if MassDevelopment will have the same capabilities to serve
hospital clients as HEFA does. William Grigg, chief financial officer at
Southcoast Health System, described HEFA as well run and highly organized.
Southcoast oversees three hospitals in southeastern Massachusetts.

"Southcoast is concerned that MassDevelopment is not familiar with hospitals and
the hospital bond market therefore there is a greater risk that they will not
run as efficiently as HEFA did," Grigg said in an e-mail. "Ultimately, a lack of
efficiency could translate into higher costs."

In addition, borrowers and HEFA point out that MassDevelopment uses fees that it
collects from bond and note sales to help finance economic development projects.
Current HEFA clients would then be paying for such developments.

"MassDevelopment, to our understanding, uses a portion of their fees for other
economic development activities and that was obviously a concern for the
hospital community," said Michael Sroczynski, vice president, government
advocacy at the Massachusetts Hospital Association.

MassDevelopment declined to discuss, before the governor signs the bill into
law, how it plans to accommodate an increase in business, including serving
hospitals, the potential impact of clients scaling back on capital programs due
to higher borrowing costs, and the issue of fees that hospitals and higher
education institutions pay being used for economic development projects.

The administration did not respond to questions on those issues.

URL: http://www.bondbuyer.com/

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BB


                        Copyright 2010 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

BYLINE: AARON CRESPO, Staff Writer<br>acrespo@opubco.com

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: EDMOND


EDMOND - Construction on one new Edmond hospital is expected to begin soon,
while another medical property is still in the planning stages.

The construction of Integris Edmond Health Medical Center is scheduled to begin
this summer. Ground was broken in October, but building was delayed because of
the economic downturn, hospital President Avilla T. Williams said.

The $90 million project, which will be on the east side of Interstate 35 between
Second and 15th streets, will feature 40 beds and will give Edmond its first
hospital birth unit since Renaissance Women's Hospital closed in 2005.

While it is too early to begin hiring, Williams said they're currently working
to establish relationships with physicians in the area.

Mercy Health Center hasn't decided what to do with 25 acres of property it
purchased on Sooner Road between 15th and 33rd streets.

"Nothing has really changed. We're still in the plans," Mercy spokeswoman Nancy
Woodard said.

Edmond Medical Center, meanwhile, continues to serve Edmond with 94 beds for
medical, surgical and outpatient care as well as an intensive care/coronary care
unit. The hospital also has a 17-bed geropsychiatric unit, the Autumn Life
Center.

Owned by the Hospital Corp. of America, Edmond Medical employs about 550 people.
It is Edmond's fourth-largest employer, according to the Edmond Economic
Development Authority.

Recently the hospital began offering community programs.

"Right now, there's a program we do with junior high kids called Health Explore
to get them interested in medical careers," said spokeswoman Leslie Buford.

Other programs the group is offering include Adopt-a-School and offering tours
for new patients.



LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MY EDMOND
The user's guide for fun and essential living in Edmond 2009-10

GRAPHIC: Photo 1: This is a drawing of Integris Edmond Health Medical Center
planned east of Interstate 35 and north of Henderson Hills Baptist Church. -
DRAWING PROVIDED
Photo 2: The emergency room entrance of Edmond Medical Center at Second Street
and Bryant Avenue. - PHOTO BY PAUL HELLSTERN, OKLAHOMAN ARCHIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 4, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Construction of relocated hospital boosts Pasco economy

BYLINE: CARL ORTH, The Suncoast News

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 388 words


Building facility with 236 beds cost $210 million

BY CARL ORTH

The Suncoast News

TRINITY -- A new hospital could help cure what has been ailing the Pasco County
economy during the recession.

Once it opens this winter, Medical Center of Trinity "is going to put some
energy into the area," said John Hagen, president and chief executive officer of
the Pasco Economic Development Council.

With much of the construction trade slowing to a snail's pace in recent years,
the $210 million hospital project helped resuscitate the financial health of
some area builders.

Crews continue to work at the five-story hospital at 9330 State Road 54 during
the final stages of preparation.

"We're kind of blessed," Hagen said. "I think medical construction has been the
only bright spot" in the construction industry here.

With Community Hospital of New Port Richey turning 40 this year, administrators
decided to relocate and build a modern facility in Trinity. The 236-bed Medical
Center of Trinity will have all private rooms. A medical office building will
open alongside the hospital.

Like Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point in Hudson, Community Hospital and
Medical Center of Trinity are owned by HCA, based in Nashville, Tenn.

Pasco also is gaining another new hospital. Ground was broken in December for
Florida Hospital Wesley Chapel, a 200,000-square-foot facility on 52 acres off
Bruce B. Downs Boulevard near S.R. 56.

The project is expected to take 18 to 24 months to complete. The Wesley Chapel
medical center initially will feature 80 beds with the ability to expand to 300
beds in future phases.

"We're kind of lucky to have two hospitals" under construction, Hagen said. "I
think it's pretty unusual in this economic climate."

In recent years, Morton Plant North Bay Hospital in New Port Richey underwent a
$49 million renovation and expansion.

The health care industry in general is a "pretty big opportunity for Pasco
County," Hagen said.

The new Trinity hospital could draw patients from north Pinellas County and
parts of Hillsborough County.

"We could be a magnet for health care," Hagen said. "It's going to take it to an
even higher level.

"The cost of doing business in Pasco is pretty reasonable," he said.

Photo: John Hagen

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                           September 18, 2011 Sunday

Debate reignited over for-profit hospitals

BYLINE: By Kim Tae-jong

LENGTH: 613 words


Health Minister designate Lim Chae-min, a veteran economic bureaucrat, has
reiterated the government's commitment to attracting for-profit hospitals in
free economic zones and Jeju Island.

His remarks made at a nomination hearing at the National Assembly are sparking a
fresh round of debates over the pros and cons of for-profit hospitals.

Lim worked at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance for a long time, which has
taken a supportive stance on the introduction of for-profit hospitals. The
designation of Lim as the head of the health ministry raises speculation that he
will more aggressively expand the plan to areas other than the currently
designated ones.

Asked about the government's position at the Assembly, Lim reaffirmed that the
administration will allow for-profit hospitals only in such designated areas as
free economic zones and the Jeju Special Self-Governing Province.

'Even if foreign-invested (for-profit) hospitals accept Korean patients, it
won't have any substantial impact on the overall medical industry as they will
operate in restricted areas,' Lim said.

His remarks came several days after the government's decision to allow foreign
medical staff to work at hospitals owned by overseas entities in free economic
zones.

On Aug. 22, the Ministry of Health and Welfare revised the rules on recognizing
foreign medical licenses to allow foreign doctors, dentists and nurses to work
at facilities in the Incheon Free Economic Zone.

Many civic groups are expressing concerns about the plan, claiming that the
easing of the rules on foreign medical staff is a preparatory move to allow the
nationwide establishment of for-profit hospitals.

'The government has pushed forward its plan to allow for-profit hospitals to
open by introducing a series of deregulatory measures,' said Baek Young-hwan, an
official from the Korea Security Insurance Union (KSIU). 'In the end, it will
privatize health care, which will be a huge burden for citizens.'

Permitting foreign-owned hospitals to do business in the country's seven free
economic zones will be the starting point for a broader range of changes in the
healthcare sector, he said.

'By naming a key figure from the finance ministry as the head of the health
ministry, the government is obviously trying to push forward its plan,' Baek
said.

Other civic groups such as the People's Solidarity for Participatory Democracy
and the Korea Health and Medical Workers' Union have also expressed their
opposition to Lim as the new health minister for similar reasons.

Mindful of mounting criticism and suspicion, the ministry held a news conference
Wednesday to reaffirm that the government is maintaining a cautious stance on
the allowance of for-profit hospitals nationwide.

'We have simply specified the existing regulations and conditions as investors
said relevant rules were too vague,' said Park In-seok, an official from the
ministry. 'It has nothing to do with the allowance of for-profit hospitals
outside FEZs, and we are still very cautious on that matter.'

The establishment of for-profit hospitals has been allowed in FEZs since 2003
after a related law went into effect, but no foreign investors have shown any
serious interest.

Proponents have argued that allowing such hospitals is the key to boosting
medical tourism and to attracting outside investment in order to make local
facilities more competitive.

Under the current law, hospitals are non-profit entities and banned from seeking
investment. They must follow guidelines set by the health authorities on their
operations including charging patients.

But opponents claim that if for-profit hospitals open and health care is
privatized, medical bills will go up.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday

Crist's hospital proposal opposed;
Some legislators don't agree that certificates of need are unnecessary.

BYLINE: LARRY HANNAN

SECTION: Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 539 words


A proposal by Gov. Charlie Crist to deregulate the way hospitals are built is
encountering opposition from lawmakers and statewide medical groups.

Crist wants to eliminate certificates of need, now a prerequisite to hospital
construction, in hopes of encouraging more competition.

But a formidable roadblock stands in the way.

State Rep. Aaron Bean, R-Fernandina Beach, expressed opposition to the proposal
Wednesday, saying it doesn't make sense given the economic climate and the
prospect of state funding cuts to hospitals. Bean is chairman of the health care
committee.

Crist's proposal needs approval by the Legislature.

Crist spokesman Thomas Philpot shrugged off the opposition, saying it's still
early in the legislative session and that the governor looks forward to
presenting his case to lawmakers. He said hospitals would still be licensed by
the state to meet certain standards. Under that licensing, hospitals would be
required to provide an emergency room to anyone who needs help.

Philpot said the proposal demonstrates the governor's commitment to improving
health care in Florida. He also said increased competition would lower health
care costs, a point of dispute between Crist and health care providers.

Certificates of need exist to make sure hospitals are not duplicating services.
The goal is to have all the medical facilities needed for a community, but not
an overabundance that leads to a hospital shutting down for a lack of patients.

Rep. Audrey Gibson, D-Jacksonville, also opposes the proposal.

But Rep. Don Davis, R-Jacksonville, supports it, saying that hospitals should be
built with minimal interference from the government. The current process imposes
costly delays, he said.

Davis chairs the committee on economic development, which may also review the
proposal if it gets through Bean's committee.

Statewide medical executives oppose scrapping certificates of need, fearing it
would create for-profit boutique hospitals and encourage a system where only the
uninsured poor would be able to get treatment in nonprofit hospitals, said Rich
Rasmussen, spokesman for the Florida Hospital Association.

It's important that hospitals provide a wide range of specialized services and
not specialize in one procedure, said Lori Bilello, executive director of the
Health Planning Council of Northeast Florida.

Baptist Health Chief Executive Hugh Greene recently withdrew his hospital from
consideration for a certificate of need to build a hospital in Clay County
because of competition from two other hospital systems.

While acknowledging disappointment over the Clay County situation, Greene said
he supported the certificate-of-need process and doesn't want to see it changed.

larry.hannan@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4470

WHO TO CONTACT

The following elected officials could play a key role in the debate over
certificates of need.

Gov. Charlie Crist

(850) 488-4441 (governor's switchboard)

Rep. Aaron Bean

Health care council chairman

Tallahassee: (850) 488-6920

Fernandina Beach: (904) 491-3664

Rep. Don Davis

Chairman of committee on economic development

Tallahassee: (850) 488-0001

Jacksonville Beach: (904) 247-4040

Rep. Audrey Gibson

Member of committee on health quality

Tallahassee: (850) 488-7417

Jacksonville: (904) 353-2180

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Florida Times-Union


                              240 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Janesville Gazette (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday

SSM delays plans for Janesville

BYLINE: Jim Leute, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 537 words


Feb. 18--JANESVILLE -- Unfavorable credit markets will delay but not destroy
plans for a $140 million hospital and physicians complex in Janesville.

Officials of SSM Health Care of Wisconsin and Dean Health System said Tuesday
the new complex on Janesville's east side likely will not open until 2011, up to
a year later than initially planned.

"We remain fully committed to build St. Mary's Janesville Hospital," said Mary
Starmann-Harrison, SSM's president. "However, we find ourselves in an
unprecedented economic time that is affecting new construction in all sectors,
including hospital projects across the country.

"We will go forward with this project, but the timing has to be that it makes
sense."

Starmann-Harrison said the delay is strictly tied to the system's ability to
obtain financing at favorable interest rates. SSM is including the Janesville
project with other SSM projects in one larger bond issue.

Last April, SSM and Dean announced plans for the $80 million hospital and $60
million physician office complex near the intersection of Interstate 90/39 and
Highway 11. The project is expected to provide 344 direct and 155 indirect jobs
and have a $164 million annual economic impact.

Two months later, General Motors announced that it would end SUV production in
Janesville, but hospital and clinic officials have remained steadfast in their
commitment to the Janesville project.

"The need for a new hospital and medical complex in Janesville remains as strong
as ever," said Craig Samitt, president of Dean Health System. "We will continue
to finalize our plans and meet with the community and will be poised to
aggressively begin construction once the economy becomes more favorable."

Samitt and Starmann-Harrison have said surveys indicated the community demanded
choice and competition in the local health care market and drove the decision to
build the new hospital and a doctors' office complex.

Mercy Health System has a hospital and numerous clinics in Janesville.

Starmann-Harrison is well aware that Janesville has been ravaged by job losses
that go well beyond the auto industry.

She's also aware that some residents will blame the delay on cold feet and jump
to the conclusion that SSM and Dean will never build in Janesville.

"That would be absolutely wrong," she said. "The St. Mary's Janesville Hospital
remains the top priority for SSM Health Care.

"This is not a local, Janesville economic issue. It is simply a national
economic issue: The credit markets are not at all favorable for hospital
projects."

In the interim, progress is being made, she said. A site plan and the design of
the facility are complete, and Kerry Swanson has been hired as president of the
new hospital.

Officials broke ground for the project in November, but no other site work has
taken place since.

To see more of The Janesville Gazette, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.gazetteextra.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090218-JG-SSM-delays-plans-for-Janesville-0218

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JG


                     Copyright 2009 The Janesville Gazette


                              241 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                 July 16, 2002

Matilda Hospital sacks 25 amid private-sector fears

BYLINE: Patsy Moy and Sam Ho

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 384 words


Twenty-five people - about 10 per cent of the workforce - have been laid off at
the exclusive Matilda Hospital as private hospitals struggle to stay afloat in
the economic downturn.

Adventist Hospital in Stubbs Road and its sister hospital in Tsuen Wan will cut
the salaries of their 500 staff by between 1.58 per cent and 4.42 per cent from
January, in line with civil service pay cuts.

A legislator warned there could be more lay-offs and even closures of private
hospitals if the government did nothing to bridge the imbalance between the
private and public sectors.

Public hospitals now take 94 per cent of in-patients and private hospital groups
want medical reforms speeded up so that some of the burden can be shifted to the
private sector.

In a statement yesterday, the Matilda Hospital - which has been in Mount Kellett
Road, the Peak, for 95 years - said jobs had been cut in various departments and
included nursing posts.

It said the redundancies were a "direct result of the poor economic climate" and
were a cost-cutting measure.

No doctors were affected as they practised independently of the hospital and
there would be no pay cuts for the remaining 200 staff, the hospital said.

The statement read: "It is one of the hardest actions we have ever had to take.
On the other hand, by taking this action now we believe we are safeguarding the
future of the remaining 200 employees."

One member of staff said 12 nurses had been fired, most of them senior nursing
staff with an average of 10 years' experience.

Legislator Dr Lo Wing-lok, who represents the medical constituency, said more
private hospitals could be forced to lay off staff or even close if public
hospitals continued to expand.

Dr Kwong Kwok-hay, director of clinical services at the private Hong Kong
Sanatorium and Hospital, said he believed it was the first time a private
hospital had made lay-offs on such a scale.

He said patients would be deprived of choice if private hospitals were forced to
close or make cuts because of competition from the public sector.

A spokesman for the Health, Welfare and Food Bureau said the Hospital Authority
had already issued referral guidelines for patients in public hospitals in a
move to shift some patients to the private sector.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Photo: Martin Chan); Matilda Hospital says it has been forced to make
job cuts.

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2002 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              242 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                          December 30, 2004, Thursday

S. Koreans Permitted Medical Treatment at Foreign Hospitals in Free Economic
Zones

LENGTH: 141 words


   The Finance and Economy Committee of the National Assembly on Wednesday
passed a bill which enables South Koreans to receive medical treatment at
foreign hospitals in free economic zones.

Under the bill, a foreign hospital established in a free economic zone is
allowed to operate as a business corporation. The bill also aims to loosen the
regulations governing the construction of foreign hospitals in free economic
zones to promote foreign investments in the country.

Some members of the committee, including Sim Sang-jeong of the Democratic Labor
Party, objected to the bill, arguing the bill could ''undermine the foundation
of the nation's medical system as it would lure the wealthy away from domestic
health insurance.''The government plans to build two large foreign hospitals in
free economic zones in Inchon by 2008.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                          Copyright 2004 Hankook Ilbo


                              243 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                August 24, 1998

Hospital closure will cost 135 jobs
 Fears of severe impact on Banff economy

BYLINE: By John Thomson

SECTION: Health: Hospitals, Pg.5

LENGTH: 292 words


AROUND 135 jobs could be lost if plans to close a North-east hospital go ahead,
according to a new study.

The total job loss at Ladysbridge is less than originally forecast but is still
expected to have a severe impact on the Banff area.

Aberdeenshire's north planning boss Keith Newton said: "While the loss of jobs
to the local area might be seen as less than previously expected, it is
nevertheless significant in regard to an already fragile local economic
structure."

The independent study was commissioned by councillors last year to identify
responses and economic development intervention to mitigate the effects of any
closure.

It followed recommendations by a task group to replace the hospital with
community facilities within three to five years.

Mr Newton said: "The report considers the groups of staff most likely to require
assistance in finding new employment and highlights the reduction in the overall
skills base as managerial positions are not replaced or are lost.

"Given the timescale of rundown that might be envisaged, the consultants
conclude that the local labour market should be able to absorb these additional
demands but that some programme of re-training would be appropriate."

Mr Newton said the hospital site represented "a significant economic resource"
although there was no clear vision for its future use.

A second phase of the study is now likely to get under way to investigate new
investment and employment, uses for the site and an action plan for economic
support.

Banff and Buchan councillors will tomorrow consider the report findings and are
likely to endorse the second stage of the study which will be carried out in
conjunction with Grampian Healthcare and Grampian Enterprise Ltd.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Evening Express


                              244 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                               FINAL - 5 EDITION

STUDY SEES BENEFITS IN PARTNERSHIP PLAN;
HOSPITAL 'DESPERATELY NEEDED';
HEALTH CENTER RESCUE

BYLINE: ARIELLE LEVIN BECKER alevinbecker@courant.com

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 395 words


The proposed partnership between the University of Connecticut Health Center and
Hartford Hospital could generate 18,200 jobs and $3.28 billion in new individual
income by 2040, according to a study by the Connecticut Center for Economic
Analysis at UConn.

"This is a desperately needed economic engine for the region," said Fred
Carstensen, the center's director and a UConn economics professor.

The findings will be presented during a public hearing today as lawmakers
consider the proposal, which is intended to stabilize the financially troubled
Health Center and is expected to cost the state $605 million over 10 years.

The proposal calls for creating a "University Hospital" with campuses in
Hartford and Farmington, with a new $475 million hospital to replace the
outdated John Dempsey Hospital. Hartford Hospital would take responsibility for
any future deficits that the Health Center runs, but the state would be
responsible for the cost of the new hospital and an estimated $13 million in
annual labor costs.

UConn leaders say the proposal is the best hope for the Health Center, which
includes Dempsey, UConn's medical and dental schools and research laboratories.
Some lawmakers have expressed support, while others have questioned whether the
state can afford the cost of a new hospital.

Carstensen said that the proposal could help counteract a two-decade economic
decline in the state, which is experiencing a diminishing working-age population
and losing the highest-skilled, highest-paid young people to other states.
Investing in an academic medical center would be especially wise because medical
jobs are not likely to be outsourced, he said.

According to the report, building a new hospital and expanding the medical and
dental schools would generate 2,688 jobs by 2020 and 4,557 by 2040. But the
report says that doing that along with the Hartford Hospital partnership, a
collaboration with other area hospitals and having vastly expanded research
funding to become a top 20 university medical research center would pay far
greater dividends, creating 8,229 jobs by 2020 and 18,200 by 2040, and
generating $717 million in personal income by 2020 and $3.28 billion a year by
2040.

By 2035, the expected end-date for the bonds on the new hospital, the proposed
plan would generate $904 million in new net tax revenues for the state,
according to the report.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 19, 2016 Tuesday

Massachusetts: South Shore Hospital Expands With MassDevelopment Bonds

LENGTH: 487  words

DATELINE: New York



  Boston:  The Mass Development, The State of Massachusetts has issued the
following news release:



 MassDevelopment has issued two tax-exempt bonds totaling $137,245,000 on behalf
of South Shore Hospital, Inc., a regional health care system in South Weymouth.
The hospital is using bond proceeds to build a new critical care unit, renovate
an existing building to make room for more beds, upgrade information technology
and HVAC systems, and to make interior, lighting and landscaping improvements.
South Shore Hospital is also using bond proceeds to refund and refinance
previous debt. The hospital expects the projects to create 233 hospital jobs.





 "These bonds will allow South Shore Hospital to make needed improvements to its
hospital campus and add more than 200 jobs to the Weymouth area," said
MassDevelopment President and CEO Marty Jones. "We're proud to support the
growth of this hospital and medical centers across the Commonwealth, which
provide essential health services to their communities and serve as one of
Massachusetts's most important economic sectors."



 South Shore Hospital is part of South Shore Health System, Inc., a nonprofit
health system comprised of South Shore Hospital, South Shore Medical Center,
South Shore NeuroSpine, South Shore VNA, Health Provider Services Organization
and South Shore Health System Foundation. South Shore Hospital provides acute
medical, surgical, critical, obstetrical, gynecological, pediatric, cardiac and
cancer care to the 725,000 residents of southeast Massachusetts. Its 900-member
medical staff represents all leading medical specialties, and it employs 4,000
total people who are supported by 700 volunteers. It was ranked among the top 10
Massachusetts hospitals in 2015 by U.S. News & World Report, and named a top
place to work by The Boston Globe. South Shore Hospital has also been designated
a Magnet hospital by the American Nurses' Credentialing Center.



 "Our region is expanding, and our communities increasingly look to South Shore
Hospital, as a part of South Shore Health System, for guidance--not only to stay
healthy, but also to provide the highest level critical care at the most
critical moments," said South Shore Hospital President and COO Joe
Cahill."MassDevelopment has been an essential partner in helping us meet the
health and wellness needs of those living in our region."



 MassDevelopment, the state's finance and development agency, works with
businesses, nonprofits, financial institutions, and communities to stimulate
economic growth across the Commonwealth. During FY2015, MassDevelopment financed
or managed 294 projects generating investment of more than $2.5 billion in the
Massachusetts economy. These projects are projected to create about 6,100 jobs
and build or rehabilitate about 2,000 residential units.



  In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 994 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 7, 2016 Thursday

Residency program at Cape Fear Valley could provide economic boost

BYLINE: Steve DeVane, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 699 words


July 07--A residency program at Cape Fear Valley Health System could have a
major economic impact for Cumberland County and the region, county officials
say.

The program also will be vital to Campbell University's medical school, which is
expected to provide most of the residents.

The program could create about 300 jobs that pay about $50,000 each and about 50
jobs that pay $50,000 to $400,000 each, according to hospital documents. Total
funding for the medical education effort is expected to be more than $30 million
a year, records show.

The 300 jobs would go to recent medical school graduates serving their
residencies at Cape Fear Valley. The other positions would be teachers, mentors
and support workers for the program.

Marshall Faircloth, chairman of the Cumberland County Board of Commissioners,
said he can't think of an economic development project with the potential of the
residency program since the Kelly-Springfield Tire Co. opened in 1969. The tire
manufacturer, which is now Goodyear Tire Co., employs about 2,500 workers.

Commissioners are excited that the state budget includes $7.7 million for the
residency program, because they had discussed how the county could potentially
pay for it if needed, he said. The commissioners also serve on the hospital's
board of trustees.

"We really looked at each other and said, 'We can't not do this,'" Faircloth
said.

The state General Assembly approved the budget last week and sent it to Gov. Pay
McCrory for his signature.

Cape Fear Valley is planning to reclassify as a rural hospital so it can start
the program. Federal rules set a cap on residency programs in urban hospitals.

The hospital stands to lose more than $10 million a year in federal funding by
reclassifying. The state's $7.7 million and financial support from Campbell
University are expected to help make up for the loss, along with grants and
donations.

Campbell is prepared to provide up to $3 million, according to Britt Davis, a
school spokesman.

"Campbell is prepared to make the program whole," he said. "That's how important
this program is."

Davis said Cape Fear Valley is expected to be the main location for Campbell
medical students to get their residency training. The program is critical for
the medical school, he said.

"The reality is you cannot practice medicine without completing a residency
program," he said.

Most residents go on to practice medicine within 50 miles of where they were
trained, he said.

County officials are hopeful that holds true for the Cape Fear Valley program.

"Studies show a good majority of them are going to stay in this area,"
Commissioner Jimmy Keefe said. "It is a huge economic impact to the community."

Commissioner Glenn Adams said the residents likely will live close to the
hospital because they'll be working long hours.

"That's economic development if you can add that many jobs making $50,000," he
said. "That's like bringing a company to town."

Hospital officials believe the program will improve health care and help with a
doctor shortage in the region.

Davis said the training will help the medical school fulfill its mission of
training doctors for rural areas and places that don't have enough.

Faircloth said the program could lead to improved access to health care for
people in the region.

"That's just as big a deal," he said. "Access to health care is an issue for all
communities going forward."

Hospital officials plan to start hiring and preparing for the residency program
later this year. The first residents would begin work at the hospital in July
2017.

"A year from now, we could see residents living in this area," Faircloth said.

Keefe said he thinks the program also will improve the hospital's image as a
teaching facility.

The commissioners say a proposed baseball stadium that would host a minor league
team and other potential projects could help keep the residents in the area.

"They're looking for stuff for their families to do," Adams said.

Staff writer Steve DeVane can be reached at devanes@fayobserver.com or 486-3572.

___ (c)2016 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160707-FY-Residency-program-at-Cape-Fear-Valley-could-provide-economic
-boost-0707-20160707

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2016 The Fayetteville Observer


                              247 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        Savannah Morning News (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday

Mercer University School of Medicine in Savannah equals jobs, growth: The
presence of Mercer University School of Medicine in Savannah has added millions
of dollars - and status - to the local economy

BYLINE: Arlinda Smith Broady, Savannah Morning News, Ga.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1264 words


Mar. 21--With unemployment rates steadily climbing, the medical industry
continues to buck the trend.

A study released last fall by the Association of American Medical Colleges
showed that in 2008 Georgia's 10 teaching hospitals and four medical schools
provided 81,632 jobs in the state. That ranked the Peach State at No. 11 among
the 46 states and the District of Columbia that have accredited programs.

"U.S. medical schools and teaching hospitals are substantial economic engines in
the terms of jobs, state tax revenues and economic growth," Darrell G. Kirch,
president and CEO of the association, wrote in the report's executive summary.

Even though the period examined ends in mid-2008, prior to the worst of the
national economic downturn, the data coincide with state and federal labor
department findings that show half of the 30 fastest growing occupations in 2009
were in health care.

That's especially true in the Savannah area, with two hospital systems and a
medical school campus located here.

Medical school comes to Savannah

Back in 1996, Mercer University School of Medicine began a relationship with
Memorial Hospital. Third- and fourth-year medical school students came to
Savannah to complete their clinicals.

For up-and-coming physicians, the practical hands-on experience is invaluable.
And Mercer was continuing in its mission to provide an education for future
physicians who will meet the primary and ancillary health care needs of Georgia.

"Unlike a lot of other medical schools, Mercer has a strong case-based
approach," said Dr. Wayne C. Glasgow, senior associate dean for research and
chair of the department of Biomedical Sciences as well as a professor of
pharmacology at Mercer. Glasgow also serves as director of the department of
Laboratory Oncology Research for Memorial's Anderson Cancer Institute.

"The basic science classes have more exposure to a clinical orientation," he
said. "They don't just learn anatomy, they learn body systems such as cardiology
and gastrointestinal."

So, in 2008, that partnership was expanded to bring first- and second-year
students to Savannah. By then, Memorial had added "university" to its name and
had become home to the Mercer's Savannah campus.

About one-third of the junior and senior classes are based in Savannah and
complete their entire clinical curriculum at the Savannah campus. Memorial
remains the sponsoring institution for the residency program officially called
the Mercer University School of Medicine (Savannah) Program.

"From Memorial's perspective, this adds to our mission," said Dr. Ramon V.
Meguiar, senior vice president and chief medical officer for Memorial as well as
senior association dean for Clinical Affairs at Mercer.

He said the three main functions of the hospital system are to:

-- Provide excellent patient care.

-- Teach new doctors and medical professionals in specified areas.

-- Conduct research that leads to improved outcomes.

Training doctors boosts economy

Besides the obvious perks of training doctors locally as well as retaining and
attracting the best and brightest medical professionals in the country, Mercer's
impact on Savannah can be measured in dollars.

Glasgow said the medical school has had an impact of $12 million to $19 million
on the area. And that's not including Memorial's $255 million payroll for its
4,500 employees.

"The doctors, nurses and staff buy homes and spend money in businesses as well
as through taxes," Meguiar said.

The study by the association of medical colleges showed that in 2008 the
combined economic impact of its members equaled more than $512 billion,
accounting for more than 3.3 million full-time jobs -- one in every 43 wage
earners in the U.S. labor force.

In Georgia, total economic impact was $10.9 billion; total employment impact
81,632 was people, and total government revenue impact was $218.6 million.

Those figures weren't derived from thin air.

The direct economic impact comes as a result of the education, research and
clinical services of medical schools and teaching hospitals. And the study
measured the direct and indirect employment generated and government revenues.

Medical schools and teaching hospitals that are public and not-for-profit
indirectly generate government revenue through income taxes paid by staff,
employed physicians and medical residents; sales tax revenues paid by businesses
providing goods and services to medical schools and hospitals and corporate net
income taxes paid by businesses providing goods and services to medical schools
and hospitals.

Other selective business taxes such as gross receipts taxes, public utility
realty taxes, insurance premium taxes, motor vehicle taxes and financial
institutions taxes also contribute to those revenues.

In addition, businesses are recipients of spending by hospital patients,
patients' visitors, medical students and their visitors.

All of these direct expenditures are re-circulated in the economy as recipients
"re-spend" with other businesses within the state. This is often referred to as
a multiplier. With medical schools and teaching hospitals, the multiplier effect
is about 2.3. Therefore, for every dollar directly spent by a medical school or
teaching hospital, an additional $1.30 is indirectly generated.

Med school draws companies

Although the medical college association study didn't include further residual
benefits, Savannah is expected to reap even more benefits from Mercer's
presence.

Higher education institutions as well as hospitals are big draws for companies
looking to locate in the area, said Eric R. Winger, president and CEO of the
Savannah Economic Development Authority.

"Companies jump on those right away," he said. "Higher ed speaks to the
sophistication of the area, and health care shows that there are places of
employment for spouses and family of the target company's employees."

He said the continued growth of Mercer's Savannah campus strengthens the diverse
local economy and makes it that much more resilient to recessions and such.

"There's something to be said for the stability of a five-legged stool," he
said, referring to the ports, tourism, manufacturing, military and health care.

And a strong medical school is sure to attract travelers for seminars and
conventions as well as extended stay in-residence programs.

"Medical meetings and conventions are big business," said Joseph Marinelli,
president of the Savannah Area Convention & Visitors Bureau.

Savannah already has been a big draw for nursing-related meetings.

"Those types of conventions tend to skew toward female and more mature
travelers," Marinelli said. "They like that Savannah is safe and comfortable and
not too intimidating."

Pharmaceutical meetings also are increasing. So it stands to reason that as
Mercer grows locally, so will its draw for medical-oriented travel.

Just as the Cleveland Clinic and Johns Hopkins in Baltimore attract visitors for
their facilities, Marinelli envisions a smaller-scale effect for Savannah.

Those predictions are no surprise to Meguiar.

"What attracts doctors and their families is the great quality of life," he
said. "And they in turn help improve that quality of life. ... Everybody wins."

To see more of The Savannah Morning News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.savannahnow.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Savannah Morning News, Ga.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20100321-SV-Mercer-University-School-of-Medicine-in-Savannah-equals-jobs-growth-
0321

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SV


                      Copyright 2010 Savannah Morning News


                              248 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 12 1988, Tuesday

Patients are 7 times more likely to die in some hospitals; League table of
mortality rates; Centre for Health Economics at York University

BYLINE: JILL SHERMAN, Social Services Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63131.

LENGTH: 519 words


Patients are seven times more likely to die in some hospitals than others,
according to a league table of mortality rates published yesterday.

The table, being submitted to the Prime Minister to be considered in the review
of the health service, shows that one in seven patients admitted to hospitals in
Halton health authority in Merseyside fails to leave hospital alive.


In Bloomsbury health authority, in central London, however, only one in 50
patients die in their hospital beds.

The analysis of mortality data, published by the Centre for Health Economics at
York University for the first time nationally, suggests that some consultants
are better than others and that some hospitals offer safer treatment than
others.

The researchers point out that many factors have to be taken into consideration
when comparing data, but they argue that instead of comparing efficiency between
hospitals, the Government should be looking at standards of care.

Mr Paul Kind, a research fellow, said that when he allowed for demographic and
case mix factors, Halton dropped out of the 10 worst districts because most of
the patients admitted to hospital were over 65.

An analysis of standardized death rates when this is taken into account shows
that the most 'dangerous' places to go into hospital are North-west Surrey,
North-west Hertfordshire and Grimsby.

One is 50per cent more likely to die in these places than in hospitals with
average mortality rates, and three times more likely to die than in the 'safest'
hospitals, found in Harrow and Bloomsbury.

Doctors have been opposed to the publication of death rates because it says that
patients will be too frightened to go into hospital with high mortality rates
even when there is a good explanation.

Some diseases and operations, for example, have a high death rate merely because
procedures are complicated and patients are gravely ill.

The York research shows for example that death rates are highest about 18per
cent for patients diagnosed with heart or circulatory disease.

The average death rate for infectious diseases throughout the country is 2.48per
cent, but in West Midlands the rate is 1.58per cent, almost a quarter of the
rate in East Anglia, which is 5.61, double the national rate.

Mr Kind's examination of death rates per consultant specialty shows wide
variations between districts in certain specialties.

For example death rates among geriatric admissions exceed 20per cent in all
regions, but the highest rate is in East Anglia, 29.6per cent.

Mersey with 12.6 per cent has the highest death rate among general medicine
admissions, and 4.02 per cent among general surgery compared with Oxford, 9.4
per cent and 2.39 per cent respectively.

Last night Professor Alan Maynard, director of the Centre for Health Economics,
said that until there was more information about health outcomes, no government
could decide how best to spend its money.

Hospital deaths the Missing Link: Measuring Outcome in Hospital Activity Data
(Centre for Health Economics, York University, YOI 5DD; Pounds 5).

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited


                              249 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday

Patients, doctors welcome u-turn on private care;
Groups say medicine should never have been seen as economic pillar, and hail
focus on locals

BYLINE: Emily Tsang emily.tsang@scmp.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 402 words


The government's decision to stop pursuing private health care as a "new pillar"
of economic growth is a step towards reform, say patients' and doctors' groups.

Secretary for Food and Health Dr Ko Wing-man announced the change yesterday in
his first news conference since taking office, saying private hospitals should
gear their services towards locals instead of overseas patients, and help to
ease the burden on public hospitals.

Tim Pang Hung-cheong, spokesman for the Patients' Rights Association, welcomed
the move, saying health care should have never been a pillar industry "as it
means the government encourages [it] to become a money-making business".

"This contradicts the spirit of life-saving service," he said.

During the 2008 financial crisis, former chief executive Donald Tsang Yam-kuen
earmarked medical services as a key industry that could be developed to boost
the city's long-term growth. But the Patients' Rights Association and the Hong
Kong Medical Association (HKMA) agreed it was time to change course.

Ko said that after years of private health care being cornered by mainland
patients, it was time to make more private hospital beds available for
Hongkongers. But the minister's announcement has caused concern that giving
private hospitals a larger role in meeting local needs would result in a brain
drain from public hospitals, as medical staff seek the same training for higher
pay.

Ko said public hospitals had been using various measures to retain talent and
improve efficiency, such as cutting patients' waiting times.

Still, statistics show an imbalance, with public hospitals serving 90 per cent
of the city's population, while 60 per cent of doctors work in the private
sector.

HKMA president Dr Tse Hung-hing, a medical sector candidate in this Sunday's
Legislative Council election, said he understood it might be difficult on
ethical grounds for private hospital operators to turn away overseas patients so
as to prioritise local ones.

Tse said he had never understood why the government highlighted private medical
services as an industry.

Incumbent lawmaker Dr Leung Ka-lau, also a Legco candidate, said that aside from
obstetric wards, private medical services were more than enough to meet demand
and should be made available for foreigners if there was low local demand.

The Private Hospital Association said it would meet Ko this week to further
understand his proposals.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright (c) 2007 Wayne State University
                              The Wayne Law Review

                                  Winter, 2007

                                Wayne Law Review

                             53 Wayne L. Rev. 1583

LENGTH: 13151 words

COMMENT: THE ECONOMIC BENEFIT OF NONPROFIT HOSPITALS: BROADENING THE EVALUATION
OF TAX-EXEMPT STATUS AT THE STATE LEVEL

NAME: DELIA D. JOHNSON

TEXT:
 [*1583]  I. INTRODUCTION

   The debate over nonprofit hospital tax-exempt status granted by states
garnered national headlines in 2004 when the Illinois Department of Revenue
revoked the tax-exempt status of Provena Covenant Medical Center, a prominent
Catholic hospital in Urbana, Illinois.  n1 State authorities determined that
Provena was not a "charitable" institution under Illinois law based largely upon
the hospital's aggressive debt collection policies directed toward patients.  n2
The debate over state tax exemption policy for nonprofit hospitals is not new,
however, nor is it limited to Illinois. For over twenty years states have
questioned the continuing exemption of nonprofit hospitals from taxation in
light of their evolution from charitable institutions for the poor to highly
structured and organized corporate entities.  n3 Critics of tax exemption for
nonprofit hospitals have advanced several arguments for denying exemption at
both the federal and state levels.  n4 One of the most common of those arguments
is that nonprofit hospital corporations have grown in size and sophistication of
business model so that they function in a nearly equivalent manner to for-profit
hospital corporations.  n5 While it is true that contemporary nonprofit hospital
corporations have progressed dramatically beyond their nineteenth-century
origins as alms houses for the poor,  n6 the question remains as to how
nonprofit hospitals should be treated for purposes of state and local taxation.

   State requirements for nonprofit hospital tax exemption typically are not
well defined, and this has added to the controversy over whether  [*1584]
nonprofit hospitals merit their state and local tax exemptions.  n7 The current
standard for nonprofit hospital tax exemption in most states is either a
demonstration of charity care provided, or a combination of the provision of
charity care along with other types of community benefit.  n8 Nonprofit hospital
corporations also provide economic benefits to their communities, yet these
benefits are not considered by most states when determining whether a nonprofit
hospital merits state and local tax exemption.

   For-profit corporations, on the other hand, are routinely granted various tax
exemptions by states based primarily on the theory that these corporations
provide a significant economic benefit to state and local governments.  n9
States have developed economic growth programs which utilize business tax
incentives to attract, retain or encourage expansion of for-profit entities
within the state.  n10 These programs grant tax credits and exemptions to
qualified for-profit corporations in return for the provision of economic
benefit to the state, which is typically calculated in terms of capital
investment and number of jobs created or maintained.  n11

   The failure of states to consider the economic benefit provided by nonprofit
hospitals invites comparison between the requirements imposed on nonprofit
hospitals for tax exemption, and the requirements imposed on for-profit
corporations for tax exemptions and credits under business tax incentive
programs. In the broader scope of state tax revenue collection, both nonprofit
hospital tax exemption and for-profit tax incentive programs have a similar
result. Both are types of state and local tax expenditures  n12 that reduce the
amount of revenue collected by millions of dollars annually.  n13 Any state's
decision to provide tax  [*1585]  exemptions and incentives to either nonprofit
or for-profit entities should therefore be examined for objectives of fairness,
economic efficiency and sound public policy.  n14

   This Comment contemplates whether the economic benefits provided by nonprofit
hospitals should be considered in the evaluation of their qualification for tax
exemption at the state and local levels. Since taxation and economic policies
vary widely from state to state, this Comment examines the current taxation and
economic law and policy of the State of Illinois as a model for analysis. Part
II first provides an overview of both nonprofit hospital tax exemption and
business tax incentives and then outlines specific Illinois provisions for
nonprofit hospital tax exemption as well as business incentive plans used in
this Comment as models for analysis. Part III of this Comment advances several
arguments for recognition of the economic benefit of nonprofit hospitals as a
factor used in qualifying nonprofit hospitals for tax-exempt status. Data
illustrating the economic benefit of Illinois nonprofit hospitals will be
examined in the process and compared to the criteria for state business
incentive programs for private corporations. Part IV provides conclusions
concerning nonprofit hospital tax-exempt evaluation at the state level with
recommendations for including economic benefit as an evaluative factor.

   II. BACKGROUND

A. State and Local Tax Treatment of Nonprofit Hospitals

1. Overview of State and Federal Nonprofit Hospital Tax Exemption Requirements

   State and local governments exempt nonprofit hospitals from a variety of
taxes including property taxes, income taxes, sales and use taxes, and other
types of state and municipal taxes.  n15 States are not legally bound by federal
tax exemption statutes, but many states base their nonprofit hospital tax-exempt
standards on those used at the federal level.  n16 The origins of both federal
and state laws providing charitable tax exemption to nonprofit hospitals are
"based on the common law principle that hospital care is intrinsically
charitable."  n17 Federal and state charitable exemption requirements have
changed independently over  [*1586]  time, and their independent evolution has
resulted in many nonprofit tax-exempt hospitals operating under divergent sets
of tax policies.  n18

   Federal requirements for the tax exemption of nonprofit hospitals as
charitable organizations have continued to develop since the 1950s, and have
been addressed by the IRS in a series of revenue rulings.  n19 In 1956, the IRS
ruled that in order for a nonprofit hospital to qualify for charitable tax
exemption, it "must not . . . refuse to accept patients in need of hospital care
who cannot pay for such services."  n20 The IRS removed the requirement for
nonprofit hospitals to care for patients without charge several years later in
Revenue Ruling 69-545.  n21 Revenue Ruling 69-545 is very important in the
chronicle of federal charitable tax exemption for nonprofit hospitals, and
states that:


     The promotion of health, like the relief of poverty and the
     advancement of education and religion, is one of the purposes in the
     general law of charity that is deemed beneficial to the community as a
     whole even though the class of beneficiaries eligible to receive a
     direct benefit from its activities does not include all members of the
     community, such as indigent members of the community, provided that
     the class is not so small that its relief is not of benefit to the
     community.  n22

   Revenue Ruling 69-545 marked the birth of the "community benefit" standard,
and factors in this ruling enumerated by the IRS as indicative of providing
community benefit include having the hospital controlled by an independent board
of directors selected from the community, maintaining an open medical staff with
privileges available to all qualified physicians, and operating an active and
generally accessible emergency room.  n23 In 1983, the IRS withdrew the
qualification of operating an emergency room as a demonstration of community
benefit, and instead ruled that there were other significant factors that may be
considered when determining whether the promotion of health was broad enough for
a nonprofit hospital to provide community benefit.  n24

   Professor John D. Colombo, a prominent legal scholar with numerous
publications on tax-exempt organizations, argues that the pure community benefit
standard is now dead, and that the IRS has now  [*1587]  embraced the "promotion
of health plus" standard  n25 for nonprofit hospital charitable tax exemption,
as set forth in IHC Health Plans, Inc. v. Commissioner.  n26 The court in IHC
Health Plans held that:


     In summary, under section 501(c)(3), a health-care provider must make
     its services available to all in the community plus provide additional
     community or public benefits. The benefit must either further the
     function of government-funded institutions or provide a service that
     would not likely be provided within the community but for the subsidy.
     Further, the additional public benefit conferred must be sufficient to
     give rise to a strong inference that the public benefit is the primary
     purpose for which the organization operates.  n27

   Professor Colombo further contends that, "various rulings and court decisions
also make clear that the chief 'plus' is a substantial charity care program,
although certain outreach programs such as wellness education and medical
research may also be significant."  n28

   The debate surrounding nonprofit hospital tax-exempt requirements at the
federal level continues on, aided in large part by the efforts of Senator Chuck
Grassley of Iowa, who most recently called on the GAO to undertake a study of
how nonprofit hospitals meet their requirement to provide community benefits in
exchange for their tax-exempt status and related tax breaks.  n29 Federal
standards for the charitable tax exemption of nonprofit hospitals under section
50I(c)(3), while now defined to include some form of required benefit to the
community (charity care and/or other factors), are likely to continue undergoing
revisions into the foreseeable future.

   Charitable tax-exempt standards for nonprofit hospitals at the state level
vary widely, and have also evolved over the years by mirroring the changing
standards at the federal level.  n30 As noted previously, states are free to set
forth their own statutes providing for charitable tax exemption, and are not
required to adhere to federal charitable exemption standards. State statutes
providing for nonprofit hospital charitable exemption have consequently been
interpreted in numerous state court opinions. For  [*1588]  example, the
Michigan Supreme Court in Wexford Medical Group v. City of Cadillac  n31
considered the meaning of "charitable institution," which was not defined in the
Michigan statute providing ad valorem property tax exemption for charitable
institutions.  n32 The Michigan Tax Tribunal had previously denied Wexford's
property tax exemption based upon the fact that Wexford reported a $ 10 million
annual budget in the tax year at question, while in the same year Wexford
provided only $ 2,400 in charity care to patients.  n33 The court first held
that the "charitable" inquiry pertains more to "whether an institution could be
considered a 'charitable' one, rather than whether the institution offers
charity or performs charitable work."  n34 The court also held that while a
charitable institution could not discriminate within the group of individuals
who are afforded the benefit of the institution's charitable deeds, a charity
nevertheless does not have to serve every single person regardless of the type
of charity sought or offered.  n35 The court then reversed the lower court
opinions denying charitable tax exemption to Wexford, and held that since the
Legislature did not provide a measuring device to gauge an institutions
charitable composition, that the court could not presuppose the existence of
one.  n36

   As a result of the Wexford opinion,  n37 Michigan is a representative example
of those states which broadly classify nonprofit health care entities as
"charitable" without further statutory definition, as is reminiscent of the
common law origins of the charitable purpose exemption. Other states such as
Pennsylvania and Texas, however, have moved in the opposite direction toward
more strictly defining the contributions which must be made by nonprofit
hospitals to qualify for state and local charitable tax exemption.  n38 In 1993,
the Texas Legislature enacted charity care and community benefits requirements
for charitable hospitals in the state, and thus Texas became the first state to
enact a statute explicitly defining and quantifying the amount of charity care
and community benefits which must be provided to qualify for charitable tax
exemption.  n39 The Texas statute provides that nonprofit hospitals must fulfill
charitable tax-exempt requirements by providing one of the following:


      [*1589]  (1) Charity care and government-sponsored indigent health
     care must be provided at a level that is reasonable in relation to the
     community needs, as determined through the community needs assessment,
     the available resources of the hospital or hospital system, and the
     tax-exempt benefits received by the hospital or hospital system;

     (2) Charity care and government-sponsored indigent health care must be
     provided in an amount equal to at least four percent of the hospital's
     or hospital system's net patient revenue;

     (3) Charity care and government-sponsored indigent health care must be
     provided in an amount equal to at least 100 percent of the hospital's
     or hospital system's tax-exempt benefits, excluding federal income
     tax; or
     (4) Charity care and community benefits must be provided in a combined
     amount equal to at least five percent of the hospital's or hospital
     system's net patient revenue, provided that charity care and
     government-sponsored indigent health care are provided in an amount
     equal to at least four percent of net patient revenue.  n40

   The Pennsylvania General Assembly moved in the same legislative direction by
enacting the Institutions of Purely Public Charity Act (IPPCA) in 1997.  n41 The
IPPCA arose in response to concerns that the standards for charitable tax
exemption in Pennsylvania were being applied inconsistently.  n42 The IPPCA
explicitly requires an institution of purely public charity to demonstrate
advancement of a charitable purpose, which may be satisfied by fulfilling any
one of a number of factors including the relief of poverty, and the prevention
and treatment of disease or injury.  n43 The IPPCA also requires the institution
to "donate or render gratuitously a substantial portion of its services."  n44
This criterion is satisfied if the institution benefits the community by
providing any one of a number of benefits, including providing services "to all
who seek them without regard to their ability to pay," or providing  [*1590]
services to individuals "based on their ability to pay" which may include
reduced fees based on the recipient's income.  n45

   Following the Provena decision, the Illinois General Assembly also moved to
explicitly define requirements for charitable hospital tax exemption, and
recently considered a proposed bill known as the Tax-Exempt Hospital
Responsibility Act which would establish, implement and enforce clear standards
for delivery by Illinois tax-exempt hospitals of charity health care services to
financially qualified persons.  n46 Texas, Pennsylvania and Illinois are
illustrative of at least a slowly moving trend in some states toward allowing
nonprofit hospitals to receive tax-exempt status in exchange for providing
quantifiable charity care amounts or other specified forms of community benefit.
Recent developments in Illinois in the area of state requirements for nonprofit
hospital charitable tax exemption make the state a suitable model for analysis
in subsequent sections of this Comment.

2. Current Illinois Requirements for Tax Exemption of Nonprofit Hospitals

   The Illinois Constitution provides that the General Assembly may exempt from
taxation property used exclusively for charitable purposes.  n47 The Illinois
General Assembly, acting within state constitutional limitations, enacted
section 15-65 of the Property Tax Code which provides that "[a]ll property of
the following is exempt when actually and exclusively used for charitable or
beneficent purposes, and not leased or otherwise used with a view to profit: (a)
Institutions of public charity."  n48

   The factors for determining whether an entity is an institution of public
charity were enumerated by the Illinois Supreme Court in Methodist Old People's
Home v. Korzen.  n49 The court reaffirmed these guidelines in Eden Retirement
Ctr., Inc. v. Dep't of Revenue,  n50 which stated that the guidelines or
criteria generally to be applied in determining whether charitable use was met
are that:


     (1) the benefits derived are for an indefinite number of persons for
     their general welfare or in some way reduces the burdens on
     government; (2) the organization has no capital, capital stock, or
     [*1591]  shareholders, and does not profit from the enterprise; (3)
     funds are derived mainly from private and public charity, and the
     funds are held in trust for the objects and purposes expressed in the
     organization's charter; (4) charity is dispensed to all who need apply
     for it; (5) no obstacles are placed in the way of those seeking the
     benefits; and (6) and the exclusive, i.e., primary, use of the
     property is for charitable purposes.  n51


The court  n52 also stated that charitable use is a constitutional requirement
for exemption from property taxation, and that applicants for a charitable use
property tax exemption must comply unequivocally with the charitable requirement
of exclusive charitable use."  n53

   The judicial interpretation that "exclusive" charitable use means a "primary"
use was applied by the Illinois Court of Appeals in a 2006 opinion, Cmty. Health
Care Inc. v. Dep't of Revenue,  n54 where the court held that property owned by
a nonprofit medical clinic did not meet the primarily charitable use test when
the clinic admitted that they used their property to provide free or discounted
medical care to the medically underserved community only twenty-seven percent of
the time. The clinic's use of the property for the remaining seventy-three
percent of the time was spent in the normal operation of a nonprofit medical
clinic providing services to patients with the means to pay for care received.
n55 The court concluded that the clinic's use of its facility for a charitable
purpose was therefore "debatable," and that the issue must be resolved in favor
of taxation.  n56

   To summarize, current Illinois law does not require the provision of a
defined amount of charity care in order to qualify for tax exemption based on
the charitable purpose use. Illinois standards for nonprofit hospital charitable
tax exemption in use prior to 2006 are similar to those required at the federal
level, and are more like those used in states such as Michigan, where court
opinions broadly define principles for nonprofit hospital charitable tax
exemption based on the historic perception of hospitals as institutions of
charity. More recent Illinois court opinions and Department of Revenue
determinations including the Provena case and the Community Health Care case,
however, have  [*1592]  moved the Illinois standards for charitable purpose tax
exemption in the direction of requiring defined amounts of charity care to be
provided by the nonprofit hospital in exchange for receiving tax-exempt status.

3. Proposed Illinois Requirements for Charity Care Provided by Nonprofit
Hospitals

   In January 2006, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan proposed the
Tax-Exempt Hospital Responsibility Act  n57 to "ensure that hospitals taking
advantage of very lucrative tax-exemptions earn that privilege by investing at
least eight percent of total operating costs in care for uninsured or poor
patients."  n58 As of March 2007, the Illinois General Assembly had not passed
the Tax-Exempt Hospital Responsibility Act, and although the lengthy period of
legislative inactivity may ultimately mean that the Act is not adopted, its
provisions are illustrative of the model used by states holding nonprofit
hospitals more directly accountable for providing quantifiable amounts of
charity care in exchange for their tax-exempt status.  n59 The proposed Act
linked nonprofit hospital compliance with the provision of tax exemption under
the Illinois Income Tax Act, the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, and the Property
Tax Code.  n60 The proposed Act also referenced opinions of the Illinois Supreme
Court that have consistently held that in order to satisfy the State's
constitutional requirements for charitable property tax exemption, a hospital
must unequivocally demonstrate that charity is dispensed to all who need and
apply for it.  n61

    [*1593]  The definition of a "tax-exempt hospital" under the proposed Act
required that the hospital be organized as a not-for-profit corporation or
charitable trust in Illinois or any other state or country.  n62 The most
far-reaching and controversial provision of the proposed Act required tax-exempt
hospitals to furnish aggregate annual charity care in an amount equal to at
least eight percent (8%) of the hospital's total operating costs.  n63 The
proposed Act also mandated that "full charity care" must be provided to any
uninsured Illinois resident who applied and had a family income of no more than
150% of the federal poverty guidelines.  n64 Significant mandatory reporting
requirements for tax-exempt hospital disclosure were also drafted into the
proposed Act, including:


     (1) the total number of charity care applications received, approved
     and denied by the hospital on an annual basis; (2) the total number of
     charity care patients at the hospital with separately itemized details
     by recipient; (3) the hospital's most recent set of audited financial
     statements and most recently filed Medicare cost report; (4) a
     statement detailing the aggregate dollar amount of charity care
     furnished by the hospital as reported on the actual cost of services
     performed; (5) a statement detailing the hospital's net patient
     service revenue and its investment income; and (6) the total amount of
     funds that were derived from any source other than patient service
     revenues, and that were used by the hospital to subsidize the cost of
     charity care in the annual reporting period.  n65

   Not unexpectedly, the proposed Illinois Act received almost immediate
opposition from those constituencies in the state that would be most greatly
impacted by heightened requirements for nonprofit hospital charitable tax
exemption.  n66

 [*1594]  B. State and Local Business Tax Incentives Available to For-Profit
Corporations

1. Overview of State and Local Tax Incentive Programs

   The history of state tax incentives stretches back to 1791 when tax
abatements were offered to Alexander Hamilton by the State of New Jersey in
exchange for locating a manufacturing plant in the state.  n67 Mississippi
pioneered tax-exempt bonds used to attract industry in 1936, and since that time
all states have developed programs to financially assist new or expanding
businesses.  n68 A leading legal scholar in the area of state taxation noted
that "scarcely a day goes by without some state offering yet another tax
incentive to spur economic development, often in an effort to attract a
particular enterprise to the state."  n69

   State business tax incentives come in many forms, and most states have
implemented, at a minimum, investment tax credits, job creation credits, and
property tax abatement programs.  n70 The underlying rationale for these
incentives includes attracting and retaining business investment with
accompanying jobs.  n71 Business tax credits typically involve "investing in
plants, expanding employment in existing enterprises, or creating new jobs
within a state."  n72 States allow business tax credits to be applied toward
"corporate income taxes, business franchise taxes, gross receipts taxes, real
property taxes, personal property taxes, or other tax liabilities."  n73 Tax
exemptions or abatements are often applied to real and personal property, and
also are often extended only for a limited period of time.  n74 Tax increment
financing incentives have also gained popularity, and these incentives typically
include "low-cost loans, . . . infrastructure such as roads and utilities,
tax-exempt bond financing," and sometimes direct subsidies to businesses.  n75
These various types of state business tax incentives are generally referred to
as "tax expenditures," as they are tax breaks in the form of credits and
[*1595]  abatements given to corporations, individuals or other organizations
which result in forgone revenue to the state.  n76

   Business tax incentive programs, like nonprofit hospital tax exemption laws,
share a chorus of critics including legal scholars, commentators, special
interest groups and individual taxpayers.  n77 Supporters of business tax
incentives advance several arguments for their worth, including (1) reducing the
tax burden on businesses so that they earn higher profits in order to stimulate
growth and investment within a state; (2) lowering business taxes as a way of
improving the state's business climate; (3) offering incentives to attract
businesses from other states; and (4) that business incentives are revenue
neutral because additional capital investment and new job creation will generate
more than enough revenue growth to offset the lost revenue not collected by the
state.  n78 Opponents of business tax incentive counter these arguments by
stating that (1) taxes collected from businesses are needed to provide financial
support for public services; (2) business tax incentives can undermine factors
that contribute to a positive business climate; (3) there is little evidence to
support the fact that tax cuts and incentives motivate firms to relocate; and
(4) the expansion of business tax incentives has caused a profound long-term
shrinkage in the share of state revenues contributed by businesses and cost the
states billions of dollars in lost revenue.  n79

   Business tax incentives have also faced challenges in court. A notable recent
Supreme Court opinion was issued in DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno,  n80 where
the Court reviewed a Sixth Circuit Court opinion holding that an Ohio investment
tax credit violated the dormant aspect of the Commerce Clause.  n81 The Supreme
Court in DaimlerChrysler Corp.  [*1596]  ultimately vacated the Sixth Circuit
Court opinion by holding that the citizen taxpayer plaintiffs challenging the
Ohio investment tax credit lacked standing under Article III to challenge the
tax because their alleged injury was hypothetical and was not fairly traceable
to the state's allegedly unlawful conduct.  n82 Despite their controversial
aspects, states continue to use tax incentive programs as part of their business
and economic plans to increase in-state investment and employment.  n83 Illinois
business tax incentive programs will be used as models for analysis in the
following sections.

2. Business Tax Incentives in Illinois

   Illinois currently has a wide variety of tax credits and incentives available
to businesses.  n84 One example of an Illinois tax incentive program is the
Economic Development for a Growing Economy (EDGE) incentive, which provides tax
credits for a maximum of ten years for a qualifying project.  n85 To qualify for
EDGE credits, a business project must make a minimum investment of $ 5 million
in capital improvements and employ at least twenty-five new employees within the
state.  n86 The Illinois Department of Commerce has discretion in determining
the amount of the tax credit awarded, and considers factors such as number and
location of jobs created, potential impact on the Illinois economy, the
incremental payroll attributable to the project, the amount of the average wage
and benefits paid by applicant, and the cost to Illinois and affected political
subdivisions with respect to the project.  n87 Illinois law requires that an
EDGE tax credit recipient must fulfill an agreement to maintain operations at
the project location for a specified duration,  [*1597]  adhere to a specific
method for determining the number of new employees employed during the taxable
year, and report to the state if it determines that the required number of jobs
or investment are no longer being maintained as set forth in the agreement.  n88

   The Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) program is another example of a tax
incentive program that is designed to encourage large-scale economic development
activities by providing tax incentives to companies that make a "substantial"
capital investment in operations, and that will create or retain a specified
number of jobs.  n89 The HIB program is part of the Illinois Enterprise Zone
Act,  n90 and allows businesses to qualify for investment tax credits, state
sales tax exemption on building materials, state sales tax exemption on
manufacturing equipment purchases and exemption from state gas and electric tax
in exchange for a minimum investment of $ 12 million and creation of 500
full-time jobs.  n91 Alternatively, a business may apply for the HIB program if
it intends to make a minimum investment of $ 30 million and retain 1,500
full-time jobs at a designated Illinois location.  n92 The state is required to
revoke an entity's HIB designation if they fail to comply with the conditions of
agreement.  n93

   Illinois for-profit corporations may also qualify for property tax abatements
if they are located within a designated Illinois Enterprise Zone.  n94 The
Illinois Revenue Act authorizes a taxing district to abate any portion of its
taxes on real property located within an enterprise zone where new improvements
have been constructed, or where existing improvements have been renovated or
rehabilitated.  n95 The enterprise zone property tax abatement provision is
described as "broader and more flexible" than the provisions in the property tax
code.  n96 Enterprise zone property tax abatements are available to all classes
of real property (commercial, residential, and industrial), and may be offered
in any amount up to an aggregate amount of $ 3 million offered by all taxing
[*1598]  districts.  n97 Unlike many of the Illinois business tax incentives
which are limited in duration, "the Enterprise Zone property tax abatement
provisions may be offered for any number of years," and they share an unlimited
duration element with the Illinois charitable tax exemptions offered to
qualifying nonprofit hospitals.  n98

   HIB, EDGE and the Illinois Enterprise Zone statutes are examples of three
Illinois tax expenditures seeking to provide significant economic benefits to
the state in terms of business investment and jobs. Illinois law does provide
for accountability in the use of corporate tax expenditures in the Corporate
Accountability for Tax Expenditures Act.  n99 The Act requires disclosure of all
development assistance agreements resulting from programs approved by each state
granting body within the prior calendar year, as well as submission of an annual
Unified Economic Development Budget to the General Assembly.  n100 Expenditure
reports for Fiscal Year 2005 show that "the impact of general business
expenditures in Illinois was $ 960 million."  n101 EDGE tax credits produced $
9.08 million in tax expenditures,  n102 while HIB and Enterprise Zone credits
added approximately $ 69.7 million in tax expenditures in FY 2005.  n103 The
reported tax expenditures highlight the fact that for-profit corporations are
given significant tax breaks in Illinois based primarily upon their perceived
economic benefit to the state, and also demonstrate that the state is willing to
forgo substantial revenue dollars in an effort to attract and retain for-profit
corporate citizens as part of state taxation and economic development policy.
n104

    [*1599]  III. THE CASE FOR RECOGNIZING THE ECONOMIC BENEFIT OF NONPROFIT
HOSPITALS

   In light of the willingness of states to offer tax incentives to for-profit
corporations in exchange for capital investment and job creation or maintenance,
states should take a step back and more broadly consider the economic benefits
provided by nonprofit hospitals, as well as what should be required in exchange
for their tax-exempt status. States can begin consideration by reviewing the
rationale behind their support for the use of business tax incentive programs as
tools for encouraging economic development and growth. In Illinois, for example,
the state was willing to contribute nearly $ 80 million in tax expenditures from
EDGE, HIB and Enterprise Zone credits and abatements in FY 2005 to for-profit
corporations.  n105 These significant business tax incentives were extended in
order to secure capital investment in the state, as well as to encourage job
creation and maintenance.

   If economic benefits to the state are worth millions in business tax
expenditures annually, the question naturally arising within the broader scope
of state taxation and economic policy is, "Why is economic benefit not included
as a factor in all state tax exemption evaluations where the recipient of the
exemption, such as a nonprofit hospital, has the potential to provide, or is
already providing, significant economic benefit to the state?" The answer to
this question with respect to nonprofit hospitals is embedded in the historic
perception of these hospitals as "charities" which began in this country in the
1750s to serve the poor.  n106 Some 250 years later, nonprofit hospitals are
still primarily regarded as "charities" that should be providing substantially
all of their services at no charge or at discounted rates below cost to the
community at large. The charitable sentiment is referenced in the proposed
Illinois Act suggesting that hospitals must unequivocally demonstrate that
charity is dispensed to all who need and apply for it.  n107

   Many of the current state tax-exempt laws retain this sentiment and still
regard hospitals as charitable institutions.  n108 The unchanging perception of
nonprofit hospitals as charities has led many states to retain their focus on
provision of charitable care as either the single or the  [*1600]  primary
evaluative factor for extending tax-exempt status to nonprofit hospitals.
However, this single-factor focus is no longer merited, and should not be
retained by states. Nonprofit hospitals are arguably far more valuable today in
terms of their ability to provide significant economic benefits to states in
exchange for their tax exemptions than they were hundreds of years ago when
hospitals functioned exclusively to reduce the visible effects of poverty in
burgeoning American cities.  n109

   The inclusion of economic benefit as a factor in nonprofit hospital tax
exemption evaluation is an idea that is long overdue in state taxation and
economic development policy. As noted earlier in this Comment, nonprofit
hospitals are often criticized for running their business operations in a
similar manner to for-profit corporations.  n110 This criticism ignores the
reality of contemporary nonprofit hospitals because they are entities that
operate within a modern economy where it is no longer economically feasible to
provide advanced levels of health care services at little or no charge to the
community. By today's standards, technologically advanced health care services
must be provided to meet the representative standard of care in the health care
community.  n111 Rather than criticizing hospitals for operating as nonprofit
corporations, states should look upon nonprofit hospitals as desirable
businesses that provide significant economic benefits to the community in terms
of jobs and capital investment.

   Nonprofit hospitals have themselves begun to recognize their economic value,
despite the lack of recognition of their value as economic entities by most
states. The American Hospital Association (AHA) recently published an assessment
of the economic contribution of nonprofit hospitals.  n112 The AHA report found
that in 2004: (1) hospitals accounted for approximately fifteen percent (15%) of
Gross Domestic  [*1601]  Product, or $ 571 billion; (2) hospitals support nearly
one out of every ten jobs in the U.S. either directly or indirectly; (3)
community hospitals employed nearly 5 million people and spent nearly $ 246
billion on goods and services; (4) hospitals paid approximately $ 249 billion in
employee compensation; and (5) that hospitals regularly rank among the top ten
employers in large urban areas.  n113

   A 2005 study commissioned by the Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council
found that the hospitals in that geographic area have a significant impact on
the local economy in that they: (1) employ approximately 142,347 full-time
equivalent employees; (2) generate a payroll of over $ 8.9 billion annually, or
over $ 90 million per hospital; (3) pay an average wage of $ 63,800; and (4)
invest approximately $ 1.8 billion annually in capital expenditures."  n114 The
significance of these economic statistics strengthens the argument that Illinois
and other states should consider the economic benefit of nonprofit hospitals as
a factor in evaluating their tax-exempt status. These statistics demonstrate
that the economic performance of many nonprofit hospitals meets or exceeds the
requirements imposed on for-profit corporations to earn tax incentives and
abatements available under many state business tax incentive programs.  n115

   Another notable example of the economic benefit of nonprofit hospitals comes
from Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Children's Memorial is building a
new hospital scheduled to break ground in 2008, and the construction phase of
the project is expected to generate approximately 15,500 new jobs and $ 1.5
billion in business activity between 2007 and 2012 when the new hospital is
scheduled to open.  n116 After its first full year of operation, the new
Children's Memorial Hospital is projected to generate an ongoing economic impact
that includes "the creation of more than 10,000 jobs" and "an annual business
volume of $ 857 million statewide."  n117 The magnitude of capital investment
and large number of jobs created makes the Children's  [*1602]  Memorial project
a strong candidate for winning both an EDGE and HIB award if it were a
for-profit corporation, because the dollars of capital investment and number of
jobs created in this project far exceeds the requirements for either of these
business incentive programs. The Children's Memorial hospital project is another
compelling example of the economic benefit of nonprofit hospitals, particularly
when compared to the requirements placed on for-profit businesses in Illinois to
qualify for business tax incentives.

   Provena Health is much smaller in terms of size of operations than Children's
Memorial, yet it also provides significant economic benefits to the communities
that it serves. Provena operates six hospitals in eastern Illinois, including
Provena Covenant which lost its tax-exempt status in 2003, and that since that
time has paid $ 4.8 million in property taxes.  n118 Provena Health's audited
2005 financial statements show that the system paid $ 487 million in salary and
benefits, and released $ 3.8 million in restricted net assets to invest in the
purchase of property, plant, and equipment.  n119 That level of investment may
not qualify an entity with the resources of Provena for an EDGE or HIB credit in
Illinois, but it might qualify such an entity for tax credits or property tax
abatements if investing in a designated Illinois Enterprise Zone.  n120 It is
interesting to note that five of the six Provena Hospitals are located in cities
or counties where Illinois Enterprise Zones exist.  n121

   All of the previously cited economic benefit data overwhelmingly supports the
contention that nonprofit hospitals are substantial contributors to the state's
economy.  n122 State tax-exempt laws that exclude economic benefit data as an
evaluative factor for nonprofit hospitals should therefore undergo examination
within the broader scope of state taxation policy for objectives of fairness,
economic efficiency, and sound public policy. A valid starting point for this
evaluation is the practice of states to focus exclusively, or to weigh most
heavily, the factor of providing charity care as the key to granting nonprofit
hospital tax exemption. There is no parallel system of single factor evaluation
when states consider applications from for-profit entities for business tax
[*1603]  incentive programs. In fact, states like Illinois are using multiple
evaluative factors when qualifying businesses for tax incentive programs. Recall
that Illinois business tax incentive programs evaluate applicants based on
several factors including the number of jobs created by the business, the
potential impact on the state economy, the average wage paid by the business,
and the cost to Illinois with respect to these projects.  n123 A multi-factored
evaluation process for tax credits and exemptions is more likely to result in
tax expenditures being granted based on a variety of benefits that the state may
recover in exchange for lost tax revenue. If states are willing to grant
business tax incentives based on a variety of economic benefits to the state,
there is no compelling reason to limit the evaluation of nonprofit tax exemption
to the single factor of charity care amounts provided annually, especially when
this excludes the consideration of the millions of dollars invested and the
thousands of jobs with a high average wage created in the state by nonprofit
hospitals.  n124

   In order to achieve objective fairness between requirements for tax credits
and abatements imposed on nonprofit and for-profit entities, there is not a
compelling reason to exclude the provision of goods or services to the state as
an evaluative factor required when granting business tax incentives to
for-profit corporations. As demonstrated previously, there is more than adequate
data available to document the substantial economic benefit provided by
nonprofit hospitals to the state. Legislative mandates requiring specified
amounts of charity care to be provided in exchange for nonprofit hospital tax
exemption places a higher burden on these nonprofit organizations than is
imposed on for-profit corporations. For-profit corporations qualify for most tax
incentives in Illinois and other states based on their capital investment in the
state and/or the number of jobs created or maintained as the only required
financial investments. There are no current requirements for business tax
incentive recipients to provide any services or products free of charge as a
condition for receiving tax credits or exemptions as would parallel the current
requirement imposed on nonprofit hospitals to provide health care services at no
charge. Theoretically, since most states are in need of infrastructure services
such as improving roads or maintaining parks and public spaces, how unthinkable
is it to require manufacturing or industrial businesses to contribute products
and services to state and local governments in partial exchange for the various
business tax incentives that many of these businesses receive? This idea does
not seem unreasonable when considering creating or amending state tax-exempt
laws that are objectively fair and that demonstrates economic efficacy,
especially since the value of commercial and industrial products and services
provided by for-profits can be quantified in the same way that  [*1604]  the
value of charity care services can be quantified by nonprofit hospitals.  n125

   Next, the duration of tax exemptions that are awarded in the state should be
examined for objectives of fairness, economic efficiency and sound public
policy. As noted earlier, it is true that many of the available Illinois
business tax incentive programs are limited in duration. Recall, for example,
that the Illinois EDGE credits were limited in duration to no longer than ten
years for a project. The fact that many business tax incentives are limited in
duration may be a factor examined by states for objectives of fairness, as the
generally accepted principle on the nonprofit hospital tax exemptions side is
that these exemptions are granted in perpetuity so long as the hospital
continues to meet state standards imposed for tax exemption. Not all business
tax incentive programs are limited in duration, however, and the Illinois
Enterprise Zone Act is an example of an incentive program which may be offered
for any number of years. Data reported for FY 2005 in Illinois showed that the
value of Enterprise Zone tax expenditures ($ 69.7 million) far exceeded the
value of EDGE tax expenditures ($ 9.08 million) for the same time period.  n126
The report does not specify detail on the duration of Enterprise Zone tax
exemptions granted, but it suggests the possibility that the state is willing to
forgo millions in tax revenue for a potentially unlimited number of years under
this business tax incentive program.  n127

   The unlimited duration of nonprofit hospital tax exemption has not gone
unchallenged in states. The Illinois Department of Revenue has shown, for
example, that it is not reluctant to revoke the tax-exempt status of nonprofit
hospitals if they are deemed to fail the charitable purposes test currently
utilized as the tax-exempt standard, as demonstrated in the Provena Covenant
case.  n128 To achieve objectives of fairness, economic efficiency and sound
public policy, Illinois and other states should examine the duration of tax
exemptions and credits in relation to the required return to the state. One
possible explanation for why some states have moved toward imposing the
requirement of significant quantities of charity care provided by nonprofit
hospitals to merit tax exemption may be based on the practice of granting these
nonprofit hospital tax exemptions of unlimited duration. Since states like
Illinois also grant some tax exemptions to for-profit corporations on a
potentially unlimited basis, however, states should either impose greater
[*1605]  requirements on for-profit corporations receiving unlimited tax
exemptions, or balance the requirements imposed on nonprofit hospitals in terms
of providing services at no charge so that the overall state tax expenditure
policy is objectively fair and economically efficient. State tax expenditure
policy should be rationally conceived for both nonprofit and for-profit
corporations in order to provide the required return to the state in exchange
for these tax exemptions, whether extended for a specified duration or for an
unlimited duration.

   Finally, the objectives of fairness, economic efficiency and sound policy
should be examined in the area of accountability standards for state tax
exemptions. State public policy is advanced by imposing reasonable
accountability standards for both nonprofit and for-profit tax expenditures, and
this in turn helps ensure that the required return to the state is being
achieved in the form of economic benefits. For-profit corporations receiving tax
incentives in Illinois are required to enter agreements, as noted previously,
adhering to the terms required by the state as a qualification for the award.
n129 Illinois business incentive recipients are required to document number of
jobs created or retained along with capital investments made. For-profit
corporations routinely capture capital investment figures as part of their
required financial reporting,  n130 and also keep track of employee counts for a
variety of purposes. Under Illinois law, the state fulfills the majority of the
accountability function under business incentive programs rather than placing
these accountability requirements on the for-profit tax incentive recipients.
n131

   Accountability standards for nonprofit hospital tax exemptions are becoming
an area of focus in the debate over nonprofit hospital accountability. Current
law in many states, including Illinois, does not explicitly provide for a
reporting method to establish accountability for adhering to standards the state
imposes on its nonprofit hospitals in exchange for tax-exempt status. Illinois
proposed a much different accountability standard in the Tax-Exempt Hospital
Responsibility Act,  n132 which would have created multiple layers of detailed
reporting to document the provision of nonprofit hospital charity, as this is
the primary factor used in Illinois to earn nonprofit hospital tax exemption.

   States should carefully consider the accountability standards placed on
nonprofit hospitals to document their compliance with state tax-exempt
requirements. A balance should be struck between providing adequate information
and burdening the nonprofit hospital with  [*1606]  excessive reporting
requirements to establish their tax-exempt qualifications. The risk of imposing
extremely heightened reporting requirements on nonprofit hospitals for
justifying their tax exemption is that the resulting burden on the nonprofit
hospital in terms of cost may likely outweigh any benefit to the state. It is
realistic to expect that exposing nonprofit hospitals to greater personnel and
processing costs to meet heightened reporting requirements such as those
proposed in the Illinois Act will be counterproductive to their ability to
provide more charity care and greater economic benefits to the state. If states
like Illinois are willing to bear the majority of the accountability reporting
burden under current business incentive programs provided to for-profit
corporations, the question should be raised as to why nonprofit hospitals would
then be required at their own expense to fulfill the majority of the
accountability reporting function largely without help from the state. This type
of accountability standard has the effect of cost-shifting the expense of
fulfilling the accountability standard to nonprofit hospitals, and ultimately
throws the objectives of fairness and economic efficiency out of balance. Such a
result would be an example of poorly conceived state tax exemption policy.

   IV. CONCLUSION

   States universally accept the concept of business tax incentives as a way of
attracting and retaining business and industry to the state. Used judiciously,
business tax incentives to for-profit corporations may benefit states in
attracting and retaining jobs and related economic benefits. When it comes to
nonprofit hospitals and state tax exemption, however, work must be done to
refine the methods of evaluation currently used by many states to determine
whether the nonprofit hospitals merit their tax-exempt status.

   States should relinquish the archaic practice of treating nonprofit hospitals
as if they were the contemporary equivalent of alms houses for the poor, and
instead adopt a modern view of the capability of nonprofit hospitals that
includes consideration of economic benefits provided as at least one factor in
the tax-exempt evaluation process. Nonprofit hospitals are important economic
entities capable of contributing to state and local economic development in a
manner at least equivalent to many for-profit corporations in terms of capital
investment and jobs. The benefits provided by nonprofit hospitals are far
greater than currently acknowledged in state and local taxation policy, and
state laws should be amended to reflect this reality.

   Recognition of the economic benefit provided by nonprofit hospitals also
contributes to sound tax expenditure policy by recognizing and rewarding these
significant contributions to the state in terms of economic growth and
development. Economic benefit is a key concept to be realized by tax
expenditures; therefore economic benefit should be included as one factor in
nonprofit hospital tax-exempt evaluation, most  [*1607]  especially in those
states that require nonprofit hospitals to contribute specified quantities of
charity care to merit tax exemption. The inclusion of nonprofit hospital
economic benefit as a state tax-exempt qualification factor is needed to enhance
fairness in tax expenditure policy between the nonprofit and for-profit sectors.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsLocal GovernmentsFinanceHealthcare LawBusiness Administration &
OrganizationTax ExemptionsHospitalsHealthcare LawBusiness Administration &
OrganizationTax ExemptionsNonhospital Organizations

FOOTNOTES:





n1  Lucette Langnado, Hospital Found "Not Charitable" Loses its Status as Tax
Exempt, WALL ST. J., Feb. 19, 2004, at B1.





n2  Id.





n3  Alice A. Noble, Andrew L. Hyams & Nancy M. Kane, Charitable Hospital
Accountability: A Review and Analysis of Legal and Policy Initiatives, 26 J. L.
MED. & ETHICS 116 (Summer 1998).





n4  Linda S. Moroney, Tightening the Noose on Nonprofits? Nonprofits Targeted
for Reform Whether Needed or Not, Wis. L.J., HEALTH LAW (Special Section, 2005),
available at http://www.wislawjournal.com/special/healthlaw-05/noose.html (last
visited Mar. 17, 2007).





n5  Mark Schlesinger & Bradford H. Gray, How Nonprofits Matter in American
Medicine, And What To Do About It, HEALTH AFFAIRS (Web Exclusive, Jan.-Jun.
2006), at W287.





n6  See Noble et al., supra note 3, at 116.





n7  Thomas C. Buchmueller, Hospital Community Benefits Other Than Charity Care:
Implications for Tax Exemption and Public Policy, 41 HOSP. & HEALTH SERV. ADMIN.
461, 462 (1996).





n8  John D. Colombo, The Failure of Community Benefit, 15 HEALTH MATRIX 29,
37-40 (2005).





n9  Terry F. Buss, The Effect of State Tax Incentives on Economic Growth and
Firm Location Decisions: An Overview of the Literature, 15 ECON. DEV. Q. 90, 91
(2001).





n10  James K. Smith, Use of Business Tax Incentives: Part 1, 17 J. ST. TAX'N 1
(1999).





n11  James K. Smith, Use of Business Tax Incentives: Part 2, 18 J. ST. TAX'N 1,
2 (1999).





n12  Stanley S. Surrey & Paul R. McDaniel, The Tax Expenditure Concept and the
Budget Reform Act of 1974, 17 B.C. INDUS. & COM. L. REV. 679, 680 (1975-76). The
origin of the term "tax expenditures" comes from the Congressional Budget Act of
1974, which included a definition of the term and a special analysis section
entitled "Tax Expenditures." Id. at 679. Tax expenditures are departures from
the normal tax structure that are designed to favor a particular industry,
activity or class of persons. Id. at 680. Tax expenditures are also referred to
as "tax incentives" or "tax subsidies," and may take one of several forms
including deductions, deferrals of tax liabilities, credits against tax, special
rates or permanent exclusions. Id.





n13  The author acknowledges the existence of both business tax incentives and
the tax exemption of nonprofit hospitals at the state level, and seeks to
examine their use in state taxation and economic policy, rather than expressing
opinions on their merits in this Comment.





n14  William H. Oakland & William A. Testa, State-Local Business Taxation and
the Benefits Principle, 20 ECON. PERSPECTIVES 2 (1996).





n15  See John D. Colombo, Hospital Property Tax Exemption in Illinois: Exploring
the Policy Gaps, 37 Loy. U. Chi. L.J. 493, 495 (2006).





n16  Noble et al., supra note 3, at 116.





n17  Margaret A. Potter & Beaufort B. Longest, Jr., The Divergence of Federal
and State Policies on the Charitable Tax Exemption of Nonprofit Hospitals, 19 J.
HEALTH POL. POL'Y & L. 393, 400 (1994).





n18  Id. at 416.





n19  Id. at 402-04.





n20  REV. RUL. 56-185, 1956-1 C.B. 202.





n21  REV. RUL. 69-545, 1969-2 C.B. 117.





n22  Id.





n23  Id.





n24  REV. RUL. 83-157, 1983-2 C.B. 94. This ruling maintained the other
community benefit factors enumerated in REV. RuL. 69-545, and also included the
factor of, "treating of persons paying their bills with the aid of public
programs like medicare and Medicaid" as an example of community benefit. Id.





n25  Colombo, supra note 8, at 42.





n26  325 F.3d 1188, 1197 (10th Cir. 2003).





n27  Id. at 1198.





n28  See Colombo, supra note 8, at 40.





n29  Press Release, U.S. Senate Committee on Finance, Sen. Chuck Grassley, Iowa,
Ranking Member, Grassley Seeks GAO Study of Nonprofit Hospitals' Community
Benefits (Apr. 5, 2007), available at http://www.senate.gov/
finance/press/Gpress/2007/prg040507b.pdf (last visited Nov. 25, 2007). Senator
Grassley refers to the community benefit standard as "loosely defined," and
states that, "[w]e need to get a better handle on how nonprofit hospitals are
fulfilling their requirement to serve the community in exchange for the generous
tax breaks they receive." Id.





n30  See Colombo, supra note 8, at 37.





n31  713 N.W.2d 734, 745 (Mich. 2006).





n32  Id. See also MICH. COMP. LAWS ANN. § 211.70 (West 2006).





n33  Id. at 738.





n34  Id. at 745.





n35  Id.





n36  Id.





n37  713 N.W.2d 734.





n38  See Colombo, supra note 8, at 37-40. See also Potter & Longest, supra note
17, at 409-15.





n39  See Colombo, supra note 8, at 39.





n40  TEX. TAX CODE ANN. § 11.1801(a)(1)-(4) (Vernon 2001).





n41  10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. §§ 371-385 (West 1997).





n42  See 10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. § 372(a)(5) (West 1997). The legislative intent
expressed in the IPPCA is to reduce confusion and confrontation among
traditionally tax-exempt institutions, and to ensure that charitable and public
funds are not unnecessarily diverted from the public good to litigate
eligibility for tax-exempt status by providing the standards to be applied
uniformly in all proceedings throughout the Commonwealth. See 10 PA. CONS. STAT.
ANN. § 372(b) (West 1997).





n43  See 10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. § 375(b)(1)-(6) (West 1997).





n44  10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. § 375(d)(1) (West 1997).





n45  Id.





n46  See H.B. 5000, 94th Gen. Assem., Reg. Sess. (Il. 2006), available at
http://www.ilga.gov/legislation/fulltext.asp?DocName'&SessionId'50&GA'94&DocType
Id'HB&DocNum'5000&GAID'8&LegID'24242&SpecSess'&Session'50 (last visited Nov. 25,
2007).





n47  See ILL. CONST., art. IX, § 6 (1970).





n48  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 200/15-65 (West 2001).





n49  233 N.E.2d 537, 541-42 (Ill. 1968).





n50  821 N.E.2d 240, 248 (Ill. 2004).





n51  Id.





n52  Id.





n53  Id. (quoting Small v. Pangle, 328 N.E.2d 285 (1975), citing People ex rel.
Nordlund v. Ass'n of the Winnebago Home for the Aged, 237 N.E.2d 533 (1968)).





n54  859 N.E.2d 1196 (Ill. App. Ct. 2006).





n55  Id. at 1199-1200. The court's holding that Community Health Care was not
entitled to charitable property tax exemption was also bolstered by the fact
that the clinic could not meet its burden of proof in providing clear and
convincing evidence of its charitable purpose due to a lack of financial data
illustrating the clinic's patient and payor mix. Id.





n56  Id. at 1200.





n57  H.B. 5000, supra note 46.





n58  Press Release, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan, Madigan Proposes Two
Bills to Hold Hospitals Accountable for Charity Care, Stop Unfair Billing and
Collection Practices (Jan. 23, 2006), available at
www.ag.state.il.us/pressroom/2006_01/20060123.html (last visited Nov. 25, 2007).
The Attorney General also introduced a companion bill, the Hospital Fair Billing
and Collection Practices Act, to "require all tax-exempt and for-profit Illinois
hospitals to avoid unfairly aggressive and harassing tactics when seeking
payment from patients." Id. It is interesting to note that the billing and
collection practices legislation, while certainly a partial response to the
Provena Covenant allegation of aggressive debt collection practices, also
applies to for-profit hospitals in Illinois. Id.





n59  H.B. 5000, supra note 46.





n60  Id.





n61  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46 at § 5(b)(2).





n62  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46 at § 10.





n63  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46 at § 25(a). Operating costs were defined as
those reported by the hospital each year in its Medicare Cost Report. Id.





n64  H.B. 5000, supra note 46 at § 15(a)(1)(A). "Full charity care" was defined
as medically necessary services provided as charity care at no charge to a
patient. H.B. 5000 § 10. The federal poverty guideline applicable to Illinois in
2006 for a family of 4 is $ 20,000. Annual Update of the HHS Poverty Guidelines,
71 Fed. Reg. 3848 (Jan. 24, 2006). 150% of the 2006 Federal Poverty Guidelines
for an Illinois family of 4 would be calculated as approximately $ 30,000. Id.





n65  H.B. 5000, supra note 46, at §§ 30(b)(1)-(7).





n66  See Press Release, Illinois Hospital Association, Hospital Leaders Urge
General Assembly To Reject Damaging Proposals On Charity Care and Billing (Feb.
7, 2006), available at
http://www.ihatoday.org/issues/paymenticharity/pressconfrelease.pdf (last
visited Nov. 25, 2007). This press release states that Illinois hospital leaders
were joined by legislators, the Catholic Conference of Illinois, and the
Illinois Chamber of Commerce at the State Capital to talk about the devastating
impact of the proposed bills on hospitals and the health care delivery system.
Id. Effective lobbying against H.B. 5000 may be responsible for legislative
inaction toward adopting the bill over a year after it was first introduced.





n67  See Buss, supra note 9, at 90-91.





n68  Id. See also William J. Barrett, VII, Problems with State Aid to New or
Expanding Businesses, 58 S. CAL. L. REV. 1019, 1020 (May 1985).





n69  Walter Hellerstein, Commerce Clause Restraints on State Tax Incentives, 82
MINN. L. REV. 413 (Dec. 1997).





n70  Peter D. Enrich, Business Tax Incentives: A Status Report, 34 URB. LAW.
415, 417 (Spring 2002).





n71  Id. at 416.





n72  Calvin Kent and Robin Capehart, Chief Justice John Marshall and State
Competition for Economic Development, 22 J. ST. TAX'N 72, 75 (Summer 2003).





n73  Id.





n74  Id.





n75  Id. See also Enrich, supra note 70, at 417.





n76  Daniel W. Hynes, Comptroller, State of Illinois, Tax Expenditure Report,
Fiscal Year 2005, Oct. 2006, at 1, available at
http://163.191.177.7/iocpdf/TaxExpRptFY2005WEBTaxExpRptFY2000WEB.pdf (last
visited Sept. 24, 2007). The Comptroller's report states that, "Illinois tax
expenditures have been used to implement tax fairness (e.g., food and
prescription drug exemption from sales taxes), education policy (e.g., tuition
tax credits), and economic development (e.g., tax exemptions for Enterprise Zone
businesses)." Id.





n77  Michael Schroeder, States Pay Steep Price to Attract Industry -- Local
Taxpayers, Small Businesses Bear the Burden, Say a Growing Chorus of Critics,
WALL ST. J., Jun. 29, 2005, at A4.





n78  ROBERT G. LYNCH, RETHINKING GROWTH STRATEGIES: How STATE AND LOCAL TAXES
AND SERVICES AFFECT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 4-18 (Econ. Pol'y Inst. 2004). See also
Kent, supra note 72, at 75.





n79  Lynch, supra note 78, at 4-18. See also Enrich, supra note 70, at 417.





n80  126 S. Ct. 1854 (2006).





n81  Id. at 1859-60, 1868. See also Cuno v. DaimlerChrysler, Inc., 386 F.3d 738
(6th Cir. 2004). The Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution authorizes
Congress to "regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes." U.S. CONST. art. I, § 8, cl. 3. While there
is no explicit constitutional provision prohibiting states from burdening
interstate commerce, the Supreme Court has inferred such a prohibition based
upon the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the states. ERWIN
CHEMERINSKY, CONSTITUTIONAL LAW: PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES 419 (3d ed. 2006). The
resulting doctrine is known as the "dormant" or "negative" aspect of the
Commerce Clause, and it "is the principle that state and local laws are
unconstitutional if they place an undue burden on interstate commerce." Id. at
419-20.





n82  DaimlerChrysler Corp., 126 S. Ct. at 1862-65, 1868. The Supreme Court noted
that the Court had previously denied standing to federal taxpayers under Article
III, and that this rational applied "with undiminished force to state taxpayers
who allege simply that a state fiscal decision will" impose disproportionate
burdens on them. Id. at 1856.





n83  Joshua S. Smith & John D. Miller, The Economics of Business Attraction: Are
Beneficial Michigan Tax Incentives in Jeopardy After Sixth Circuit Court Ruling
?, 84 MICH. BAR J. 16 (Sept. 2005).





n84  Ill. Dep't of Commerce and Economic. & Econ. Opportunity, Tax Assistance,
available at
http://www.illinoisbiz.biz/dceo/Bureaus/Business_Development/Tax+Assistance
(last visited Nov. 25, 2007).





n85  State of Illinois Business Portal, Illinois EDGE Program, available at
http://business.illinois.gov/assistance_edge.cfm (last visited Nov. 25, 2007).





n86  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-20(b)(1) (2005). EDGE alternatively allows
business applicants with fewer than 100 employees to make a minimum investment
of $ 1 million in capital improvements and create at least five new jobs in
exchange for the EDGE credits. 35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-20(b)(3) (1999).





n87  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-40(1)-(7) (1999).





n88  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-50(1)-(14) (1999). The agreement also authorizes
the Illinois Department of Commerce to, "take whatever actions are necessary or
appropriate to protect the State's interest in the event of bankruptcy, default,
foreclosure, or noncompliance with the terms and conditions of financial
assistance or participation required under this Act." 35 ILL. COMP. STAT.
10/5-10(j) (1999).





n89  Ill. Dep't of Commerce & Economic & Econ. Opportunity, Tax Assistance, High
Impact Business, available at
http://www.illinoisbiz.biz/dceo/Bureaus/Business_Development/Tax+Assistance/HIB.
htm (last visited Nov. 25, 2007).





n90  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 655/5.5(2005) (amended 2007).





n91  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 655/5.5(a)(3)(A) (2005) (amended 2007).





n92  Id.





n93  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 655/5.5(g) (2005).





n94  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 200/18-170 (2006).





n95  Id.





n96  Illinois Enterprise Zone Association Website, Property Tax Incentives FAQ,
available at
http://www.ieza.org/component/option,com_easyfaq/Itemid,43/task,cat/catid,29
(last visited Nov. 25, 2007). See also 35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 200/18-165 (2006).





n97  Illinois Enterprise Zone Association Website, Property Tax Incentives FAQ,
supra note 96.





n98  Id.





n99  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/1-99 (2003).





n100  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/20(a) (2003). Development assistance programs
defined under the Act are the tax credits and exemptions given as incentives to
businesses under EDGE, HIB, the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act and other state
business incentive programs. 20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/10 (2003).





n101  Hynes, supra note 76, at 9.





n102  Id. at G-2. The EDGE tax expenditures were attributable to corporate
income taxes. Id, at B-1.





n103  Id. at G-1-G-2. Enterprise Zone and HIB expenditures were attributable to
the Telecommunications Excise Tax, the Electricity Excise Tax and to sales and
use taxes. Id. at B-1-B-3. Although the Illinois Comptroller's reports for FY
2005 include expenditures attributable to the Charitable Entities Exemption such
as vehicle use tax and sales and use tax, it is impossible to get exact
expenditures attributable only to nonprofit hospital corporations because the
figures on the report include expenditures attributable to all exempt
organizations, including state and local government entities, religious entities
and educational entities that are also exempt from state taxation. Id.





n104  Id.





n105  Id. at G-1-G-2.





n106  Gary B. Nash, Poverty and Poor Relief in Pre-Revolutionary Philadelphia,
33 WM. & MARY Q. 3, 7 (Jan. 1976). The author discusses the founding of the
"Philadelphia Hospital for the Sick Poor" by stating that the hospital was,
"Regarded with pride by Philadelphians and admired by foreign visitors, the
hospital has become a symbol for historians of the spread of enlightened social
ideas in the New World." Id.





n107  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46.





n108  All of the state tax exempt laws examined in this Comment that are
available to nonprofit hospitals fall under the state's charitable use
exemptions. See TEX. TAX CODE ANN. §§ 11.1801(a)(1)-(4) (Vernon 2001). See also
10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. §§ 371-85 (1997). See also ILL. CONST., art. IX, § 6
(1970).





n109  Nash, supra note 105, at 7. The author notes that a leading motive for
founding the Philadelphia Hospital was the growing dissatisfaction of the middle
and upper classes with rising poor rates in the city.





n110  Schlesinger, supra note 5, at W28.





n111  Michael E. Chernew et al., Barriers to Constraining Health Care Cost
Growth, 23 HEALTH AFFAIRS 122 (Nov.-Dec. 2004). The authors note that as of
2004, health care spending is growing much more rapidly than the economy as a
whole. Id. The authors cite the opinion of health economists, as a majority of
these "economists concur that the use of innovative technology has historically
been the main driving force behind health care cost growth. Id. See also Peter
P. Budetti, M.D., J.D. et al., Medical Malpractice Law in the United States, 5-6
(May 2005), available at
http://www.kff.org/insurance/-upload/Medical-Malpractice-Law-in-the-United-State
s-Report.pdf (last visited Nov. 25, 2007). The authors discuss the required
standard of care to be provided by physicians as a defense to a medical
malpractice claim. The standard of care required to be provided is not modified
by an individual patient's financial need.





n112  Am. Hosp. Ass'n, Beyond Health Care: The Economic Contribution of
Hospitals, (July 2006), available at
http://www.aha.org/aha/content/2006/pdf/ECONRPT3.pdf (last visited Sept. 24,
2007). The AHA report relied on data provided by the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS), the Department of Labor, and the Department of
Commerce. Id.





n113  Id. at 2-3.





n114  GERALD A. DOEKSEN, Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council, The Economic
Impact of Chicago's Hospitals on the Metropolitan Chicago Area, (conducted by
Dr. Gerald A. Doeksen, Professor and Health Economist at Oklahoma State
University, 2005), available at https://www.mchc.org/care/economic_
reportcom/eweb/docs/newsroom/Value%20of%20Caring%20Full%20Report.pdf (last
visited Sept. 22, 2007).





n115  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-20(b)(1) (2005). See also 20 ILL. COMP. STAT.
655/5-5(a)(3)(A) (2005). Recall that Illinois EDGE credits are available to
businesses in exchange for $ 5 million in capital improvements and creation of
25 new jobs, and HIB credits are available to businesses for a minimum
investment of $ 12 million coupled with the creation of 500 full-time jobs.





n116  Children's Memorial Hospital, Media & Advocacy, New Hospital to Provide
Economic Benefits, available at
http://www.childrensmemorial.org/newsroom/econ_benefits.asp (last visited Sept.
23, 2007).





n117  Id. This total economic impact on the State breaks down to include $ 218
million for the City of Chicago and $ 21 million for the Streeterville
community. Id.





n118  Provena Health and Affiliates, Consolidated Financial Statements and
Supplementary Information at 3, Dec. 31, 2005, available at
http://www.provena.org/documents/About%20Us/2005%20Audited%20Financials.pdf
(last visited Sept. 23, 2007).





n119  Id. Assets limited or restricted as to use include assets set aside by the
Board of Directors for future capital improvements. Id. at 9.





n120  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 200/18-170 (2006).





n121  Illinois Enterprise Zone Association, Enterprise Zone Directory, available
at http://www.ieza.org/component/option,com_mtree/Itemid,26/ (last visited Nov.
25, 2007). It is unknown to the author whether or not any of the Provena
Hospitals are actually located within an Illinois Enterprise Zone. See also
Provena Health, Hospital Ministry Locations, available at
http://www.provena.org/body.cfm?id'220 (last visited Nov. 25, 2007).





n122  Doeksen, supra note 113.





n123  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-40(1)-(7) n.88.





n124  Doeksen, supra note 114.





n125  It is likely to be even easier to quantify the value of business services
and industrial products since they are typically based on fair market value,
whereas nonprofit hospital charity care calculations are fraught with
controversy over whether bad debts and Medicare and Medicaid shortfalls should
be included in the calculation. Id. For a discussion of the problematic issues
in measuring charity care provided by nonprofit hospitals, see, e.g., Colombo,
supra note 8, at 40-43.





n126  Hynes, supra note 76, at G-1, G-2.





n127  Id.





n128  Langnado, supra note 1, at B-1.





n129  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/20(a) (2003), see note 100.





n130  FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD, STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS No. 95, STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 7, 8 (John Wiley & Sons 2007) (Nov.
1987), available at http://www.fasb.org/pdf/fas95.pdf (last visited Nov. 25,
2007).





n131  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/1-99 (2003).





n132  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46, at §§ 30(b)(1)-(7).


                              251 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            March 13, 2004, Saturday

120 patients benefited from dialysis treatment

SECTION: Nation; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 349 words


THE State Government has helped more than 120 patients undergo dialysis
treatment at the Southern Hospital here from 2001 till last year, Chief
Minister Datuk Seri Mohd Ali Rustam said.

They were helped with funds provided by the State Government, corporate
agencies and non-governmental organisations.

Patients only needed to pay between RM30 and RM60 for each treatment,
while the rest was sponsored.

He said there were about 100 patients who underwent dialysis at the
hospital every month and they only needed to make a minimum payment for
treatment.

"We have been able to do this thanks to the excellent economic
performance that Malacca has enjoyed over the years," he said.

Ali added that the State Government hoped to increase the number of
dialysis machines at the hospital soon.

Malacca recorded a 6.5 per cent growth in its Gross Domestic Product
last year.

According to the State Economic Action Council, the 6.5 per cent growth
was higher than the national average of 5.2 per cent.

Since 2000, Malacca had surpassed the national GDP average when it
recorded 9.2 per cent (2000), 0.4 per cent (2001) and 4.6 per cent in
2002.

Driving Malacca's economic growth are the manufacturing, construction
and services sectors, closely followed by the tourism and agricultural
sectors.

The per capita income of residents in Malacca had increased to RM16,535
last year.

This, again, is higher than the national average of RM15,630 recorded
last year.

"Such indicators show that Malacca is well on its way towards achieving
its target of being a developed State by 2010," Ali said.

Inflation here was at its lowest in three years last year, at 1.1 per
cent compared to the national average of 1.2 per cent.

Unemployment, Ali said, had dropped to 3.4 per cent in the third quarter
of last year.

In all, 285,200 people out of the total population of 600,000 were
employed in various sectors last year.

The services sector provides the largest number of jobs with 169,400
employed, followed by agriculture (78,900) and construction (20,200).


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus on Malacca.

            Copyright 2004 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              252 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                      April 30, 2002 Tuesday Final Edition

Tech sector urged to give $53M to expand hospital: Cognos chief faces uphill
battle to get funds from struggling technology sector

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Vito Pilieci

SECTION: City; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 599 words

Ron Zambonini wants the Ottawa business community to contribute $53 million to
expand the Ottawa Hospital.

But many observers feel the Cognos chief executive's timing could not be worse.
With the market for technology products waning and the economy in a trough,
analysts say asking for money from the tech sector is a lot like trying to
squeeze blood from a stone.

"There are more people asking now then we have ever had. (The demands on)
charities right now have got to be at a record high," said Brian Card, president
of the Corporate Research Group. "It is going to be a real challenge to raise
$53 million."

Mr. Zambonini, head of the Ottawa Hospital's fundraising committee says it's
imperative the Ottawa business community make up the funds needed to complete
the hospital's expansion.

He says it is the community's responsibility to support the hospital and the
technology sector should be playing a leading role in raising the necessary
funds. "I want to interest the high-tech community in particular to step up to
the mark here and help the hospital."

But the economic climate is continuing to grow worse. Giants such as JDS
Uniphase Corp. have announced crippling cuts to their workforce and reduced
corporate spending to almost nothing, leaving little hope for Mr. Zambonini's
ambitious financial goals.

"The one thing the technology companies are short of right now is cash," said
Jeffrey Dale, president of the Ottawa Centre for Research and Innovation, a
lobby group representing Ottawa's technology industry. "I wish him all the best,
but it will be a challenge because of the economic times in the tech sector."

Over the past year, the economic slowdown prevented numerous Ottawa technology
startups from attracting the funds they needed to continue operating. Many ended
up going out of business, including Zenastra, Netactive, Sedona, Newlix,
Waterfall Networks and Sybridge.

Longstanding companies such as GSI Lumonics, which has been operating here for
more than 30 years, have been forced to move elsewhere, as customer demand for
product disappeared.

Nortel has cut its workforce from 94,000 people around the world, to 44,000. In
Ottawa, the company went from about 17,000 employees to 8,000.

And now JDS Uniphase Corp. has announced it will need to reduce its workforce by
another 2,000 jobs in addition to the 18,000 it has already cut during the past
year as the company struggles with a collapse in demand for its fibre-optic
components.

Mr. Zambonini admitted that getting the money he needs will "not be a cakewalk".
But if Ottawa is to stay on the leading edge of technology and attracting the
best and brightest minds, then the city must have a "strong and nurturing
community in which to live" and that includes access to a great health care
institution, he said.

He also said it's in the technology companies' best interest to contribute
generously and help drum up the remaining $53 million needed to start the
hospital's expansion.

Mr. Dale agreed. "In the end, if we are going to be a world-class city, we are
going to have to look after our citizens in a world-class way. I'd like to see
some better public-private partnerships start to form."

Mr. Dale said the hospital could look at different ways of trying to raise
funds, aside from straight donations.

He said partnering with different companies around Ottawa and allowing them
access to labs and equipment in exchange for longer-term donations, perhaps over
a period of years, could be one answer to helping the hospital construct its new
facilities.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colour Photo: Bruno Schlumberger, The Ottawa Citizen; Ron Zambonini:
It's in the technology companies' best interest to contribute generously to
start the Ottawa Hospital's expansion.

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

New York: Economic Development Corp, NYC Issues Solicitation for "HHC FEMA
PROGRAM MANAGER RFP"

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Albany: Economic Development Corp, NYC has issued requirement for "HHC FEMA
PROGRAM MANAGER RFP"



 Reference No.:  61610001



 Solicitation Type:  General



 Description: New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC), on behalf
of the City of New York (the &ldquo;City&rdquo;) benefitting New York City
Health and Hospitals Corporation (&ldquo;HHC&rdquo;), is seeking a consultant or
consultant team for consulting services to support EDC in the management and
oversight of design and construction projects at four HHC hospitals: Coney
Island Hospital in Brooklyn, Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan, Metropolitan
Hospital Center in Manhattan, and Coler Specialty Hospital on Roosevelt Island.
These hospitals were severely impacted by Hurricane Sandy, and these projects
seek to improve resiliency and protect against future disasters. The consulting
services outlined in the RFP also include IT and commissioning services.





 Deadline for All responses: 09/09/2015



 Contact Information:



 Economic Development Corp, NYC

 Contracts/Procurement

 Bibi Rashid

 Ms.

 110 William St.

 4th Floor

 New York, NY 10038

 United States

 Ph: 212-618-5796

 Fax: 212-312-3918

 brashid@edc.nyc


 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                           December 13, 2014 Saturday
                                 Early Edition

Rural hospitals play a vital role; Closing them should be a last resort

BYLINE: Al Kemmere, Edmonton Journal

SECTION: IDEAS; Al Kemmere; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 644 words


Rural Albertans recognize that they cannot have it all. Not all municipalities
need a hospital, and not all hospitals can have a full suite of services. All
Albertans do, however, deserve access to a toptier health care system in a
timely and efficient manner. Hospitals are the anchor of many communities and
the anchor of an integrated and robust health-care system.

The Edmonton Journal's recent five-part series Condition: Critical critiqued
Alberta's hospital systems using a variety of statistics including occupancy
rates, in-patient admissions and emergency room visits. While these measurements
are valuable, the recommendation to close several rural hospitals fails to
recognize the health and non-health benefits that hospitals provide to their
surrounding communities and the corresponding negative impacts closing a
hospital has on that community.

The closure of hospitals in any community, but especially in rural areas, will
have immediate negative health impacts at the local and regional level. Rural
residents would be forced to travel longer distances to receive care, which is
not only an inconvenience, but a danger in emergency situations.

This would also create roadblocks to active or preventive treatments, which
increases the risk of long-term ailments. In closing local facilities, rural
residents may be hospitalized hours away from their families and support
networks, both of which are critical components of good health and healing.

Hospitals are also essential to attracting doctors to rural communities. Doctor
and medical staff retention within communities will suffer in the absence of a
hospital, which could ultimately lead to the closure of other local health
services such as clinics and the departure of non-hospital medical specialists.
Additionally, rural hospitals are essential for physician education throughout
the province which promotes the recruitment of healthcare professionals to rural
areas.

In addition to providing significant health benefits to rural communities,
hospitals contribute to economic growth and development, retain and attract
residents to rural areas and promote safe and healthy living. In many of
Alberta's resourcerich areas, rural hospitals provide emergency services and are
often a consideration for investors when they decide on locations for industrial
facilities. Rural Alberta is the economic driver of the province's economy. To
support continued growth and development, rural Alberta needs the health and
social services that will ensure the long-term sustainability of rural
communities.

The closure of a rural hospital should be considered as a last resort and a
greater emphasis should be placed on innovative ways to repurpose current rural
health facilities while maintaining an appropriate level of care. In Westlock,
north of Edmonton, this innovative approach has already been applied in the
town's hospital where hip and knee replacements are completed which are reducing
wait times in Edmonton-area hospitals. Closing a hospital means a lot more than
just the loss of that hospital. It is a reduction in quality of life. It is a
loss of high-quality jobs. It costs rural residents through lost productivity,
time and wages, and is ultimately a threat to the viability of the communities
they serve. There is certainly room for improvement in Alberta's hospital
system, but closing hospitals without considering their broader impact will have
adverse consequences for rural communities across the province. Al Kemmere is
president of the Alberta Association of Municipal Districts and Counties. Since
1909, the association has helped Alberta's rural municipalities achieve strong ,
effective local government. It provides advocacy and aggregated business
services for the province's 69 counties and municipal districts. !@COPYRIGHT=©
2014 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Larry Wong, Edmonton Journal; In addition to providing significant
health benefits to rural communities, hospitals contribute to economic growth
and development, Al Kemmere writes.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Edmonton Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Hawaii: New Guam Private Hospital May Receive Huge Tax Breaks

LENGTH: 889  words

DATELINE: Honolulu


Pacific Islands Development, The State of Hawaii has issued the following news
release:

The island's new private hospital could soon be approved for receiving millions
of dollars in tax breaks over the next two decades.

Hospital officials have said a qualifying certificate -- which is part of a
program that offers tax rebates and abatements to businesses -- is needed for
the hospital's viability and success.

The $219 million hospital, Guam Regional Medical City, is being constructed in
Dededo. The hospital has applied for tax breaks of as much as $170.6 million
over 20 years through the qualifying certificate program.

The governor's Deputy Press Secretary Oyaol Ngirairikl said the governor's
office has received the application and the legal team is reviewing it.

The governor is the last person that needs to sign off on the QC before it is
approved. Gov. Eddie Calvo, who was recently sworn-in for his second term in
office, has said he will approve certain tax breaks for the private hospital
because it fills a community need.

Guam Economic Development Authority Business Development Manager Tina Garcia
said the contract was given to the governor's office on Monday.

The qualifying certificate program has existed since the 1960s and offers tax
rebates and abatements to businesses to encourage them to create jobs and spur
economic growth.

Usually the process doesn't take very long, Garcia said. On average it takes
about four to six months for approval, but this QC needed to be reviewed
thoroughly before it could be approved, she said.

There were some issues with the QC's wording such as what "medical activities"
fell under the category and it needed to be worked on, she said.

"We really had to address a number of issues," she said.

The QC was sent to the AG's office in mid-December for review before it was sent
to the governor's office, she said.

New hospital

The private hospital expects to have a workforce of about 400, according to the
developer. The project's construction phase workforce has been estimated at 300.

The private hospital also will offer specialized health care services, including
cancer care, cardiology and endocrinology, helping to keep money in the local
economy if Guam patients opt to receive care at the private hospital rather than
travel to the Philippines, California or Hawaii, according to an analysis
performed by Guam Economic Development Authority officials.

The QC application has been in review for months and has needed approval from
various agencies including the Guam Economic Development Authority and the
Office of the Attorney General.

GEDA's board approved the recommended tax breaks for the private hospital in a
meeting in December 2013. Since then the QC has been reviewed by the AG's office
and GEDA to fix the wording of the contract.

A GEDA analysis showed the government of Guam will gain $420 million in taxes
over the same 20-year period as a result of the hospital's business.

The private hospital, which will be run by the Philippine-based health care
organization The Medical City, also agreed to accept patients regardless of
their ability to pay, according to a GEDA presentation of its analysis. The
Medical City is Joint Commission-accredited.

Guam faces recurring hospital bed shortages, and the private hospital project
promised to help fill that gap with 130 beds in a 270,000-square-foot hospital
that will open near the Micronesia Mall in Dededo.

The private hospital also will offer specialized health care services, including
cancer care, cardiology and endocrinology, helping to keep money in the local
economy if Guam patients opt to receive care at the Guam private hospital rather
than travel to the Philippines, California or Hawaii, according to GEDA's
analysis.

The hospital was initially expected to open last month, but construction delays
led to the postponement of the opening.

"Overall, we are pleased with the progress, although disappointed we could not
open as planned in December," stated GRMC's chief operating officer, Gloria Long
last month.

"We look forward to the construction being completed in early 2015," she added.

GRMC could open by the first quarter, or at the beginning of the second quarter
next year, she added.

The new hospital has hired about 200 of the 700 people it needs, according to
GRMC.

Under the qualifying certificate program that grants tax breaks to the hospital,
at least 75 of its hires must be U.S. citizens or permanent U.S. residents.

About 58 nurses have been hired from the Philippines, according to GRMC, which
also clarified that no Filipino citizen doctors were hired.

Two of the doctors who were hired are U.S. citizens of Filipino heritage,
according to GRMC, clarifying it hasn't hired foreign doctors.

The hospital has paid about $1.4 million for road improvements on Route 3. The
main entrance to the soon-to-open hospital will be through Route 3.

The project includes a new raised center median, left and right turn lanes into
the hospital entry drive, sidewalks and crosswalks, a traffic signal system and
intersection lighting, according to a statement from GHD, the new hospital
project's architect.

Ambulances and emergency vehicles have a separate access road from visitors to
the facility.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            February 2, 2009 Monday

Economic downturn helps government hospitals retain staff

BYLINE: Ella Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words


The serious shortage of doctors and nurses at public hospitals has received some
relief, as medical workers have been seeking job stability and training
opportunities in the public sector.

The Hospital Authority projected that the turnover figure for the approximately
5,000 public doctors would be 5.1 per cent for 2008-09, the lowest in five
financial years.

Ching Wai-kuen,  the authority's chief manager (medical grade), said the
financial meltdown  had had a positive effect on the flow of talent, and the
turnover was expected to drop further to 4 per cent in 2009-10.

"Since the financial tsunami, the number of doctors leaving the Hospital
Authority has slowed  significantly," Dr  Ching said. "Many doctors want to stay
with public hospitals, which offer job stability and training opportunities."

Also, since October,  Hospital Authority figures show that the number of nurses
who have quit has dropped by half, from an average of 60 a month to 30. A total
of 72 nurses joined the authority between October and December, up from only 40
in the same period in 2007.

Only 33 doctors resigned during the first three months of this financial year,
compared with 51 in the same period last year.  The number of consultants or
senior doctors  who quit dropped from 22 to  seven.

Dr Ching said pay rises and  improved contract terms for doctors since 2007 had
also helped retain talent. The authority will continue to open more consultant
posts to keep experienced doctors. There are now 531 consultants  among the
5,057 public doctors.

The authority plans to recruit more than 300 doctors this financial year.

"With an estimated 200 doctors leaving the authority, it means we will have ...
about 100 doctors more in our workforce," Dr Ching said. "This extra manpower
will help us to introduce new services and improve doctors' work hours."

Plastic surgery and urology  are two specialties that have been hit hard by a
shortage of doctors. There are only 20 public plastic-surgery doctors, including
six trainees.

Plastic surgery is a popular service in the private sector, and public doctors
have quit to open private clinics. The ageing population means high demand for
urology services.

Dr Ching said the authority  might face more manpower shortages in a few years
when the number of medical graduates  dropped.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                        March 1, 2000, Wednesday Edition

FEWER BEDS FOR MENTALLY ILL: STUDY

BYLINE: CATRIONA JACKSON

SECTION: Part A; Page 3

LENGTH: 362 words


Health Reporter
 Mentally ill Australians are dying at a greater rate than the international
average, spend less time in hospital, and have access to fewer hospital beds,
according to a report this week.

In 1995, 14 in every mentally ill Australians died, compared with an average of
11 in across the international Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development, according to the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare.

The United States and Britain sat right on the average; 10 in every Germans
died, and eight in every Irish.

The report is the first to collect national and international statistics on
hospital care for the mentally ill.

Our mentally ill spent less than half the time in hospital their OECD
contemporaries did, locals averaging 14.5 bed days in 1996. The OECD average is
38.5 bed days. We also ranked down the scale in psychiatric beds per head of
population: 0.3 for every 1000 people, against the OECD average of almost one
bed for every 1000.

In Japan there were 2.9 beds for every 1000 people, in the US 0.5.

Report co-author Dr David Braddock said some of these disparities could be
explained by the reduced role of psychiatric hospitals treating Australia's
mentally ill.

"It's estimated that the number of beds available in these institutions declined
by 63 per cent, or 5400 beds, over the past decade, he said." "This is in line
with providing more mental-health services in the community." In other findings:
women were much more prone to anxiety disorders like obsessive compulsive
disorder than men, 820 in being affected, compared with 470 men. Women were
almost twice as likely to be depressed as men, with a prevalence of 500 in
compared with 275 for men.

But men had higher rates of mental illness caused by drug and alcohol abuse,
with a rate of 730 for every men, against 300 for women.

Substance use disorders declined rapidly as both men and women grew older, with
almost no women affected by the age of 65, and only around 2 per cent of men.
Between 18 and 24 years, more than 20 per cent of men had mental problems caused
by substance abuse, and 10 per cent of young women.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

             Copyright 2000 The Federal Capital Press of Australia
                                  Pty Limited


                              258 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 28, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Report: Cost cutting could hurt health care

BYLINE: Lisa Green

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 284 words


Health care providers that are cutting costs need to develop extensive plans to
ensure that the quality of care isn't reduced, the Economic Policy Institute
says in a report due for release Sunday.

Leading hospitals and health maintenance organizations (HMOs) that are
streamlining have not been able to demonstrate that clinical quality is
maintained "let alone enhanced," the report says.

The report, Cost and Quality Matters: Workplace Innovations in the Health Care
Industry, is based on focus groups and interviews with care givers, managers,
union representatives and executives.

Case studies of seven health care providers, including the University of
Michigan Medical Center in Ann Arbor, indicate they have developed ways to
achieve savings over a long period and assess the impact.

"Other institutions are implementing cost-focused work restructuring programs
much more rapidly with less employee training, creating a potential danger for
patients who are sicker and leaving hospitals quicker than ever before," says
Ann Greiner, research associate at EPI, a Washington-based think tank.

Among suggestions in the report: Health care workers who are being asked to take
on more responsibilities because other jobs have been eliminated should have
their pay reviewed - and possibly increased.

Donald White, spokesman for the Group Health Association of America, says the
HMO community is developing ways to measure how cost cutting may affect care.

And Bill Erwin, spokesman for the American Hospital Association, says there's no
evidence that industry restructuring has hurt patient care.

"Patient satisfaction has gone up, so that's one indicator of quality," Erwin
says.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              259 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                 bondbuyer.com

                           September 24, 2010 Friday

Hospitals Boost Illinois Economy to the Tune of $75B, Association Says

BYLINE: Yvette Shields

SECTION: Vol. 1 No. 1

LENGTH: 622  words


CHICAGO - Illinois hospitals pump more than $75.1 billion into the state's
economy annually and provide about $4.9 billion in community benefits, including
$500 million in charity care, a new report from the Illinois Hospitals
Association asserts.

The association's report seeks to underscore the importance of the health care
sector's contributions to the local economy at a time when Medicaid and other
health care-related spending cuts are under consideration at both the state and
federal levels as a means to trim budget deficits.

"To continue to retain and create jobs, attract businesses to their communities,
and provide access to high-quality health care services, it is critical that
Illinois' hospitals have the funding support they need to remain fiscally
healthy," said the association's president, Maryjane Wurth. The report is
available atwww.ihatoday.org/economicreport.pdf.

The association released the report on Friday at its annual leadership summit
and presented it to attendees Gov. Pat Quinn and his Republican opponent in the
November governor's race, state Sen. Bill Brady of Bloomington.

"We urge state and federal lawmakers to take steps to continue to invest in the
state's health care system to ensure that hospitals remain strong and viable
employers in their communities," Wurth said.

In addition to their primary role of providing health care services, the state's
hospitals generate $75.1 billion in economic activity through direct spending,
capital expenditures, payroll, and spending by their employees and suppliers,
according to the report.

The 200 hospitals that are represented by the association, including about 150
not-for-profit hospitals, employ more than 250,000 people who receive $14.8
billion in wages and benefits.

In almost half of the state's counties, hospitals are among the top three
employers.

The health care sector directly spends $13.3 billion annually on goods and
services for patient care. The report also promotes the Medicaid program as a
major economic stimulus as additional federal matching funds flow into state and
hospital coffers through the state's provider tax on hospitals.

Hospitals spent about $3.2 billion on buildings and medical equipment last year,
many tapping the tax-exempt market to fund their projects and purchases.

The sector's overall estimated economic contribution accounts for 6.8% of the
state's gross domestic product, and the sector is expected to create the
greatest number of new jobs in the coming years.

About 100 of the state's not-for-profit hospitals that must report charity care
benefits to the state provided nearly $4.9 billion of community benefits,
including $500 million in charity care last year. That figure is up slightly
from $4.7 billion reported in 2008, according to the report.

The association includes charity care, uncompensated care, subsidized services,
medical research, education and training of health care professionals, and
underpayments for Medicare and Medicaid patients as community benefits. Most
not-for-profit hospitals must submit annual reports to the state to show they
warrant their tax-exempt status under the Illinois Community Benefits Act.

Illinois hospitals have been a focal point of heightened local, state, and
federal scrutiny over whether nonprofit facilities warrant their various
exemptions from taxation.

The state has challenged the property tax exemptions of several hospitals, and
Attorney General Lisa Madigan has proposed setting minimum charity-care
thresholds.

A report last year by the Center for Tax and Budget Accountability said that
Chicago-area hospitals enjoyed an estimated $498 million in tax-exemption
benefits annually while collectively providing just $176 million in charity
care.

URL: http://bb.prod.source-media.psdops.com/news/hospitals
-boost-illinois-economy-to-the-tune-of-75b-association-says

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            January 25, 1993, Monday

Grady's tough act to follow

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 10

LENGTH: 491 words


Robert Johnson leaves his job as Grady Memorial Hospital's executive director
with a list of impressive accomplishments to his credit. But he also leaves
behind a number of challenges that make it critical that the Fulton-DeKalb
Hospital Authority choose his successor wisely.

Mr. Johnson's three-year tenure coincided with tenuous times for public
hospitals across the nation. The skyrocketing cost of health care, the economic
downturn that swelled the ranks of indigent patients, the spread of the AIDS
epidemic, and other factors dramatically increased the burden on
taxpayer-supported hospitals.

Grady certainly did not escape such woes, but Mr. Johnson's leadership helped
keep it on a firmer foundation than many similar facilities now have. He has
sharply increased the hospital's collection of payments for patient services
from private and government sources. This has lowered the percentage of Grady's
operating budget that must be picked up by Fulton and DeKalb counties from 44
percent to 24 percent.

The hospital has ambitious expansion projects under way. About $ 318 million in
work on the main Downtown building will bring long overdue relief for patients
and employees who have endured cramped and antiquated facilities. And the new
AIDS clinic Grady is establishing will ensure the hospital can handle the
expected dramatic increases in its AIDS patient caseload.

But Grady still faces serious problems, some of which flow from those latest
successes. Taxpayers' frustration over higher tax bills have been taken out on
Grady, with complaints that some of its capital improvements are too expensive
or unnecessary. Community opposition has arisen over plans to locate the new
AIDS clinic in Midtown.

And there is the bickering between Grady and the Fulton and DeKalb county
commissions. The fact that the hospital has been made less dependent on the
counties for its operating funds has raised questions about just how independent
Grady can be. It is clear that Mr. Johnson and members of the hospital authority
want more freedom to operate than the county commissions are willing to give.

There have been hopeful signs lately that the dispute can be resolved. Mr.
Johnson has said the friction was not the reason he decided to accept an offer
from the Detroit Medical Center. But surely candidates to fill the top job at
Grady will be aware of the conflict. It could discourage a talented person from
considering the job.

The hospital authority and the county commissions therefore must iron out their
differences quickly and make clear to Grady's next executive director how she or
he will function within the framework of their agreement.

One of the goals in the search for Mr. Johnson's replacement should be finding
someone equally strong as a hospital administrator. He brought professionalism
and innovation to the job. It was what Grady needed when he arrived. It is what
it will need after he is gone.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH930340233

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              261 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Japan Times

                          November 21, 2007, Wednesday

Admission of a medical crisis

LENGTH: 352 words


Medical services are collapsing in many parts of the nation. Doctor shortages
are especially acute in obstetric-gynecological, pediatric and emergency care
departments. It is high time that the government, lawmakers and the public
seriously start discussing how to increase the number of doctors and nurses and
how to improve their working conditions, including securing sufficient budgetary
funds.

A telling statistic in the current crisis is that, in 2006, 667 pregnant women
being transported by ambulance were refused admittance by three or more
hospitals. Also, as many as 1,012 pregnant women had to wait more than 30
minutes in ambulances until a hospital could be found that would accept them.

According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Japan
has two physicians per 1,000 people (as of 2004), almost the lowest among
developed countries. As a result, a Japanese doctor must see more patients than
in other developed countries. Working conditions for hospital doctors in Japan
are harsh, with some doctors on duty for up to 36 hours straight.

At the root of the problem is the attitude of the health ministry and the Japan
Medical Association. Since the 1980s, they have pushed the policy of restraining
quotas for medical schools, believing that there would be too many doctors. The
current situation shows how wrong they were. Their policy must be fundamentally
changed.

The government also should increase remuneration for medical treatment and help
improve working conditions for hospital doctors, although budget problems must
be cleared.

The current medical internship system that started in 2004 is also responsible
for the crisis. Those who have obtained a medical license must intern at
hospitals for two years, but many of them choose hospitals in major cities,
shunning university hospitals. As a result, the latter have had to call back
doctors they had sent to core hospitals in the countryside. Measures must be
devised to assign doctors who have finished internships at urban hospitals to
hospital positions in the countryside for a certain period.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2007 The Japan Times Ltd.


                              262 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                           February 28, 2006 Tuesday

FOCUS: IN DEPTH;
Claiming benefits;
Study by the Hospital Association of Southern California touts caregivers'
economic effects.

BYLINE: By BLYTHE BERNHARD , The Orange County Register

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1066 words


H ospitals obviously benefit their communities by providing treatments and
therapies for injuries and illness.

But a new study flips that perspective, showing how Southern California
hospitals are also major contributors to local economies as employers and
consumers of everything from telephone calls to dry cleaning.

Orange County's 32 hospitals and related businesses pitched in $11.5 billion to
the local economy in 2004, or more than 7 percent of the county total, according
to a study released today by the Hospital Association of Southern California.
Overall, Southern California's hospitals represent 12.1 percent of the region's
economic output.

``I do economic impact studies for a living, and going into it I had no idea
that hospitals' share of the economy would be so large,'' said Greg Freeman,
vice president of the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corp., which
conducted the study of more than 200 area hospitals based on government data and
hospital surveys.

The Hospital Association of Southern California funded the study encompassing
six counties in part to demonstrate to health care consumers and elected
officials the benefits of a robust hospital system.

``We are not just providers of care. We are integral to the economic vitality of
these counties,'' said Jim Lott, executive vice president of the hospital
association.

``The purpose of the study is to help people understand why they need to support
their hospitals.''

While some news from the study is positive, including billions of dollars in new
construction projects and thousands of new jobs, other issues raised by the
study point to a deepening health care crisis -- more uninsured patients and a
higher demand for services.

More than half of the hospitals studied lost money in 2004.

``We have to monitor the economic health of hospitals to make sure they're still
there when we need them,'' Freeman said.

(714) 796-6880 or bbernhard@ocregister.com

cw 1 48.1363m;cw 2 49.8931m;hr 0;fr 0;fc 0;lc 0;

Southern California hospitals represent hundreds of thousands of jobs in a
consistently growing industry.

``Even when the economy goes into recession, people don't stop getting sick,''
said Wallace Walrod, vice president of the Orange County Business Council.
``Health services grows 3 to 4 percent a year almost like clockwork.''

The council defines health services as the third largest industry in Orange
County, behind business services and hospitality/tourism.

Hospitals not only contribute to the economy through their employment and
spending, but help lure businesses and residents to an area, Walrod said.

``Businesses want to be in a place where their employees can get good health
care,'' he said. ``Orange County has always been known for a high quality of
life, and health care is one of the major components of quality of life.''

Orange County's hospitals, 2004

Total hospitals 32 Available beds 7,141 Bed occupancy rate 61 percent Outpatient
visits 2,736,258 Average inpatient stay 5 days Hospital-related revenues $11.5
billion

Hospitals directly offer jobs to some 28,000 nurses, janitors and doctors,
roughly the number of people living in Laguna Beach. Other hospital-related jobs
bring that total three times higher.

There are 11 hospitals in Orange County that each support the equivalent of
1,000 full-time jobs or more.

``Overall, we expect employment to continue to increase in this sector,'' said
Freeman, the economic analyst.

Hospital employees and those working in related businesses make up at least 5.5
percent of all workers in the county, according to the study. They earned $4.2
billion in wages, or about 5 percent of the county's total in 2004.

Walrod of the Orange County Business Council also pointed out that those wages
cycle back into the county's economy when employees buy homes and services.

Hospital-related jobs in Orange County, 2004

Hospitals 55,000 Doctors' offices 22,000 Medical labs 1,000 Ambulance services
2,800 Total 80,800

Major construction projects are under way at UCI, Children's, Hoag, St. Joseph
and St. Jude hospitals.

In the next five years, Orange County hospitals will spend an estimated $2.3
billion in construction projects that will create 29,700 full-time jobs. This
marks a four-fold increase over the last five years.

Some hospitals in the region, including UCI, chose to construct new hospital
buildings instead of retrofitting old buildings to fit state earthquake safety
standards. Besides their contributions to the construction industry, hospitals
are major consumers of electricity, water, gas and other utilities. Hospitals
also spend money on everything from dry cleaning to insurance, for a total of
$1.8 billion in purchases.

Supplies -- including medication, office goods and food -- cost hospitals the
most. Many of those purchases are made in Orange County.

mm_city tag with dummy text.

mm_head tag with dummy text.

GENERAL OVERVIEW

CONSTRUCTION AND SPENDING

HOSPITAL JOBS/WAGES

TAX REVENUE

Orange County hospital spending, 2004 (in millions)

Medical supplies, including drugs, food and office supplies $770 Services from
outside vendors, including repairs and maintenance $680 Utilities, including
gas, electric and telephone service $170 Building leases and improvements $100
Liability insurance $80 Total $1.8 billion

Hospitals are a major source of tax revenue for the communities they serve.
Orange County's hospitals and related businesses paid out the second-highest tax
total in all six Southern California counties, after Los Angeles'.

While virtually all of the tax money paid by hospitals goes to the state, the
county did receive $12 million in tax money, some of which went to the Orange
County Transportation Authority for street and freeway improvements.

Orange County cities divvied up another $12 million in sales tax revenue from
hospitals, money that went for everything from parks to police.

The county's hospital employees also represented $177 million in state income
taxes in 2004.

The actual taxes paid by hospitals is more than what is shown in the table,
though how much more isn't certain. The study did not include property, utility,
disability and local taxes in its figures, in part because of different tax
classifications for some hospitals and in part because communities tax at
different rates.

Hospital tax revenue, by county

(in millions)

Los Angeles $1,113 Orange $299 San Bernardino $178 Riverside $96 Ventura $55
Santa Barbara $30

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: QUALITY OF LIFE: Children's Hospital of Orange County is one of the
county's key medical centers. AT WORK: Doctors and nurses scramble to help a
patient having seizures in St. Jude Medical Center's emergency room. BUILDING:
UCI Medical Center is one of the county's hospitals undergoing major
construction. FUNDS: Some tax revenue from hospitals go to the Orange County
Transportation Authority for street improvements. //CHARTS: Orange County's
hospitals, 2004 // Orange County Hospital spending 2004 // Hospital-related jobs
in Orange County, 2004 // Hospital tax revenue, by county (in millions).

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Orange County Register


                              263 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                             October 7, 2012 Sunday

Christchurch theatres point the way

BYLINE: By ROB STOCK

SECTION: BUSINESS; NATIONAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 635 words


THE FAST-TRACKING of two new private operating theatres for Christchurch by
Southern Cross Hospitals may be the project that ends the state's reluctance to
provide long-term contracts to private hospital businesses.

That's the hope of the New Zealand Private Surgical Hospitals Association, which
has been lobbying the Government to build what it calls a more 'balanced'
healthcare system where more healthcare is provided by private businesses and
not-for-profits.

Association president Terry Moore, who is also the chief executive of Southern
Cross's hospital group, hopes the two theatres will provide a case-study that
proves the cost-effectiveness of long-term contracting by district health boards
to private hospitals for new capacity.

Moore said New Zealand was unusual in the OECD for the low proportion of health
spend that goes through private hospitals and other private healthcare
providers.

The average for the OECD is 28 per cent. In New Zealand, Moore said, the number
had fallen below 20 per cent.

'We just do not believe that that is sustainable going forwards. If you roll it
out to 2050, all the Treasury economic forecasting is for low economic growth,'
said Moore.

He says that faced with the need to spend every dollar wisely, the state should
be looking to build new facilities for itself only where it needs to, and where
the numbers add up, and should enable private hospital operators to do it, as
with the two new Southern Cross theatres in Christchurch, which will be used by
DHB surgeons, with nurses, technicians and theatre 'consumables' provided by the
private hospital.

Depending on the location, there is immediate private hospital capacity
available. Moore estimated the private hospitals around New Zealand could handle
as much as 20 per cent more activity.

That's no small amount given that around half of all elective surgeries are done
in private facilities already.

Despite the rapid growth in spending on healthcare, the private hospital market
was at best flat, said Moore. 'The private health insurance numbers have
declined a small amount, which is a concern for everyone. As the economic times
get tougher, will that decline further?"

The lobbying is making some progress. The Government has sent the signal to DHBs
that private options are to be explored, but when it comes to building
facilities, the emphasis is still on the state owning them, with private money
an option for funding them.

'The predominant model is for the DHBs to build their own capacity. That's their
preferred model,' Moore said. But he says that with long-term contracts in
place, private providers would be more cost effective.

'The record private healthcare spending that has occurred in the last five to 10
years has been great for New Zealanders in terms of more elective surgeries and
low cancer waiting times,' Moore said.

But Treasury forecasts indicate spending on health could blow out to around 11
per cent of GDP by 2050 as the population ages.

What does Moore believe that means?

Well, sadly for a populace already being told it will have to save to fund more
of its retirement as the population ages, Moore said people would have to save
to fund more of the costs of their healthcare.

'The Government should be encouraging greater use of private care through health
insurance, savings and just encouraging greater personal responsibility,' Moore
said. 'If the economic growth is not there, something has to give, which is
either some form of rationing or degrees of 'co- payment'.'

Moore said it is time to reconsider providing tax breaks on health insurance
premiums for the elderly, though that remains off the table for the foreseeable
future.

--------------------

CAPTION:

TERRY MOORE

Scanning options: Greater use is urged of private hospitals and facilities under
contract to health boards.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Erie Times-News (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune News Service

                             August 11, 2006 Friday

EDITORIAL: Health care fuels economic bounce

BYLINE: Erie Times-News, Pa.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 573 words


Aug. 11--It's growth, substantial economic growth in one of the Erie region's
most underrated economic engines: health care. So absolutely, the expansion of
Millcreek Community Hospital is an important development for the Erie region in
more ways than one. It is one of a number of such expansions that will bring new
income and jobs. The expansion will help more behavioral health patients and
their families. And the expansion will help the Millcreek hospital serve those
who sometimes lack services.

Millcreek Community will add a fifth floor to its main building, construct a
three-story addition and expand Millcreek Manor, its nursing home. Millcreek
Community will not have to borrow the $10 million needed to pay for this. In an
era when many hospitals outside Erie struggle, Millcreek Community prospers. It
is not alone in the region's health-care industry.

Simply add this project to all the others: Hamot Medical Center is building a
new maternity unit that will occupy its third floor. It also is adding three
stories to an adjacent building, constructing a new generator building,
expanding its outpatient surgery center at 200 State St. and renovating its
Hamot Imaging Center and Sterling Square office building at 3330 Peach St. All
this will cost $21 million. Hamot has spent more than $100 million on projects
since 2000.

Saint Vincent Health Center is constructing a four-story office building and a
parking ramp as part of a $28.2 million project.

Meadville Medical Center will build a $10.3 million cancer center.

The Pennsylvania Soldiers' & Sailors' Home is building a $7.1 million
Alzheimer's unit.

Select Specialty Hospital moved from Hamot in February to the former MetroHealth
Medical/Osteopathic Hospital, 252 W. 11th St. Select spent $3.2 million to
renovate it.

So amid some negative economic patches, here is a bright spot in the Erie
economy. The region's health-care industry remains on the move.

As for Millcreek Community, this hospital fills several needs.

Patients who don't want to go to a large hospital can go to Millcreek Community.
Patients from smaller communities that are losing their own hospitals can come
here.

Consider behavioral health. Millcreek Community began caring for mental-health
patients in 2001, when Hamot announced it was closing its Institute for
Behavioral Health.

"In the past, we have on occasion had to turn (such) patients away, simply
because we didn't have any available beds," said Mary Eckert, Millcreek
Community's chief executive. "The closest place for child and adolescent
patients is in Clarion, and there have been times when they have had to go to
Clarion."

For whatever reason, Millcreek Community tends to be overlooked when the subject
is health care in the Erie region. This hospital deserves more attention. It is
a benefit to Millcreek, to the Erie region -- and to its patients.

And the next time someone asks, with even a hint of negativity in his or her
voice, "Where is economic growth in the Erie region?" the reply is simple. It's
in the health-care industry.

To see more of the Erie Times-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.GoErie.com. Copyright (c) 2006, Erie Times-News, Pa. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060811-EI-EDIT-HEALTH-CARE-20060811

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EI


                         Copyright 2006 Erie Times-News


                              265 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Metropolitan Corporate Counsel

                                   March 2009
                               Northeast Edition

Supporting Hospitals: Saving Lives And The Economy, Too

BYLINE: Gary W. HerschmanPeter G. VernieroMembers, Sills Cummis & Gross
P.C.*(*Mr. Herschman is chair of his firm's health and hospital law practice
group. A former member of the N.J. Supreme Court and state attorney general, Mr.
Verniero is also a trustee for a healthcare system in his home county. The views
expressed in this editorial are those of the authors alone.)

SECTION: Pg. 25 Vol. 17 No. 3

LENGTH: 768 words


As policy makers rightly focus on resolving the deepening financial crisis, they
must not forget the value and worth of hospitals - not only their obvious social
worth in terms of maintaining our individual health, but their value in
fostering our economic health as well. The recently signed federal stimulus bill
recognizes the importance of hospitals and healthcare systems by increasing
matching funds for Medicaid, providing investments in healthcare technology
upgrades, and extending healthcare insurance for those who have become
unemployed since September 2008. Although those and other provisions are
helpful, we cannot be lulled into thinking that they are sufficient to address
the burgeoning challenges that many hospitals face.

According to a survey recently released by the New Jersey Hospital Association
(NJHA), 45 percent of the Garden State's hospitals that responded to the survey
have suffered layoffs in 2008; 17 percent have eliminated some aspect of
services; and nearly 72 percent have reported a loss in fundraising and
philanthropy (the lifeblood of any non-profit organization). What's more, six
out of ten hospitals reported a decline in patients who engage in elective
procedures, meaning more and more patients have decided to defer their
healthcare needs - which is both bad for the health of the community and hurtful
to hospitals that are trying to stay afloat amid ever-decreasing cash reserves,
shrinking investment portfolios and tightening revenue margins.

Hospitals also have the unique responsibility of providing so-called charity
care, a requirement that no patient will be turned down for certain treatment or
care because of an inability to pay. Based in large measure on state mandates,
the charity-care requirement is also consistent with a non-profit entity's
charitable purpose. In addition, at least one influential member of Congress has
stated that he may introduce federal legislation that would establish charity
care and community benefit standards and seek accountability for failing to meet
those standards. In a recession, the impact of charity care on hospitals is
magnified. Because of dwindling revenue and reserves, there is less money
available for hospitals to provide services across the board, including charity
care. Moreover, with recession comes unemployment, and with unemployment there
is a greater likelihood that a patient will need to rely on charity care.
Indeed, 80 percent of the hospitals that responded to the NJHA survey reported
an increase in charity care patients.

In New Jersey, there is state funding for charity care, so hospitals are given
some relief. But as a practical matter those funds are available to reimburse
hospitals for only a portion of their charity care expenditures. (Similarly,
Medicaid reimbursements do not fully cover hospitals for the costs of treating
Medicaid patients.) For most hospitals it is not a question of whether there
will be a gap between charity care expenditures and state reimbursement, but
rather a question of the size of such a gap. Some argue that, if the requirement
to provide uncompensated care reaches a level at which a hospital's own
financial viability is put at risk, such mandates could amount to an
unconstitutional taking of property.

Against that backdrop, hospitals strive mightily to contribute to the overall
health of the economy. The NJHA's economic impact report for 2008 reveals that
New Jersey hospitals pumped $18 billion in total expenditures into the economy
and supported nearly 145,000 full-time and part-time positions for employees.
Those employees in turn paid nearly $400 million in state income taxes, not to
mention their individual and family spending on goods and services throughout
the economy. As the NJHA observes in its report, the economic contributions of
hospitals "ripple across New Jersey, providing economic stability to counties
and individual communities statewide. In many towns, the local hospital is the
largest employer, providing untold benefits in jobs and health insurance
benefits, local spending and community health services."

The bottom line is this. In this time of economic uncertainty, as government
focuses on those businesses and industries that are in distress and are too
important to fail, hospitals should be included as one of the top priorities and
supported at all levels. We usually think of hospitals as healing centers. But
they are also employers of significant size and importance whose contributions
to the economy are often overlooked. When hospitals succeed, we all benefit.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 Metropolitan Corporate Counsel
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday
                                  Mich Edition

Hospital feels the pains of the economy

BYLINE: HEIDI PRESCOTT, Tribune Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 360 words


SOUTH BEND - Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center officials said Friday that the
economic downturn is prompting the organization to make salary, schedule and
work force changes.

These changes include:

* An 8 percent reduction to executive pay;

* Salary freezes for all Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center associates;

* A restructuring of its work force; and

* A reduction in work schedules from 80 to 72 hours in certain departments.

Like many hospitals across the country, Saint Joseph Regional "has felt the
impact of the economic downturn with an increasing number of uninsured patients,
and payments from Medicare and Medicaid not keeping pace with expenses,"
hospital officials said in a prepared statement.

"We are taking the steps necessary to put our organization in the strongest
position possible going forward," the release said.

Saint Joseph Regional officials declined to discuss or elaborate further on the
statement and the changes outlined in the release.

But recent economic studies by industry leaders indicated that 50 percent of the
nation's hospitals reported a financial loss in 2008, and that continued at an
increased pace in early 2009.

Just last week, Elkhart General Hospital announced that all hospital employees
would have their salaries reduced - from 4 percent for general staff to 8
percent for executives.

The salary reduction was necessary because of a budget shortfall brought on by a
number of factors. Those factors include Elkhart County's high unemployment rate
and people losing their insurance or being unable to pay for medical care, said
Gregory Lintjer, Elkhart General president.

Elkhart General commenced making staff adjustments on April 24 - one week before
Saint Joseph Regional announced its work force structuring measure. Elkhart
General also has been discussing how expenses can be handled as efficiently as
possible with vendors, contract companies and physicians.

Saint Joseph Regional Hospital is scheduled to open its new $355 million
hospital on Douglas Road in Mishawaka in December. The building is expected to
be completed in October.

Staff writer Heidi Prescott: hprescottsbtinfo.com (574) 235-6070

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The Edge Malaysia

                                January 5, 2009

20 stocks for 2009: Less affected by turmoil because of nature of business

BYLINE: Gan Yen Kuan

LENGTH: 363 words


KPJ Healthcare Bhd is one of the stocks that should be able to sidle through the
current global economic slowdown, given that healthcare services are deemed a
necessity. Analysts, in general, are of the view that it should be less affected
by the poor economic outlook.

KPJ reported net profit growth of 90.1%, 40.8% and 14.3% respectively for the
first three quarters of FY2008, mainly due to higher patient admissions and
contributions from newly acquired hospitals. On a cumulative basis, its net
profit for the first nine months was 42.4% higher at RM63.19 million.

Some of the group's previously loss-making hospitals - Perdana Specialist
Hospital in Kelantan, Kuching Specialist Hospital and Taiping Medical Centre -
turned around or broke even in 2008.

KPJ is in expansion mode, targeting to acquire more specialist hospitals in
2009. It is able to continue expanding because of its asset-light position. Its
hospitals have been or are being disposed of to Al-'Aqar KPJ REIT - a real
estate investment trust in which it indirectly owns a 52% stake.

Selling hospital properties to the REIT and then leasing them back has enabled
the company to realise its investment in the properties, raise cash to pare down
debts and generate recurring income from consistent cash distribution from the
REIT. With savings in interest and depreciation expenses, KPJ has been able to
better utilise its capital for operational expansion.

Based on its closing price of RM2.55 on Dec 24, 2008, the stock was trading at a
FY2008 and FY2009 price earnings ratio (PER) of 6.68 and 5.77 times
respectively, according to Bloomberg's consensus data. KPJ's PER valuations are
undemanding compared to its regional peers' FY2009 PER of 10 to 20 times, says
OSK Research.

In terms of share price, KPJ was more resilient than the Kuala Lumpur Composite
Index (KLCI) in 2008 as the stock fell only 26.3% for the year up to Dec 26
compared to KLCI's fall of 40%.

Despite its thin liquidity, KPJ is an excellent choice for long-term investment
and portfolio balancing, with steady dividend payout, according to OSK Research.
For FY2008, the company paid an interim gross dividend of seven sen a share on
Sept 26.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 The Edge Communications Sdn. Bhd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The Edge Malaysia

                                January 5, 2009

20 stocks for 2009: Less affected by turmoil because of nature of business

BYLINE: Gan Yen Kuan

LENGTH: 363 words


KPJ Healthcare Bhd is one of the stocks that should be able to sidle through the
current global economic slowdown, given that healthcare services are deemed a
necessity. Analysts, in general, are of the view that it should be less affected
by the poor economic outlook.

KPJ reported net profit growth of 90.1%, 40.8% and 14.3% respectively for the
first three quarters of FY2008, mainly due to higher patient admissions and
contributions from newly acquired hospitals. On a cumulative basis, its net
profit for the first nine months was 42.4% higher at RM63.19 million.

Some of the group's previously loss-making hospitals - Perdana Specialist
Hospital in Kelantan, Kuching Specialist Hospital and Taiping Medical Centre -
turned around or broke even in 2008.

KPJ is in expansion mode, targeting to acquire more specialist hospitals in
2009. It is able to continue expanding because of its asset-light position. Its
hospitals have been or are being disposed of to Al-'Aqar KPJ REIT - a real
estate investment trust in which it indirectly owns a 52% stake.

Selling hospital properties to the REIT and then leasing them back has enabled
the company to realise its investment in the properties, raise cash to pare down
debts and generate recurring income from consistent cash distribution from the
REIT. With savings in interest and depreciation expenses, KPJ has been able to
better utilise its capital for operational expansion.

Based on its closing price of RM2.55 on Dec 24, 2008, the stock was trading at a
FY2008 and FY2009 price earnings ratio (PER) of 6.68 and 5.77 times
respectively, according to Bloomberg's consensus data. KPJ's PER valuations are
undemanding compared to its regional peers' FY2009 PER of 10 to 20 times, says
OSK Research.

In terms of share price, KPJ was more resilient than the Kuala Lumpur Composite
Index (KLCI) in 2008 as the stock fell only 26.3% for the year up to Dec 26
compared to KLCI's fall of 40%.

Despite its thin liquidity, KPJ is an excellent choice for long-term investment
and portfolio balancing, with steady dividend payout, according to OSK Research.
For FY2008, the company paid an interim gross dividend of seven sen a share on
Sept 26.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 The Edge Communications Sdn. Bhd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The Edge Malaysia

                                January 5, 2009

20 stocks for 2009: Less affected by turmoil because of nature of business

BYLINE: Gan Yen Kuan

LENGTH: 363 words


KPJ Healthcare Bhd is one of the stocks that should be able to sidle through the
current global economic slowdown, given that healthcare services are deemed a
necessity. Analysts, in general, are of the view that it should be less affected
by the poor economic outlook.

KPJ reported net profit growth of 90.1%, 40.8% and 14.3% respectively for the
first three quarters of FY2008, mainly due to higher patient admissions and
contributions from newly acquired hospitals. On a cumulative basis, its net
profit for the first nine months was 42.4% higher at RM63.19 million.

Some of the group's previously loss-making hospitals - Perdana Specialist
Hospital in Kelantan, Kuching Specialist Hospital and Taiping Medical Centre -
turned around or broke even in 2008.

KPJ is in expansion mode, targeting to acquire more specialist hospitals in
2009. It is able to continue expanding because of its asset-light position. Its
hospitals have been or are being disposed of to Al-'Aqar KPJ REIT - a real
estate investment trust in which it indirectly owns a 52% stake.

Selling hospital properties to the REIT and then leasing them back has enabled
the company to realise its investment in the properties, raise cash to pare down
debts and generate recurring income from consistent cash distribution from the
REIT. With savings in interest and depreciation expenses, KPJ has been able to
better utilise its capital for operational expansion.

Based on its closing price of RM2.55 on Dec 24, 2008, the stock was trading at a
FY2008 and FY2009 price earnings ratio (PER) of 6.68 and 5.77 times
respectively, according to Bloomberg's consensus data. KPJ's PER valuations are
undemanding compared to its regional peers' FY2009 PER of 10 to 20 times, says
OSK Research.

In terms of share price, KPJ was more resilient than the Kuala Lumpur Composite
Index (KLCI) in 2008 as the stock fell only 26.3% for the year up to Dec 26
compared to KLCI's fall of 40%.

Despite its thin liquidity, KPJ is an excellent choice for long-term investment
and portfolio balancing, with steady dividend payout, according to OSK Research.
For FY2008, the company paid an interim gross dividend of seven sen a share on
Sept 26.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 The Edge Communications Sdn. Bhd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            December 13, 2013 Friday

Hospital mergers allowed to boost investment

LENGTH: 573 words


President Park Geun-hye (fourth from left) speaks at a meeting of government
officials and businesspeople to promote trade and investment at the presidential
office, Friday. (Yonhap News)

The government said it plans to ease regulations and entry barriers on the
medical and education industries as part of its additional measures to vitalize
corporate investment.

After an investment promotion meeting at Cheong Wa Dae on Friday, Deputy Prime
Minister and Finance Minister Hyun Oh-seok said the government would allow
mergers and acquisitions among medical institutions, given the financial
difficulties facing some hospitals.

"In a bid to offer better services to patients and upgrade the industry's
competitiveness, the government has decided to allow a (financially sound)
medical corporation to take over an ailing hospital," the Finance Ministry said
in a statement.

In addition, any hospital will be entitled to own a subsidiary to pave the way
for the launching of medical-related businesses such as medical tourism and
purchases of medical equipment.

"The endorsement of hospitals' ownership of subsidiaries is expected to attract
more foreign capital and vitalize joint investments of hospitals and
conglomerates," said the ministry.

For domestic medical institutions seeking to open in the nation's free economic
zones, policymakers plan to amend the rule that limits the proportion of
expatriate inpatients to 5 percent of the total sickbeds. The upper ceiling for
sickbeds for foreigners would be raised to 12 percent.

Further, medical advertisements in foreign languages, such as English, Chinese
and Japanese, will be allowed in airports, subways, major cities and tourist
spots.

The government, however, has remained undecided over the proposal made by a
group of economic advisers to ease regulations governing the entry of foreign
hospitals into FEZs. They had called for the elimination of the requirement for
foreign hospitals seeking to open in FEZs to have foreign doctors comprise at
least 10 percent of their doctor staffs and to have a foreign chief.

For the education sector, joint venture schools will be allowed in places like
the Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and eight FEZs, including Songdo in
Incheon.

Until now, foreign schools have only been allowed to open and run international
education facilities on their own and have been barred from paying dividends on
accumulated surplus funds.

The government also plans to permit foreign schools to borrow privately held
land to construct auxiliary facilities, such as physical training centers and
auditoriums, and allow schools to set up English-language camps in cooperation
with regional governments.

The ministry said it will submit law revisions to the National Assembly by the
end of the first half of next year to allow the establishment of joint entities
between foreign and local school operators.

Finance Ministry officials said every effort would be made to implement the
changes and revise regulations in a timely manner so they can contribute to the
ongoing economic recovery.

Presiding over the trade promotion meeting, President Park called for the
National Assembly to pass the bill on foreign investment promotion as early as
possible.

Citing recent indices signaling economic recovery, she said "the ordinary people
will suffer more difficulties should (policymakers and lawmakers) fail to make
the best of the opportunity."

By Kim Yon-se (kys@heraldcorp.c

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday

Korea to allow foreign hospitals in free zones

LENGTH: 287 words


The government will revise health and welfare regulations to enable foreign
hospitals to set up operations in free economic zones, the Ministry of Knowledge
Economy said Wednesday.

The ministry said that concerned ministries including the Ministry of Health and
Welfare and the Ministry of Strategy and Finance have agreed to make the changes
in response to the Incheon Free Economic Zone Authority's requests.

With the ministries reaching an agreement on the issue, the Ministry of
Knowledge Economy plans to begin preparations for the enactment of the revised
regulations this week. However, the ministry said that the schedule will be
finalized after the National Assembly approves the revised Special Act on
Designation and Management of Free Economic Zones and the bill for introducing a
special act on foreign medical services providers is currently moored at the
parliament.

According to the IFEZ, negotiations to have a foreign hospital establish
operations in the Songdo area of the special economic zone have fallen apart
twice due to delays in revising related laws. With negotiations with a third
hospital set to end at the end of the year, the process could be stalled for the
third time if revisions are not quickly made, the IFEZ said.

The nation has pushed for the introduction of high-end international hospitals
in the free economic zones since 2003.

In 2009, Incheon signed a trilateral memorandum of understanding with Seoul
National University and the United States' Johns Hopkins Medicine International
to build a world-class hospital and life medical research center in Songdo. But
the project stalled as the nation stopped short of approving related bills and
regulations.

By Choi He-suk (cheesuk@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Wellington County committee says yes to funding local hospitals, no to hospitals
outside its borders

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: 20140617


ABOYNE - Lou Maieron isn't happy. And he doesn't think residents of Erin will be
happy either after Wellington County Council's administration, finance and
personnel committee agreed to donate $9.4 million to the three hospitals within
its borders - Groves Memorial in Fergus, Louise Marshall in Mount Forest and
Palmerston and District Hospital in Palmerston.

The committee did not agree to fund hospitals outside Wellington County,
although delegations from Headwaters Health Care in Orangeville and Georgetown
Hospital attended the meeting and made their pitch.

Each of those hospitals was seeking $100,000 from the county based on data that
indicates about four per cent of their emergency department patients are
residents of Wellington County.

Maieron, mayor of Erin and a member of county council, said because of the way
tax assessment works, Erin residents will be footing a disproportionate
percentage of the $9.4 million, which is even harder to swallow given that
because of geography, most Erin residents would attend Orangeville, Georgetown
or Guelph hospitals before any of the other three.

"Is this for all of Wellington County or just for the communities that have
hospitals?" asked Maieron when committee chair John Green opened questions from
the floor. "The question should be, do we fund hospitals that serve our
residents or do we fund hospitals within our borders?"

The real question is, should Wellington County be entertaining funding requests
from hospitals at all?

"Do we have a hospital funding policy?" Maieron asked.

"Yes, we don't fund hospitals," Green answered.

And yet the committee unanimously agreed to give $5.4 million to Groves and
split $4 million between Louise Marshall and Palmerston.

Groves is building a larger hospital on a new site in Aboyne and Louise Marshall
and Palmerston hospitals both need renovations to their emergency departments
and clinical spaces.

The province is funding 90 per cent of the capital costs but expects communities
to come up with the balance.

George Bridge, mayor of the Town of Minto and chair of the economic development
committee, said hospitals are an economic driver and losing a hospital,
especially in a small community, would be a huge loss.

"Economic development would slide, there would be an exodus of people," he said.
"I look at hospitals like roads - we need them."

Chris White, mayor of Guelph-Eramosa and warden of Wellington County, said the
county has funded and not funded hospitals over the years, at one time even
funding Guelph General Hospital.

"(Hospital funding) comes and goes. To say this hasn't been vetted is not
correct," White said.

Ken DeHart, treasurer, said how to fund this expenditure will be decided during
2015 budget deliberations. He said he would probably recommend paying the amount
over 20 years and using debt financing to cover the tab.

"There are still unknowns for the 2015 budget process and I would not recommend
funding over a short term," he said.

The matter goes to county council next week on June 26 for ratification.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              273 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               guelphmercury.com

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Wellington County committee says yes to funding local hospitals, no to hospitals
outside its borders

BYLINE: jshuttl@guelphmercury.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 504 words


ABOYNE - Lou Maieron isn't happy. And he doesn't think residents of Erin will be
happy either after Wellington County Council's administration, finance and
personnel committee agreed to donate $9.4 million to the three hospitals within
its borders - Groves Memorial in Fergus, Louise Marshall in Mount Forest and
Palmerston and District Hospital in Palmerston.

The committee did not agree to fund hospitals outside Wellington County,
although delegations from Headwaters Health Care in Orangeville and Georgetown
Hospital attended the meeting and made their pitch.

Each of those hospitals was seeking $100,000 from the county based on data that
indicates about four per cent of their emergency department patients are
residents of Wellington County.

Maieron, mayor of Erin and a member of county council, said because of the way
tax assessment works, Erin residents will be footing a disproportionate
percentage of the $9.4 million, which is even harder to swallow given that
because of geography, most Erin residents would attend Orangeville, Georgetown
or Guelph hospitals before any of the other three.

"Is this for all of Wellington County or just for the communities that have
hospitals?" asked Maieron when committee chair John Green opened questions from
the floor. "The question should be, do we fund hospitals that serve our
residents or do we fund hospitals within our borders?"

The real question is, should Wellington County be entertaining funding requests
from hospitals at all?

"Do we have a hospital funding policy?" Maieron asked.

"Yes, we don't fund hospitals," Green answered.

And yet the committee unanimously agreed to give $5.4 million to Groves and
split $4 million between Louise Marshall and Palmerston.

Groves is building a larger hospital on a new site in Aboyne and Louise Marshall
and Palmerston hospitals both need renovations to their emergency departments
and clinical spaces.

The province is funding 90 per cent of the capital costs but expects communities
to come up with the balance.

George Bridge, mayor of the Town of Minto and chair of the economic development
committee, said hospitals are an economic driver and losing a hospital,
especially in a small community, would be a huge loss.

"Economic development would slide, there would be an exodus of people," he said.
"I look at hospitals like roads - we need them."

Chris White, mayor of Guelph-Eramosa and warden of Wellington County, said the
county has funded and not funded hospitals over the years, at one time even
funding Guelph General Hospital.

"(Hospital funding) comes and goes. To say this hasn't been vetted is not
correct," White said.

Ken DeHart, treasurer, said how to fund this expenditure will be decided during
2015 budget deliberations. He said he would probably recommend paying the amount
over 20 years and using debt financing to cover the tab.

"There are still unknowns for the 2015 budget process and I would not recommend
funding over a short term," he said.

The matter goes to county council next week on June 26 for ratification.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday
                               1 - State Edition

Government must abandon the Marj project

BYLINE: MARK HAMILTON

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 562  words


SINCE the publication of my article ``The Royal Adelaide Hospital fights back''
(The Advertiser, 9/12/08), growing public disquiet and debate has emerged
regarding the Government's announced decision to build a new Marjorie
Jackson-Nelson Hospital. New facts have also become apparent.

We have learned the extraordinary fact that the recommendation was developed as
a confidential project by an officer in the Department of Health, and
subsequently adopted by the Government, without any consultation with the public
or the myriad of relevant stakeholders at any stage of the process.

It transpires that after all the proposed expenditure, let alone real economic
cost, a grand total of 120 extra beds would be created, even though these could
be provided at the Royal Adelaide Hospital site as part of an upgrade.

We have now been reminded that no consideration had been given by the Government
to the immeasurable and irreplaceable brand equity built up in the iconic Royal
Adelaide Hospital brand over the past 150 years.

The Royal Adelaide Hospital is a well-recognised, world-class facility with a
long history and reputation as a clinical, treatment, teaching and training
facility providing world-class, cutting-edge medical solutions in a number of
areas, including the craniofacial unit.

What would you say if the owners of Penfolds, another iconic South Australian
brand name, decided to change its name? Madness, I suggest.

It appears the upgrade of the Royal Adelaide Hospital is, in fact, far more
advanced than previously understood - notwithstanding the Rann Government's
apparently unpublicised decision to halt the upgrading project in its tracks in
2001.

In my December article, I estimated the real economic cost to the state of the
new hospital project was between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion when one took
into account all the costs, including construction (reportedly $1.7 billion),
the loss of the existing hospital investment, the need to provide new
infrastructure in association with the new hospital, the loss of the value of
the existing infrastructure and the cost of the ``free'' public space on which
the proposed new hospital is to be located.

In addition, if the Government's proposal was to proceed, extensive
soil-contamination remediation works would be necessary on both sites - at a
possible cost of $200 million.

Given the Royal Adelaide Hospital's long-term role as a teaching hospital for
the University of Adelaide's medical school, it is also reported that medical
students and staff widely oppose the plan because it would result in the medical
school being moved ``off'' campus - effectively disconnecting medical students
from university life. This would be a serious negative for our state's premier
university.

Given the global financial crisis, now more than ever infrastructure projects
must demonstrate they can deliver long-term economic activity, measured in jobs
and export income. Economists call this the economic multiplier effect of
government expenditure.

This proposed expenditure simply replaces one set of existing infrastructure
with another at huge cost and does not create new jobs or generate any new
economic wealth for the state.

It is time for the Government to acknowledge that it got it wrong and to abandon
this course.

* Mark Hamilton, a commercial solicitor in Adelaide, is a former deputy lord
mayor of Adelaide.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                              June 18, 2007 Monday
                                 State Edition

$12BN BONANZA - Revealed: Iemma's plan to kickstart NSW economy

BYLINE: SIMON BENSON

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 647  words


THE Iemma Government will tomorrow splurge $12billion on capital works and
radically overhaul basic health and education services in a bid to kickstart the
NSW economy.

The Budget will also show NSW is on the brink of a stronger than expected
economic recovery, with Treasury sources revealing: ''The economic outlook is
very positive.''

The first Budget since Morris Iemma's March election victory will turbocharge
the economy through an unprecedented $12 to $12.5 billion to be spent on major
works this year alone.

Stung by accusations the state has been allowed to decay, the Government will
expand a four-year $41.5 billion infrastructure program announced last year by a
year and a further $10 billion -- making it the largest capital works program in
NSW history.

Health will feature through the largest year-on-year increase in capital works,
including $2.4 billion to be spent on new hospitals and upgrades over four
years.

Start-up funding for the construction of a new hospital in Sydney's northwest at
Nepean is also expected in the Budget.

Mr Iemma, in an extensive interview with The Daily Telegraph, promised a radical
departure from tight fisted Budgets of the past.

In the first year of the Budget -- 2007/2008, there will be an increase of up to
$2 billion on what was originally allocated.

Almost half the funding for the larger program will be financed through debt --
a concept considered untenable under the previous administration, which was

Continued Page 2

From Page 1

rigidly focused on reducing the state's debt burden to zero.

In the coming year, $714 million will be quarantined for health capital works --
a 13 per cent increase on last year's budget.

New projects will include;

* $4.5 million to upgrade Ryde Hospital with new wards and an emergency
department;

* $2.1 million for planning new hospitals at Narrabri and Nepean; and

* $66.5 million to improve mental health facilities.

Mr Iemma, promising he would not jeopardise the state's AAA credit rating, told
The Daily Telegraph the Government needed to ''show measurable improvement over
the next four years.

''Tuesday's Budget will see a significant increase in infrastructure over and
above what we have already outlined,'' he said.

''When you take the next four years, it will be a significant increase on what
we have announced.

''This creates jobs and drives economic activity. I want our economy to grow
stronger than it has been.

''When I say I'm about activity, this is one of the levers that State Government
has and infrastructure is a key lever to drive economic activity and deliver
better services.

''The theme of the NSW Budget will be the delivery of services and new
services.''

Mr Iemma said the delivery of those services needed to change.

''We will make more investment in health outside hospitals such as hospitals in
homes, community health centres, community nurses and early intervention,'' he
said. ''We are opening beds ... but if that's all you do the projections are in
30 years the health spend will consume the entire budget. This requires a change
in the way we deliver services.''

Editorial: P22 Iemma interview: P23


Spending on health:

* $714 million for health infrastructure projects this year

* Four-year $2.4 billion program

* A 13 per cent increase on last year's Budget


New projects include:

* $4.5 million to upgrade Ryde Hospital

* $2.1 million for planning new hospitals at Narrabri and Nepean


Funding for election promises:

* $506.3 on major capital works projects already underway across the state,
including:

* $66.5 million to improve mental health facilities

* $56.7 million to redevelop or upgrade rural hospitals and health services at
Batlow, Berrigan, Bombala, Junee, Merriwa, Tingha, Walcha, Warialda, Bingara,
Dunedoo, Guyra, Tottenham and Tullamore

* $37.3 million to continue redevelopment of Royal North Shore Hospital, as part
of the overall $702 million redevelopment project

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

               Distributed by Knight/Ridder Tribune News Service

                           February 23, 2006 Thursday

Big hospitals have back-ups, but small clinics flounder

BYLINE: Jeetha D'Silva, The Economic Times, India

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 415 words


Feb. 23--The proposed power cuts could be a rude jolt to the city's healthcare
providers, with nursing homes and small maternity hospitals likely to fare worse
than well-established hospitals.

Hospitals, nursing homes and chemists rely on uninterrupted power supply for
their normal functioning. While most private hospitals have a power back-up, a
majority of the nursing homes and chemists across the city will be impacted by
load-shedding.

"Most of our critical areas need uninterrupted power supply. While our hospital
does have systems to fall back on, it would be difficult for us to rely on these
alternatives for a long duration," said Dr Ravindra V Karanjekar, head of the
Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai. The hospital at Mulund has been facing some power
cuts recently but its back-up -UPS unit and couple of DG sets -- have helped it
tide over the situation.

"Large-scale load shedding will hit hospitals hard. The functioning of critical
departments will be affected, scheduling of surgeries will be affected and areas
in which the quality of air has to be maintained could be affected," says Dr
Karanjekar. According to him, when there are power cuts, procedures that are not
very critical -- like some diagnostic tests -- are conducted when power supply
is resumed.

While hospitals have some back-up, nursing homes might have a larger problem on
their hands. Of the 1,800 nursing homes in the city, only about 20 percent are
estimated to have some back-up.

According to Dr Lalit Kapoor, chairperson, medico-legal committee of the
Association of Medical Consultants (AMC), members of the AMC have been urged to
invest in a power back up.

"Many nursing homes do have operation theatres and intensive care units which
are sensitive areas and need power supply," Dr Kapoor said.

"Some nursing homes are now investing in UPS but we would like many more to go
for such systems," he added.

Another widely-affected segment will be medical stores. Many medicines are heat
sensitive and need to be stored in a refrigerator. In absence of power for long
periods, these medicines may lose their potency, and may even become harmful.

To see more of The Economic Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com Copyright (c) 2006, The Economic Times,
India Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News. For information on
republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511 (U.S.), (213) 237-4914
(worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060223-ET-HOSPITALS-20060223

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                       Copyright 2006 The Economic Times


                              277 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday

WellSpan not the only hospital with plans on hold

BYLINE: KATHY STEVENS The York Dispatch

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 539 words


WellSpan Health Tuesday joined the ranks of health care facilities nationwide
that have put expansion and renovation projects on hold because of reduced
earnings and the credit crunch stemming from the unstable economy.

WellSpan is financially sound and has been for years, said Barry Sparks, York
Hospital spokesman.

At the same time, its administrators say the uncertain economy dictates caution
in spending matters. That means multi-million dollar renovations, expansions and
new facilities are on hold until WellSpan administrators have a clearer idea of
the economic outlook.

The decision to delay projects is a pre-emptive strike and a prudent move to
ensure the organization's 8,300 employees continue to provide services at York
and Gettysburg hospitals as well as numerous off-site facilities in York and
Adams counties, Sparks said.

Postponed: Projects on hold include a $50 million rehabilitation center on
Monument Road in York Township. WellSpan gained zoning approval for the
110,000-square-foot facility, which would
employ 100 people and house 40 to 50 patients.

Expansion of York Hospital's emergency department also will wait; details of
that project were in the planning phase.

For the past several years, York Hospital has increased its size and services to
better accommodate a growing and aging population. While most -- although not
all -- of that planned expansion is finished, renovations are barely under way
at Gettysburg Hospital, which was slated for a six-phase expansion lasting five
to eight years.

That project would expand the emergency department from 13 to 20 beds; add a new
maternity center, and include changes to the second floor and the addition of a
third and fourth floor to accommodate more patients receiving acute care.

Trends: Sparks said WellSpan has not canceled any projects, but shelved them
until the economy stabilizes.

That move mirrors state and national trends in the health care industry, which
in 2007 provided 45 percent of new private-sector jobs. Hospitals nationwide
employ more than 5 million people, according to an American Hospital Association
report.

The report, "Economic Crisis: Initial Impact on Hospitals," released last month
notes that 56 percent of 736 responding hospitals nationwide have postponed or
will postpone expansion and renovation projects because of increased costs of
borrowing and decreased access to financing.

The report also lists economic impact due to lower admissions and fewer elective
procedures, stemming from rising unemployment and loss of healthcare insurance.
Federal and state budget cutbacks also have raised concern about Medicaid and
Medicare provider payments, which already are underfunded and do not cover
actual hospital costs, according to the report.

Sparks said York Hospital has not seen a decrease in patient admissions,
primarily because York County continues both to grow and its residents continue
to age. That is why WellSpan initiated expansions, he said.

Sparks reiterated the need for caution, but said the demand for service is being
met, although it is on the rise. Because of that, expansions are simply a matter
of time -- and stable financial markets, he said.

-- Reach Kathy Stevens at 505-5437 or kstevens@yorkdispatch.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      Daily Pilot (Costa Mesa California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

Hoag Hospital plans to lay off 175 employees

BYLINE: Mike Reicher, Daily Pilot, Costa Mesa, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 402 words


Sept. 21--Hoag Hospital announced plans Tuesday to lay off about 175 employees.

Accounting for about 3.5% of its 5,000-person workforce, the cuts will affect
its hospitals in Newport Beach and Irvine as well as its network of health-care
centers, according to Nina Robinson, vice president of corporate communications.

The layoffs were a result of "the weak economy, high unemployment" and insurance
payment changes, according to a written statement.

None of the hospital's 1,400 physicians will be affected.

Most of the cuts will be among non-clinical staff members, such as medical
billers, administrative assistants and human resources professionals.

Last year, Hoag opened a hospital in Irvine, hiring about 900 people in the
process.

"Today's hard choices will correctly size our organization to the needs of our
community, and allow Hoag to emerge from this challenging economic environment
stronger and more effective," Robinson said in the statement.

Amid the slumping economy, hospitals nationwide are coping with shifting
health-care models and changes in insurance payments, experts say.

Technology has increased outpatient care, prompting declining hospital
admissions. Also, more uninsured people are unable to meet their hospital bills
and Medicare may soon upend its current payment system.

"It turns out that hospitals are not immune to economic downturns," said
Professor Paul Feldstein, who specializes in health-care management at UC
Irvine's Paul Merage School of Business.

One possible insurance change hospitals are planning for is bundling -- the
consolidation of Medicare payments for an episode of care like a heart attack,
Feldstein said.

If the system is adopted, the government would make one payment instead of
separately reimbursing hospitals, doctors and post-hospital caregivers.

"That's making them reevaluate their business model," Feldstein said, moving
away from "getting them in the hospital and keeping them there."

Hoag has recently tried to keep up with the outpatient care trend by opening a
regional network with seven health centers and the hospital in Irvine.

But the added economic pressures accelerated the need to change its structure,
and to shed jobs, according to Hoag's statement.

mike.reicher@latimes.com

Twitter: @mreicher

___ (c)2011 the Daily Pilot (Costa Mesa, Calif.) Visit the Daily Pilot (Costa
Mesa, Calif.) at www.dailypilot.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110921-1DP-Hoag-Hospital-plans-to-lay-off-175-employees-0921-20110921

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1DP


                           Copyright 2011 Daily Pilot


                              279 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 27, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

We'll Need Those 'Excess' Hospital Beds;
Economic Gibberish

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 276 words


To the Editor:

"The Hospital Glut" (Op-Ed, Dec. 13) bears the subheading "Problem: too many
beds. Solution: get rid of them." The article is evidently a contribution to the
effort to develop an affordable health plan. Yet it violates standard economic
wisdom, which says that the larger the supply, the more competition there will
be and the lower the price will drop.

My hospital stays are paid for by an insurance company at a rate of more than
$1,000 a day. This figure contributes to making the cost of health care ruinous,
no matter whether it is paid for personally, by an insurer or by some Clinton
scheme.

Standard economics says that more hospitals and beds would result in greater
competition and greater efficiency, lower costs, lower profits and therefore
lower prices. Yet here is I. Donald Snook Jr. explaining in his article that
less capacity and competition is needed to reduce our health costs. Normal
economic thinking is being turned on its head.

The same argument has been used to explain why a medical specialist now charges
$275 for a first visit, instead of the $100 common a few years ago. Explanation:
it isn't general inflation (which wouldn't account for such a huge increase); it
is too many specialists. Proposed solution: train fewer specialists, so they
will compete more and prices will drop! This makes no sense either.

Is there an economist who can explain why medical care violates the economic
rules that apply to all other economic activity? If so, perhaps he or she could
figure out what to do so our entire population can have affordable care.

ALBERT Z. K. SANDERS
New York, Dec. 16, 1993

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Albany Herald, Ga.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday

EDC agrees to letter of support for Phoebe

BYLINE: Carlton Fletcher, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 515 words


May 16--ALBANY -- The Albany-Dougherty Economic Development Commission board
voted unanimously Wednesday to write a letter in support of Phoebe Putney
Memorial Hospital's purchase of the former Hospital Corporation of America-owned
Palmyra Medical Center, a purchase that is being challenged by the Federal Trade
Commission.

EDC Chairman Jay Smith brought the proposal to the board at its Wednesday
meeting, saying he had been approached by Phoebe officials seeking the letter of
support.

"I believe time is of the essence on this; it needs to be done this week," Smith
said.

Several board members spoke in favor of the request, although board member
Anthony Parker, the president of Albany Technical College, offered a level of
support that stopped short of Smith's recommendation.

"I believe some of us could write letters about our personal positive
experiences at Phoebe, but I don't think we could write letters in support of
the purchase," Parker said.

Board member Milan Patel suggested federal officials would be looking for data
that indicate Phoebe does not have a health care monopoly in the region, a
concern that led the U.S. Supreme Court to overturn by a 9-0 vote earlier court
decisions OKing the purchase. Board members Jim Deal and Richard Crowdis refuted
that approach.

"I don't think we should approach this as supporting (the purchase) from the
legal side," Deal said. "That's what the lawyers are for. Our support should
come from an economic development perspective."

Crowdis, the Dougherty County administrator, said the EDC should concern itself
with economics.

"Our letter should not be technical or data-driven," he said. "We have a mission
to support our large industries. Phoebe is one of the community's economic
engines, and this body should always support its economic engines."

Board member Chris Hatcher also supported Phoebe's request.

"The Economic Development Commission board is about jobs, and (Phoebe) is one of
the largest employers in our community," Hatcher said. "One of the largest
health care companies in America (HCA) didn't want to be here, and we were lucky
to have a buyer (of Palmyra's facilities) right here. This purchase saved about
500 jobs in this region; if it goes the other way we're talking about a
significant loss of jobs and a boarded-up building."

Also at the meeting, the board voted to approve a $30,000 proposal by the
Montreal-based Research on Investment business intelligence firm, which
specializes in facilitating corporate investment site location. EDC President
Ted Clem said three different proposals were presented to his staff, which
recommended accepting the one by ROI.

"Their team specializes in whittling down (business prospects) to a handful of
companies," Clem said. "Their international expertise is outstanding, and
they're not going to give us a cookie-cutter list (of prospects). They'll
compile a list that is specifically geared toward our strengths, and it will be
ours exclusively."

___ (c)2013 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130516-1AH-EDC-agrees-to-letter-of-support-for-Phoebe-0516-20130516

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                                 Copyright 2013


                              281 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday

Base to boost partnerships with local hospitals;
Effort will seek to get health care, defense sectors collaborating.;
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE

BYLINE: By Barrie Barber

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 517 words


Col. Cassie Barlow, WPAFB commander, and Bryan Bucklew, of the Greater Dayton
Area Hospital Association, at a joint press conference.

WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE - The Air Force, the Dayton Development
Coalition and Dayton area hospitals expect to reach an agreement in about a
month that will increase medical partnerships between Wright-Patterson and
medical facilities in the Miami Valley, officials said Monday.

Medical, economic and military officials will explore what those partnerships
might be with the Wright-Patterson Medical Center, and the Air Force Research
Laboratory, including the 711th Human Performance Wing and the U.S. Air Force
School of Aerospace Medicine.

Exact partnership or project details won't be known until the agreement is
final, authorities said. Area hospitals and Wright-Patterson leaders toured the
base on Monday with a scheduled stop at the aerospace medical school.

Budget cuts have caused the Air Force to look at more partnerships with outside
organizations, said Col. Cassie

B. Barlow, commander of the 88th Air Base Wing at Wright-Patterson. Earlier this
year, Wright-Patterson said it would lease seven parcels of land under
enhanced-use leases. A call for proposals is due in May.

"In this time of budget challenges that we've been talking about for quite some
time, it's our need, all of our needs, to make every dollar count," Barlow said
at a joint press conference with hospital and economic officials at
Wright-Patterson. "We believe we can do that with better partnerships with off
-base collaborations."

Wright-Patterson works with 27 diff erent colleges and schools and counts 74
diff erent training affi liation agreements, she said. The Wright-Patterson
Medical Center shares resources with the Dayton and Columbus VA Medical Centers,
for example.

The combined economic impact of the defense and health care sectors in the
Dayton region account for an $11 billion impact and 60,000 jobs, said Jeff
Hoagland, president and chief executive offi cer of the Dayton Development
Coalition.

"Those two sectors do overlap and if we can really get them working together we
can really get this sector growing so much more," Hoagland said. "... We don't
know everything yet, but here we are together working as a team to explore and
uncover a lot more opportunities."

Dayton region medical centers alone account for an $8 billion economic impact
and directly employ 35,000 employees, said Bryan J. Bucklew, president and chief
executive offi cer of the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association.

"The hospitals are a huge engine of economic development and we think this
partnership is a very good collaborative eff ort," he said. "... There's been a
long history of working relationships between the base and the hospitals. What
we're trying to do is fi gure out the next level and fi gure out the emerging
technologies that are taking place at the base."

Dayton is one of 11 communities in the United States among the largest 100 metro
areas without a university, city or county hospital, he said.

Contact this reporter at 937-225-2363 or email Barrie.Barber@coxinc.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              282 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday

Briefs

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 507 words


COLUMN: BRIEFS

Partners HealthCare says it

lost $185 million in quarter

BOSTON - Partners HealthCare Inc., New England's largest hospital chain, says it
lost $185 million in the first quarter as the nation's economic downturn bit
into investments.

Partners, the umbrella group for Massachusetts General Hospital, Brigham and
Women's Hospital and some suburban hospitals, announced Thursday it lost $244
million on investments and other financing activities in the quarter that ended
Dec. 31. That was partially offset by a $59 million profit from medical
activities.

Vice President of Finance Peter Markell told The Boston Globe that Partners'
roughly $4.5 billion investment portfolio lost about 10 percent of its value in
the quarter.

Massachusetts Sign

Association elects officers

SHREWSBURY - Joseph M. Hamel, owner of Shrewsbury Signs, has been re-elected
president of the Massachusetts Sign Association, a group of sign shops and sign
shop suppliers.

Sign permit consultant Heather Hopkins Dudko of Permit Allegiance, Worcester,
was elected secretary-treasurer. Andrew Serrato of Serrato Signs LLC, Worcester,
was elected to the board.

The association will host the 10th New England Sign Expo from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
March 5 at the Sturbridge Host Hotel and Conference Center, Sturbridge.

Saint-Gobain selling shares

to shore up its finances

WORCESTER - Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, Europe's biggest supplier of building
materials, and Lafarge SA, the world's largest cement producer, each said they
will sell 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in shares to shore up finances eroded
by slowing construction markets. Saint-Gobain slid 17 percent to 23.26 euros.
Net income dropped 7.3 percent last year. The global economic crisis makes the
2010 targets set in 2007 "obsolete," the company said. Lafarge said cost-cutting
initiatives will be extended to help save 200 million euros in 2009. The shares
slipped 1.7 percent to 36.18 euros. Saint-Gobain has operations in Worcester.
(Bloomberg News)

Westboro battery maker

names Fang business adviser

WESTBORO - Lithium-ion battery maker Boston-Power Inc. announced that Max Fang
will serve as business adviser to the company. Mr. Fang founded and serves as
managing director for venture investment firm Maxima Capital Management. He
earned a bachelor of science degree from the Management Science Department at
National Chiao Tung University and an EMBA from National Cheng Chi University.

Official says Bernard Madoff

bought no stocks for 13 years

NEW YORK - Investors wiped out by the Bernard Madoff scandal got more bad news
yesterday: Investigators have confirmed suspicions that the monthly statements
showing the disgraced financier was making stock trades for them were pure
fiction.

"We have no evidence to indicate securities were purchased for customer
accounts" in the past 13 years, said court-appointed trustee Irving Picard at a
packed, town-hall style meeting at U.S. Bankruptcy Court in lower Manhattan.

Picard called the meeting to give the investors a progress report.

From staff and wire service reports

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOSTON - Partners HealthCare Inc., New England's largest hospital
chain, says it lost $185 million in the first quarter as the nation's economic
downturn bit into investments. Partners, the umbrella group for Massachusetts
General Hospital, Brigham and Women's Hospital and some suburban hospitals,
announced Thursday it lost $244 million on investments and other financing
activities in the quarter that ended Dec. 31. That was partially offset by a $59
million profit from medical activities.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            December 21, 1991, SATURDAY, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR Edition

RECESSION ECONOMISTS AT U OF I PREDICT '92 RECOVERY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 405 words


University of Illinois economists predict the state will begin to recover
fromthe recession in 1992, but will not have as many jobs as it once did.  The
Illinois Economic Outlook, produced by researchers at the UI Bureau of Economic
and Business Research, predicts that the Illinois gross state product will
increase to $297 billion in 1992.  That would represent economic growth of 2.2
percent over 1991, when adjusted for inflation.  Although the Illinois economy
fared better than other areas of the country during the recent recession, the UI
economists said virtually no new jobs had been created since late 1990.
Employers will continue to eliminate jobs and reduce operating costs in 1992,
resulting in a reduction of .2 percent in jobs, the economists said.  Associated
Press HOST LIABILITY Court Reinstates Suit Filed In Teen's Death An Illinois
appellate court has ruled that adults who serve alcohol to teen-agers at private
parties may be held responsible for damages for injuries that result.  The
ruling Thursday was the first by an Illinois appeals court to recognize the
legal concept of social host liability for injuries resulting from underage
drinking.  The three-judge Cook County panel's ruling reinstates a lawsuit filed
against a Chicago-area couple by Janice Cravens of Mokena, whose 16-year-old
daughter Joleen was killed in a 1987 car accident.  The lawsuit contends that
David and Rita Inman allowed the car's 15-year-old driver and other teens to
drink during a housewarming party in their New Lenox home. The Inmans denied the
allegations.  Associated Press HOSPITAL COSTS Survey Says Prices Of Services
Soared Average prices at Illinois hospitals soared in 1990, jumping 26 percent,
for example, for a tonsillectomy that includes removal of the adenoids, a
hospital cost watchdog group says.  The annual survey of about 230 hospitals by
the Illinois Health Care Cost Containment Council says the cost of other
services also jumped significantly.  ''The whole health care system in this
country is out of control,'' said Gail Siegel, associate director of the
Coalition for Consumer Rights, another watchdog group. ''The hospitals are not
competing in a healthy way.'' The council's report indicates Illinois patients
are paying more for nearly all outpatient and inpatient treatments and services,
with emergency room visits breaking the trend by remaining about the same.
Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              284 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday

Wellington County committee agrees to only fund three local hospitals

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: ABOYNE


Lou Maieron isn't happy. And he doesn't think residents of Erin will be happy
either after Wellington County Council's administration, finance and personnel
committee agreed to donate $9.4 million to the three hospitals within its
borders - Groves Memorial in Fergus, Louise Marshall in Mount Forest and
Palmerston and District Hospital in Palmerston.

The committee did not agree to fund hospitals outside Wellington County,
although delegations from Headwaters Health Care in Orangeville and Georgetown
Hospital attended the meeting and made their pitch.

Each of those hospitals was seeking $100,000 from the county based on data that
indicates about four per cent of their emergency department patients are
residents of Wellington County.

Maieron, mayor of Erin and a member of county council, said because of the way
tax assessment works, Erin residents will be footing a disproportionate
percentage of the $9.4 million, which is even harder to swallow given that
because of geography, most Erin residents would attend Orangeville, Georgetown
or Guelph hospitals before any of the other three.

"Is this for all of Wellington County or just for the communities that have
hospitals?" asked Maieron when committee chair John Green opened questions from
the floor. "The question should be, do we fund hospitals that serve our
residents or do we fund hospitals within our borders?"

The real question is, should Wellington County be entertaining funding requests
from hospitals at all?

"Do we have a hospital funding policy?" Maieron asked.

"Yes, we don't fund hospitals," Green answered.

And yet the committee unanimously agreed to give $5.4 million to Groves and
split $4 million between Louise Marshall and Palmerston.

Groves is building a larger hospital on a new site in Aboyne and Louise Marshall
and Palmerston hospitals both need renovations to their emergency departments
and clinical spaces. The province is funding 90 per cent of the capital costs
but expects communities to come up with the balance.

George Bridge, mayor of the Town of Minto and chair of the economic development
committee, said hospitals are an economic driver and losing a hospital,
especially in a small community, would be a huge loss. "Economic development
would slide, there would be an exodus of people," he said. "I look at hospitals
like roads - we need them."

Chris White, mayor of Guelph-Eramosa and warden of Wellington County, said the
county has funded and not funded hospitals over the years, at one time even
funding Guelph General Hospital.

"(Hospital funding) comes and goes. To say this hasn't been vetted is not
correct," White said.

Ken DeHart, treasurer, said how to fund this expenditure will be decided during
2015 budget deliberations. He said he would probably recommend paying the amount
over 20 years and using debt financing to cover the tab.

"There are still unknowns for the 2015 budget process and I would not recommend
funding over a short term," he said.

The matter goes to county council next week on June 26 for ratification.

jshuttleworth@guelphmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              285 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      The Guelph Mercury (Ontario, Canada)

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Wellington County committee agrees to only fund three local hospitals

BYLINE: Joanne Shuttleworth, Mercury staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 508 words


Lou Maieron isn't happy. And he doesn't think residents of Erin will be happy
either after Wellington County Council's administration, finance and personnel
committee agreed to donate $9.4 million to the three hospitals within its
borders - Groves Memorial in Fergus, Louise Marshall in Mount Forest and
Palmerston and District Hospital in Palmerston.

The committee did not agree to fund hospitals outside Wellington County,
although delegations from Headwaters Health Care in Orangeville and Georgetown
Hospital attended the meeting and made their pitch.

Each of those hospitals was seeking $100,000 from the county based on data that
indicates about four per cent of their emergency department patients are
residents of Wellington County.

Maieron, mayor of Erin and a member of county council, said because of the way
tax assessment works, Erin residents will be footing a disproportionate
percentage of the $9.4 million, which is even harder to swallow given that
because of geography, most Erin residents would attend Orangeville, Georgetown
or Guelph hospitals before any of the other three.

"Is this for all of Wellington County or just for the communities that have
hospitals?" asked Maieron when committee chair John Green opened questions from
the floor. "The question should be, do we fund hospitals that serve our
residents or do we fund hospitals within our borders?"

The real question is, should Wellington County be entertaining funding requests
from hospitals at all?

"Do we have a hospital funding policy?" Maieron asked.

"Yes, we don't fund hospitals," Green answered.

And yet the committee unanimously agreed to give $5.4 million to Groves and
split $4 million between Louise Marshall and Palmerston.

Groves is building a larger hospital on a new site in Aboyne and Louise Marshall
and Palmerston hospitals both need renovations to their emergency departments
and clinical spaces. The province is funding 90 per cent of the capital costs
but expects communities to come up with the balance.

George Bridge, mayor of the Town of Minto and chair of the economic development
committee, said hospitals are an economic driver and losing a hospital,
especially in a small community, would be a huge loss. "Economic development
would slide, there would be an exodus of people," he said. "I look at hospitals
like roads - we need them."

Chris White, mayor of Guelph-Eramosa and warden of Wellington County, said the
county has funded and not funded hospitals over the years, at one time even
funding Guelph General Hospital.

"(Hospital funding) comes and goes. To say this hasn't been vetted is not
correct," White said.

Ken DeHart, treasurer, said how to fund this expenditure will be decided during
2015 budget deliberations. He said he would probably recommend paying the amount
over 20 years and using debt financing to cover the tab.

"There are still unknowns for the 2015 budget process and I would not recommend
funding over a short term," he said.

The matter goes to county council next week on June 26 for ratification.

jshuttleworth@guelphmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Bond Buyer

Bond Calls & Redemptions PENNSYLVANIA

                             April 14, 1997, Monday


       Allegheny County Hospital Development Authority (Pittsburgh),
hospital gross revenue bonds,   320,000   n/a   May 1, 04   May 1, 97
Mellon Bk   TR
       Series D (Allegheny General Hospital, Sublessee)
       Clinton County Industrial Development Authority (Wilmington),
industrial development revenue   30,000   May 1, 76   May 1, 06   May
1, 97   Mellon Bk   TR
       bonds, Series B (Hammermill Paper Co. Industrial Development
Project)
       Ohio Township Municipal Authority (Columbus), water revenue bonds,
Series A   16,000   n/a   May 1, 04   May 1, 97   Mellon Bk
TR
       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
variable-rate economic   150,000   n/a   May 1, 98   May 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       development revenue bonds, 1991 Series B4 (Loranger Manufacturing
Corp. Project)
       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
variable-rate economic   75,000   n/a   May 1, 06   May 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       development revenue bonds, 1991 Series B6 (Pittsburgh Flatroll Co.
Project)

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 220 words

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 The Bond Buyer, Inc.


                              287 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

Hospital shake-up 'flawed'

BYLINE: Jamie Mckenzie

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 374 words


A leading economist has claimed that the business case for a controversial
shake-up of hospital services on Skye is "seriously flawed".

Professor Ronald MacDonald conducted his own analysis of the health board's
economic appraisal for the proposed upgrade to Broadford Hospital, claiming that
it failed to account for potential "significant costs" to the public by siting
it at a distance from the main population in Portree.

His report will appear as part of the documents which will go before Holyrood's
petitions committee today.

A petition raised by SOS-NHS has drawn more than 4,500 signatures against the
plans.

Broadford was chosen in 2014 as the location for the main "hub" hospital on the
island, with Portree to host a smaller "spoke" health centre, sparking furious
reaction from many islanders.

Prof MacDonald, of Portree, recently spoke to the Press and Journal about how
staff at the existing Broadford Hospital had failed his father in the days
before his painful death, claiming the distance was a factor.

He suggested the case illustrated why the hospital shake-up should not go ahead.

Following his economic analysis, unveiled yesterday, Prof MacDonald said: "In
sum, I find that the board's case for relocating hospital care on the island is
very seriously flawed indeed, and had they used appropriate methods there can be
little doubt that we would be considering a single sited hospital based in
Portree with a capacity to meet the increased demand for hospital services in
the area, because of a number of factors including demographics."

In his report, Prof MacDonald claims the document makes no mention of an
objective economic cost benefit analysis of location and focuses on the
"non-financial benefits".

Last night, an NHS Highland spokeswoman said: "The proposals will be subject to
further detailed financial appraisal as part of the outline and full business
case process.

"There is very clear guidance to be followed including when to consider
financial and non-financial benefits. Both Highlands and Islands Enterprise and
the Highland Council supported the model and the location.

"There is also clear guidance on when an Independent Scrutiny Panel is convened
and that would usually be before any consultation got under way."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NON-FINANCIAL FOCUS: Professor Ronald MacDonald, inset, has completed
his own analysis of the economic appraisal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2016 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday

Memorial Hospital announces job cuts, hiring freeze

BYLINE: KATHY STEVENS -- The York Dispatch

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 584 words


Memorial Hospital announced 32 layoffs and a hiring freeze Monday as a result of
the downturn in the economy in which more patients are unable to pay for
health-care services.

Fewer patients are showing up at the hospital and those who do are having
trouble paying their bills -- meaning the hospital has to trim where it can, a
hospital spokeswoman said.

In addition to the layoffs, 21 positions have not been filled in the past 60
days and the hospital is taking other steps to cut costs, according to
spokeswoman Josette Myers. Memorial employs about 1,000 people at its 100-bed
facility in Spring Garden Township.

Myers said that prior to the last 12 months Memorial experienced heightened
demand in emergency, obstetrics and outpatient services. But since then, patient
volume at Memorial has decreased 6 percent.

It's a problem hospitals have experienced state- and nationwide as the economic
downturn forces would-be patients to tighten purse strings.

Hospitals nationwide have reported a 40 percent drop in admissions, and a
majority of the facilities reported an increase in the proportions of patients
unable to pay for their care, according to Chicago-based American Hospital
Association.

At Memorial, layoffs were "across the board," including greeters and those
providing ancillary services in radiology and patient care departments, Myers
said.

Other reductions: The hospital also is delaying capital expenditures such as the
purchase of new health care equipment and technology. It also will reduce
operating expenses, including advertising and consulting fees.

Myers said Memorial would also close its specialized Wound Care Center at the
facility. Two of the 32 people being laid off worked at the center, she said.

The volume of the center, which serves about 20 patients, does not justify cost
of the technology required. Current patients will be notified and referred to
other such centers nearby, Myers said.

"While Memorial Hospital finds these measures necessary to ensure that it
remains strong and able to provide York County with a choice for quality health
care, it was a very difficult decision," said Sally Dixon, president and CEO of
Memorial. "Our concern today is for the associates who were affected by the
work-force reduction."

Myers did say the hospital would move forward with plans for a replacement
hospital in West Manchester Township, which is slated for completion in 2013.

No layoffs elsewhere: Officials at Hanover and York Hospitals have said there
are no plans to lay off staff.

Pete Krech, vice president of human resources at Hanover Hospital, said the
hospital is being careful about its financial matters and "keeping an eye" on
expenses connected with staff, patients and supplies.

WellSpan Health -- which includes York Hospital -- is in "hiring mode," with 400
job vacancies that officials are working on filling, said spokesman Barry
Sparks.

"There's no hiring freeze, but we're being cautious in replacing people and
adding new positions," he said. "We're being cautious because of the economic
environment."

Last month, WellSpan announced it had put multi-million dollar renovations,
expansions and new facilities on hold until administrators have a clearer idea
of the economic outlook.

Projects on hold include a $50 million rehabilitation center on Monument Road in
York Township and an expansion of York Hospital's emergency department.

- Reach Kathy Stevens at 505-5437 or kstevens@yorkdispatch.com Staff Reporter
Eyana Adah McMillan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                           September 4, 2003 Thursday

It's all take and no give

BYLINE: Judy Siegel-Itzkovich

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1124 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Finance Ministry offers no support to Jerusalem's voluntary
hospitals, yet it is quick to tax these institutions. Judy Siegel-Itzkovich
reports


In an annual late-summer ritual, Health Ministry officials make a pilgrimage to
the Treasury, hat in hand, to close the yawning gap between the financial needs
and means of the state-owned hospital system. This is usually preceded by Clalit
Health Service officials entreating the ministry for help in overcoming its own
deficits.

But directors of Jerusalem's hospitals - the Hadassah Medical Organization's two
Hadassah University Hospitals, Shaare Zedek Medical Center and Bikur Holim
Hospital - have no "Big Daddy" to turn to. Their workers are not on the
government payroll; management must pay a hefty 4% employers tax, pension
deductions, malpractice insurance, VAT and other levies that the Treasury covers
for its state hospitals. Established by voluntary organizations decades before
the founding of the state, Jerusalem's voluntary hospitals are forced to turn to
foreign donors to cover development costs.

Thus medical institutions that provide services to more than 10% of the Israeli
population are ignored by the Treasury and told to "schnor" for the money they
need to maintain, expand and improve services.

Three administrators responsible for the capital's hospitals got their
complaints off their chests at a recent session of the Economic Forum - devoted
to "Medical Economics or Economic Medicine?" and chaired by businessman Israel
Isaacs. The hands-off policy is "convenient" for the government, they said, but
they didn't get much satisfaction. Jerusalem has borne the brunt of suicide
bombings and other terror attacks, the Versaille wedding hall collapse and other
catastrophes, they said, and their staffs rush within minutes to their hospitals
without significant compensation for overtime.

"We are at war - a daily war," said Hadassah Medical Organization
director-general Prof. Shlomo Mor-Yosef. "Everyone who works in a Jerusalem
hospital has to have a special soul to treat people who have been through the
worst, but it still has to be run as an economic institution. The government
takes it for granted that we are supported by charity, so it ignores us, even
though we are a major economic force in Jerusalem's economy. At our hospitals
alone, we employ 5,000 people, and have an annual turnover of NIS 1.3 billion,
getting supplies and services from businesses inside and outside Jerusalem. Some
20,000 to 25,000 people are on our Ein Kerem campus alone each day. But the
government doesn't invest a shekel in us."

Due to the economic and security situation, the health funds restrict the number
of patient referrals to Hadassah and other Jerusalem outpatient clinics,
preferring to treat patients if they can in their own clinics. The dearth of
tourists and the reduced number of non-Jerusalemite Israelis who come to
Hadassah for treatment since the beginning of the intifada three years ago have
taken a toll on the institutions, Mor-Yosef added. Health funds delay payments
to hospitals for treating their members, which compounds the hospitals'
financial state. All this has increased deficits, forcing the hospitals to take
bank loans and make deep cuts.

Seventy-five percent of Hadassah's expenses go to cover salaries; so these costs
can't be reduced except by dismissals. Income is also set, as the government
determines the per-diem hospitalization rate, and a few weeks ago the government
slashed this by more than 10% to help the health funds and reduce health costs.
Mor-Yosef added that Hadassah can increase income only marginally by expanding
parking facilities, offering cosmetic surgery, Lasik surgery to eliminate the
need for eyeglasses, and other treatments not included in the basket of health
services, and by turning staffers' research into profitable enterprises.

Shaare Zedek director-general Prof. Jonathan Halevy told the audience - which
included about 100 leading Jerusalem businesspeople, medical administrators and
physicians - that financial resources to cover a basket set in 1994 have become
completely inadequate. The 4.8% health tax cannot keep up with the constantly
rising costs of vitally needed new medications and technologies. The Shaare
Zedek director-general added that the government's refusal to exempt Jerusalem
hospitals from the employers' tax - NIS 24 million a year for Hadassah and NIS
12 million for Shaare Zedek - constitutes a heavy financial burden.

"The government treats us like stepchildren," said Halevy, asking the
influential businesspeople present to put pressure on the government to
eliminate this expense.

Moshe Cohen, Bikur Holim's administrative director, said his hospital is
constantly pressed for money, as the health funds pay late and, when asked for
funds, restrict referrals of patients to Bikur Holim as a kind of "punishment."

Health Minister Dan Naveh, nearly half a year in office, seemed almost to ignore
the Jerusalem hospital administrators' pleas. "Since 1995, all Israeli
governments have given less and less for health. The basket is getting smaller.
Medical research is declining. This is an ongoing crisis that affects every
country in the world," he said.

Naveh expressed satisfaction about his managing to persuade the Treasury to
increase the basket of health services by NIS 60 million instead of giving
nothing. But this sum is for two years (2003 and 2004) and falls well short of
the NIS 250 million annual increases of previous years. Naveh worried that the
economic crisis would promote different levels of health care for the rich and
poor.

Hinting at the Jerusalem hospitals' complaints that they have to raise money
abroad, Naveh said government hospitals are unable to raise money this way.

"The government comprises the 'friends' organizations' of the state hospitals.
They must beg the Treasury for money." The present year has been very difficult
for the health system," said Naveh, who glumly warned that the situation wasn't
likely to improve in 2004. The minister said he hopes to make major reforms by
turning state hospitals into non-profit medical corporations - a proposal that
goes back more than 15 years but has not yet been implemented. But even then,
financially weaker hospitals would be linked with better-off ones.
"Incorporation is not a magic cure."

Jerusalem Mayor Uri Lupolianski commiserated with the hospital administrators
and citizens of the capital - the poorest big city in the country.

"Many Jerusalemites think twice before they go to the doctor," he said, "and
they don't always purchase the medications they're prescribed. Studies have
shown that the poor are sicker than the rich, and they require more expensive
hospitalization. Wouldn't it save in the long term if funds were invested on
prevention of disease? The government must deal with Jerusalem's unique economic
and health problems."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerusalem's population has doubled since the Hadassah Women's
Zionist Organization built its Ein Kerem campus 40 years ago, so money must be
raised to expand the hospital's emergency department. (Credit: ARiel
Jerozolimski)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        DeWitt Era-Enterprise (Arkansas)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                January 30, 2014

What is the Contribution of DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. to the Overall
Economy of the Area?

BYLINE: DeWitt Era-Enterprise staff

LENGTH: 329  words


In this report, IMPLAN software and data were used to study and estimate the
economic impact of DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. on Arkansas County. The
term economic impact refers to any number of processes that trace how changes in
spending resulting from an economic event, such as business closures and new
industrial or infrastructural developments move through an economy. An impact
study measures the cumulative effects of that spending on a defined geographic
region, as small as a ZIP area, or as large as an entire country.

Hospitals may use impact analysis to demonstrate their role, importance and
contribution to the local economy, and the potential effects of expansion or
relocation of the hospital.

DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. makes a significant contribution to the
local economy by purchasing goods and services from local businesses and by
providing jobs and income to local residents who in turn send part of their
income at these local-businesses. This section of the report estimates the
direct and secondary contribution of DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. to the
local economy. We measure the economic contribution of the hospital in terms of
employment and income.

DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. hires a significant number of employees and
generates: 113 jobs created directly by the hospital 36 secondary jobs created
in other businesses 149 total job impact generated by DeWitt Hospital & Nursing
Home Inc.

It provides $6,438,610 in direct labor income/wages And it provides a total
labor income impact of $8,020,680 to the local economy $6,438,610 earned by 113
employees generated an additional 36 jobs for the local community created from
employees' spending and adds $1,582,070 in secondary labor income to the owners
and employees of the benefiting businesses in the community. In 2011, DeWitt
Hospital 8c Nursing Home Inc. had a total revenue impact of $18,237,468, a job
impact of 149 and a total income impact of $8,020,680.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DEW

                      Copyright 2014 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                      Copyright 2014 DeWitt Era-Enterprise


                              291 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday

EDITORIAL: Health Care Zone law

BYLINE: Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 446 words


May 08--The Mississippi Health Care Industry Zone Act, passed at Gov. Phil
Bryant's urging during the just-completed 2012 legislative session, holds
potential for significant long-term economic impact in the major hospital
service centers statewide --at least three contiguous counties that have or soon
expect to have at least 375 acute-care beds.

An additional qualifier is a new hospital costing $250 million or more finished
by 2017.

The law will create a five-mile radius around qualifying medical centers, with
special tax incentives for investments of at least $10 million and 25 permanent,
full-time jobs.

The facilities directory maintained by the Mississippi State Board of Health
lists nine counties above or near the 375-bed threshold: Lee, Hinds, DeSoto,
Jackson, Harrison, Lauderdale, Rankin, and Lowndes, plus Lafayette where a new
$250 million hospital will be built.

The law would add strength-to-strength. Mississippi hospitals already have a $12
billion impact, and an average salary of $42,193, above the Mississippi average
of $33,185.

The 115 hospitals in the state, the Mississippi Hospital Association's studies
reflect, employ about 60,000 people.

Almost every economic development organization and agency in Mississippi and
most legislators supported the new act.

Through the legislation, counties that have hospitals and a qualifying
certificate of need can be designated a Health Care Zone by the Mississippi
Department of Economic Development. Bryant visited Houston before his
inauguration to see the results of a similar Texas law.

Special incentives would encourage health-related business sectors like
pharmaceutical research and development, biotechnology, product manufacturing,
land diagnostic imaging, among others, the governor's office said in a release.

The incentives include:

--Accelerated state income tax depreciation deduction to encourage development
by allowing companies to reduce taxable income after initial development.

--A property tax fee in lieu of taxes for 10 years.

--Property tax exemption for 10 years. Bryant said he will seek a physician
recruitment bill as a companion to the zone legislation.

It also would strengthen Mississippi's attractiveness for what Bryant terms a
"necessary" industry --certainly one that promises to grow as the population
ages.

CORRECTION: Syndicated columnist Bill Crawford made an error in his column
published Monday. Aubrey Lucas served as interim IHL chief when Tom Meredith,
not David Potter, left the position.

___ (c)2012 the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) Visit the
Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) at www.nems360.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120508-TP-EDITORIAL-Health-Care-Zone-law-0508-20120508

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TP


               Copyright 2012 Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal


                              292 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

STIMULUS-PROJECT HOSP GARAGE: MORE SPACES, FEWER JOBS

BYLINE: BY MIKE JACCARINO DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SUBURBAN; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 316 words


A BRONX HOSPITAL received close to $20 million in federal stimulus financing
yesterday for a parking garage that will initially result in fewer rather than
more jobs.

St. Barnabas Hospital will use the $19.8 million in tax-free bonds from the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 to build a five-story, 605-space
self-parking garage on its East Tremont campus.

The new garage will only need about six union workers - rather than the 25 or so
now used at the current aging one.

The New York City Capital Resource Corp., a subsidiary of the city's Economic
Development Corp., approved the financing.

The hospital, which has been trying to build the garage for 25 years, argued
that current hour-long waits for workers to get parking spots have been a
negative factor in recruiting doctors and other staff.

But Bettina Damiani, project director of the non-profit government watchdog Good
Jobs New York, called the project "counterintuitive to the goals of the Recovery
Act."

"It doesn't create new jobs. It doesn't save existing jobs. And it will
eliminate permanent jobs in the long run," she said.

Rep. Jose Serrano (D-South Bronx), who was not involved in the process, said
"The purpose of the economic recovery funds is to create and preserve jobs;
anything less is unacceptable to me."

The job losses will come through Central Parking, a private firm that holds the
parking concession with the hospital.

The parking attendants will likely be transferred to other Central Parking
locations once the current garage is torn down, said hospital spokesman Steve
Clark.

Work on the new $25.7 million garage is due to begin next June, with completion
18 months later.

"There will be 173 people working in the construction of the new garage," said
Clark, "and quite frankly, the future economic feasibility of the hospital will
be dependent on the construction of the new garage."

mjaccarino@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Daily News, L.P.


                              293 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   December 7, 1988, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

An unfair tax on new homes

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 377 words


   Because everyone benefits from a booming provincial economy, everyone should
pay for the public investments that add to economic growth.

That's how Ontario Treasurer Robert Nixon saw it when he presented his budget
just seven months ago:

"The growth of private sector employment and wealth owes much to this kind of
public support. Major investments in our community schools, hospitals, colleges,
universities and highways have fostered record levels of new business expansion
and modernization."

But now Nixon and Premier David Peterson apparently think that new home buyers
should foot the lion's share of the bill for the new schools and hospitals that
will be needed as the province grows. They are considering a $5,000 levy on new
housing lots to cover the cost of building new schools, and a $3,000 levy to
cover the cost of new hospitals.

That kind of arbitrary tax is patently absurd. Here's why:

* It would make a mockery of the government's stated commitment to make housing
more affordable. By driving up the cost of new housing, the tax would spur the
market to add a hefty premium to the price of existing houses too;

* By making residents in new communities effectively pay for their own
hospitals, the government would contravene the spirit of its medicare
legislation that says the health burden should be assumed by all;

* The province would also undermine almost every principle of taxation by making
"new" the sole criterion for who pays this housing tax. Why should a young
couple pay $8,000 more to live in a new $200,000 bungalow, while a wealthy
family which buys an existing $800,000 house three blocks away pays nothing at
all?

As Harvard economist Richard Musgrave put it:

"The duty to pay taxes, or the power to tax, is among the most tangible of all
links between the citizen and society. The struggle to overcome arbitrariness in
taxation was one of the early objectives of constitutional government; and the
setting of tax maxims provided a means of defining the status of the individual
in the social compact."

Surely, no government that calls itself progressive would dare to make one
social compact with the settled wealthy, and a watered down one with people in
new suburbs.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              294 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                 March 7, 2002

Rise in Hospital Authority funding fails to tackle deficit

BYLINE: Mary Ann Benitez

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 432 words


The modest rise in health spending was generally welcomed, but a patients'
rights group warned that chronic Hospital Authority budget deficits would be a
prescription for disaster.

Recurrent spending on health will amount to $ 32.4 billion for 2002-03, up 3.6
per cent.

The Hospital Authority will receive funding of $ 29.8 billion, compared with the
previous year's $ 29.3 billion.

However, as hospital fees and charges remain frozen for another year, the
authority will be hard-pressed to make cuts in order to avoid dipping into its
reserves for a second year running. It faces a deficit of $ 225 million for
2001-02, the first time the authority has gone into the red since it was set up
in 1991.

Spokesman for the Hong Kong Patients' Rights Association Tim Pang Hung-cheong
said another budget deficit would have a serious effect on public hospital
services.

"Whether the Hospital Authority can expand its services and keep its service
quality in response to increasing public demand will depend on the authority
needing to have more resources. There is no way they can keep up with this
otherwise," Mr Pang said.

He hoped the Government and the authority could use this year to come up with a
solution that would satisfy legislators and the public.

But legislator Lo Wing-lok, who represents the medical sector, said: "A two per
cent rise in spending for the Hospital Authority is appropriate, as well as a
three per cent budgetary increase for the Department of Health. This indicates
that the Government wants to maintain the standard of services despite the
economic downturn."

Michael Mak Kwok-fung, who represents the health services sector, said: "The
budget is a modest one, giving consideration to the current economic crisis and
hardships suffered by people."

Dr Leung Ka-lau, president of the Public Doctors' Association, said of the
freeze on hospital fees and charges: "If the economy is really so bad, it is
reasonable." He said a modest increase in the Hospital Authority budget was good
in the short term.

Some of the new money for the Hospital Authority will pay for Chinese medicine
outpatient services, 166 new beds, 1,000 additional care assistants to
strengthen extended care service in hospitals, and an intensive rehabilitation
and treatment programme for mental health patients.

The Department of Health will launch an adolescent health programme, a pilot
men's health programme, and develop cervical cancer screening for women.

The department will receive $ 3.7 billion, compared with $ 3.6 billion in 2000
-01.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2002 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              295 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                              April 2, 2010 Friday

LGH expansion sign of bright future

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 354 words


Lowell General Hospital's decision to move ahead with its ambitious $95 million
expansion should be seen as a positive economic indicator by area residents.

The project is expected to generate $200 million in local economic impact,
creating nearly 400 construction jobs and about 160 new, permanent jobs at the
hospital.

These are welcome positions at a time when many people, including construction
workers, are scrambling to find work. Hospital officials have promised to use as
many local workers and businesses as possible.

The expansion -- which includes enlarging the emergency and trauma centers and
adding more than 100 new beds and three operating rooms -- will allow more area
patients to have their health needs met in Lowell, which should contribute to
reducing the cost of patient care.

The rising cost of health care is a significant concern nationwide. Costs aren't
helped by the habit some patients have developed of having procedures performed
at Boston medical centers. Many of those procedures are routinely done at
community hospitals, such as Lowell General, for considerably lower cost.

"Every time we keep someone in town, we save the system money," Lowell General
President and CEO Norm Deschene explained during an editorial board meeting at
The Sun.

Saving the system money will result in lower costs for patients and, eventually,
in lower insurance costs. Having procedures performed at a nearby community
hospital also helps patients, family members and friends save the time and
aggravation that a lengthy commute to Boston would demand.

Another sign of the country's impending economic recovery is the fact that
Lowell General is expecting no difficulty in floating bonds to help finance the
project. The hospital has also been busy conducting a quiet fundraising campaign
through which it has already raised $6.5 million. A full-fledged campaign is
expected to begin sometime in May.

LGH's decision to push ahead with its expansion will prove a boon to the Greater
Lowell economy and serve to help to reduce health care costs. The Sun considers
the project to be an encouraging sign of the times ahead.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday
                                  All Editions

14 employees laid off at Ellsworth hospital

BYLINE: MEG HASKELL OF THE NEWS STAFF

SECTION: Pg. B1

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: ELLSWORTH


Maine Coast Memorial Hospital on Wednesday announced 14 employee layoffs and
unspecified reductions in executive compensation, citing backlogged Medicaid
reimbursements and economic hard times.

The 60-bed hospital's vice president for marketing, Kristin Tardiff, said 12
full-time and two part-time employees were laid off Wednesday morning, effective
immediately. The cuts include positions in administration, laboratory and
clinical services, she said.

In addition, another eight positions that are currently vacant will not be
filled, and some of the hospital's top executives, including Chief Executive
Officer Doug Jones, will take a reduction in their compensation packages,
Tardiff said.

Tardiff declined to provide more specific information about the compensation
cuts. In a recent Bangor Daily News survey of CEO compensation at Maine
hospitals, Jones' annual salary and benefits totaled $310,304.

The cuts are expected to save the hospital about $900,000 a year and are needed
to help it weather the general economic downturn, especially given the state of
Maine's failure to keep up to date on payments from MaineCare, the state's
Medicaid program for low-income and disabled residents, Tardiff said. According
to a recent estimate from the Maine Hospital Association, Maine Coast Memorial
Hospital is owed about $7.6 million in Medicaid funds dating back to 2005.

Gov. John Baldacci and the Legislature have pledged to use federal stimulus
funds to pay off a portion of what is owed to Maine hospitals, but the money is
not yet available.

Though the decision to lay off some of its 700 employees was "heart-wrenching,"
Tardiff said that overall Maine Coast Memorial Hospital, the second-largest
employer in Hancock County after The Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, remains a
"longstanding and stable hospital" that contributes more than $43 million a year
to the local economy.

mhaskell@bangordailynews.net

990-8291

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                              297 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     June 17, 1999, Thursday, Metro Edition

BUSINESS IN BRIEF;
 ATLANTA;
 Study: Hospitals packing more economic impact

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SOURCE: Constitution

SECTION: Business; Pg. 8E

LENGTH: 430 words

Georgia's hospitals had a $ 25.6 billion impact on the state's economy in 1997,
up more than $ 1 billion from the year before, according to a Georgia State
University report released Wednesday. The impact figure combined direct hospital
spending with the ripple effect of those expenditures, plus economic
contributions from households with members employed directly or indirectly by
hospitals. Georgia hospitals and health systems employ more than 130,000. The
1997 figures are the latest available from the state. The report was compiled by
the Economic Forecasting Center at Georgia State and commissioned by GHA, an
association of Georgia hospitals. GHA's president, Joe Parker, noted that the
state's hospitals have endured Medicaid cuts and are now dealing with an
estimated $ 1.9 billion reduction in Medicare spending over five years.

Southern launching new bid for Cajun Electric
Southern Co. and a rival bidder for Cajun Electric Power Cooperative will revive
competing plans to buy the bankrupt electric utility next week following the
failure of a settlement proposal. Southern and partner Northern States Power Co.
had accepted the settlement proposal that would have allowed them to buy the
assets of the Louisiana wholesale cooperative for $ 975 million. Southwestern
Electric Power of Baton Rouge, La., declined to say whether it had accepted the
plan, which would have allowed the rival bidder to buy and resell some of
Cajun's power. A mediator said three of 21 parties to the 3-year-old bankruptcy
case had rejected his proposal but declined to name them. A judge will consider
renewed proposals from the two rival bidders Tuesday.

TECHNOLOGY
Amazon.com teams with auction house
Amazon.com and Sotheby's said Wednesday they're teaming up to sell sports
memorabilia, coins and other collectibles on a new site called sothebys.
amazon.com. Amazon.com also announced a $ 45 million investment in Sotheby's.

ALSO NOTEWORTHY
Intertape Polymer Group of Canada said it will close its Augusta bag plant by
September, affecting 89 employees. Thirty will lose their jobs immediately.  ...
Rowe Cos. agreed to acquire Atlanta-based Storehouse Inc. furniture stores for $
12 million in cash. ...  The San Francisco Chronicle, one of the country's last
family-owned newspapers , went on the block Wednesday along with other Chronicle
Publishing Co. holdings --- a package worth an estimated $ 2 billion. ... Cable
mogul Paul G. Allen will make a $ 100 million investment in Oxygen Media, the
start-up cable and Internet company devoted to women.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution


                              298 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     June 17, 1999, Thursday, Home Edition

Business in Brief ;
 ATLANTA;
 Study: Hospitals packing more economic impact

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SOURCE: Constitution

SECTION: Business; Pg. 8E

LENGTH: 428 words

Georgia's hospitals had a $ 25.6 billion impact on the state's economy in 1997,
up more than $ 1 billion from the year before, according to a Georgia State
University report released Wednesday. The impact figure combined direct hospital
spending with the ripple effect of those expenditures, plus economic
contributions from households with members employed directly or indirectly by
hospitals. Georgia hospitals and health systems employ more than 130,000. The
1997 figures are the latest available from the state. The report was compiled by
the Economic Forecasting Center at Georgia State and commissioned by GHA, an
association of Georgia hospitals. GHA's president, Joe Parker, noted that the
state's hospitals have endured Medicaid cuts and are now dealing with an
estimated $ 1.9 billion reduction in Medicare spending over five years.

Southern launching new bid for Cajun Electric
Southern Co. and a rival bidder for Cajun Electric Power Cooperative will revive
competing plans to buy the bankrupt electric utility next week following the
failure of a settlement proposal. Southern and partner Northern States Power Co.
had accepted the settlement proposal that would have allowed them to buy the
assets of the Louisiana wholesale cooperative for $ 975 million. Southwestern
Electric Power of Baton Rouge, La., declined to say whether it had accepted the
plan, which would have allowed the rival bidder to buy and resell some of
Cajun's power. A mediator said three of 21 parties to the 3-year-old bankruptcy
case had rejected his proposal but declined to name them. A judge will consider
renewed proposals from the two rival bidders Tuesday.


TECHNOLOGY
Amazon.com teams with auction house
Amazon.com and Sotheby's said Wednesday they're teaming up to sell sports
memorabilia, coins and other collectibles on a new site called sothebys.
amazon.com. Amazon.com also announced a $ 45 million investment in Sotheby's.


ALSO NOTEWORTHY
Intertape Polymer Group of Canada said it will close its Augusta bag plant by
September, affecting 89 employees. Thirty will lose their jobs immediately.  ...
Rowe Cos. agreed to acquire Atlanta-based Storehouse Inc. furniture stores for $
12 million in cash. ...  The San Francisco Chronicle, one of the country's last
family-owned newspapers, went on the block Wednesday with other Chronicle
Publishing Co. holdings --- a package worth about $ 2 billion.  ... Cable mogul
Paul G. Allen will make a $ 100 million investment in Oxygen Media, the start-up
cable and Internet company devoted to women.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution


                              299 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                           September 18, 2012 Tuesday

Whither MRP?

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 721  words


The government was supposed to publish the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of 15
essential commodities in Nepal Gazette Tuesday and the MRP violators would have
come under the ambit of the Black Marketing Act, but it has failed to do so. It
is essential to publish the price list to implement the programme. In any case,
the MRP debate is escalating with some for it and some against. Critics argue
that the government's MRP program promotes carteling and is unbecoming of an
open or mixed economy. Under the circumstances, it is questionable as to whether
MRP would ensure a fair price of the essential commodities. In fact, critics
argue that the MRP would actually serve the interests of the unscrupulous
traders by permitting them to keep the price of the essentials high. Having the
MRP would only make it easier to raise the prices unnaturally. There is general
agreement to the fact that the implementation aspect of the MRP is going to be
difficult. The authorities responsible for enforcing the MRP should be working
overtime and be closely monitoring the market. They should also have the
authority to penalize the offenders on the spot for effectiveness.

What we know is that much of the price rise is due to non-economic factors. The
price of essential commodities has risen because of bandhs and strikes that have
had a telling effect on the production of essential goods and in their
transportation. The price rise can be attributed to them as well as the
prevailing political scenario which is not favourable for economic growth, and
on the other hand which is pushing up the prices of the essentials which the
impoverished people of the country are finding hard to bear. The MRP was
supposed to relieve the burden of the consumers, particularly now that the
festive seasons are fast approaching. Instead, the declaration of the MRP seems
to have backfired. So it is not strange for the consumer activists to term the
move as being a mere publicity stunt. The move is also accused of being against
the open market operations, and furthermore it is also accused of being based on
false price now that the present economic model of the country has changed.

However, there has been a demand for the MRP since long for the consumers have
felt that they had been cheated. It was even imposed six times during the
Panchayat period which had a regressive regime. However, nothing of that sort
has happened since 1982. The world is now moving towards an open economy and the
government's marketing controlling policy should be seen in this light. If
anything, the MRP would allow unscrupulous traders to profit unfairly for the
prices put in the MRP appears to be on the high side benefiting the traders and
allowing for profiteering. Since the maximum retail price has yet to be
published in the Gazette and the slow process is taking place in this regard, it
appears that even the government is not enthusiastic about it and it is taking
its time to enforce the MRP. However, things as they are, it is high time the
government came up with some innovative schemes that would really provide relief
to the consumers reeling from unfair market price hike.

Ward off infection

That the Paropakar Maternity Hospital did not provide services for the third day
in a row is indeed a matter of serious concern. The hospital was closed as lab
tests found infections in the operation theatres and the post operation wards,
among other places. Several patients became seriously ill from the infections
which required the maternity hospital to close its services and refer the
patients to other hospitals. Its services are provided cheaply in the hospital
and most of the patients who are impoverished are hard put to afford the charges
of other hospitals, particularly those of the expensive private hospitals. This
has left them in a lurch. How the operation theatres and other departments were
infected should be thoroughly investigated. The authorities were supposed to
sterilize the operation theatres every three months. Apparently, this had not
been done properly.

The hospital should do all it can to prevent dangerous infections by sterilizing
their equipment. Meanwhile, the hospital management should be held accountable
for this fiasco and everything possible should be done to see that such
incidents are not repeated in the future.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday
                                  WEB Edition

Endangering Pa.'s health and prosperity

BYLINE: By Carolyn F. Scanlan

SECTION: NEWS; P-com Opinion; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 525 words



In proposing his state budget for the coming fiscal year, Gov. Corbett
emphasized the need to 'sort through the must-haves and the nice-to-haves, and
compress government into its core functions. ...&rdquo; He went on to note, 'If
we believe in society, we must accept that we have a duty to care for and
protect those among us who cannot fend for themselves.&rdquo;

Sadly, though, the governor's budget proposal does not match this rhetoric. In
fact, his spending plan would weaken the health-care safety net for the most
vulnerable among us.

By cutting funding for community-based services for those who have health
conditions that prevent them from working or obtaining health insurance, for
example, the budget would force more people to go without care or turn to
hospital emergency rooms for the care they need.

The commonwealth's hospitals are already accepting the responsibility to care
for people without health coverage every day. They are providing $310 million
worth of uncompensated medical care in Southeastern Pennsylvania every year.

Repeated cuts

Under the governor's budget, Pennsylvania hospitals would face a $146 million
cut in Medicaid reimbursements next year, even though the current rates amount
to 17 percent less than the cost of the care they are providing. By cutting
these payments for low-income patients, the budget would undermine all
Pennsylvanians' access to health care. Hospitals will be less able to absorb
increases in uncovered care and therefore to sustain the services other patients
count on.

This budget proposal comes on top of the governor's current-year austerity
measures, which reduced payments to hospitals for obstetric, neonatal, burn, and
trauma care. The state funding cuts also would compound a likely 2 percent
decrease in Medicare hospital payments as a result of an impasse over the
federal budget deficit in Congress. And yet another $9 billion in payment
reductions are expected to be absorbed by Pennsylvania hospitals due to federal
deficit reduction and the health-care reform law.

Economic threat

All these reductions in payments to hospitals also jeopardize another of the
governor's stated priorities: creating 'the kind of jobs that produce real
prosperity.&rdquo; Hospitals and health care have been among the state's most
stable sectors for employment, even throughout the recent recession. In
Southeastern Pennsylvania, hospitals support one of every 10 jobs and generate
nearly $30 billion a year in economic activity. As of last year, however, nearly
a third of the region's hospitals were losing money.

To sustain Pennsylvania's fragile economic recovery and to serve those who need
health care, the state budget should protect hospital payments, not reduce them
further. The legislature should reject the governor's proposed budget and craft
a plan that actually achieves his very worthy stated goals: to protect the
economy as well as those who cannot fend for themselves.

Carolyn F. Scanlan is president and chief executive officer of the Hospital and
Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                   July, 1993

                         Vol. 26, No. 7, HOSPLW Pg. 193

LENGTH: 15669 words

TITLE: Current Topics in Medical Staff Development and Credentialing

AUTHOR: Kevin E. Grady, Alston & Bird, Atlanta, Georgia.  A.B., 1969, Vanderbilt
Univ.; J.D., 1974, Harvard School of Law.

TEXT:

   While the new Clinton administration is focusing on the major issues of
health care reform and controlling health care costs, [n1] hospital boards and
administrators are struggling daily over more mundane issues that cause "brush
fires" to erupt continually at the local hospital level.  Issues such as the
proper mix of physicians on the staff, the need to recruit new physicians, and
the merits of closing medical staffs or specific departments can create serious
conflicts between medical staffs and hospital boards.

   Some of these disputes can be traced to the proliferation of preferred
provider organizations (PPOs), health maintenance organizations (HMOs), and
other managed care arrangements.  Such arrangements emphasize the need to reduce
health care costs by rewarding those providers who render treatment below an
agreed-upon price level and penalizing those providers whose costs exceed those
levels. [n2] The introduction of Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs) and Resource
Based Relative Value Scales (RBRVS) have forced providers to reduce costs of
treatment or suffer the financial consequences. [n3]

   The economic "squeeze" which the government and third party payers have
imposed on providers has had the particularly unfortunate consequence of
increasing tension between hospitals and physicians over privileging decisions.
This tension has been most visible when hospitals have taken actions to limit or
deny physicians medical staff privileges.

   Hospitals are often caught between the need for economic survival and the
insistence of physicians on their medical staffs that only "quality of care"
concerns can determine the granting or denial of staff privileges.  If hospitals
make decisions which are in any way based on economic criteria, physicians often
raise the cry of "economic credentialing." [n4]

   Privileging decisions can also be complicated by factors other than economic
pressures.  For example, statutes such as the Americans With Disabilities Act
(ADA) [n5] and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) [n6] may affect
privileging decisions.  To add further fuel to the fire, hospital administrators
confront increasing battles between medical specialists over which staff members
should have credentials to perform certain procedures or provide new services at
the hospital. [n7]

   This Article will attempt to address some of the current issues which often
baffle and perplex hospital administrators in the staff privileges area.
Specifically, it will discuss the issue of "economic credentialing," which
undergirds many other issues, such as medical staff development plans, turf
battles, and the offering of new services. [n8] This Article will also discuss
the potential for claims under the ADA and ADEA to create liability for
hospitals in privileging decisions.

   ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING

   "Economic credentialing" is a controversial issue among hospital medical
staffs.  The American Medical Association (AMA) and other medical societies view
the concept very negatively and have gone on record as strongly opposing
privileging or credentialing decisions based on economic factors. [n9]

   For example, the Medical Society of the State of New York recently issued a
formal policy paper opposing the use of economic factors in granting medical
staff privileges. [n10] The policy states: "'Granting and termination of
hospital medical staff privileges is not an arbitrary action.  It requires
medical staff/governing board collaboration and should be based on criteria
related only to clinical competency and patient care." [n11] In an attempted
compromise on the issue, the California Medical Association (CMA) and the
California Association of Hospital and Health Systems (CAHHS) last year approved
a voluntary set of principles governing the practice of economic credentialing
and exclusive contracting. [n12] Throughout the county, physicians have either
resigned from medical staffs over proposed changes in bylaws which they believed
would result in economic credentialing of physicians, or have sued hospitals
which have attempted either to close certain departments or to grant exclusive
contracts based on economic reasons. [n13]

   The above examples demonstrate that economic credentialing can be a divisive
issue between hospitals and physicians, and it is a source of both concern and
litigation in federal and state courts.  The issue can also arise outside the
medical staff privileges context, for example, when HMOs, PPOs, or other managed
care plans exclude physicians from participation. [n14] However, the issue has
been most dramatically raised in the context of medical staff privileges
decisions.

   Definition of Economic Credentialing

   There is no one definition of the term "economic credentialing." Indeed,
commentators have acknowledged the difficulty of defining the term:

   Economic credentialing is particularly difficult to define because the term
is used in different ways.  In a broad sense, economic credentialing is used to
refer to two different approaches for evaluating physicians.  On the one hand,
economic credentialing refers to a system that evaluates physicians based on
explicit costs or charge parameters, and those factors become key elements in
credentialing decisions.  Under such a system, a physician may be required to
generate a certain amount of profit for an institution, or demonstrate that he
or she admits an economically favorable patient mix into the institution as a
condition for retaining staff privileges.

   The other use of economic credentialing involves an evaluation of physicians
based on individual utilization data, which serves to illustrate not only
individual financial issues in a particular physician's practice, but quality of
care issues as well. . . .  Under the second general concept of economic
credentialing, certain utilization factors, which have clear economic
implications, are highlighted in the physician appraisal process.  For example,
physicians who perform excessive numbers of particular procedures or frequently
order tests that have an adverse economic impact on the institution may have
such behavior factored into their credentialing review. [n15]

   One commentator has noted that "physicians are beginning to view exclusive
contracts as a form of economic credentialing, particularly if an exclusive
contract is entered into to improve a hospital's economic position." [n16] The
Medical Society of the State of New York's policy paper on the issue describes
economic credentialing as occurring when the following criteria are analyzed in
awarding clinical privileges: 1) the revenue generated by a physician for a
hospital; 2) patient demographics; 3) physician's membership on other medical
staffs; 4) malpractice risk exposure; and 5) the number of hospital-owned
outpatient services utilized. [n17]

   To some degree, the issue of economic credentialing has become synonymous
with the issue of whether the medical staff of the hospital board controls the
ultimate decision as to who should practice at a particular hospital.  This
tension between the physicians and the hospital board is exemplified by the
debate over whether the hospital should take economic factors into account in
granting and terminating privileges in order to survive in today's competitive
market, or whether physicians should only be deprived of staff privileges based
on quality of care issues. [n18]

   The AMA has gone on record as opposing the use of economic credentialing by
hospital boards and has adopted a policy wit respect to exclusive contracts at
hospitals. [n19] That policy states that the medical staff should review and
make recommendations to the governing body regarding quality of care issues
related to exclusive contract arrangements, prior to the making of any decision,
in the following situations: 1) the decision to execute an exclusive contract in
a previously open department or service; 2) the decision to renew or otherwise
modify an exclusive contract in a particular department or service; and 3) the
decision to terminate an exclusive contract in a particular department or
service. [n20]

   Various state medical associations have propounded or sponsored "model"
medical staff bylaws which incorporate the AMA's opposition to economic
credentialing. [n21] At least one state medical association's model bylaws would
prohibit the denial or grant of clinical privileges based solely or primarily on
economic criteria that do not related to clinical qualifications, professional
responsibility, or quality of care. [n22]

   Despite the AMA's and state medical associations' opposition to economic
credentialing, at least one commentator has observed that a hospital board may
have a fiduciary obligation to engage in economic credentialing.

   Not only does a board have the legal authority to introduce economic
evaluations into credentialing, an argument could be made that it has a mandate
to do so.  In institutions where data systems are in place that generate
physician clinical and financial profiles, a board will have the ability to make
the necessary correlations required for a program of economic credentialing.  As
the fiscal fiduciary of a hospital, a board confronted with data showing that a
given practitioner's hospital practice is financially out of line with
institutional business objectives may be required to act.  Although the
governing entity will be inclined to delegate physician economic evaluation to
the medical staff, as in credentialing generally, the ultimate responsibility
rests with the governing entity. [n23]

   While the debate continues over the merits of economic credentialing, the
fact remains that numerous economic issues affect staff privilege decisions.
Some factors, obviously, are more controversial than others.

   The Types of Factors Involved In Economic Credentialing

   If economic credentialing is used in its broadest sense, then every staff
privilege decision which is determined primarily by economic factors will be
viewed as a form of economic credentialing.  For example, an exclusive contract
with a hospital-based provider may prevent any unaffiliated physician from
obtaining staff privileges.  Furthermore, certain hospital contracts can provide
one group of physicians with specific advantages, such as being the primary
provider of certain hospital-based services.  This arrangement may have a
negative impact on other staff members who feel restricted in exercising their
privileges as they desire, or who derive less economic value from their
privileges. [n24]

   In addition to hospital contractual arrangements which may affect
credentialing decisions, other economic criteria, such as the need to have
certain minimum amounts of malpractice coverage, also may influence the
credentialing process. [n25] Other economic factors have resulted from the
increased information available from physician profiles based on DRGs, which can
inform a hospital about: 1) a physician's type of admissions, 2) average length
of stay of patients, 3) diagnosis, 4) charges, and 5) hospital reimbursement.
[n26]

   Those who oppose economic credentialing, such as the California Medical
Association (CMA), have objected to considering factors such as DRG review,
revenue per physician, admission rates, payer mix, and community need for a
particular service. [n27] Nevertheless, even the CMA acknowledges certain
economic indicators may have an appropriate relationship to quality of care so
that they could be used in the credentialing process, such as comparing the
amount of resources used by physicians, the number of tests ordered, the use of
consultants/referrals, and DRG outliers. [n28]

   LITIGATION INVOLVING ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING

   Although the term economic credentialing has been addressed directly in
numerous articles, the federal and state courts have not generally used the term
in deciding physician challenges to staff privilege decisions.

   The case of Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Regional Medical Center [n29] has
received a tremendous amount of publicity as the first case in which a court has
upheld a hospital's use of economic credentialing in deciding to deny
privileges. [n30] In that case, a Florida state trial court in 1992 upheld a
hospital's decision to deny privileges to a cardiac surgeon because he was head
of the department at a competing hospital.  In granting summary judgment to the
hospital defendants, the court specifically held that under Florida law a
hospital could properly take into account the concept of economic credentialing.
The court stated:

   Taken in a generic sense, I think that is a valid consideration, as
illustrated by one of the analogies I used earlier.  And that is, if we have a
hospital with a very highly qualified physician in a rare specialty and one that
is rarely used and which will be most costly to equip and he wants medical
privileges extended for that purpose, then I think it is appropriate that,
regardless of medical qualifications, that the governing board be able to take
into consideration the economic costs to establish that department.  And they
could deny privileges in that field because to grant them would create the
concomitant requirement that the department be established, equipped and the
like. [n31]

   The court went on to hold that the hospital had a valid economic basis for
denying privileges based on the fact that the physician was the program chairman
and developer of a heart program at a competing hospital in Tallahassee. [n32]

   Because Rosenblum was a trial court decision, it may have little precedential
effect outside its immediate area.  Nevertheless, numerous other federal and
state court cases have analyzed credentialing decisions based on economic
factors without using the term economic credentialing. [n33] In those cases
physicians or other providers have challenged denial or restriction of
privileges because of exclusive contracts, closed medical staffs, or
credentialing decisions allegedly based on economic criteria. [n34] Normally,
physicians who challenge such decisions have alleged violations of federal
antitrust statutes. [n35] Aggrieved physicians also commonly allege claims under
42 U.S.C. § 1983 for denial of due process, [n36] as well as various state law
claims for breach of contract, tortious interference with business and
professional relations, tortious interference with contract, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and violations of state-specific statutes
regulating hospitals. [n37]

   Another cause for concern is the potential for economic credentialing to
constitute a violation of Medicare and Medicaid Fraud and Abuse prohibitions.
[n38] For example, the Office of Inspector General (OIG) issued a Management
Advisory Report in 1991, which identified several suspect financial
relationships between hospitals and hospital-based physicians, such as contracts
requiring physicians to split part of their income with hospitals, to pay more
than fair market value for services provided by hospitals, or to receive less
than fair market value for services rendered to hospitals. [n39]

   In examining how the courts have analyzed challenges to economically
motivated privileging decisions by hospitals, this Article will discuss
challenges under federal antitrust laws, as well as challenges based upon
federal due process and state breach of contract and tort claims.  In ruling on
these, federal courts have been somewhat more consistent than state courts in
upholding the hospitals' decisions.

   Challenges Under The Federal Antitrust Laws

   Many claims have arisen from physicians' challenging exclusive hospital
contracts for hospital-based services, such as radiology, anesthesiology,
pathology, and emergency room services. [n40] Most physicians who have brought
such claims have done so under sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, alleging
that the contracts constitute illegal tying arrangements, group boycotts,
unlawful exclusive dealing arrangements, monopolization, an attempt to
monopolize, or conspiracy to monopolize the services being provided by the
contract provider. [n41]

   Thus far most such challenges have been unsuccessful, primarily because of
the inability of the plaintiffs to convince the courts to review their claims
under a per se illegal standard of analysis. [n42] Instead, most courts have
analyzed staff privilege cases under the traditional "rule of reason analysis"
and have found that the contracts in question generally have not had a
sufficient adverse effect on competition to be viewed as unlawful. [n43]

   Exclusive Hospital Contracts

   The leading case analyzing the legality of an exclusive hospital contract is
Jefferson parish Hospital Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde. [n44] There, the Supreme Court
held that an exclusive contract for providing anesthesia services at one of
several hospitals in the New Orleans area did not constitute a per se illegal
tying arrangement, and did not unreasonably restrain trade under a rule of
reason analysis.  The Court emphasized that the hospital attracted approximately
30 percent of the residents in the particular parish, which meant that over 70
percent of the patients living in the hospital's service area went to other
hospitals.  A majority of the Court was willing to apply a per se rule of
illegality to an exclusive hospital-based contract if the hospital, which "tied"
the use of the hospital's operating rooms to the use of anesthesia services, had
substantial market power in the typing product.  Nevertheless the Court
unanimously held that because a substantial majority of the residents chose not
to use the hospital, the hospital did not have the kind of dominant market
position that would justify a per se analysis. [n45]

   The Court went on to note that the principal impact of the exclusive contract
was to limit the choice of anesthesiologists at the hospital to those associated
with the holder of the exclusive contract:

   Even if Roux did not have an exclusive contract, the range of alternatives
open to the patient would be severely limited by the nature of the transaction
and the hospital's unquestioned right to exercise some control over the identity
and the number of doctors to whom it accords staff privileges.  If respondent is
admitted to the staff of East Jefferson, the range of choice will be enlarged
from four to five doctors, but the most significant restraints on the patient's
freedom to select a specific anesthesiologist will nevertheless remain.  Without
a showing of actual adverse effect on competiton, respondent cannot make out a
case under the antitrust laws, and no such showing has been made.

   . . . It may well be true that the contract made it necessary for Dr. Hyde
and others to practice elsewhere, rather than at East Jefferson.  But there has
been no showing that the market as a whole has been affected at all by the
contract. [n46]

   Decisions By Lower Federal Courts

   Lower court decisions have consistently relied on Hyde in upholding exclusive
contracts, even when such contracts have been entered into because of economic
considerations. [n47] Indeed, lower courts have acknowledged the valid economic
concerns of hospitals in executing exclusive contracts. [n48]

   The South Carolina federal district court decision in Drs. Steur & Latham v.
National Medical Enterprises [n49] provides a good overview of the issues raised
in a challenge to a hospital's decision to replace an exclusive hospital
provider.  In that case, the hospital terminated the contract of a pathologist
group which had been at the hospital for twenty-three years, and replaced it
with another exclusive group.  The hospital offered the plaintiffs a new
contract with different terms in order to improve the accountability of the
pathology department and enhance risk management, as well as to save costs for
the hospital.  However, the plaintiffs rejected the contract.  The record
indicated that the new contract entered into with the substitute provider was
"at a cost to the hospital substantially below both the amount previously paid
to plaintiffs and the figure proposed by plaintiffs during the negotiations
which preceded their nonrenewal." [n50] The plaintiffs were permitted to retain
their general staff privileges, but they apparently provided no further
pathology services within the hospital, even though they maintained a
nonhospital-based laboratory adjacent to the hospital where they performed
pathology work. [n51]

   In rejecting the plaintiffs' antitrust challenges under sections 1 and 2 of
the Sherman Act, the court emphasized that "[m]erely changing exclusive
contractors . . . cannot constitute a violation of the antitrust laws." [n52]
The court rejected the argument that the new contract constituted an illegal
tying arrangement, for two reasons: 1) pathology services were not offered
independently from general hospital inpatient services, and, therefore, there
were not the requisite two services for an illegal tying arrangement; and 2) the
hospital did not share or have any economic interest in the revenues produced by
the pathologists.  The court held, however, that even if there had been the
requisite two services, and the hospital had shared in the fees of the new
radiologist, there would have been no illegal tying arrangement because the
relevant market could not be limited simply to the county in which the hospital
was located.  The court stressed the economic reality that other hospitals
competed with the defendant hospital, which had a 60 percent market share of
patients from its county.  When viewed in the context of the market share of all
hospitals in which the defendant competed, the court concluded the hospital had
no market power and therefore had no power or ability to reduce competition.
[n53]

   With respect to the plaintiff's exclusive dealing claim, the court emphasized
that the appropriate inquiry was whether competition in the market for the
supply of pathology services was substantially impaired by the exclusive
contract.  The court noted that there was no foreclosure of the plaintiff's
ability to pursue opportunities at hospitals elsewhere.  The court emphasized
that there was nothing to prevent the plaintiffs from bidding from the pathology
contract at the hospital since it was terminable by either party on ninety days'
notice and the hospital could cancel the contract if another pathology provider
made a better bid.  Because the record reflected many opportunities for
pathologists in hospitals nationwide, the mere foreclosure from practicing at a
single hospital was of no competitive significance. [n54]

   With respect to plaintiffs' claim that the defendant had engaged in an
illegal group boycott, the court stressed the hospital had acted unilaterally in
deciding not to renew the plaintiffs' agreement and in deciding to enter into a
new agreement.  The court noted none of the members of the medical staff or
board of directors competed with plaintiffs, and there was no evidence anyone
was motivated by a desire to secure a competitive advantage over or to inflict
competitive injury upon plaintiffs.  The court was unwilling to conclude that
merely because a new radiologist had signed the contract, he had entered into a
illegal conspiracy.  The absence of evidence of a conspiracy similarly supported
summary judgment on the group boycott claim. [n55]

   Furthermore, the court granted summary judgment on plaintiffs' section 2
claims based on finding the relevant market to be the market for professional
pathology services throughout the country.  Because the hospital had to
substantial market power, plaintiffs' claim for attempted monopolization and
conspiracy to monopolize failed because the hospital board had acted
unilaterally in entering into the contract. [n56]

   Other courts which have confronted the issue of antitrust challenges to
exclusive contracts have generally upheld such contracts based on the inability
of the plaintiff to show any overall adverse effect on competition. [n57]

   Closing the Medical Staff or Particular Department

   In addition to physicians challenging exclusive contracts when they are
denied privileges, physicians who are on the staff when a hospital decides to
"close" a particular department and who are not part of the favored group have
also filed suit challenging the decision on antitrust grounds. [n58] From an
antitrust standpoint, analyzing the issues involved in "closing" a medical staff
or a medical department is very similar to analyzing the legality of an
exclusive contract.  One recent case which illustrates this point is Bellam v.
Clayton County Hospital Authority. [n59] There, a hospital decided to close its
anesthesia department by entering into an exclusive contract with one of its
staff members to provide all anesthesia services.  The decision to "close" the
anesthesia department was the result of several years' discussion, open meetings
among the anesthesiologists and members of the board, and site visits by
representatives of the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA). [n60]

   After the board made its decision, the two anesthesiologists who were not
affiliated with the contract group filed suit to enjoin the implementation of
the contract.  In reviewing the antitrust claims, the court denied the
injunction, noting there was no evidence of any overall adverse competitive
effect merely because two physicians would now be forced to find practice
opportunities elsewhere. [n61] The personal adverse effect claimed by the two
physicians was insufficient under the Supreme Court's analysis in Hyde. Also,
the court noted the "plaintiffs [have] offered no evidence to refute the
defendants'contention that the proper market in this case included examination
of both the alternatives available to consumers of hospital services and the
alternatives to anesthesiologists seeking employment at the hospital." [n62] The
court further noted the "plaintiffs' own past practice in several states
indicates the market for anesthesiologists is very broad." [n63] However, even
if the market had been limited simply to consumers of hospital services in the
county in which the hospital was located, the court doubted the plaintiff could
ever show any substantial adverse effect. [n64]

   Federal Due Process Challenges

   If the hospital's decision to "close" a department or to replace an exclusive
provider is made without granting a hearing under the medical staff bylaws to
the adversely affected physicians, those physicians will often challenge a
public hospital's decision under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 on the theory that they were
denied due process. [n65] In rejecting such claims, the courts have often
emphasized the economic motivation of the hospital, and found that the action in
question was rationally related to a legitimate interest. [n66]

   For example, in Mays v. Hospital Authority, [n67] the hospital terminated an
exclusive arrangement with its radiologist because of concerns about losses in
the department.  Although the former exclusive provider remained on the staff of
give "second readings," and had other admitting privileges, he challenged the
hospital's decision. [n68] The court denied the physician's request for a
preliminary injunction and granted summary judgment on the plaintiff's due
process claims.  In doing so, the district court noted "that the exclusive
contact had brought the radiology department closer to solvency, and in that
sense, serves the public interest." [n69] The court emphasized that the
hospital's justification for entering into a new exclusive contract was to
"reduce the operating losses of the Radiology Department." [n70] The court went
on to hold:

   The hospital has a legitimate interest in its financial well-being, and the
exclusive contract that permits it to recoup more revenues from the operation of
the Radiology Department is rationally related to that interest.  Any mode of
operating the Radiology Department could be expected to have an adverse effect
on some parties.  The Constitution does not authorize the court to invalidate
the mode the hospital has chosen, simply because it may have some undesirable
repercussions. [n71]

   The court also recognized the exclusive contract was an appropriate exercise
of the Hospital Authority's "wide discretion to administer its facilities and to
regulate the activities of its staff in order to promote optimal patient care
and to assure the hospital's financial well-being." [n72] The Mays case
demonstrates the courts' recognition that hospitals can enter into exclusive
contracts of further their economic interest, such as to reduce operating
losses, and such motives are legitimate and within the discretion of the
hospital in administering its facilities and regulating the activities of its
staff.

   The success of a physician's due process challenge may hinge on whether the
physician remains on the staff.  If the hospital allows the physician to retain
privileges, but simply limits the exercise of those privileges, federal courts
have been generally reluctant to find a due process violation. [n73] The
distinction which the courts have drawn is the difference between a hospital's
"administrative" decision, which may be based on economic considerations, and a
hospital's "corrective" decision, which may stigmatize the physician and give
rise to claims for a due process hearing under the bylaws. [n74]

   In Faucher v. Rodziwiecz, [n75] the Eleventh Circuit upheld judgment in favor
of a hospital which had altered its contractual arrangements to provide
anesthesia services at the hospital.  The previous physician had refused to
execute a new contract suitable to the hospital, refusing to indemnify the
hospital in case of her negligence and refusing to make her privileges
contingent on the continuation of the contract, so the hospital contracted with
a new physician. [n76] The new physician then implemented a policy under which
members of the medical staff could request the prior physician, but needed to do
so at least twenty-four hours in advance.  The former physician claimed that
this arrangement severely restricted her ability to fully utilize her
privileges, and filed suit under 42 U.S.C. § 1983. [n77]

   In upholding the hospital's decision, the court noted the plaintiff's
privileges had never been terminated or even suspended, but were simply no
longer as valuable as before.  The court refused to hold that any diminution of
the "economic value of her medical staff privileges" was a protected property
interest. [n78] The court went on to note that the plaintiff had decided not to
utilize the hospital's internal appeals procedure and determined the
availability of that procedure fully protected her constitutional rights to
procedural due process. [n79]

   Other courts have also rejected the argument that the lessening of value of
staff privileges gives rise to a due process challenge. [n80] Indeed, these
courts have held that "administrative" decisions by hospitals do not require due
process hearings under the medical staff bylaws. [n81] For example, in Engelstad
v. Virginia Municipal Hospital, [n82] the court affirmed judgment for a hospital
which had terminated a physician as director of the pathology department but had
not terminated his privileges.  The court held termination of his position did
not constitute a reduction or termination of privileges sufficient to trigger a
due process hearing under the hospital bylaws. [n83]

   Plaintiff contended the termination of his director's position had the
practical effect of making his staff privileges meaningless and, therefore,
those privileges meaningless and, therefore, those privileges had been reduced
or terminated, triggering the procedural requirements set forth in the bylaws.
In rejecting this argument, the Eighth Circuit noted:

   Staff privileges do not establish an employment contract with the hospital.
Nor do they guarantee a physician that his authorized practice in the hospital
will have a particular economic value. . . .  Finally, the use a physician makes
of his staff privileges may be incidentally affected by a host of hospital
administrative decisions, wholly unconnected to the doctor's professional
competence or ethics.  for instance, the hospital may decide, for economic
reasons, that it will no longer engage in a particular medical procedure, such
as heart transplants.  While the practical effect of this decision may decrease
the income of a heart surgeon with staff privileges, the hospital has not
thereby terminated or reduced his privileges under the bylaws. [n84]

   The court emphasized that the medical staff

   bylaws' procedural requirements were intended only to cover cases where a
doctor's privileges have been reduced or terminated, which is typically the
result of complaints regarding the physician's professional competence or
ethical behavior.  Those procedures were not intended to cover cases, like the
present one, where the use a doctor can make of his staff privileges has been
incidentally affected by the hospital's administrative decision to terminate a
personal service contract with the hospital. [n85]

   The court concluded the plaintiff was basically asking that the court confer
upon him

   a tenured position as director of pathology which could be terminated only
for cause after a due process hearing.  Not only would this be at odds with the
terms of the parties' oral contract, a contract that was clearly terminable at
will, but is would also seriously undermine that hospital's flexibility in
making essentially administrative decisions.  The choice of a department head is
largely an administrative function.  The hospital administrator's discretion in
discharging this function is generally regarded as essential to the proper and
efficient operation of the hospital.  The decision to terminate a director's
contact is frequently based upon organizational factors having nothing to do
with the director's competence to practice his medical profession.  For example,
the hospital may decide to contract with a group of pathologists, rather than
one individual.  Also, changes in medical science may make some department
directorships obsolete.  Finally, as was apparently the case here, the hospital
administration may decide that it can no longer effectively work with a
particular department head due to conflicting ideas about the way the department
should operate.  It would seem that the hospital should have the discretion to
make this decision without affording the aggrieved director the panoply of due
process protections applicable where doctor's staff privileges have been reduced
or terminated because of alleged professional incompetence or unethical
behavior. [n86]

   Similarly, in Bellam v. Clayton County Hospital Authority [n87] the court
held that the anesthesiologists who were not part of the new contract group had
no due process claims because their medical staff privileges had not been
terminated or withdrawn.  The court held that where the defendant's conduct in
closing a department was not predicated upon any allegation or finding
concerning competance of the plaintiffs, then this type of noncorrective action
was "an administrative decision," which is "necessarily afforded wide latitude
to effectuate the proper and efficient operation of the hospital." [n88]

   The court noted that even if it were assumed plaintiffs were entitled to some
due process protection pursuant to the bylaws, the due process they received had
met the minimum standards required under the Constitution. [n89] The court
pointed out that "plaintiffs were fully informed of the Authority's position,"
had an opportunity to present their opposition to the decision to close the
department, and "had ample opportunity to work with the administration and
Authority to effectuate a solution to the problems of the Anesthesiology
Department before the Authority took the action complained of. [n90]

   State Court Challenges

   In addition to federal antitrust and due process challenges to exclusive
contracts or decisions to close hospital departments or staffs, there have also
been numerous state court decisions. [n91] In these case, the plaintiffs have
usually alleged due process or breach of contract violations or tortious
interference with contractual or business relations. [n92] Unfortunately, not
all state court decisions on this subject have reached the same result. [n93]

   Closing Medical Staffs or Departments

   One of the earlier state cases to recognize the economic justification for
closing a department was Datillo v. Tucson General Hospital. [n94] There, are
Arizona Court of Appeals upheld a hospital's grant of an exclusive arrangement
to provide nuclear medicine services at the hospital.  In rejecting a challenge
by an internist who was denied privileges in nuclear medicine, the court found
the testimony at trial justified a directed verdict for the defendants. [n95]
The court emphasized the testimony that exclusive contracts in nuclear medicine
provided many benefits, including the ability to permit the department to
"operate more economically." [n96]

   Another state court decision to address this issue was Lewin v. St. Joseph
Hospital of Orange County, [n97] where the court upheld a private hospital's
decision to operate the hospital's hemodialysis facility on a "closed staff"
basis.  The hospital arranged for an exclusive contract with a group to provide
the services, and a physician who subsequently was denied privileges filed suit.

   The court held that the standard for reviewing the hospital's decisions was
whether the decision was "in the best interest of good patient care and sound
administration of the hospital." [n98] The court noted the decision was made
following extensive review of the issue and after a hearing before the executive
committee of the medical staff. [n99] the court observed that the medical staff
executive committee and the Board had made a policy decision that the closed
staff method "would provide the best patient care at the lowest cost consistent
with sound hospital administration." [n100] In making its decision, the court
emphasized the closed staff would enhance efficiency of operation and make
scheduling easier.  Other California state court decisions have reached similar
conclusions when confronted with challenges to exclusive contracts. [n101]

   Not all state court have upheld closure decisions. [n102] The New Jersey
Supreme Court, in Desai v. St. Barnabus Medical Center, [n103] reviewed a
challenge to a hospital's closed staff policy which the hospital had adopted in
response to perceived bed overcrowding and overutilization of the hospital's
resources.  The purpose was to limit, but not completely close, the hospital
staff.  Under the hospital's policy, a physician applying for privileges would
be approved only if he was professionally qualified and satisfied one or more of
six criteria:

   1) there was need for additional physician coverage in the relevant
department;

   2) hospital's facilities were available;

   3) the applicant possessed some special expertise; or

   4) engaged in a specialty not represented at the hospital;

   5) the applicant did not have privileges at any other area hospital and

   6) [the applicant] was joining the medical practice of a current member of
the hospital medical staff. [n104]

   The court recognized the ability of a hospital to make such a judgment,
provided the hospital's decision is "exercised reasonably for the public good"
and "genuinely [serves] public-health objectives, which include the needs of
patients, particularly the reasonable opportunity to select physicians and to
have adequate access to hospital facilities." [n105] The court stated that a
hospital policy decision which "reasonably serves an evident public-health
purpose . . . will be sustained, even though it may have a discriminatory
effect." [n106]

   The court determined the closed-staff policy, including most of the various
exemptions to it, was valid.  However, the court invalidated the exception that
permitted favorable consideration to those who become associated with a current
member of the medical staff on the grounds that it did not genuinely serve a
public-health objective and was discriminatory in its application. [n107]

   The court observed the most important factor governing the grant of
privileges was whether an applicant was associated with a current staff member.
[n108] The hospital argued that such an exception furthered the public health
objectives of the hospital because physicians joining staff members would "be
able to help cover the patients of those doctors with existing staff privileges,
and their admission would not have an adverse effect on the hospital's occupancy
or utilization rate, since they are unlikely to require many new patient
admissions to the hospital." [n109] The court rejected this argument and
concluded the hospital had failed to introduce sufficient evidence "to
demonstrate a public health objective genuinely served by the exception." [n110]
The court emphasized the purpose of the exception was based on

   pure supposition, with the hospital offering no data, competent evidence, or
other reliable information to support its rationale.  There was no demonstration
as to the regularity of doctors in the same private practice covering each
other's patients; the hospital failed to show that doctors in the
gastroenterology section could not arrange to cover for one another in the case
of an emergency.  It offered no information to support its position that new
doctors, by joining the existing practices of current medical staff members,
would not continue to increase the number of patients seeking access to the
hospital.  These informational deficiencies render insufficient the
public-health purpose urged by the hospital in support of its exception that
permits admission-by-association.  We are thus left only with the discriminatory
feature of this exception, with no public-health palliative advanced to blunt
its invidious effect. [n111]

   Similarly, in Berman v. Valley Hospital, [n112] a case decided the same day
as Desai, the New Jersey Supreme Court invalidated another restriction by a
hospital to prevent overcrowding at its facility.  The hospital had adopted a
policy that medical staff admissions be limited to physicians who had not been
in private practice for more than two years in the hospital service area, or who
met a predetermined need for a specialty.  At the time the hospital adopted this
policy, its occupancy rate had reached 89 percent, and the number of physicians
on its medical staff had risen from 172 to 260 in nine years.

   The court was satisfied that the hospital had adopted the restrictive staff
admissions policy in the regular and normal course of conducting its affairs.
Even though the moratorium was created suddenly, the decision was followed by
the creation of a committee to study and make recommendations as to a permanent
policy that would ameliorate the overutilization of the hospital's facilities
and services.  The committee gathered and analyzed relevant statistical data,
contacted other institutions using closed-staff facilities, and studiously
considered each of the four different proposals.  Only after this deliberative
process did the hospital adopt its staff admissions policy.

   The court acknowledged the fact of overcrowding at the hospital and the
potential adverse effect on the quality of care because of such overcrowding.
Also, the court recognized the hospital's decision was supported to some extent
by statistics showing the direct correlation between the number of physicians on
staff and the rate of admissions of patients.  Furthermore, the court
acknowledged the restriction had been successful in stabilizing bed occupancy
rates, which remained below 90 percent.

   Despite the effectiveness of the closed-staff policy, the court invalidated
the policy, which it considered

   too vague and attenuated in relation to its professed health-care objective
involving high-quality medical education.  While there may be some logical or
facile appeal in this standard, it lacks any empirical or academic support.  The
two-year practice restriction is not the by-product of any extensive studies or
background research.  The particular program finds no support in experience,
sound or controlled experimentation, reliable precedent, or even common sense. .
. .  Nor did the hospital produce any competent authority or expert who has
recommended this solution to meet a hospital's capacity problem. [n113]

   The court concluded the hospital had failed to marshall adequate information
to demonstrate that its particular restrictive admissions policy was
sufficiently related to a genuine and legitimate health care objective.
Instead, the court observed the policy was not justified and appeared in most
respects to be arbitrary.

   One lesson from the Berman and Desai cases may be that if the hospitals had
been able to base their decisions on some type of empirical data or outside
expert advice supporting the decision to close the staffs in the manner adopted
by the hospitals, their decisions might have been reviewed more favorably by the
courts.  The key in any decision to close a medical staff or a hospital
department is to demonstrate that the policy decision is sufficiently related to
a genuine and legitimate health care objective.

   Changing Exclusive Contract Providers

   Some hospital-based providers have filed state court challenges to decisions
by hospitals to change exclusive providers. [n114] The state courts have
generally provided a more favorable forum for plaintiffs than have federal
courts that have analyzed these decisions on federal antitrust or due process
grounds. [n115] In state courts, the replaced physicians have argued that they
cannot be replaced without a due process hearing guaranteed by the bylaws, which
the physicians often allege constitute an enforceable contract between the
physicians and the hospital. [n116]

   One of the most notable cases in this regard is Lewisburg Community Hospital
v. Alfredson. [n117] In this case, the Tennessee Supreme Court held that a
hospital could not terminate the contract of its radiologist, replace him with
another radiologist, and prevent the plaintiff from having access to the
radiology department without first providing him with the due process rights
guaranteed under the bylaws.  The court held that the bylaws of the medical
staff constituted an enforceable contract.  However, even in that case, the
Tennessee Supreme Court recognized that the hospital and the plaintiff could
have legally agreed in the original contract that the plaintiff's privileges
terminated upon the termination of the contract. [n118] One of the publicized
aspects of the Alfredson decision was its holding that the medical staff bylaws
constituted an enforceable contract between the physician and the hospital.
Other courts have reached similar conclusions. [n119]

   Not all states, however, recognized that the medical staff bylaws constitute
a contract. [n120] The recent Georgia Court of Appeals decision in St. Mary's
Hospital of Athens v. Radiology Professional Corporation [n121] is a case in
point.  In that case, the hospital and its contract radiologist had a
long-standing disagreement over how the radiology department should be run and
whether the hospital could terminate the contract, which would prevent the
radiologist thereafter from exercising privileges.  Indeed, the hospital filed a
declaratory judgment action to establish its right to do so; the radiologist
counterclaimed for breach of contract and various tort claims.  While this
action was pending, the radiologist lost several employees and informed the
hospital he could not provide the level of service required.  The hospital then
notified the radiologist the contract would be terminated and his privileges
revoked.

   The trial court denied the radiologist's claim for a preliminary injunction,
and also denied the hospital's summary judgment motion on the physician's
counterclaims on appeal.  The Georgia Court of Appeals to the hospital on
virtually all of the physician's counterclaims.  The court specifically rejected
his claim that the medical staff bylaws constituted a contract.  The court,
instead, held that because hospitals have the authority to establish and review
rules and regulations governing the appointment of physicians and medical staff,
"medical staff bylaws alone do not create any contractual right to continuation
of staff privileges.  Indeed, hospitals are entitled to change the staff bylaws
or the terms of appointment even if that act results in the termination of a
physician's staff privileges." [n122] The court agreed that the hospital had the
authority to establish an exclusive relationship with physicians in a given
specialty or area of practice, and that this authority included the concomitant
right to terminate staff privileges to maintain this exclusivity.  However, the
court went onto hold that to ensure this right, the hospital must provide for it
either in the bylaws or in a contract with the individual physician. [n123]

   Some courts have held that, even if the bylaws do not constitute a contract,
the physician nevertheless may have a claim for an injunction to enforce the
bylaws, or may have some type of inchoate action in tort against the hospital
for breach of a legal duty to follow existing bylaws. [n124]

   The issue of whether medical staff bylaws constitute a contract is one that
has been hotly debated.  The American Medical Association and American College
of Radiology have argued in favor of this position as amici on behalf of the
plaintiffs in both the Alfredson and St. Mary's cases. [n125] Nevertheless, the
ultimate freedom of a hospital to terminate or change existing hospital-based
providers is unlikely to rise or fall on whether the bylaws constitute a
contract.  Instead, a court's review of a decision to change exclusive providers
likely will rest on the ability of the hospital to convince the court that this
type of "administrative action" does not give rise to the panoply of due process
requirements set forth in the medial staff bylaws. [n126]

   A recent case on this point is the Supreme Court of Maine's decision in
Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Center. [n127] There, the hospital, in order to
reduce its operating expenses, terminated its contract with its emergency room
group after unsuccessfully attempting to negotiate an alternative compensation
arrangement.  The hospital subsequently negotiated a more favorable compensation
arrangement with a new group and notified the plaintiffs they could no longer
work in the emergency department unless they negotiated employment contracts
with the new provider.  The hospital did not terminate the physicians' staff
privileges, but merely prevented their exercising the privileges in the
emergency room.  The plaintiffs filed suit claiming that the approval of their
staff privileges under the bylaws established a contract with the hospital, and
that the hospital had breached that contract when it required them to enter into
a separate employment agreement in order to exercise their privileges in the
emergency department.

   Even though the Maine Supreme court held the bylaws can constitute an
enforceable contract, the court emphasized that the bylaws stated the medical
staff assumed their responsibilities" 'subject to the authority of the hospital
board of trustee'", and that the bylaws were subject to the board's authority.
[n128] The court went on to distinguish between a physician's having staff
privileges, which merely signifies the physician is qualified to practice at the
hospital, and being able to exercise those privileges.  The court also noted
that there was a distinction between the types of physicians who are granted
privileges: general practitioners, for whom the granting of staff privileges may
be all that is necessary for the physicians to treat patients at the hospital,
and hospital-based physicians, such as emergency room physicians, for whom
additional arrangements with the hospital may be required.

   The court held that the hospital's board, acting through its president and
medical director, had the authority to manage all the affairs of the hospital,
which would include decisions on how to operate individual departments in order
to best care for patients and promote community health.  The court went on to
recognize "[the] cost of such care and promotion of community health is vitally
important to the community and a legitimate concern for the board." [n129] the
court noted that the hospital's decision was based on the need to significantly
reduce costs, and held that the plaintiffs were not entitled to invoke the
notice and hearing provisions of the bylaws, which were available only to
physicians facing "major corrective action.'" [n130] The court emphasized that
the hospital had never suggested the professional conduct of any of the
plaintiffs was unacceptable and had not recommended that their privileges be
reduced.  Therefore, the court concluded the notice and hearing provisions of
the medical staff bylaws did not apply.  In reaching this conclusion, the court
specifically rejected the reasoning of the Tennessee Supreme Court in Lewisburg
Community Hospital v. Alfredson. [n131]

   OTHER TYPES OF ECONOMIC ISSUES GIVING RISE TO LEGAL CHALLENGES

   Most of the litigation challenging economic decisions by hospitals has arisen
in the context of hospitals deciding to enter into exclusive contracts or change
exclusive contract providers because of a desire to increase efficiency in the
department or to reduce costs at the hospital. [n132] The federal and state
courts, however, have also addressed other types o economic considerations that
have given rise to challenges over the denial or restriction of privileges.
[n133]

   Affiliation With Competitors or Conflicts of Interest

   The recent Florida trial court decision in Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Regional
Memorial Center has certainly garnered the most publicity surrounding a
hospital's decision to use economic factors in denying privileges. [n134] In
that case, the hospital having denied plaintiff privileges because he was head
of the cardiology department at a competing hospital was granted summary
judgment by the trail court.

   In addition to the Robenblum, there have been numerous other cases in which a
hospital has denied privileges because a physician was affiliated with a
competitor or was competing against the hospital. [n135] For example, in Coffey
v. Healthtrust, [n136] the Tenth Circuit affirmed summary judgment for a 100-bed
acute care hospital in Edmond, Oklahoma, which had terminated the exclusive
contact of its radiology group.  The hospital did so after the radiology group
allegedly began to expand services previously available only at the hospital at
the group's outpatient clinic.  After the group refused to joint venture the
services with the hospital, the hospital opposed the expansion, viewing the
group's actions as disloyal to the hospital and a conflict of interest.

   When the hospital terminated the contract, it entered into a new exclusive
agreement.  The hospital permitted the former exclusive providers to retain
their staff privileges, but limited their exercise of clinical privileges by
preventing them from performing the "official" reading of x-rays with hospital
equipment and personnel.  The hospital also required staff members to
specifically request a consult from the former group on the patients' charts and
to discharge patients at their expense if they wanted radiological procedures
performed by anyone other than the new group.  The Tenth Circuit affirmed
summary judgment against the plaintiff's antitrust challenge to the hospital's
actions.  The court reasoned that the "reshuffling" of competitors had not had a
detrimental effect on competition, and that the plaintiff had failed to
introduce evidence defining a relevant geographic market impacted by the
hospital's actions.

   Similarly, in University Emergency Physicians v. Richmond Co. Hospital
Authority, [n137] the court denied a plaintiff's request for a preliminary
injunction to prevent the hospital from terminating the emergency room physician
group's contract.  The group intended to establish independent clinics in the
community, which might compete with the emergency room at the hospital.  The
hospital had relied on a policy stating that private practice was incompatible
with serving in the emergency medicine department of the hospital, and granted
emergency room privileges only to physicians not engaged in private practice.
The hospital emphasized the potential for conflicts of interest created by the
emergency physician group's simultaneous operation of the hospital emergency
room and private emergency clinics. [n138]

   Miller v. Indiana Hospital [n139] represents another example of an alleged
economic motivation for terminating privileges.  There, the plaintiff urologist
filed an antitrust suit alleging he had been terminated because he had built a
medical-office building two miles from the hospital, and then erected another
building intending to establish a comprehensive family-oriented medical center.
He claimed the hospital viewed his expansion plans as a threat to the hospital,
and thereafter engaged in actions to prevent him from hiring physicians to staff
his medical center, ultimately dismissing him from the medical staff.

   On three separate occasions, the district court granted summary judgment for
the defendants, which was ultimately affirmed after two reversals by the Third
Circuit. [n140] In the first opinion by the Third Circuit, the court reversed
summary judgment for the defendants, noting the plaintiff had produced evidence
showing the termination was motivated by the anticompetitive purpose of
destroying the plaintiff's competition or prospective competition. [n141] The
court relied on an affidavit from a former hospital administrator, which stated
that even before the death of one of the plaintiff's patients, the hospital had
expressed concern about the plaintiff's competition.  The court also relied on
the plaintiff's affidavit setting forth examples of how the hospital had
interfered with his recruitment of medical staff members for has proposed
medical center, of the failure of the hospital to terminate privileges of other
physicians whose actions were allegedly more egregious than the plaintiff's, and
of various improprieties in the peer review process reflecting conflicts of
interests. [n142]

   Over-utilization of Resources

   A physician's over-utilization of resources can also play a role in
determining staff privilege decisions.  The California Joint Statement, which
set forth the position that privileges should not be tied to patient payer mix
or diagnosis, recognized that physicians' over-utilization or under-utilization
of resources could support appropriate intervention. [n143] Also, some hospitals
reportedly use physicians' DRG profile information in the reappointment process
to determine whether a physician is properly using the hospital. [n144]

   There has not been much litigation on this issue in the context of hospital
staff privileges.  In Knapp v. Palos Community Hospital, [n145] the hospital
claimed that for certain diagnoses, the plaintiff's over-utilization of the
hospital resulted in hospitalizations that were 50 percent longer and costs that
were 31 percent greater than those of other staff members.  In recommending
terminating the physician's privileges, the medical staff executive committee
based its decision on over-utilization of the hospital, over-utilization of
tests, as well as inappropriate use of medication, lung scans, and inadequate
management.  After providing the physician with a hearing, the hospital board
upheld the decision.  The plaintiff filed suit, and the trail court initially
enjoined the hospital from excluding the physician.  the Illinois Court of
Appeals reversed, holding because the hospital had followed its bylaws, its
actions were not subject to judicial review.  The court did not discuss the
propriety of the justification for termination.

   In Rao v. St. Elizabeth's Hospital, [n146] the hospital terminated a
physician's privileges for ordering excessive tests, without the medical
justification for ordering such tests, as well as inappropriate interpretations
of echo-cardiograms.  The physician was suspended summarily and, after a
hearing, was permanently suspended.  The trail court upheld the hospital's
decision, and subsequently denied the plaintiff's request for a permanent
injuction.  On appeal, the court affirmed the district court's decision with
respect to preliminary injunction, but noted that the plaintiff should have had
an opportunity for a hearing on the merits concerning a permanent injunction,
although the court expressed skepticism as to the type of evidence a physician
might introduce at such a hearing.

   Outside the context of hospital staff privilege cases, the issue of
over-utilization has also risen in decisions by IPAs and health plans to exclude
providers. [n147] Some courts have been willing to accept the economic
justifications for excluding providers, while other courts have been more
dubious. [n148] For example, in Hassan v. Independent Practice Associates, P.C.,
[n149] the court upheld a decision by the defendant IPA to exclude certain
allergists from the IPA's group health coverage plan.  The plaintiffs alleged
price-fixing and a group boycott, and the defendants claimed that they had
excluded the plaintiff allergists as a result of prior experience with their
participation in the IPA.  The prior experience had indicated a high number of
unjustified tests.  In analyzing the plaintiff's claim, the court determined
that there was no reason to apply a per se group boycott theory.  One of the
reasons for refusing to apply the per se theory, in addition to the absence of
any market power by the defendant, was the fact that the purpose behind the
exclusionary conduct was justifiable.  The court stated:

   The court agrees with defendants that the acts of expulsion and the refusal
to readmit plaintiffs are justified by enhancing efficiency and making the
market more competitive.  First, despite plaintiffs' counsel's contentions at
the hearing, the record shows that plaintiffs do not dispute the fact that IPA
adopted its allergy testing policy to prevent excessive use of costly tests and
that plaintiffs disagree with this policy.  It is also undisputed that cost
containment objectives are procompetitive. [n150]

   Malpractice Insurance Coverage

   To the extent physicians have challenged hospitals' requirements that staff
members have minimum amounts of malpractice coverage, the courts have generally
upheld the right of hospitals to do so. [n151] For example, in Kelly v. St.
Vincent Hospital, [n152] the New Mexico Court of Appeals upheld the right to the
hospital to amend its bylaws to require malpractice insurance as a condition to
obtaining privileges.  The court held that the hospital had a legitimate
business purpose in terminating a physician's privileges and refusing to exempt
the plaintiff from the new requirement.  Similarly, in Jones v. Yonkers General
Hospital, [n153] the court upheld the right of the hospital to terminate a
physician's privileges for, inter alia, failure to maintain malpractice
insurance.  The court held that a hospital's requirement of malpractice
insurance was consistent with a legitimate objective of the institution, and
that the physician's privileges could be terminated for failure to comply with
this objective.

   TURF BATTLES

   Another example of the increasing economic pressure on health care providers
is the outbreak of disputes among providers for the exclusive right to perform
certain procedures within hospitals. [n154] These battles often occur among
different physician specialists: radiologists and neurologists battle over the
ability to read computerized axial tomography (CT) scans or perform magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) procedures: nonphysicians and physicians, such as
podiatrists and orthopedic surgeons, battles over the scope of the practice
permitted for podiatrists.  Additionally, disputes have arisen between plastic
surgeons and ear, nose, and throat specialists psychiatrists and psychologists,
gastroenterologists and internists, obstetricians and nurse mid-wives, and
numerous other specialties and sub-specialties over the ability of providers to
be credentialed to perform services within the hospital.

   Most of these disputes are resolved without litigation.  Nevertheless, the
resolution often requires expenditures of time and energy by members of the
medical executive committee, department chairs, hospital administrators and
board members.  When problems cannot be resolved peacefully, the courts become
the final decision makers.  They have generally been deferential to hospitals in
this area so long as the hospital board makes the ultimate decision as to which
provider is credentialed to perform services.  The courts have recognized that
economic motivations often form the basis for the decision. [n155]

   A recent case illustrating the point is the Eleventh Circuit's decision in
Todorov v. DCH Health care Authority. [n156] The Eleventh Circuit affirmed
summary judgment in favor of the defendantsin which a neurologist had requested
certain radiology privileges to perform CT scans, and the hospital refused to
grant the privileges.  Although there apparently was no exclusive contract
between the hospital and the radiologists, nevertheless, there was only one
radiology group at the hospital, and its members objected to the plaintiff's
obtaining privileges to read CT scans at the hospital.  The hospital board had
based its denial primarily on the need to preserve the efficient operation of
the radiology department and out of fear that approving the plaintiff's
application would invite a flood of other nonradiologist applications.  The
court noted that the board was concerned that, if it granted the plaintiff's
application, the radiology department would become unmanageable -- experiencing
scheduling delays, increased operation and upkeep costs, and an overall decrease
in the quality of service.  This, in turn, would impair the department's ability
to turn a profit.  DCH claimed, in effect, that its board decided that the
competitive benefits the hospital's radiology department would gain from greater
efficiency by denying the neurologist's privileges outweighed the additional
revenue the department might generate from a greater volume of business by
granting him privileges. [n157]

   The court thus recognized as legitimate the economic concerns of the hospital
for refusing to grant privileges.  Also, the court held that there could be no
illegal conspiracy in the denial of privileges because the board had
"unilaterally" denied the plaintiff's application for privileges. [n158]

   Todorov illustrates that, so long as a hospital board makes the final
decision and does not merely acquiesce to the demands of a certain group of
physicians, any turf battles over providing existing or new services at the
hospital that result in litigation should be resolved in favor of the hospital.
However, if decisions are made and implemented at the medical staff level
without the involvement of the hospital board, the physicians and the hospital
run a greater risk of the decision being viewed simply as a collective group
boycott, thereby increasing the potential of liability for the hospital and the
medical staff.

   MEDICAL STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLANS

   One of the potential causes for friction between a hospital and its medical
staff is the decision by the hospital board to develop a "medical staff
development plan." Indeed, many times the issue of economic credentialing and
recruitment of new physicians into a community is a direct result of the medical
staff development plan adopted by a hospital.  In large part, the friction that
develops is a result of the plan being imposed on physicians.

   Increasing pressure from managed care plans often require hospitals to reach
out and attract new specialists who can better position the hospital to be
competitive in bidding on managed care contracts.  This type of incentive often
runs counter to the interests of those physicians already on the staff who feel
economically threatened by the arrival of new physicians in their own specialty.

   One of the benefits of preparing a medical staff development plan is that it
may force the hospital to do the type of research necessary to document the
specific community needs for certain physicians.  This type of documentation may
assist the hospital in justifying incentives it offers to recruit new physicians
into the community, positioning the hospital to respond to any concerns raised
by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or Office of Inspector General (OIG) for
possible fraud and abuse or private inurement violations.

   Physician recruiters and medical staff consultants have championed the the
virtue of involving the medical staff in the early stages of medical staff
development planning and have emphasized that such involvement: 1) improves the
hospital's ability to predict expected attrition by specialty; 2) furnishes
additional data regarding local competing hospitals; 3) links facility plans,
including medical office building construction, with physician personnel
requirements; and 4) provides a vehicle for involvement of the medical staff in
the hospital's long-range planning process, thus promoting an integrated common
vision between the hospital and medical staff. [n159]

   Even though there are great benefits to be derived from obtaining the
physicians' input into medical staff development plan, the hospital walks a fine
line between involving physicians and letting them control the decisions about
medical staff recruitment.  To the extent a development plan indicates no need
for additional physicians on a staff, the development plan could be Exhibit "A"
in any suit filed by a physician denied access because of the hospital's
reliance on a plan that was largely a result of the medical staff's decision.
Instead, the board needs always to maintain the final say in adopting the plan,
and should do so with the balanced view of what is best for the community and
best for the economic future of the hospital.

   THE IMPACT OF FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT STATUTES ON STAFF PRIVILEGE DECISIONS

   In recent years, hospital administrators have become accustomed to the
increasing number of regulations imposed upon them which govern their
responsibilities and duties to employees.  The recent enactment of the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA), [n160] along with Title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 (Title VII), [n161] the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA),
[n162] and Section 1981 of the 1866 Civil Rights Act (Section 1981) [n163] have
given rise to potential claims by hospital employees for discrimination in
hiring or employment on the basis of race, religion, sex, national origin and
age.  While cases brought by employees under these statutes have often reached
different results, hospitals have seldom had to confront the issue whether the
statutes apply to decisions on granting staff privilege.  That luxury may soon
be coming to an end.

   At first blush, none of these statues appears applicable to staff privilege
decisions except in situations where the hospital directly employs the
physician.  However, the relationship of a hospital to a physician as an
employer/employee is often murky.  Other than physicians directly employed by
the hospital, hospital-based physicians arguably have the greatest potential to
be considered hospital employees.  For example, the IRS uses approximately
twenty common law factors concerning the degree of control the employer
maintains over the employee to determine whether an employee/employer
relationship exists, and no single factor is dispositive. [n164] Given the
hospital's control over their workplace, the hospital's providing facilities and
personnel to support their activities, and their lack of other sources of
revenue, hospital-based physicians likely would satisfy several of the IRS
criteria, despite language to the contrary in contracts with the hospital and
the IRS' recognition that physicians generally will not be viewed as employees.

   More chilling than the amorphous IRS guidelines is the fact that in recent
years some courts have applied the requirements of Title VII to a hospital's
denial or restriction of privileges concerning even nonhospital-based
physicians. [n165] For example, in Pardazi v. Cullman Medical Center, [n166] the
Eleventh Circuit reversed a summary judgment on behalf of the hospital in a
Title VII action.  The lower court held that because the physician was not an
employer of the hospital, he was not entitled to relief under Title VII. [n167]
The Eleventh Circuit disagreed and remanded the physician's claims that he had
been denied staff privileges based on his national origin. [n168]

   The plaintiff alleged not that he was an employee of the hospital but that
the hospital's action had interfered with his employment opportunities with
another professional corporation, which had required he obtain medical staff
privileges before being employed.  The court held that Title VII protection
extended to a claim that a defendant had interfered with an individual's
employment relationship with a third party. [n169] The court further held that
such a claim fit squarely within the language of Title VII, making it unlawful
"'to discriminate against any individual with respect to his compensation,
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment,'" and rejected the defendant's
"unduly restrictive interpretation" of Title VII. [n170]

   Similarly, in Gomez v. Alexian Brothers Hospital of San Jose, [n171] a
physician alleged that the hospital failed to award him an emergency room
contract because of his national origin, depriving him of employment as director
of the emergency room.  The Ninth Circuit held he had standing to assert a Title
VII claim.  Even though the plaintiff had submitted the contract proposal on
behalf of his professional corporation, the court held that merely because he
continued to be an employee of his professional corporation did not mean that
the hospital had not interfered with his employment relationship with his
professional corporation.

   Similarly, in Doe on Behalf of Doe v. St. Joseph's Hospital, [n172] the
Seventh Circuit reversed summary judgment against a physician who alleged that
her privileges were terminated as a result of discrimination based on race and
national origin.  The court specifically upheld her Title VII claim based on the
allegation that the termination had interfered with employment opportunities.
In relying on the seminal decision of Sibley Memorial Hospital v. Wilson, [n173]
the court concluded "Congress presumably did not intend to allow the hospital to
exploit its power to grant and deny staff privileges in order to
discriminatorily interfere with Doe's employment opportunities with her
patients." [n174] Other courts have upheld claims by physicians under Title VII
following similar reasoning. [n175]

   Not all lower courts, however, have been willing to allow a physician who is
not directly employed by the hospital to assert claims under Title VII. [n176]
Indeed, several cases have rejected such claims. [n177] For example, in Beverley
v. Douglas, [n178] the Southern District of New York reasoned that whether an
individual was an employee for purposes of Title VII required an analysis of the
"economic realities" of the situation, with the extent of the employer's right
to control the "means and manner" of the worker's performance as the most
important factor. [n179] The court followed the analysis of the D.C. Circuit
Court of Appeals decision in Sirides v. Reinhard, [n180] which focused on the
following factors in deciding whether an individual was an employee for purposes
of Title VII: 1) the kind of occupation, with reference to whether the work
usually is done under the direction of the supervisor, or is done by a
specialist without supervision; 2) the skill required in the particular
occupation; 3) whether the "employer" or the individual in question furnishes
the equipment used and the place of work; 4) the length of time during which the
individual has worked; 5) the method of payment, whether by time or by the job;
6) the manner in which the work relationship is terminated, for example, by one
or both parties, with or without notice and explanation; 7) whether annual leave
is afforded; 8) whether the work is an integral part of the business of the
"employer"; 9) whether the worker accumulates retirement benefits; 10) whether
the "employer" pays Social Security taxes; and 11) the intention of the parties.
[n181]

   Based on the above factors, the court in Beverly held that a staff physician
did not qualify as an employee for purposes of Title VII.  Therefore, the
physician had no claim against the hospital for denial of privileges.

   Similarly, in Diggs v. Harris Hospital-Methodist, [n182] the Fifth Circuit
held that the employer/employee relationship did not exist between a physician
and a hospital thus precluding a Title VII claim.  The court also held that the
physician did not have a claim under Title VII on the ground that the hospital's
action interfered with her employment opportunities with her patients because
she did not have an employee/employer relationship with those patients.  The
court emphasized that in applying the economic reality/common law control test
as the appropriate standard for Title VII, the plaintiff needed hospital staff
privileges to pursue her medical practice, but there was no evidence that
privileges at the defendant hospital were necessary to her practice, or that
denial of privileges hampered her ability to obtain staff privileges at any
other hospital in the area.

   The above cases demonstrate the potential for disagreement over the
application of federal statutes aimed at protecting employees and the statutes'
applicability to physicians in staff privilege matters.  However, given the
tendency for some courts to apply a broad definition of "employer" under Title
VII, hospitals are likely to see more claims by physicians under statutes such
as Title VII, as well as the ADA and ADEA, when privileges are terminated or
restricted.

   Claims Under the ADEA

   The Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) prohibits discrimination in
employment based on age. [n183] Because the plaintiff bears the ultimate burden
of proving that age was the determinative factor in discharge, a plaintiff sets
forth a prima facia case by demonstrating: 1) plaintiff was over forty; 2)
plaintiff's work performance was satisfactory; 3) plaintiff's employer took
adverse action; and 4) the employer sought a replacement establishing a
continued need for the same services and skills. [n184] Alternatively, a
plaintiff can satisfy the burden of a prima facia case by presenting credible,
direct evidence of discriminatory intent. [n185] The burden shifts, and the
defendant must introduce evidence to establish a legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reason for the adverse employment decision. [n186] The burden shifts back, and
the plaintiff must show that the employer's proffered reason is actually a
pretext for the age discrimination alleged.

   There have been numerous decisions dealing with the applicability of the ADEA
in the hospital context, primarily involving nurses and other employees of the
hospital who have claimed discrimination based on their age. [n187] While there
have been very few cases involving a similar claim by a physician, at least one
court recognized the applicability of the ADEA to a physician's claim. [n188] In
Vakharia v. Swedish Covenant Hospital, [n189] the plaintiff was a forty-five-old
woman anesthesiologist, born in Bombay, India.  She filed suit under Title VII,
the ADEA, and section 1981, claiming that she was assigned fewer and less
desirable cases, was classified as a "junior member" of the anesthesiology
department, was denied positions for which she was qualified, and subsequently
suspended from the hospital's medical staff.

   The court, at least for purposes of ruling on the defendant's motion to
dismiss, found that because the physician in question was an anesthesiologist
without any outside practice or outside patients whom she would admit to the
hospital, there was the possibility that the plaintiff and the hospital shared
an employment relationship. [n190] Alternatively, the court found that the
plaintiff had adequately alleged the existence of an employment relationship
between herself and her patients or prospective patients.  Interestingly enough,
in denying the hospital's motion to dismiss, the court did not discuss the
plaintiff's ADEA claims.  Instead, the court appeared to lump the ADEA claim
together with the Title VII and Section 1981 claims.  Nevertheless, the Vakharia
decision is an example of one case where a physician challenged termination of
staff privileges under the ADEA and survived a motion to dismiss.

   The ADEA also may create problems for hospitals if medical staff bylaws
include an age limit on staff membership.  For example, if medical staff bylaws
permitted privileges only to those under the age of sixty-five, and if a
physician were able to establish the "employment" nexus, that physician could
well have a claim under ADEA if he or she were denied privileges because of
exceeding the age limitation. [n191] Alternatively, if medical staff bylaws
required only those medical staff members beyond the age of sixty-five to submit
to physical or mental examinations, demonstrating their continued fitness to
practice at the hospital, such a policy might also expose the hospital to legal
liability under the ADEA. [n192]

   However, if age references were eliminated from bylaws, there would be less
exposure under the ADEA.  The hospital could address its concerns over staff
members being unable to function effectively because of illnesses or problems
caused by age through the normal peer review process.  Additionally, if the
hospital requires all medical staff members to obtain minimum amounts of
malpractice insurance the hospital might be able to accomplish the same goal.

   Potential Liability Under the ADA

   The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) prohibits employers from
discriminating against any "qualified individual with a disability because of
the disability of such individual in regard to job application procedures, the
hiring, advancement, or discharge of employees, employee compensation, job
training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment." [n193]
While it is much too new to have established precedent to flesh out fully its
impact on hospitals, the Act clearly will apply to employees of hospitals.  The
more daunting question is whether the Act will also apply to physicians.

   Already, at least one physician has filed suit under the Act. [n194] In
November, 1992, an orthopedic surgeon filed suit in the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania alleging that Mercy Catholic Medical Center of Southeastern
Pennsylvania had violated the ADA when it restricted his surgical privileges
after learning he was infected with HIV. [n195] As part of his complaint, the
physician claimed that he was qualified to perform his surgical duties and did
not pose a signficant risk to patients.  He further alleges that the defendants
have failed to offer a "reasonable accommodation to his disability" and that he
has been excluded from participating in federally-funded programs solely on the
basis of his handicap and been denied privileges at a place of public
accommodation because of his disability in violation of the ADA. [n196]

   The difficulty of complying with the terms of the ADA, particularly for
HIV-positive individuals, is also demonstrated by the recent case where a
pharmacist sued a medical center that allegedly reneged on the offer to hire him
because he was HIV-positive. [n197] Even though that case was brought under the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, [n198] many of its provisions are similar to the
ADA's provisions. [n199] The case was recently settled with the hospital
offering the pharmacist an unrestricted position, back pay and attorneys' fees
of $ 300,000. [n200]

   The issue of whether the ADA applies to medical staff members is particularly
pertinent where the medical staff bylaws may require physical examinations as
part of the appointment process.  Indeed, health status of staff members is
recognized by the JCAHO as a key factor on which to base staff appointments.  At
least one commentator has taken the position that, given the liberal
interpretation by some courts of the employer/employee relationship under Title
VII, a conservative approach for a hospital would be to comply with the terms of
the ADA on the presumption that the Act does apply to hospital staff
relationships. [n201]

   Along these lines, the EEOC has issued interpretative guidelines to the
regulations of the ADA that state the term "employee" under the Act will have
the same meaning as under Title VII. [n202] Therefore, a conservative approach
to complying with the Act might not be unreasonable.

   The nuances of the ADA are far beyond the scope of this paper.  Nevertheless,
it is worth noting that in prohibiting discrimination against disabled
individuals, the ADA substantially expands the definition of disabled
individuals to include those with physical or mental handicaps, as well as those
with a history of a disability, such as a prior drug addiction and alcoholism.
Taking any adverse action because of current or former alcoholism, or against
persons with a history of conditions that affect a major life activity will
violate the ADA.  Major life activities are broadly defined to include walking,
seeing, hearing and working.

   Under the ADA, prospective employers are prohibited from questioning
candidates about their medical history or about the severity of any medical
conditions or any diseases before the employer makes a job offer. [n203] The
Act, however, does not prohibit an employer from requiring a medical exam after
an offer is made but before employment commences. [n204] The offer can be
conditioned on the medical result, so long as the decision to withdraw the offer
is job-related and consistent with business necessity. [n205] Although the ADA
does permit examinations required by medical standards or federal, state, or
local law, those requirements must be consistent with the ADA. [n206]

   An employer can withdraw an offer based on the results of a medical
examination, so long as the reasons for withdrawal meet the ADA's
nondiscrimination standards regarding job relatedness and business necessity.
[n207] However, the ADA does not prevent an employer from denying appointment or
reappointment based on an employee's testing positive for the use of illegal
drugs.  Because drug tests are not considered a medical exam under the ADA drug
tests can be given at any time. [n208]

   The disclosure of medical information regarding an individual also creates a
potential liability under the ADA, which requires that information learned
through the medical examination be kept confidential. [n209] Therefore, the
waiver or release by a physician as part of the staff application process may
not be sufficient to permit a hospital to release confidential medical
information concerning that physician.

   If physicians seeking reappointment to a medical staff are viewed as existing
employees rather than job applicants, the ADA may limit medical examinations to
those that are job related and consistent with business necessity.  Thus,
requiring a general physical as part of the reappointment process might be
contrary to the ADA.  As one commentator has observed:

   Evidence of a safety problem or deficient job performance may trigger the
examination.  Still, the examination must be limited in scope to determining
whether the individual can perform the essential functions of the job.
Requiring a complete physical is impermissible, as is requiring a physician to
submit to an HIV test, if HIV status is not related to the essential functions
of the job or the physician's specific impairment.  Denying reappointment
because of a condition revealed during the physical exam must be job related and
justified by business necessity, under the same analysis applied to first time
applicants.  An individual who poses a "direct threat" to health or safety
presents a job-related reason for not hiring that is consistent with business
necessity. [n210]

   The ADA goes on to require that if an individual is disabled, then the
employer must make a reasonable accommodation to enable the employee to overcome
that disability affecting his ability to perform the essential functions of the
job.  However, the employer is not required to provide accommodations that would
pose an undue hardship. [n211] If it would pose an undue hardship, denial of the
accommodation and removal of the employee would not violate the ADA.

   The tension caused by the potential applicability of the ADA to hospitals is
made even more stark by the position of the American Health Lawyers Association
(AHA), which has urged its members to increase testing of employees and
physicians for drug and alcohol use. [n212] Although the AHA noted that legal
advice was particularly important because of the impact of the ADA, such testing
is likely to increase among hospitals, and physicians can be expected to rely on
the ADA if their privileges are restricted as a result of such testing.

   CONCLUSION

   The winds of change are certainly blowing through the health care industry.
In the final analysis, it will be very difficult to reconcile the goals and
objectives of the hospital and medical staff members all of the time.  Indeed,
certain physicians will always feel threatened or adversely affected by
decisions that the hospital may be compelled to make in order to serve its
patients, provide care to the community, and act in the best interests of the
majority of the physicians on the staff.  Nevertheless, so long as the hospital
administration and board maintain a good open dialogue with members of the
medical staff, most problems can be averted short of litigation.

   The issue of economic credentialing, regardless of how it is defined, will
certainly be increasingly important as financial pressures increase on hospitals
and other health care providers, including physicians.  In order to enhance the
ability to defend against such claims, especially claims arising from decisions
to close a department or medical staff, a hospital board should consider taking
the following precautions:

   1.  Ensure that the decision is made by the board, and not by potential
competitors of the affected physicians.

   2.  The board's decision to "close" a medical staff or hospital department
should be made only after providing all affected parties a full opportunity to
discuss the issues.  Even though not required under the medical staff bylaws,
providing an opportunity for such a hearing or offering the contract to a
provider who subsequently rejects it, will likely undercut the argument that the
decision was arbitrary.

   3.  The board's decision to close a staff or enter into an exclusive
contractual arrangement should be premised on an outside report by a reputable
health care consultant or expert recommending such action.  A prior objective
recommendation by a neutral third-party will likely buttress the hospital's
position that the decision was not vindictive in nature and was within the
appropriate authority and jurisdiction of the board.

   If the hospital's decision is based primarily on the goal of advancing
legitimate economic interests of the hospital, and is not merely retaliatory
against an individual provider or arbitrary in nature, then the decision will
likely be upheld by the courts.  Absent protective state legislation or the
adoption of medical staff bylaws that specifically prohibit credentialing or
privileging decisions based on economic factors, hospitals should not face
serious liability from economic credentialing decisions.

   From the perspective of the hospital, whether it is recruiting new physicians
or imposing a drug testing policy, so long as the hospital acts in a manner
which is based primarily on better serving the patients in the community and the
majority of its medical staff, the hospital will be in a good position to defend
itself in any litigation brought by adversely affected physicians.  Simply
stated, the hospital should not be afraid of taking appropriate actions when
confronting new economic pressures or determining which physicians can best
assist in achieving the hospital's institutional goals.



REFERENCE: [n2.] A PPO is an organization of physicians who, or hospitals which,
contract with employers and insurers to provide a full range of health care
services. Services are offered to members on a fee-for-service basis, at a
discount. If a member opts to see a physician not affiliated with the PPO, he
can be required to make a coinsurance payment. Jeffrey B. Schwartz, The
Preferred Provider Organization as an Alternative Delivery System, 6 J. LEGAL
MED. 150 (1985). In the case of an HMO, members pay a single subscription fee in
return for a full range of health care services including walk-in services and
hospitalization. The HMO may own the facilities that provide the services or it
may contract with such facilities to provide services to the subscriber. WILLIAM
J. CURREN, ET AL., HEALTH CARE LAW, FORENSIC SCIENCE & PUBLIC POLICY 255
(Richard A. Epstein et al. eds., 4th ed. 1990).
[n1.] Thomas L. Friedman, Clinton Rules Out Delay in Unveiling Health Care Plan,
N.Y. TIMES, Apr. 28, 1993, at A1.

   [n3.] "DRGs" refers to the classification of Medicare patients into 470
different homogeneous groups based on factors of principal diagnosis, age, sex,
procedures performed, discharge status, and any secondary diagnosis. A hospital
is reimbursed according to the DRG-specific rate. Diana Vance Bryan, Note:
Medicare's Prospective Payment System: Can Quality Care Service? 69 IOWA L. REV.
1420-1421 (1984). "RBRVS" sets the amount reimbursed for a single procedure,
giving the general practitioner an increase while decreasing payments to
specialists. John Farkey, Note: The Medicare Antifraud Statute and Safe Harbor
Regulations: Suggestions for Change, 81 GEO. L.J. 182 (1992).

   [n4.] Terese Hudson, Factoring in the Financials: Courts Give Nod to Economic
Credentialing, HOSPITALS, Apr. 5, 1993, at 36.

   [n5.] 42 U.S.C. § 12101 (1993).

   [n6.] 29 U.S.C. § 621 (Supp. 1993).

   [n7.] See Oksanen v. Page Mem. Hosp., 946 F.2d 696 (4th Cir. 1990).

   [n8.] Economic credentialing refers to the use of economic practice patterns
of a physician as a factor in determining whether to grant hospital staff
privileges to the physician. See Mary T. Koska, Hospital CEOs Divided on Use of
Economic Credentialing, HOSPITALS, Mar. 20, 1991, at 42.

   [n9.] AMA Policy Compendium (1990 Ed.) § 47.022. See also Katherine Benesch,
Credentialing Criteria Puts Hospitals at Risk, NEW JERSEY L.J., Apr. 5, 1993, at
10; Jay Greene, Economic Credentialing, MOD. HEALTHCARE, Nov. 16, 1992, at 10.

   [n10.] See Medical Staff, HOSPITALS, Nov. 5, 1992, at 20.

   [n11.] Id.

   [n12.] See Joint Statement on Economic Credentialing and Exclusive
Contracting, CALIFORNIA MEDICAL ASSOCIATION & CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF
HOSPITALS AND HEALTH SYSTEMS (Jan. 1992) (hereinafter referred to as CALIFORNIA
JOINT STATEMENT).

   [n13.] Proposed Changes in Bylaws Upset Hospital's Medical Staff, MODERN
HEALTHCARE, Aug. 10, 1992, at 18; Bellam v. Clayton County Hosp. Auth., 758 F.
Supp. 1488 (N.D. Ga. 1990) (anesthesiologists sued hospital challenging
exclusive contract); Drs. Steuer & Latham, P.A. v. National Medical Enters.,
Inc., 672 F. Supp. 1489 (D.S.C. 1987) (pathology providers sued hospital for
granting exclusive contract to another), aff'd, 846 F.2d 70 (4th Cir. 1988);
Mays v. Hosp. Auth., 596 F. Supp. 120 (N.D. Ga. 1984) (radiologist sued hospital
for granting corporation exclusive privileges for providing primary radiological
services).

   [n14.] See, e.g., Blue Cross of Washington & Alaska v. Kitsap Physicians
Service, 1982-1 Trade Cas. (CCH) P64,589 (W.D. Wash. 1981).

   [n15.] John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing: A New Twist in Hospital
Appraisal Processes, 12 J. LEGAL MED. 428-29 (1991) (footnotes omitted)
(hereinafter Blum, Economic Credentialing).

   [n16.] Mary T. Koska, Review Exclusive Contracts in Light of Challenges,
HOSPITALS, Apr. 20, 1992, at 38.

   [n17.] Medical Staff, HOSPITALS, Nov. 5, 1992, at 20.

   [n18.] Compare Howard L. Lang, M.D., Curb Economic Credentialing, MODERN
HEALTHCARE, Apr. 29, 1991, at 28 with Frederic L. Merchant, Jr., Credentialing
Is a Fact of Life, MODERN HEALTHCARE, June 17, 1991, at 36.

   [n19.] AMA Policy Compendium (1990 Ed.), § 47.022.

   [n20.] Id.

   [n21.] See Medical Staff, HOSPITALS, Nov. 5, 1992, at 20.

   [n22.] See id.

   [n23.] Blum, Economic Credentialing, 12 J. LEGAL MED. at 464.

   [n24.] See Mateo Woodburn v. Fresno Community Hosp., 270 Cal. Rptr. 894 (Cal.
Ct. App. 1990) (anesthesiologist sued hospital for, inter alia, closing
department); Faucher v. Rodziewicz, 891 F.2d 864 (11th Cir. 1990)
(anesthesiologist claimed staff privileges of clinical director interfered with
anesthesiologist's business and employee relations); Shahawy v. Harrison, 778
F.2d 636 (11th Cir. 1985) (physician sued because of hospital's denial of
privilege of conducting cardiac catheterizations in hospital lab); Engelstad v.
Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983) (pathologist sued hospital for
terminating him as director of pathology department alleging resulting
reductions in hospital staff privileges).

   [n25.] See Jones v. Yonkers Gen. Hosp., Inc., 143 A.D.2d 885, (N.Y. App. Div.
1988) (upholding termination based on, inter alia, failure to obtain malpractice
insurance); Kelly v. St. Vincent Hosp., 692 P.2d 1350, 1353-4 (N.M. App. 1984)
(upholding requirement of malpractice insurance).

   [n26.] For example, one hospital in Maryland uses a physician's DRG profile
information in the reappointment process in the following way: The hospital will
first examine the physician's patients' lengths of stay by DRG, measured against
state-wide averages, and the physician's charges by DRG, measured against
hospital averages. If the physician has patient stays and charges that exceed
105% of those averages, then the hospital will examine the physician's practice
more thoroughly. The hospital will look at data from utilization review programs
for denials of admissions, days and services; malpractice cases in which the
physician was a co-defendant with the hospital in actions resulting in
settlements of over $ 30,000; timeliness of medical record completion; and bad
debts exceeding 15% of the total hospital charges generated by the physician.
See Mary T. Koska, Hospital CEOs Divided on Use of Economic Credentialing,
HOSPITALS, Mar. 20, 1991, at 42, 44.

   [n27.] See supra note 12.

   [n28.] For a more detailed analysis of the specific types of economic
criteria which the CMA finds acceptable or not acceptable, see John D. Blum,
Hospital-Medical Staff Relations in the Face of Shifting Business Strategies: A
Legal Analysis, 14 UNIV. OF PUGET SOUND L. REV. 584-585 n.106 and 107.

   [n29.] No. 91-589 (Fla. Cir. Ct., June 22, 1992) (hereinafter Rosenblum).

   [n30.] Robert Pear, U.S. Says Hospitals Demand Physicians Pay For Referrals,
N.Y. TIMES, Sept. 28, 1992, at A1, A9 (citing Rosenblum as the first case in
which a court has upheld a hospital's use of economic credentialing in deciding
to deny privileges).

   [n31.] Rosenblum, No. 91-589, slip. op. at 3.

   [n32.] Id., slip. op at 4. Although the trial court's decision was appealed,
the parties settled the litigation before any decision was rendered by the
Florida Court of Appeals.

   [n33.] Coffey v. Healthtrust, 955 F.2d 1388 (10th Cir. 1992).

   [n34.] Ingraffia v. NME Hosps., 943 F.2d 561 (5th Cir. 1991) (physician
challenging exclusive contract for radiological services alleging restriction of
privileges); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990) (challenging
exclusive contract as antitrust violation).

   [n35.] The challenges usually allege violations of sections 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 1 & 2 (1993). See Shahawy v. Harrison, 778 F.2d 636
(11th Cir. 1985) (physician sued hospital alleging denial of privileges violated
15 U.S.C. § 1, Civil Rights, and federal and state contract laws); Beard v.
Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990) (radiologist brought antitrust
action under Sherman Act, section 2, challenging exclusive contract granted by
hospital).

   [n36.] See Faucher v. Rodziewicz, 891 F.2d 864 (11th Cir. 1990)
(anesthesiologist filed section 1983 action in suit against hospital's clinical
director and executive director as county officials); Engelstad v. Virginia Mun.
Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983) (Civil Rights claim that hospital violated
physician's constitutional rights by terminating his directorship without
procedural due process protection).

   [n37.] See St. Mary's Hosp. of Athens v. Radiology Professional Corp., 421
S.E.2d 731 (Ga. Ct. App. 1992) (radiologist claimed termination of privileges
was tortious interference with existing and prospective contractual relations,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, deprivation of due process, and
abusive litigation); Lewisburg Community Hosp. v. Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756
(Tenn. 1991) (radiologist claimed breach of contract for failure to grant
hearing after termination of contract to provide exclusive radiological
services); Mateo-Woodburn v. Fresno Community Hosp., 270 Cal. Rptr. 894 (Cal.
Ct. App. 1990) (anesthesiologists challenged hospital decision to go to closed
system for tortious interference with business relations); Berman v. Valley
Hosp., 510 A.2d 673 (N.J. 1986) (physicians brought antitrust and tort suit
because of exclusionary staff privilege policy); Desai v. St. Barnabus Medical
Ctr., 510 A.2d 662 (N.J. 1986) (physician challenged closed-staff policy of
hospital under state antitrust statute); Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal.
Rptr. 892 (Cal. Ct. App. 1978) (hospital closed-staff policy did not constitute
tortious or unlawful interference with physician's right to pursue profession).

   [n38.] 42 U.S.C. § 1395nn (1992) and 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320a-76 (1991). See also
Robert Pear, U.S. Says Hospitals Demand Physicians Pay For Referrals, N.Y.
TIMES, Sept. 28, 1992, at A1.

   [n39.] OIG Management Advisory Report, Financial Arrangements Between
Hospitals and Hospital-Based Physicians, Jan. 31, 1991 (EI1-09-89-0030);
Medicare & Medicaid Guide (CCH) P39,669.

   [n40.] Bellam v. Clayton County Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488 (N.D. Ga.
1990); Drs. Steurer & Latham, P.A. v. National Medical Enters, 672 F. Supp. 1489
(D.S.C. 1987) (challenging exclusive pathology contract), aff'd, 846 F.2d 70
(4th Cir. 1988); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990)
(challenging exclusive radiological contract).

   [n41.] See supra note 35.

   [n42.] Oksanen v. Page Memorial Hosp., 945 F.2d 696 (4th Cir. 1991).

   [n43.] Id.

   [n44.] 466 U.S. 2 (1984).

   [n45.] Id. at 26-27.

   [n46.] Id. at 30-31 (footnote omitted). The Federal Trade Commission (FTC)
reached a similar result in analyzing an exclusive radiology contract at a
hospital in the Champaign-Urbana, Illinois area. In Burnham Hosp., 101 F.T.C.
991 (1983), the FTC analyzed the contract under the more sweeping prohibitions
of section 5 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45, which prohibits "unfair methods of
competition." The FTC utilized the same type of factor analysis as the Supreme
Court in Hyde to conclude that where the hospital board unilaterally decided to
enter into the exclusive contract, the contract is of reasonable duration or
terminable by hospital on reasonable notice, and the hospital lacks market power
in the relevant market, the contract is more procompetitive than
anticompetitive.

   [n47.] Coffey v. Healthtrust, 955 F.2d 1388 (10th Cir. 1992).

   [n48.] Mays v. Hosp. Auth., 582 F. Supp. 425 (N.D. Ga. 1984).

   [n49.] 672 F. Supp. 1489 (D.S.C. 1987), aff'd, 846 F.2d 70 (4th Cir. 1988).

   [n50.] Id. at 1517 n.32.

   [n51.] Id. at 1497.

   [n52.] Id. at 1502.

   [n53.] Id. at 1509-15.

   [n54.] Id. at 1516.

   [n55.] Id. at 1516-19.

   [n56.] Id. at 1519-21.

   [n57.] Coffey v. Healthtrust, 955 F.2d at 1388; Gonzalez v. Insignares,
1985-2 Trade Cas. (CCH) P66,701 (N.D. Ga. 1985); Collins v. Associated
Pathologists, 676 F. Supp. 1388 (C.D. Ill. 1987), aff'd, 844 F.2d 473 (7th
Cir.); Friedman v. Delaware Memorial Hosp., 672 F. Supp. 171 (E.D. Pa. 1987),
aff'd, 849 F.2d 600 (3d. Cir. 1988); Mays v. Hosp. Auth., 582 F. Supp. 425 (N.D.
Ga. 1984) and 596 F. Suppl 120 (1984).

   [n58.] Bellam v. Clayton County Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488 (N.D. Ga.
1990); Bellmar v. Cipolla, 975 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984).

   [n59.] 758 F. Supp. 1488 (N.D. Ga. 1990).

   [n60.] Id. at 1491. The ASA representatives orally recommended closing the
department, but subsequently in their written report noted the ASA policy
against contracts with prevent granting privileges to anesthesiologists.
Nevertheless, they reaffirmed the goal of giving the contract physician
sufficient authority to organize the department into a functioning unit "with or
without a contract."

   [n61.] Id. at 1494.

   [n62.] Id. at 1493.

   [n63.] Id. at 1493-1494.

   [n64.] Id. at 1494.

   [n65.] Faucher v. Rodziewicz, 891 F.2d 864 (11th Cir. 1990).

   [n66.] Mays v. Hosp. Auth., 582 F. Supp. 425 (N.D. Ga. 1984).

   [n67.] Id.

   [n68.] Id. at 427.

   [n69.] Id. at 429.

   [n70.] Id.

   [n71.] Id. at 430.

   [n72.] Id.

   [n73.] 42 U.S.C. § 1983. See Faucher v. Rodziewicz, 891 F.2d 864 (11th cir.
1990) (holding that because plaintiff's medical staff privileges had been
reduced, not terminated, he had no due process claim); Boucvalt v. Board of
Comm'r of Hosp. Service Dist. No. 1, 798 F.2d 722 (5th Cir. 1986) (holding that
deprivation of plaintiff's source of income did not violate due process).

   [n74.] Shahawy v. Harrison, 875 F.2d 1529, 1532 (11th Cir. 1990); Bellam v.
Clayton County Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488 (N.D. Ga. 1990). Compare Northeast
Georgia Radiological Ass'n v. Tidwell, 670 F.2d 507 (5th Cir. 1982) (upon
termination, bylaws give rise to property interest, making physicians able to
recover under Fourteenth Amendment Due Process Clause).

   [n75.] 891 F.2d 864 (11th Cir. 1990).

   [n76.] Id. at 867.

   [n77.] Id.

   [n78.] Id. at 869 (emphasis omitted).

   [n79.] Id. at 870.

   [n80.] Engelstad v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983).

   [n81.] Id.

   [n82.] Id.

   [n83.] Id.

   [n84.] Id. at 267.

   [n85.] Id. at 268.

   [n86.] Id. at 269.

   [n87.] 758 F. Supp. 1488 (N.D. Ga. 1990).

   [n88.] Id. at 1492.

   [n89.] Id.

   [n90.] Id. at 1492-93.

   [n91.] See, e.g., Datillo v. Tuscon Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700 (Ariz. Ct. App.
1975); Desai v. St. Barnabas Medical Ctr., 510 A.2d 662 (N.J. 1986).

   [n92.] See id.

   [n93.] Compare Datillo, 533 P.2d 700 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1975) (holding that the
hospital's grant of exclusive contracts in nuclear medicine did not violate an
internist's due process rights because of the economic benefit to the hospital)
with Desai, 510 A.2d 662 (N.J. 1986) (holding that a requirement of association
prior to employment with current staff members did not serve a genuine public
health interest and was invalid). See also Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp. of Orange
County, 146 Cal. Rptr. 892 (Cal. Ct. App. 1978).

   [n94.] 533 P.2d 700 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1975).

   [n95.] Id. at 706.

   [n96.] Id. at 704. See also Bennell v. City of Virginia, 104 N.W.2d. 633, 634
(Minn. 1960), where the Minnesota Supreme Court upheld the legality of a closed
staff in radiology because it was "in furtherance of the hospital's obligation
to operate and administer the hospital efficiently."

   [n97.] 146 Cal. Rptr. 892 (Cal. Ct. App. 1978).

   [n98.] Id. at 895.

   [n99.] Id. at 906.

   [n100.] Id.

   [n101.] See Mateo-Woodburn v. Fresno Community Hosp., 270 Cal. Rptr. 894
(Cal. Ct. App. 1990) (hospital board's decision to close anesthesiology
department and enter into an exclusive contract for anesthesiology services was
viewed as quasi-legislative, administration action); Redding v. St. Francis
Medical Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806 (Cal. Ct. App. 1989) (hospital decided to
permit only those cardiac surgeons under contract with hospital to perform
cardiac surgery procedures); Centeno v. Roseville Community Hosp., 167 Cal.
Rptr. 183, 189 (Cal. Ct. App. 1979) (because hospital would "channel all
radiological work through a single entity, there would be decreased costs to
patients through elimination of double purchases of expensive equipment").

   [n102.] See Berman v. Valley Hosp., 510 A.2d 673 (N.J. 1986) (holding that a
hiring policy with restrictions whose purpose was not supported by empirical
data was an invalid method of closing the departments); Desai v. St. Barnabas
Medical Ctr., 510 A.2d 662 (N.J. 1986) (holding that a requirement of
association prior to employment with current staff members did not serve a
genuine public health interest and was invalid); Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 192
A.2d 817 (N.J. 1963) (finding that if restriction denying staff membership was
done for a reason unrelated to public welfare, then policy was invalid).

   [n103.] 510 A.2d 662 (N.J. 1986).

   [n104.] Id. at 664 n.1.

   [n105.] Id. at 668.

   [n106.] Id.

   [n107.] Id. at 672.

   [n108.] Id. at 670.

   [n109.] Id. at 670.

   [n110.] Id.

   [n111.] Id. at 670-71.

   [n112.] 510 A.2d 673 (N.J. 1986).

   [n113.] Id. at 680.

   [n114.] See Dutta v. St. Francis Regional Medical Ctr., 850 P.2d 928 (Kan.
Ct. App. 1993) (deciding that employee who is replaced with an exclusive
provider has no right to hearing under hospital bylaws); Lewisburg Community
Hosp., 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991) (holding hospital breached bylaws when it
failed to grant radiologist hearing after termination of contract to provide
exclusive radiological services); Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d
483 (Md. Ct. Spec. App. 1981) (holding that hospital that changes exclusive
provider need not give hearing to ousted provider); Holt v. Good Samaritan Hosp.
and Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d 1318 (Ohio Ct. App. 1990) (holding that physician
was not entitled to hearing under hospital bylaws when hospital contracted with
a different exclusive provider).

   [n115.] Dr. Stuer & Latham v. Nat'l Medical Enterprises, 672 F. Supp. 1489
(D.C. N.C. 1987), aff'd 846 F.2d 70 (4th Cir. 1988); Faucher, 891 F.2d at 864.

   [n116.] Lewisburg Community Hosp., 805 S.W.2d at 756.

   [n117.] Id.

   [n118.] Id. at 759.

   [n119.] See Posner v. Lankenau Hosp., 645 F. Supp. 1102, 1106 (E.D. Pa. 1986)
(under Pennsylvania law, hospital bylaws constitute contract between physician
and hospital) aff'd 865 F.2d 252 (3d Cir. Pa. 1988); Rees v. Intermountain
Healthcare, 808 P.2d 1069, 1073 n.3 (Utah 1991) (bylaws constitute a binding
contract between hospital and physician); Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr.,
617 A.2d 1020, 1021 (Me. 1992) (bylaws of a private medical center may
constitute enforceable contract between the center and its staff physicians).

   [n120.] Gianetti, 557 A.2d at 1249; Manczur v. Southside Hosp., 183 N.Y.S.2d
960, 962 (1959); Munoz v. Flower Hosp., 507 N.E.2d 360, 364 (Ohio App. 1985).

   [n121.] 421 S.E.2d at 731.

   [n122.] Id. at 736 (citations omitted).

   [n123.] Id. at 737. Similarly, in Redding, 255 Cal. Rptr. at 806, 809-11, the
California Court of Appeals held that a physician had no "property right" to
remain on the medical staff. The court held that the hospital had the right to
make rational management decisions, even when the exercise of that right might
prove adverse to the interests of specific individual practitioners.

   [n124.] See Robles v. Humana Hosp. Cartersville, 785 F. Supp. 989, 1000-02
(N.D. Ga. 1992) (bylaws do not constitute a contract, and while an action may be
brought for injunctive relief to enforce the bylaws, a physician is not entitled
to bring an action for damages). This decision pre-dated the St. Mary's
decision. See also St. Mary's Hosp. of Athens, 421 S.E.2d at 737 (although
bylaws do not constitute a contract, nevertheless a physician may bring an
action in tort on the basis that the hospital "cannot abridge or refuse to
follow its existing bylaws concerning staff privileges . . . [and] the violation
of that duty is actionable"). Gianetti, 557 A.2d at 1249, 1255 (the court held
that bylaws were not a contract per se, but held that bylaws were subject to
judicial review and enforceable because of the relationship between the doctor
and the hospital and because the bylaws therein were statutorily mandated).

   [n125.] Lewisburgh Comm. Hosp. v. Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991); St.
Mary's Hosp. at Athens, 421 S.E.2d 737.

   [n126.] Bellam, 758 F. Supp. 1488; Mays, 582 F. Supp. at 425.

   [n127.] 617 A.2d 1020 (Me. 1992).

   [n128.] Id. at 1022.

   [n129.] Id.

   [n130.] Id. at 1023.

   [n131.] Id. at 1023 n.6.

   [n132.] See Bartley, 617 A.2d at 1020; Bellam v. Clayton County Hosp. Auth.,
758 F. Supp. 1488 (N.D. Ga. 1990); Mays, 582 F. Supp. at 425; Anne Arundel Gen.
Hosp., 432 A.2d at 483 (court upheld right of hospital to consolidate nuclear
medicine and radiology department and enter into exclusive contract with new
provider without providing any due process hearing under the bylaws. While Court
recognized bylaws have the force and effect of an enforceable contract, the due
process procedures did not apply because the hospital had not made a staff
privileges decision.)

   [n133.] Walsky v. Pascack Valley Hosp., 367 A.2d 1204 (1976); Stone v.
William Beaumont Hosp., 1983-2 Trade Cas. (CCH) P65,681 (E.D. Mich. 1983); Knapp
v. Palos Community Hosp., 465 N.E.2d 555 (Ill. App. 1989).

   [n134.] The case was discussed in a front-page article in the New York Times.
Although the article discussed the case in the context of economic
credentialing, the article primarily addressed the potential fraud and abuse
concerns by the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and
Human Services over alleged actions of hospitals requiring hospital-based
physicians to make certain payments in order to retain their contract. See
Robert Pear, U.S. Says Hospitals Demand Physicians Pay For Referrals, N.Y.
TIMES, Sept. 28, 1992, at A1.

   [n135.] Coffey, 955 F.2d at 1388; Univ. Emergency Physicians v. Richmond Co.
Hosp. Auth., 1982-83 Trade Cas. (CCH) P65,097 at 71, 149 (S.D. Ga. 1982).

   [n136.] Coffey, 955 F.2d at 1391.

   [n137.] University Emergency Physician, 1982-83 Trade Cas. (CCH) at 71,151.

   [n138.] For a more recent decision upholding the right of a hospital to
require full-time commitment by physicians to the hospital, see Katz v.
Children's Hosp. Corp., 602 N.E.2d 598 (Mass. App. Ct. 1992). There, the
Massachusetts Court of Appeals upheld the hospital's policy to prevent
physicians in department subspecialties from engaging in private practice. The
plaintiff gastroenterologists were reappointed as staff members, but because
they wanted to engage part-time in private practice, the hospital restricted
their use of hospital facilities. The court of appeals rejected their legal
challenge on the ground that the hospital's decision conformed to the bylaws
requirements.

   [n139.] 843 F.2d 139 (3d Cir. 1988), cert. denied, 488 U.S. 870 (1988).

   [n140.] After the first reversal the trial court again granted summary
judgment on the grounds that the hospital's decision was immune as lawful state
action. The Third Circuit again reversed the trial court's grant of summary
judgment to defendants on grounds that the hospital did not enjoy state action
immunity for its actions, based on the Supreme Court decision of Patrick v.
Burget. See Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 930 F.2d 334 (3d. Cir. 1991). On remand,
the district court for the third time granted summary judgment to the
defendants. This time the court held the plaintiff had failed to prove antitrust
injury because there was no evidence of any reduction in competition in a
properly defined relevant market. Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 1992-1 Trade Cas.
(CCH) P69,797 (W.D. Pa. 1992). This decision was affirmed by the Third Circuit
in Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 1992-2 Trade Cas. (CCH) P69,954 (3d Cir. 1992),
cert. denied, 113 S.Ct. 1366 (1993).

   [n141.] Miller, 843 F.2d at 145.

   [n142.] In another recent case, Tarabishi v. McAlester Regional Hosp., 951
F.2d 1558 (10th Cir. 1991), the court rejected the antitrust claims of a
physician who alleged he was terminated after attempting to establish an
outpatient surgical clinic that the hospital opposed. The court affirmed summary
judgment on the grounds that the plaintiff had failed to offer sufficient
evidence to demonstrate the market power of the hospital, any illegal
conspiracy, or any adverse impact on competition. For another case where the
plaintiff alleged a hospital denied privileges to physicians associated with a
competing hospital, see Potters Medical Ctr. v. City Hosp. Ass'n, 800 F.2d 568
(6th Cir. 1986).

   [n143.] See CALIF. JOINT COUNSEL supra note 12; see John D. Blum, Hospital
-Medical Staff Relations in the Face of Shifting Business Strategies: A Legal
Analysis, 14 UNIV. OF PUGET SOUND L. REV. 584-585 n.106 and 107.

   [n144.] See Katherine Benesch, Credentialing Criteria Puts Hospitals at Risk,
N.J.L.J. 10 (1993).

   [n145.] 465 N.E.2d 554 (Ill. App. Ct. 1984).

   [n146.] 488 N.E.2d 685 (Ill. App. Ct. 1986).

   [n147.] Hahn v. Oregon Physicians' Service, 868 F.2d 1022 (9th Cir. 1988),
cert. denied, 493 U.S. 846 (1989); Hassan v. Independent Practice Ass'n, 698 F.
Supp. 679 (E.D. Mich. 1988).

   [n148.] See Hahn, 868 F.2d 1022.

   [n149.] 698 F. Supp. at 679.

   [n150.] Id. at 694. In contrast, see Hahn v. Oregon Physicians' Service, 868
F.2d 1022 (9th Cir. 1988), cert. denied, 493 U.S. 846 (1989), where the Ninth
Circuit reversed summary judgment in favor of the defendants on a claim by
podiatrists that they were unlawfully excluded from participating in a health
plan, and consequently were reimbursed at a lower level than physicians. In
doing so, the court found a sufficient factual dispute over whether the
podiatrists had been excluded because of claims over-utilization.

   [n151.] Kelly, 692 P.2d at 1350; Jones, 533 N.Y.S.2d at 522; Stein v. TriCity
Hosp. Auth., 384 S.E.2d 430 (Ga. App. 1989) cert. denied, Sept. 29, 1989; Kling
v. St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins. Co., No. 85-1342 (C.D. Ill, 1987).

   [n152.] 692 P.2d at 1353-54.

   [n153.] 533 N.Y.S.2d at 524.

   [n154.] Todorov v. DCH Health Care Auth., 921 F.2d 1438 (11th Cir. 1991).

   [n155.] Id.

   [n156.] Id.

   [n157.] Id. at 1455-1457.

   [n158.] Id. at 1459.

   [n159.] Mary T. Koska, Hospitals and Medical Staffs: The Concept of Planning
Takes On New Meaning, HOSPITALS, Oct. 20, 1992, at 28.

   [n160.] 42 U.S.C.A. §§ 1201-17 (West Supp. 1993).

   [n161.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 20003 (West Supp. 1993). The Fifth Circuit in United
States v. Harris Methodist Fort Worth, 970 F.2d 94 (5th Cir. 1992), has also
recognized the applicability of Title VI, 42 U.S.C.A. § 2000d (West Supp. 1993),
to claims that hospitals receiving federal funds had discriminated in staff
privileges decisions.

   [n162.] 29 U.S.C.A. §§ 621-34 (West Supp. 1993).

   [n163.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 1981 (West Supp. 1993).

   [n164.] Treas. Reg. § 31.3401(c)-1(b)(amended 1970); see also, 26 C.F.R. §
31,3401(c)-1(b).

   [n165.] Pardazi v. Cullman Medical Ctr., 838 F.2d 1155 (11th Cir. 1988);
Gomez v. Alexian Bros. Hosp. of San Jose, 698 F.2d 1019 (9th Cir. 1988); Doe on
Behalf of Doe v. St. Joseph's Hosp., 788 F.2d 411 (7th Cir. 1986).

   [n166.] Pardazi, 838 F.2d at 1155; 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a)(1)(1982).

   [n167.] Pardazi v. Cullman Medical Ctr. 702 F. Supp. 852 (N.D. Ala. 1988).

   [n168.] Pardazi, 838 F.2d at 1157.

   [n169.] Id. at 1156.

   [n170.] Id.

   [n171.] Gomez, 698 F.2d at 1019-1021.

   [n172.] Doe on Behalf of Doe, 788 F.2d at 411-423.

   [n173.] 488 F.2d 1338 (D.C. Cir. 1973).

   [n174.] 788 F.2d at 423 (footnote omitted).

   [n175.] See Pao v. Holy Redeemer Hosp., 547 F. Supp. 484 (E.D. Pa. 1982);
Zaklama v. Mount Sinai Medical Center, 842 F.2d 291 (11th Cir. 1988); Vakharia
v. Swedish Covenant Hosp., 765 F. Supp. 461 (N.D. Ill. 1991).

   [n176.] Mitchell v. Frank R. Howard Memorial Hosp., 853 F.2d 762 (9th Cir.
1988) cert. denied, 489 U.S. 1013 (1989); Diggs v. Hosp.-Methodist, 847 F.2d 270
(5th Cir. 1988) cert. denied, 488 U.S. 956 (1988).

   [n177.] Beverly v. Douglas, 591 F. Supp. 1321 (S.D.N.Y. 1984); Diggs, 847
F.2d at 270.

   [n178.] Beverly, 591 F. Supp. at 1321.

   [n179.] Id. at 1326; see also Sirides v. Reinhard, 613 F.2d 826, 832 (D.C.
Cir. 1979).

   [n180.] 613 F.2d 826 (D.C. Cir. 1979).

   [n181.] Id.

   [n182.] 847 F.2d 270 (5th Cir. 1988), cert. denied, 488 U.S. 956 (1988).

   [n183.] 29 U.S.C. § 623 (1988).

   [n184.] Menzel v. Western Auto Supply Co., 848 F.2d 327, 328 (1st Cir. 1988).

   [n185.] See Terbovitz v. Fiscal Court of Adair County, Ky., 825 F.2d 111, 114
(6th Cir. 1987).

   [n186.] Id. at 115.

   [n187.] See Mitchell v. Toledo Hosp., 964 F.2d 577 (6th Cir. 1992); Blumberg
v. HCA Management Co., Inc., 848 F.2d 642 (5th Cir. 1988), cert denied, 488 U.S.
1007 (1989); De La Garza Blizzard v. Sociedad Espanola, 787 F. Supp. 31 (D.P.R.
1992), aff'd 996 F.2d 724 (1st Cir. 1992).

   [n188.] Patel v. Lutheran Medical Ctr., 775 F. Supp. 592 (E.D.N.Y. 1991);
Nobler v. Beth Israel Medical Ctr., 702 F. Supp. 1023 (S.D.N.Y. 1988); Mallarl
v. St. Luke's Hosp. of Bethleheim, 699 F. Supp. 1127 (E.D. Penn. 1988); Gaynor
v. Ephrate Community Hosp., 690 F. Supp. 373 (E.D. Penn. 1988); Kuck v. Bensen,
649 F. Supp. 68 (D.Me. 1986); Nanavati v. Burdette Tomlin Memorial Hosp., 1986
WL 15318 (D.N.J. 1986).

   [n189.] 765 F. Supp. 461 (N.D. Ill 1991).

   [n190.] Id. at 468.

   [n191.] 29 U.S.C. § 623 (1988).

   [n192.] Rombough v. F.A.A., 594 F.2d 893 (2nd Cir. 1979).

   [n193.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 12112(a)(West Supp. 1992).

   [n194.] See Doe v. Mercy Health Corp. of Southeastern Pa., No. 92-6711 (E.D.
Pa. filed Nov. 23, 1992). According to the allegations, the hospital learned
from a colleague of the plaintiff's that the plaintiff was infected with HIV.
The hospital then requested that he not perform surgery, but did so without
consulting any expert review panel, local health officials, or without obtaining
any information that the plaintiff posed a significant risk to his patients. The
hospital then notified over 1,000 patients that the doctor who had participated
in their surgical procedure had tested HIV-positive, noting that the risk of HIV
transmission was "extremely remote." Although the hospital did not disclose the
plaintiff's identity in either the notification letter or the press conference
it held to inform the public about the situation, the plaintiff alleges that the
press, co-workers, patients and friends quickly learned his identity shortly
thereafter. He claims hospital officials suspended his clinical privileges, and
his patient referrals from the members of the medical staff "dropped to zero,"
and that his name was dropped from the hospital's telephone referral line. The
plaintiff alleges that in July of 1992, the Board restored his surgical
privileges on the condition that he inform each prospective patient of his HIV
infection prior to performing invasive procedures. The plaintiff claims that
such a requirement effectively prevents him from continuing to maintain an
economically viable practice.

   [n195.] Id.

   [n196.] HIV-Infected Doctor Charges Hospital Restrictions Illegally
Discriminate, 1 HEALTH L. REP (BNA) 381, (Dec. 17, 1992).

   [n197.] In re Westchester County Medical Center HHS, Civil Rights Reviewing
Authority, No. 1357 (Sept. 29, 1992), 1 HEALTH L. REP. (BNA) 97. In that case
the administrative law judge ruled that the pharmacist, whose duties included
filling prescriptions for IV medications, did not constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of others or pose a significant risk of communicating HIV
to employees or patients. Therefore, the hospital was found liable for handicap
discrimination when it denied him employment because he was HIV-positive. The
administrative judge also held the hospital's offer to employ him subject to
certain restrictions was also discriminatory because it denied him opportunities
for higher earnings and promotions.

   [n198.] 29 U.S.C. § 794(a)(1988).

   [n199.] Id; 42 U.S.C.A. § 12101-17 (West Supp. 1992).

   [n200.] 2 HEALTH L. REP. (BNA) 61 (Jan. 23, 1993).

   [n201.] Stephanie Trudeau, Disabilities Act Can Affect Medical Staff
Appointment Process, 10 HEALTH LAW NEWSLETTER, No. 3 (Jan. 1993)(hereinafter
Trudeau Article)

   [n202.] Appendix to Part 1630 - Interpretative Guidance on Title I of the
Americans with Disabilities Act, § 1630.2(a)-(c)(West Supp. 1992).

   [n203.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 12112(d)(2)(4)(West Supp. 1992).

   [n204.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 12112(d)(3)(West Supp. 1992).

   [n205.] Id.

   [n206.] Id.

   [n207.] Id.

   [n208.] The term disability as defined by the ADA also does not include
transvestitism, transsexualism, pedophilia, exhibitionism, voyeurism, or other
sexual behavior disorders, compulsive gambling, kleptomania, pyromania,
homosexuality, or bisexuality.

   [n209.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 12112(d)(3)(B)(West Supp. 1992).

   [n210.] See Trudeau supra note 135. See also, the comments to the regulations
which provide the example that if an employee suddenly starts to use increased
amounts of sick leave or starts to appear ill, an employer could only require
medical tests for certain diseases if the employer can demonstrate that such
testing is job-related and consistent with a business necessity.

   [n211.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 12111(9)(West Supp. 1992). The ADA defines "reasonable
accommodation" as any modification or adjustment to a job application process or
work environment that enables a qualified individual with a disability to be
considered for the position or perform the essential functions of the position,
and which will not impose an "undue hardship" on the employer's business. A
"reasonable accommodation" may include making existing facilities usable by
individuals with disabilities, job restructuring, modified work schedules,
acquisition or modification of equipment or devices, appropriate adjustment of
policies, provision of qualified readers or interpreters, and other similar
accommodations.

   [n212.] See AHA Advisory, Aug. 21, 1992, reported at American Health Lawyers
Association Urges Testing of Employees, DOCS, HEALTH L. REP. (BNA) 53 (Sept. 24,
1992).


                              302 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Group to pitch hospital to state ;
 Officials visit capital to tout Tenet's plan at Scripps.

BYLINE: By SUSAN SALISBURY Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 643 words


A high-powered group of local government and business officials plans to present
its case today in Tallahassee for a north county hospital on The Scripps
Research Institute's campus.

Tenet Florida wants to build an 80-bed academic and clinical research hospital
on county-owned land off Donald Ross Road in Palm Beach Gardens in partnership
with Scripps. Tenet would sublease from Scripps.

Palm Beach County Assistant Administrator Shannon LaRocque said the group has a
one-hour meeting scheduled with Elizabeth Dudek, who heads the Florida Agency
for Health Care Administration. AHCA permission is required for new hospitals.

"It is important to enforce the concept with respect to it is not just a
hospital, it is an academic medical research center," LaRocque said.

Tenet spokeswoman Shelly Weiss said the group will outline the project and
preview the Certificate of Need application to be submitted this week.

The meeting with AHCA is standard practice for health care companies, Weiss
said.

Jupiter Medical Center Chief Executive OfficerJohn Couris, who plans to
challenge the application, said he met with Dudek in September. He sees Tenet's
plans as a "market grab."

Couris said that Palm Beach County already has too many hospital beds, an
opinion supported by Treasure Coast Health Council data that showed occupancy
rates of seven area hospitals. From June 2010 to June 2011 they ranged from 32.2
percent for Good Samaritan Medical Center to 77.9 percent for Jupiter Medical
Center.

"My point is very simple, and we haven't wavered. We do not need 80 beds put in
a new location," Couris said.

Tenet officials have said the 80 beds would come from three of its existing
hospitals in the region: St. Mary's, Palm Beach Gardens and Good Samaritan
medical centers.

LaRocque said she wants to educate Dudek about the vision of local and state
officials to transform the county with large investments in bioscience and
developing 8 million square feet devoted to it.

"We are still working hard to develop that vision. It was always understood we
would have an academic medical research center," LaRocque said.

Between the Max Planck Florida Institute and Scripps, the county and state have
invested close to $1 billion, LaRocque said, adding, "It was never just about
Scripps."

Others scheduled to attend include Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center CEO Mike
Cowling; Harry Orf, Scripps vice president for scientific operations and
chemistry professor; Florida Atlantic University President Mary Jane Saunders;
and nursing home entrepreneur Elizabeth Fago.

The county's Office of Economic Development predicted the hospital would have an
economic impact of $402 million over the first five years, create 250
construction jobs for two years and once completed, employ 250 to 300 people.

Kelly Smallridge, president and CEO of the Business Development Board of Palm
Beach County, said Monday that the BDB has not taken a position on the hospital
yet because it just received the economic impact study Thursday.

"I really would like to see that there is a compromise or agreement between all
parties involved," Smallridge said.

However, the BDB endorses the concept, she said.

Couris said the economic impact study did not take into account the impact a new
hospital might have on other hospitals.

There is only one license type for acute care hospitals, and there is no
separate category for research or teaching hospitals. Existing hospitals could
work with Scripps, as Jupiter Medical Center is already doing, he said.

"We are ready, willing and able to work with Scripps. We support the
biosciences," Couris said.

Jupiter Medical and other hospitals in the district have 21 days to respond to
the application. The state has until Dec. 9 to rule.

Whoever is on the losing end typically goes to court, Couris said. The process
could take two to three years.

~susan_salisbury@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  March, 1993

                         Vol. 26, No. 3, HOSPLW Pg. 73

LENGTH: 5707 words

TITLE: Data on Employee Physician Profiling



AUTHOR: Gregory D. Wozniak, AMA. B.S., 1974, University of Illinois at Chicago;
Ph.D, 1980, Iowa State University.
David W. Emmons, American Medical Association (AMA).  B.A., 1976, Drake
University; Ph.D, 1985, Johns Hopkins University.

   Robert D. Otten, AMA. B.S., 1981, Purdue University; M.S., 1982, Purdue
University.

   Neal A. Baker, AMA. B.A., 1981, Michigan State University; MHSA, 1983,
University of Michigan; J. D. Cand., 1993, DePaul University.

TEXT:

   INTRODUCTION

   Due to rapidly rising health care costs, employers, third party payors, and
other purchasers of health care services have sought effective ways of measuring
the quality, utilization, and cost of services provided to patients.  Hospitals
and large group practices have also grown increasingly interested in assessing
these factors within their organizations.  In addition, variations in medical
practice patterns have sparked a growing interest in how and why processes and
outcomes of care differ in various regions of the country, within counties, and
within metropolitan areas.  Physician profiling is now viewed as a powerful tool
to measure the quality, utilization and cost of services provided, as well as
the variations in process and outcomes of care. [n1]

   Physician profiling is defined differently by various organizations.  For
example, the Physician Payment Review Commission (PPRC) defines profiling as "an
analytic tool that uses epidemiologic methods to compare practice patterns of
providers on the dimensions of cost, service use, or quality (process and
outcome) of care." [n2] The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association of America
(BCBS) describes profiling as:

   . . . a computer-based management technique to monitor resource consumption
and quality of care through an examination of patterns of health care delivery.
It involves the identification of one pattern of practice and its comparison
with formal or informal norms derived from aggregate patterns.  Profiles can be
constructed for individual practitioners, or groups of practitioners, defined by
hospital, geographic area, specialty, type of practice or other characteristics.
[n3]

   Moreover, John Blum, in his Article Expanding Fiscal Considerations Impacting
the Medical Staff: A Review of Economic Credentialing (published in this issue
of the JOURNAL OF HEALTH AND HOSPITAL LAW), defines a physician profile as a set
of aggregate data that statistically depicts clinical and/or economic factors
for a particular physician over a given period of time which can be compared
with larger aggregate medical practice data sets to determine whether a
physician's practice patterns fall within an acceptable range of performance.
[n4]

   Interestingly, these definitions are similar in that they all view the use of
profiling to be a basis for comparing practice patterns.  However, the
definitions are also distinct.  PPRC sees profiling as an "epidemiologic
method," [n5] BCBS describes it as a "management technique," [n6] and Blum
defines profiling as a "statistical depiction." [n7] These differences reflect
the range of intended purposes to which profiling is applied by health care
organizations, including third party payors, health maintenance organizations,
preferred provider organizations, Medicare peer review organizations (PROs),
state governments, hospitals, group practices, and research entities.

   This Article begins by discussing the potential uses of physician profiling.
It then describes the current profiling activities undertaken by two state
governments, New York and Pennsylvania. [n8] It also discusses the federal
government's efforts to develop physician profiles under the aegis of the Health
Care Financing Administration's (HCFA) Medicare PRO and Medicare carrier
programs. [n9] Finally, this Article reports descriptive data on both the
frequency of physician profiling among employee physicians, and the extent to
which those physicians receive profile feedback. [n10]

   POTENTIAL APPLICATIONS OF PHYSICIAN PROFILING

   Profiling has been identified as having three primary applications: quality
improvement, utilization review, and assessment of provider performance. [n11]
The distinction between these applications often is blurred, especially when
utilization rates are used to assess quality and provider performance.

   Profiling may be used in quality improvement programs by targeting apparent
problem areas.  Profiling identifies conditions or procedures in which there are
large variations in outcomes between providers.  Where variations exist,
physician profiling also identifies over- and under-utilization of services so
an organization can investigate the quality of care being provided.  This
improves the quality of care and reduces unnecessary costs created by
over-utilization. [n12] Such profiles often focus on compliance with review
criteria, practice parameters or other standards of care.  Frequent measures
include mortality and complication rates, as well as the degree to which a
recommended number of tests or procedures occurred during a given period of
time.  With the increased emphasis on "continuous quality improvement,"
profiling may also be used for "benchmarking." Benchmarking is a system in which
individual physicians or groups compare, over time, their own performance with
those practices considered as providing the "best" quality. [n13]

   To enhance utilization review, many third party payors and utilization review
firms use profiling to identify the need for more detailed review, and to
encourage more appropriate delivery of services.  Because global profiling may
be costly, many firms follow an "outlier" approach.  This approach uses profiles
to compare the rates at which individual physicians provide particular services
with the rates of physicians in similar practices or with target rates based on
practice parameters. [n14] Individual case review then focuses primarily on
"outliers" whose practice patterns suggest a greater likelihood of either over-
or under-utilization. [n15]

   Finally, profiling may also be used to assess the economic performance of
physicians. [n16] The factors that may be considered relevant in assessing
economic performance include the cost per case, average length of stay by
medical service or diagnosis, denial rates, and malpractice claims. [n17] In a
process often referred to as "economic credentialing," some hospitals have used
physicians' economic profiles to decide whether to grant hospital privileges.
[n18] Similarly, managed care plans have turned increasingly to profiling in an
effort to improve physician selection, network management, and the effectiveness
of medical and quality management. [n19]

   PHYSICIAN PROFILES DEVELOPED BY NEW YORK STATE

   Some state governments have begun using physician profiles to measure quality
as determined through outcomes measures.  New York [n20] and Pennsylvania, [n21]
for example, have pioneered the public release of individual cardiac surgeon
profiles on mortality rates following coronary artery bypass graft surgery
(CABG).  In 1988, the New York State Department of Health (NYDH), created the
Cardiac Surgery Reporting System (CSRS), [n22] which is a patient specific
surgical report form.  The NYDH began using this form to collect information on
the following: patient demographics; admissions; discharge and surgical
procedure dates; as well as preoperative risk factors such as age, race, sex,
reoperation, ejection fraction, previous myocardial infarction, morbid obesity,
hypertension history, preoperative intra-aortic balloon pump, dialysis
dependency, diabetes requiring medication, more than 90 percent narrowing of
left main trunk, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) "crash,"
and cardiac catherization "crash." [n23] Data on complications and discharge
status for every open heart surgery patient in New York State, as well as
surgeon and hospital identifiers, are also included in the CSRS.  The elements
used in this reporting system were determined by the NYDH Cardiac Advisory
Committee, which was made up of practicing cardiac surgeons and cardiologists
from both inside and outside the state of New York. [n24]

   In December 1992, the NYDH released physician and hospital profiles on CABG
outcomes to the public based on the results of CABG operations completed from
1989-1991 [n25] (see Table 1).  According to the Department, the purpose of
releasing these profiles to the public was to: understand the characteristics of
individual patients which adversely affect outcomes; improve the results of
interventional and noninterventional treatment of heart disease; improve the
provision of cardiac care; and provide information to the public that allows
individuals to make better informed decisions about their own care. [n26]

   Table 1

   Facsimile of a Profiling Report Format Used by the New York Department of
Health.  Actual, expected, and risk-adjusted hospital and surgeon mortality
after coronary artery bypass grafting, 1989-1991.
                             Hospital Deaths         Risk-Adjusted Mortality
Surgeon    Patients
              (n)    Number    Actual     Expected     Percent       95%
                             (Observed)       %                   Confidence
                             % Mortality  Mortality                 Limits
Hospital A
Totals         2058       71         3.45       2.86         3.90   3.04-4.91

 Doctor A      413         8         1.94       2.80         2.24   0.96-4.41

 Doctor B      452        13         2.88       2.41         3.85   2.05-6.59

 Doctor C      250         7         2.80       2.37         3.82   1.53-7.87

 Doctor D      339        18         5.31       3.29         5.21   3.09-8.24

 All           604        25         4.14       3.20         4.18   2.70-6.16
 Others       (<200)
 (8)

Hospital B
Totals         1466       51         3.48       3.03         3.71   2.76-4.88

 Doctor A      544        22         4.04       3.19         4.10   2.57-6.21

 Doctor B      336        12         3.57       3.11         3.70   1.91-6.47

 Doctor C      496        13         2.62       2.89         2.93   1.56-5.01

 All           90          4         4.44       2.49         5.76         --
 Others       (<200)
(2)

   Analyzing the effect of the mandated profiles the NYDH found that the
risk-adjusted mortality decreased from 4.25 percent in 1989 to 2.72 percent in
1991, a 36 percent decrease, [n27] even though the number of CABGs increased
from 12,269 in 1989 to 14,944 in 1991. [n28] The NYDH believes state wide
profiling also facilitated the improved outcomes for CABGs performed over that
same period. [n29]

   PHYSICIAN PROFILES DEVELOPED BY PENNSYLVANIA

   The Pennsylvania Health Care Cost Containment Council (Council) was
established by the Pennsylvania state legislature in 1986 to gather and publish
hospital outcomes, mortality, and cost data. [n30] In 1989, the Council began
disseminating profiling data on the 170 hospitals with more than 100 beds in its
reports on hospital effectiveness.  In November 1992, the Council released
physician profiles, limited to CABG surgery outcomes.  (See Table 2) The Council
selected physician profiles on CABG outcomes for release because it felt a
number of patients might have time to select a physician prior to the procedure
being performed. [n31] In addition, the Council believed the public interest in
physician-specific profiles on CABG outcomes is heightened by the fact that
heart disease continues to be the leading cause of death in the United States,
and the risk of adverse patient outcome and overall costs are both moderately
high compared to other surgical procedures. [n32]

   Table 2

   Facsimile of a Report Format Used by the Pennsylvania Health Care Cost
Containment Council. Statistical rating for cardiac surgeons who performed CABGs
in 1991.
Hospital Physician Practice Group    Total
           and Surgeons             Patients
Hospital A                             332

 Doctor A                              206

 Doctor B                              126

Hospital B                             323

 Doctor A                              58

 Doctor B                               7

 Doctor C                              50

 Doctor D                              133

 Doctor E                              75

Hospital C                             467

 Doctor A                              23

 Doctor B                              62

 Doctor C                              26

 Doctor D                              40

 Doctor E                              56

 Doctor F                              43
Hospital Physician Practice Group               Patients Who Died
           and Surgeons
                                    Actual    Expected    Statistical   P-
                                    Number     Range        Rating     Value
Hospital A                             4     5.35 - 18.08            +  0.018

 Doctor A                              2     2.64 - 12.81            +  0.029

 Doctor B                              2      0.21 - 7.86            *  0.307

Hospital B                            15     3.91 - 15.30            *  0.061

 Doctor A                              1      0.00 - 4.05            *  0.632
 Doctor B                                 less than 30 patients treated
 Doctor C                              3      0.00 - 3.26            *  0.079

 Doctor D                              8      0.00 - 6.82            -  0.008

 Doctor E                              3      0.24 - 6.34            *  0.873

Hospital C                            21     6.42 - 20.09            -  0.026
 Doctor A                                 less than 30 patients treated
 Doctor B                              1      0.00 - 4.52            *  0.518
 Doctor C                                 less than 30 patients treated
 Doctor D                              1      0.00 - 2.98            *  0.986

 Doctor E                              4      0.00 - 4.71            *  0.149

 Doctor F                              3      0.00 - 2.94            -  0.039

   Statistical Rating Key

   + fewer deaths than expected

   - more deaths than expected

   * the number of deaths was not different than what was expected

   Hospitals and Physicians may have commented on these data.  Copies are
available upon request.

   According to the Council, the primarily goal of the public release of these
data "is to provide objective information to assist consumers and purchasers of
care in selecting a hospital and physician for CABG." [n33] A secondary goal is
to provide health care providers and the legislature with statewide hospital and
physician data to assist in policy and planning efforts. [n34] Physicians
affected by these data profiles were allowed to review and comment on a draft
report prior to the final publication of the Council's report.  Those comments
were also included in one volume of the three reports made available to the
public. [n35]

   PROFILES DEVELOPED BY HCFA

   Under the HCFA's forthcoming PRO Fourth Scope of Work, Medicare PROs will
analyze patterns of care and outcomes.  PROs will then share this information
with physicians and providers to help them identify ways to achieve the best
success rates in improved outcomes and quality of care. [n36] In doing so,
HCFA's goal is to implement and refine the data collection, data analysis, and
physician/provider feedback mechanisms necessary to improve the mainstream of
care. [n37] Specifically, HCFA's "pattern analysis" is intended to be used in
developing individual physician profiles for the purpose of assessing the
quality of care, utilization/DRG problems, and questionable patterns of
practice. [n38]

   Concurrently, HCFA plans to implement its "Cooperative Cardiovascular
Project," in which PROs will collect and analyze data on Medicare cases
involving CABGs, acute myocardial infarction, and percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty. [n39] The project is scheduled to be implemented by PROs
in approximately twelve states beginning in the fall of 1993.  According to
HCFA, the goals of the project are: to provide hospital-specific information to
each hospital and its medical staff on patterns of cardiovascular care; to meet
with hospitals and medical staffs to identify and analyze further areas in which
there may be opportunities for improvement; and, where appropriate, to negotiate
an improvement program with the hospital and its staff. [n40] HCFA believes that
innovative physician profiling efforts such as the ones proposed will improve
medical care and overall hospital delivery systems.

   Medicare carriers have also undertaken profiling initiatives. [n41] A
provision in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 called for Medicare
carriers to monitor and profile physicians' billing patterns within each carrier
area and provide comparative data to physicians whose utilization patterns
varied significantly from other physicians in the same area. [n42] Accordingly,
Medicare carriers developed and issued Comparative Performance Reports to
physicians in 1991-1992 to inform physicians, who had unusually high utilization
rates, where they stood in relation to their peers. [n43] Although physicians
are not required to formally respond to these informational reports, they are
urged to assess their coding, billing and practice patterns to determine why
their utilization rates are different from their peers, and to discuss their
findings with the carrier. [n44]

   PROFILING PREVALENCE AMONG EMPLOYEE PHYSICIANS

   In light of these efforts, the following section presents survey data on
physician profiling drawn from the AMA's 1992 Socioeconomic Monitoring System
(SMS) survey.  SMS is an annual survey with more than 4,000 physician
respondents. [n45] Each survey is drawn from a nationally representative frame
of reference.  The 1992 SMS survey collected information on whether or not
activities in physicians' main medical practices were subject to either clinical
or financial-economic profiling.  For purposes of the survey, clinical profiling
was defined as: [n46]

   The collection and use of clinical, performance-based measures such as
patterns of treatment, health care outcomes, and patient satisfaction for the
purpose of comparing individual data with those of some comparison group.

   Likewise, economic or financial profiling was defined as:

   The collection and use of data on costs, charges, claims, reimbursement per
admission or diagnostic related group (DRG) for the purpose of comparing
individual data with those of some comparison group. [n47]

   The survey also obtained information on whether the physician was provided
with regular feedback on his or her clinical and economic profiles.  Previous
research on these data has shown that rates of profiling are highest among
employee physicians and independent contractors. [n48] The attention of this
Article, therefore, is focused on physicians employed by physicians or physician
groups, private hospitals, and other employers.  Within the context of the SMS
survey, employee physicians are those who are not full or part owners of their
main medical practice, and do not identify themselves as independent
contractors.  All the data reported have been weighted to correct for survey
nonresponse bias. [n49]

   In order to examine the rates of clinical and economic profiling of employee
physicians, and the frequencies with which employee physicians receive feedback
on their profiles, the data is broken down by specialty, gender, employer, and
census division.  The percentage of employee physicians reporting clinical and
economic profiling, and the percentage of profiled employee physicians regularly
receiving profile feedback by specialty and gender, are presented in Table 3.
The data indicate that among all employee physicians, 42.5 percent are subjected
to clinical profiling, but only 21.9 percent are subject to economic profiling.
Although the percentages reporting ranged from 39.7 percent for general and
family practitioners to 46.3 percent for medical specialists, the observed
variation is not statistically significant. [n50] In addition, no significant
differences are found in the economic profiling rates across specialties, or
between genders.  The frequency of economic profiling, however, does vary
significantly by gender.  While 22.6 percent of male physicians are subject to
economic profiling only 19.2 percent of female physicians are.

   Table 3

   Percent of Employee Physicians Subject to Clinical and Economic Profiling,
and Percent of Profiled Employee Physicians Receiving Regular Feedback, by
Specialty and Gender, 1992
                                                       Clinical  Economic
                               Clinical    Economic     Profile   Profile
                              Profiling    Profiling   Feedback  Feedback
                                 (1)          (2)         (3)       (4)
All Physicians                     42.5%         21.9%     53.6%     53.7%

Specialty

 General and Family Practice       39.7          25.6      72.0      72.0
 Medical Specialties               46.3          23.2      52.7      54.2
 Surgical Specialties              42.2          22.6      56.6      48.3
 Other Specialties                 40.4          18.5      44.6      44.7

Gender

 Male                              43.0          22.6      49.9      50.2
 Female                            40.8          19.2      67.3      68.5

   Notes: Medical specialties includes internal medicine and pediatrics.
Surgical specialties includes surgery, and obstetrics-gynecology.  Other
specialties includes radiology, psychiatry, anesthesiology, pathology, and
others.

   Comparisons of the data presented in columns (1) and (2) in Table 3 suggest
that employee physicians are subjected to clinical profiling more frequently
than economic profiling for both genders and for all specialties.  The
differential between the rates of clinical profiling and economic profiling is
smallest for general and family practitioners.  Male and female employee
physicians are about twice as likely to face clinical profiling as they are to
face economic profiling.

   From the data presented in columns (3) and (4) in Table 3, it is clear that
nearly 54 percent of profiled employee physicians receive regular feedback on
their clinical and economic profiles.  However, the frequencies of receiving
clinical profile feedback and economic profile feedback differ significantly by
specialty and between genders.  Physicians in general and family practice
receive feedback on clinical and economic profiles most often (72 percent for
each type of profile), while physicians classified in the "other" specialty are
the least likely to receive feedback on clinical and economic profiles (each
less than 45 percent).  The data also suggests female physicians are more likely
to receive feedback on their profiles than male physicians.  Of female
physicians, at least 67 percent regularly receive feedback on either profiles.
Only about 50 percent of male physicians regularly receive profile feedback.
There are no differences between the likelihood of receiving clinical profile
feedback and the likelihood of receiving economic feedback for any specialty or
gender.

   The percentages of employee physicians profiled, and physicians regularly
receiving profile feedback by employer are presented in Table 4.  It may be
noted from Table 4 that the rate of clinical profiling among employee physicians
ranged from 36.4 percent for employees of private hospitals to 45.7 percent for
employees of a physician or group of physicians.  The rate of economic profiling
ranged from 21.2 percent for employees of "other" employers to 23.1 percent for
employees of private hospitals.  However, neither the variation observed in the
clinical profiling rates nor the variation observed in the economic profiling
rates is statistically significant.

   Table 4

   Percent of Employee Physicians Subject to Clinical and Economic Profiling,
and Percent of Profiled Employee Physicians Receiving Regular Feedback, by
Employer, 1992.
                                                       Clinical  Economic
                               Clinical    Economic     Profile   Profile
                              Profiling    Profiling   Feedback  Feedback
                                 (1)          (2)         (3)       (4)
All Physicians                     42.5%         21.9%     53.6%     53.7%

Employer

 Physician or Physician Group      45.7          22.3      47.4      43.2
 Private Hospital                  36.4          23.1      59.2      70.5
 Other                             42.8          21.2      55.4      53.3

   Notes: Other employment includes employment in an HMO, a free standing
ambulatory care center, medical school, university, college, government, or
others.

   Interestingly, the differences between the clinical profiling rates and the
economic profiling rates are statistically significant by type of employer.
Physician-employees of another physician or a group of physicians are more than
twice as likely to be subjected to clinical profiling as to be subjected to
economic profiling.  Hospital employee physicians have the smallest differential
between the probabilities of having their activities subjected to clinical
profiling or to economic profiling.  Clinical profiling occurs about 60 percent
more often than economic profiling for those physicians.

   The data presented in columns (3) and (4) in Table 4 show the frequency with
which profiled physicians receive regular feedback by type of profile and by
employer.  The variation in the frequency of clinical profile feedback is not
statistically significant.  The likelihood of a physician receiving economic
profile feedback does, however, vary by employer.  For example, 70.5 percent of
hospital employee physicians receive economic profile feedback, but only 43.2
percent of physician and physician group employees regularly receive economic
profile feedback.  However, the information summarized in columns (3) and (4) of
Table 4 reveals that the difference between the percent reporting feedback on a
clinical profile and the percent reporting feedback on an economic profile is
not statistically significant, even for private hospital employees.  It is
important to note that because the data does not contain information on who is
constructing the physician profiles, no conclusions can be drawn with respect to
the relative likelihoods that hospitals, physician practices, or other employers
are profiling their employee physicians.

   Table 5 reports census division breakouts of the percentages of employee
physicians profiled and if they received profile feedback.  The rates of both
clinical profiling and economic profiling differ significantly across census
divisions.  More than half of all employee physicians in both the West North
Central and New England divisions report being subjected to clinical profiling.
The West South Central has the lowest rate, where only 30.7 percent of employee
physicians report being subject to clinical profiling.  Physicians employed in
the Mountain and New England states are most frequently subjected to economic
profiling, 37.3 percent and 33.4 percent, respectively, while physicians in the
Pacific states are the least likely to be profiled (13.5 percent).  Significant
differences in the rates of clinical and economic profiling exist across the
census divisions.  The largest differential is found in the Pacific census
division.

   Table 5

   Percent of Employee Physicians Subject to Clinical and Economic Profiling,
and Percent of Profiled Employee Physicians Receiving Regular Feedback, by
Census Division, 1992
                                                       Clinical  Economic
                               Clinical    Economic     Profile   Profile
                              Profiling    Profiling   Feedback  Feedback
                                 (1)          (2)         (3)       (4)
All Physicians                     42.5%         21.9%     53.6%     53.7%

Census Division

 New England                       50.2          33.4      47.8      72.1
 Middle Atlantic                   41.9          14.7      54.0      48.2
 East North Central                40.7          24.6      55.9      50.9
 West North Central                51.8          24.2      60.8      --
 South Atlantic                    40.3          24.2      54.4      54.1
 East South Central                35.0          19.1      --        --
 West South Central                30.7          20.4      --        --
 Mountain                          46.2          37.3      --        --
 Pacific                           44.7          13.5      48.0      --

   Notes: The states comprising each of the nine census divisions are:
Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont for
New England; New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania for Middle Atlantic;
Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin for East North Central; Iowa,
Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota for West
North Central; Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia for South Atlantic;
Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Tennessee for East South Central; Arkansas,
Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas for West South Central; Arizona, Colorado, Idaho,
Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming for Mountain; Pacific, Alaska,
California, Hawaii, Oregon, and Washington for Pacific.  Data for the categories
with less than 20 observations are not reported.

   Columns (3) and (4) in Table 5 show the percentage of profiled physicians who
are provided feedback on their clinical and economic profiles, respectively.
The variation exhibited in clinical profiling is not statistically significant.
However, statistically significant variation exists in the percentage of
physicians receiving information on their economic profiles.  Slightly less than
one-half of employee physicians in the Middle Atlantic division (48.2 percent)
receive economic profile feedback, while almost three-quarters (72.1 percent) of
employee physicians in New England receive feedback on their economic profile.
Except for New England, there are no significant differences across census
divisions in the frequencies with which physicians receive clinical profile
feedback and economic profile feedback.  Employee physicians in New England are
more likely to receive economic profile feedback than clinical profile feedback.

   Table 6 reports profiling data for New York and Pennsylvania, the two states
discussed above.  Although CABGs constitute a relatively small proportion of
physician's services, the impact of the CABG profiling efforts of these two
states may increase their rates of clinical profiling.  In keeping with the
expressed goals of improving CABG outcomes, increases in the frequency of
profile feedback might also be expected.  Unfortunately, because the data are
taken from a single point in time, 1992, they are unable to measure changes in
profiling activities.  Nonetheless, they are of interest.  Table 6 reveals that
both New York and Pennsylvania have higher rates of clinical profiling (43.9
percent and 50.0 percent, respectively) than the national average (42.5
percent).  With respect to feedback, however, the evidence is mixed.  While New
York employee physicians are more likely to receive feedback on their clinical
profile than the national average, employee physicians in Pennsylvania report
feedback less frequently than the national norm.

   Table 6

   Percent of Employee Physicians Subject to Clinical and Economic Profiling,
and Percent of Profiled Employee Physicians Receiving Regular Feedback, Selected
States, 1992
                                                       Clinical  Economic
                               Clinical    Economic     Profile   Profile
                              Profiling    Profiling   Feedback  Feedback
                                 (1)          (2)         (3)       (4)
All Physicians                     42.5%         21.9%     53.6%     53.7%

State

 New York                          43.9           8.0      55.5       --
 Pennsylvania                      50.0          32.2      38.1       --

   Note: Data for categories with less than 20 observations are not reported.

   CONCLUSION

   As described in this Article, current trends suggest the use of physician
profiling might be increasing because of increased public and employer demand
for physician accountability.  Federal and state governments, hospitals, and
third party payors have begun to create physician profiles to monitor quality,
conduct utilization review, and assess provider performance in efforts to get
the most "value" for their health care spending.  New York and Pennsylvania have
pioneered efforts at the state level to develop surgeon-specific profiles
related to CABGs so consumers and purchasers of care may evaluate for themselves
the skills of individual physicians.  Such efforts are likely to be replicated
and expanded by other states as the idea gains acceptance.  In addition, the
federal government is pursuing methods, under both its Medicare carrier and PRO
program, to develop physician profiles to improve the quality of care rendered
to Medicare beneficiaries and to eliminate unnecessary or inappropriate care.
Finally, hospitals and third party payors are using profiling not only to
monitor quality and conduct utilization review, but also to assess physician
performance in terms of economic measures.  Arguably, such entities are
interested in physicians' contributions to the profitability of the institution
or corporation.

   The survey data presented in this Article suggest physician profiling is
currently used more to focus on quality and utilization issues than on cost.  It
is likely, however, that the use of economic profiling as a cost-containment
mechanism will grow as the nation struggles with ways to slow health care
spending.

   Three disturbing patterns emerge from the data presented.  First, Table 3
shows that only slightly more than one-half of employee physicians receive
regular feedback on their clinical and economic profiles.  This finding is
puzzling because if profiling is to be effective in improving quality, changing
utilization rates or making physicians more cost conscious, physicians must
receive feedback.  Employers may be unwilling to provide physicians with
economic profiling because such profiles may be used as a decision making tool
regarding a physician's continued employment with the employer.

   Second, the data also show that of female physicians, at least 67 percent
regularly receive feedback on their profiles compared to only about 50 percent
of male physicians.  This finding bears further examination using multivariate
statistical techniques.

   Finally, as seen by the data presented in Table 5 and Table 6, the rates of
both clinical and economic profiling vary significantly across geographic
regions.  As noted in Table 5, clinical profiling rates range from 30.7% to
51.8%, while economic profiling rates range from 13.5% to 37.3%.  The
differences undoubtedly reflect differences in definition, intent, the existence
of other cost cutting or quality assurance mechanisms, and perceptions of the
ability of profiling to deliver better or cheaper care.  Even where states have
embraced the concept, as in New York, and Pennsylvania, a mixed picture emerges.
While physicians in those states are more likely to experience clinical
profiling than physicians in other states, they differ dramatically in their
likelihood of experiencing economic profiling.  Additionally, their feedback
experiences are dissimilar.  It should be noted that assessing an appropriate
rate of profiling is essentially subjective, and we will not attempt such a
discussion here.

   The potential of physician profiling to improve quality of care and contain
costs is currently under intense scrutiny.  The findings of one recently
published study calls into question the notion that profiling can deliver
substantially improved care or sizable savings. [n51] Nonetheless, as the
Washington Business Group on Health has noted:

   properly defined profiling emphasizes the importance of appropriate feedback
mechanisms to providers. . . .  [Physicians] are willing to alter their practice
patterns when they see they are out of line with their peers and when they
learned of their deviations from fellow specialists.  Without such a
dissemination strategy, the powerful statistical technique [of physician
profiling] would be worthless in practice. [n52]

   It is clear that if profiling is to succeed in achieving its goals, then
feedback efforts must be enhanced.



REFERENCE: [n2.] Roz Diane Lasker, et al., Realizing the Potential of Profiling,
Physician Payment Review Commission Conference [Proceedings] on Profiling at 1
(1992).
[n1.] See generally Barbara J. McNeil, et al., Current Issues in Profiling
Quality of Care, 29 INQUIRY 298 (1992).

   [n3.] BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION, PROVIDER PROFILING: A GUIDE TO
DEVELOPMENT 1 (Dec. 1991).

   [n4.] John Blum, Expanding Fiscal Considerations Impacting the Medical Staff:
A Review of Economic Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. LAW 65 (1993).

   [n5.] Lasker, supra note 2 at 1.

   [n6.] BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION, supra note 3, at 1.

   [n7.] Blum, supra note 4, at 65.

   [n8.] See infra notes 20-35 and accompanying text.

   [n9.] See infra notes 36-43 and accompanying text.

   [n10.] The data are drawn from the American Medical Association's 1992
Socioeconomic Monitoring System (SMS) survey. See infra notes 34-38 and
accompanying text and tables.

   [n11.] Lasker, supra note 2, at 4.

   [n12.] Id.

   [n13.] Id. at 6.

   [n14.] Kurt D. Gillis & Jesse S. Hixson, Efficacy of Statistical Outlier
Analysis for Monitoring Quality of Care, 9 J. OF BUS. & ECON. STATISTICS 241
(1991). The screening ability of "outlier" technique might be sensitive to how
widespread the quality-related mortality is among hospitals, but insensitive to
other factors generally thought to be important. The small sample sizes for
individual hospital-employed physicians, for example, raise additional concerns
about the validity of the technique in assessing the quality of physician care.
Id.

   [n15.] AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, MEASURING MEDICAL PRACTICE at 36 (1987)
(Outliers are specific hospitals or physicians who exhibit practice patterns
that significantly deviate from the mean or median pattern for a particular
diagnosis).

   [n16.] See Lang, infra note 18.

   [n17.] See Mary Jean Barrett, Is Your Organization Ready for Total Quality
Management? 7 AM. J. OF MED. QUALITY 106, 108 (1992). See also, Brian McCormick,
Is Economic Credentialing Really Thriving? AM. MED. NEWS, Dec. 14, 1992, at 1.

   [n18.] Howard L. Lang, Economic Credentialing-Why It Must be Stopped, THE
MED. STAFF COUNSELOR, Spring 1991, at 19. Economic credentialing may be defined
as the process of evaluating an individual's qualifications for the granting or
renewal of medical staff membership or privileges based on economic factors that
are unrelated to quality of care or competency considerations. Id.

   [n19.] See, e.g., BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION, supra note 3, at 3.

   [n20.] See Chassin, infra note 25.

   [n21.] See infra notes 30-35 and accompanying text.

   [n22.] Edward L. Hannan, et al., Adult Open Heart Surgery in New York State,
264 JAMA 2768, 2796 (1990) [hereinafter Hannan, Adult Open Heart Surgery]; see
also Edward L. Hannan, et al., Human Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery: The
Relationship Between In-hospital Mortality Rate and Surgical Volume After
Controlling For Clinical Risk Factors, 29 MEDICAL CARE 1094 (1991) [hereinafter
Hannan, Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery.]

   [n23.] Hannan, Adult Open Heart Surgery, supra note 22, at 2769.

   [n24.] Id. at 2768.

   [n25.] Mark R. Chassin, State of New York Department of Health News Release,
Dec. 8, 1992, at 1.

   [n26.] New York State Department of Health, Coronary Artery Bypass Graft
Surgery in New York State -- 1989-1991, (Dec. 1992).

   [n27.] Chassin, supra note 25, at 1.

   [n28.] The CABG counts for 1989 and 1991 constitute a 21 percent increase in
the number of CABGs per capita. This increase, not the increase in the number of
CABGs, makes the drop in the risk-adjusted mortality rates noteworthy.

   [n29.] Chassin, supra note 25.

   [n30.] THE PENNSYLVANIA HEALTH CARE COST CONTAINMENT COUNCIL, RESEARCH PLAN
FOR DETERMINING THE METHODOLOGY & REPORTING ISSUES FOR: THE 1990 HOSPITAL &
PHYSICIAN REPORT FOR CORONARY ARTERY BYPASS GRAFT SURGERY April 22, 1992, at 1
[hereinafter PHCC RESEARCH PLAN].

   [n31.] Id.

   [n32.] Id.

   [n33.] Id.

   [n34.] Id.

   [n35.] Id. at 2.

   [n36.] HEALTH CARE FINANCING ADMINISTRATION, PRO FOURTH SCOPE OF WORK, C-2
(1992).

   [n37.] Id.

   [n38.] Id. at C-3.

   [n39.] Id. at C-21, C-22. The purposes of the CCP are to improve information
available to the health care community, and to improve processes and outcomes of
care for patients hospitalized for acute myocardial infarction, coronary artery
bypass graft surgery, and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Id. at
C-22.

   [n40.] Stephen F. Jencks & Gail R. Wilensky, The Health Care Quality
Improvement Initiative, 268 JAMA 900, 902 (1992).

   [n41.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395u(b)(3)(L) (West 1993). See also AMERICAN MEDICAL
ASSOCIATION, WHAT EVERY PHYSICIAN SHOULD KNOW ABOUT MEDICARE CARRIER REVIEW 49
(1991).

   [n42.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395u(b)(3)(L) (Medicare carriers will monitor and
profile physicians' billing patterns within each area or locality and provide
comparative data to physicians whose utilization patterns vary significantly
from other physicians in the same payment area or locality.)

   [n43.] AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, supra note 41, at 49.

   [n45.] See Gonzalez, infra note 49, at 155.

   [n46.] These definitions were given to physicians unable to readily answer
the two profiling questions.

   [n47.] Id.

   [n48.] David W. Emmons & Gregory D. Wozniak, Physician Profiling,
SOCIOECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS OF MEDICAL PRACTICE 1993 (American Medical
Association). (Emmons and Wozniak report detailed profiling information by
specialty, managed care participation, type of employer, and location.)

   [n49.] See Martin L. Gonzalez, SOCIOECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS OF MEDICAL
PRACTICE 1993 (American Medical Association), for a discussion of the weighting.

   [n50.] Testing for statistical significance in this article was done at a p =
0.05 level.

   [n51.] Lucian L. Leape, et al., The Appropriateness of Use of Coronary Artery
Bypass Graft Surgery in New York State, 269 JAMA 753 (1993).

   [n52.] WASHINGTON BUSINESS GROUP ON HEALTH, Physician Profiling: A Strong
Tool to Influence Medical Practice, QUALITY RESOURCE CENTER UPDATE, Summer 1991,
at 5. #LS930830SP# #LS930902LEufishmx#  #LS931105SP# #LS931105LEuhollsj#


                              304 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                              May 17, 2010 Monday

Montgomery County hospitals battle for prize turf

BYLINE: Danielle Ulman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 712  words


Two Montgomery County hospital systems are battling for the right to build the
county's first new hospital in 30 years.

Supporters of a proposed Clarksburg hospital rallied for their cause Monday,
while about a mile away, the group behind a competing Germantown hospital
proposal released an economic impact report supporting its project.

The two hospital systems - Adventist HealthCare System, which seeks to build the
Clarksburg Community Hospital and Holy Cross Hospital, which wants to build a
facility in Germantown - are  vying for approval from the state, but only one
can win.

Each is looking to receive a certificate of need from the Maryland Health Care
Commission to build the first new hospital in Maryland since 1993. Both endeavor
to serve a growing population that lacks nearby service.

"... [F]rom a health standpoint we think we've put [the hospital] in a place
where there is a very, very large population - the largest in the state without
a hospital - and in an area with a lot of people, but not a lot of jobs," said
Kevin Sexton, president and CEO of Holy Cross Hospital.

Based on the economic impact report by economist Anirban Basu, CEO of the
Baltimore-based Sage Policy Group, the Holy Cross Hospital on the Germantown
campus of Montgomery College has the potential to create 5,700 jobs.

The 93-bed hospital would support 1,100 construction jobs statewide and 3,300
hospital jobs over the next 10 to 15 years. It also has the potential to create
2,300 jobs by putting in place the needed infrastructure for the college's
Science & Technology Park to attract new tenants.

The group supporting Adventist's proposed hospital in Clarksburg, which has
spent nearly a decade working with the community on its hospital and medical
campus, said it has not done an economic impact report.

"It doesn't take hiring a consultant to know that the hospital has not only a
direct effect from hiring but a ripple effect on the community. The more
important thing to do is to make sure the work is done well ahead of time to
make sure that you're maximizing the economic benefits," Rob Jepson, associate
vice president for government relations at Adventist HealthCare System, said.

Advocates for the Clarksburg hospital also rallied Monday because of concerns
that the approval of Holy Cross' project would duplicate service of existing
facilities run by Adventist, like an emergency center in Germantown and its
hospital in Gaithersburg.

"There are serious questions if a hospital is located about a mile from there
about the long-term viability of the emergency center in Germantown," Jepson
said. "We think it makes sense to add services incrementally rather than disrupt
or destroy existing services. "

Adventist would build its hospital on a 60-acre parcel of land in Clarksburg off
Interstate 270, serving a growing region that includes Germantown, Damascus and
Urbana, just over the Frederick County border. The property would include an
86-bed hospital, a skilled nursing-care center, physician offices and an
outpatient facility.

The state is expected to make its decision in early fall, said Pamela Barclay,
director of the Maryland Health Care Commission's Center for Hospital Services.

On Thursday, the commission will meet with both hospital groups to discuss
procedures for an evidentiary hearing on the proposals, when the commission
would examine issues such as access to care, the need for the project, cost
effectiveness of the alternatives and financial viability, Barclay said.

The commission has asked for input from other state agencies, including the
Health Services Cost Review Commission, which regulates the rates Maryland's
hospitals can charge for services. In a Friday memo from the commission, its
staff said it has concerns about the financial viability of both projects.

"The impending health care and economic environment, coupled with the hospitals'
attempt to finance both a new stand-alone hospital plus a major planned capital
project, presents challenges that are well beyond the realistic ability of the
applicant hospitals," the staff said.

"Therefore, it is the opinion of the HSCRC staff that neither hospital can
prudently and successfully undertake the financing, construction, and successful
operation of a new facility at this time. "

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)

                           February 24, 2005 Thursday

Hospital reports financial, personal growth

BYLINE: Michael Cope

LENGTH: 463 words


Administrators at Highlands Hospital in Connellsville reported institutional and
economic growth Wednesday during an annual meeting with the board of directors.

Michelle Cunningham, chief executive officer, said an influx of new physicians
and health groups will continue to increase patient admissions throughout the
next fiscal year.

The expanded staff at Highlands Hospital includes Dr. Rachel Fasson, a graduate
of Connellsville Area Senior High School, who will begin scheduling patients in
September.

"We are really excited about (Fasson) because she is a local girl with ties to
the community," Cunningham said. "She will be a nice addition to our medical
staff."

Additions to the emergency room staff include Dr. Murty Ganti, director of the
department, and Dr. David Lemonick, a staff physician who returned to Highlands
Hospital after 12 years of working at other area hospitals.

Psychiatric Care Systems Inc., led by Dr. Oscar Urrea, is the hospital's new
behavioral psychology group, and the Pittsburgh Heart Group will assume control
of cardiology.

According to John Andursky, chief financial officer, the added physicians and
medical groups are a direct contributor to the hospital's increase of patient
admission, which is up 7 percent from last year to 2,930. The increase reflects
an 11.9 percent jump in surgical admissions.

"Inpatient volumes continue to grow as a result of additions to the medical
staff," he said.

The hospital also received 14,475 emergency room admissions last year, which is
up 5 percent.

Andursky also highlighted the economic impact of the hospital and its 350
employees on Connellsville and surrounding areas. Highlands Hospital spends a
total of $13 million for salaries, benefits and staff services, which translates
into $27,192,000 of local spending, according to the U.S. Department of
Commerce.

"With other spending factors included, the total benefit to the region's economy
is $51,169,000," he said.

Cunningham also announced the addition of new lab equipment to Highlands
Hospital, including two general chemical analyzers and an immunology analyzer.
The fitness center received three new exercise devices funded by proceeds from
the 15th annual Highlands Hospital Golf Outing. The fund-raiser also paid for
televisions in the emergency room.

New services provided by the fitness center include reflexology and various
styles of massage.

"If any (doctors) have a patient who needs stress relieved, they can refer them
to the fitness center," Cunningham said.

Upcoming benefits for the hospital are scheduled for May 26, the annual Francis
"Bud" Murphy Memorial Race; and Aug.15, the 16th annual Highlands Hospital Golf
Outing. This year, the outing will pay for new patient beds that include scales
and other special functions.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2005 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 25, 2017 Wednesday

KHA: Kansas hospitals boost state economy

LENGTH: 169  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release:



 Kansas hospitals directly employ 84,421 people and support more than 74,000
additional jobs in other sectors, according to a new report from the Kansas
Hospital Association. This employment generates nearly $9 billion in income,
more than $3 billion in retail sales and more than $200 million in sales tax for
the state's economy, the study adds. "This report documents the importance of
the health care sector to the Kansas economy," said KHA President and CEO Tom
Bell. "While the estimates of economic impact are substantial, they are only a
partial accounting of the benefits that health care in general, and community
hospitals in particular, provide to the state. Kansas community hospitals help
stabilize the population base, invigorate their communities and contribute
significantly to quality of life."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 25, 2017 Wednesday

KHA: Kansas hospitals boost state economy

LENGTH: 169  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release:



 Kansas hospitals directly employ 84,421 people and support more than 74,000
additional jobs in other sectors, according to a new report from the Kansas
Hospital Association. This employment generates nearly $9 billion in income,
more than $3 billion in retail sales and more than $200 million in sales tax for
the state's economy, the study adds. "This report documents the importance of
the health care sector to the Kansas economy," said KHA President and CEO Tom
Bell. "While the estimates of economic impact are substantial, they are only a
partial accounting of the benefits that health care in general, and community
hospitals in particular, provide to the state. Kansas community hospitals help
stabilize the population base, invigorate their communities and contribute
significantly to quality of life."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 24, 2017 Tuesday

KHA: Kansas hospitals boost state economy

LENGTH: 169  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release:



 Kansas hospitals directly employ 84,421 people and support more than 74,000
additional jobs in other sectors, according to a new report from the Kansas
Hospital Association. This employment generates nearly $9 billion in income,
more than $3 billion in retail sales and more than $200 million in sales tax for
the state's economy, the study adds. "This report documents the importance of
the health care sector to the Kansas economy," said KHA President and CEO Tom
Bell. "While the estimates of economic impact are substantial, they are only a
partial accounting of the benefits that health care in general, and community
hospitals in particular, provide to the state. Kansas community hospitals help
stabilize the population base, invigorate their communities and contribute
significantly to quality of life."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday

Hospital site 'will not be sold before end of year';
East Hull: Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust has confirmed its
Princess Royal Hospital site will not be sold before the end of the financial
year.

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 150 words


The trust said the current economic climate will have an impact on the timing of
the disposal of the site in Saltshouse Road.

David Haire, director of business, development and strategy for the trust, said:
"We have vacated the major part of the site and are exploring disposal options.

"Within the current economic climate, disposal is not likely to be achieved in
the short term.

"We have formally declared it surplus to requirements and we are looking at how
best to dispose of it."

Mr Haire said the trust needs to ensure it gets the best value for the site.

He said: "The economic downturn will influence land sales generally and this
will impact on the timing of the disposal."

As reported in the Mail in December, X-ray and physiotherapy services will
remain at the site.

Patients were transferred from the hospital to the oncology and haematology
centre at Castle Hill Hospital in Cottingham last summer.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday

Hospital site 'will not be sold before end of year';
East Hull: Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust has confirmed its
Princess Royal Hospital site will not be sold before the end of the financial
year.

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 150 words


The trust said the current economic climate will have an impact on the timing of
the disposal of the site in Saltshouse Road.

David Haire, director of business, development and strategy for the trust, said:
"We have vacated the major part of the site and are exploring disposal options.

"Within the current economic climate, disposal is not likely to be achieved in
the short term.

"We have formally declared it surplus to requirements and we are looking at how
best to dispose of it."

Mr Haire said the trust needs to ensure it gets the best value for the site.

He said: "The economic downturn will influence land sales generally and this
will impact on the timing of the disposal."

As reported in the Mail in December, X-ray and physiotherapy services will
remain at the site.

Patients were transferred from the hospital to the oncology and haematology
centre at Castle Hill Hospital in Cottingham last summer.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Financial Post (Toronto, Canada)

                     July 29, 1997, Tuesday, DAILY EDITION

An early start needed to learn economic A-B-Cs

SECTION: SECTION 1, NEWS; Pg. 18, Opinion

LENGTH: 479 words


The Ontario government's decision to close about a dozen hospitals in
Metropolitan Toronto has fomented so much public anger that provincial Health
Minister Jim Wilson now has a bodyguard. Clearly, Wilson's opponents are not
calmly considering the economic backdrop to the closings -- the province's need
to reorganize its health-care operations, both to contain costs and provide
better service. Ontario is way behind most other provinces on hospital
restructuring, but it's an issue fraught with emotion.

What's the answer to getting a more sensible public debate on this and other
controversial policy issues? The Canadian Foundation for Economic Education says
it would help if our school system taught economics to all students at an early
age. Then, as adults, they might exhibit more rationality.

There is certainly a whole world of economic misunderstanding out there. The
issue of government deficits, for example, has tended to stultify the popular
mind. Most governments are now cutting spending, but by necessity, not because
of wide public pressure to do so. Yet there are still high-pitched voices
calling for ''the maintenance of a caring society'' by spending and borrowing
more. If these economic Luddites had a better base for understanding the
consequences of ballooning deficits, they'd realize that interest payments on
too-high government debt could consume most of the funds they want to spend on
''a caring society.''

Business is also calamitously misunderstood. Many Canadians are outraged, for
example, by the $1 billion or more of annual profit earned by some big Canadian
banks. But few critics seem to understand that the size of the profit must be
related to the size of the bank -- it takes at least $18 billion of equity to
make $1 billion of profit. NDP politicians also howl about the billions of tax
dollars that big businesses allegedly owe to Ottawa. For evidence, they point to
''deferred taxes'' on corporate balance sheets, not realizing this entry has
nothing to do with taxes owing.

In most Canadian school systems, economics is an optional subject at the end of
secondary school. The Canadian Foundation for Economic Education believes basic
economics should be taught as early as elementary school. Of course, it would be
laughable to try teaching the Laffer Curve to eight-year-olds. But they could be
taught some basics about how to manage pocket money, and at an older age how to
examine a family's finances. These subjects needn't even be taught separately.
Economic fundamentals could be imparted through less intimidating subjects such
as mathematics and social studies.

To be sure, wider-based economic education won't calm every protester who is
angry at a hospital closing or a cut in some other government program, but it
could help bring some much-needed reason and balance to public debates.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                       Copyright 1997 Financial Post Ltd.


                              312 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 24, 2017 Tuesday

KHA: Kansas hospitals boost state economy

LENGTH: 169  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: American Hospital Association has issued the following news
release



 Kansas hospitals directly employ 84,421 people and support more than 74,000
additional jobs in other sectors, according to a new report from the Kansas
Hospital Association. This employment generates nearly $9 billion in income,
more than $3 billion in retail sales and more than $200 million in sales tax for
the state's economy, the study adds. "This report documents the importance of
the health care sector to the Kansas economy," said KHA President and CEO Tom
Bell. "While the estimates of economic impact are substantial, they are only a
partial accounting of the benefits that health care in general, and community
hospitals in particular, provide to the state. Kansas community hospitals help
stabilize the population base, invigorate their communities and contribute
significantly to quality of life."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                 Mersey Edition

Shortlist of bidders for new Royal Hospital revealed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 327 words


A SHORTLIST of bidders vying to build the new pounds 451m Royal Liverpool
Hospital has ben unveiled by health officials.

They announced three companies will be going through to the next stage in the
building process.

The shortlisted bidders are Balfour Beatty, The Hospital Company and Horizon.

Chief executive Tony Bell said: "We are delighted to have such a strong group of
bidders and are looking forward to working with them.

"It is very important for us to make sure we identify the best-possible
construction partner, so the people of Merseyside and beyond have a new hospital
of which they can be proud."

Over the next few months, the bidders will work on their plans with the Trust.

Within a year, the hospital will have chosen a preferred bidder for the new
hospital.

Approval will then be gained from officials at the Department of Health and
local NHS partners.

It is expected that work will begin on the new hospital in 2012.

The project would create a brand new hospital with single, en-suite rooms
throughout, a garden the size of Albert Dock and a separate Accident and
Emergency entrance.

The project was put in jeopardy after the coalition Government announced it was
reviewing all plans approved by the Labour administration since January.

It was feared bosses would have to wait until October before any final decision
was made.

But last month Danny Alexander, the Lib-Dem Treasury chief secretary, announced
it would go ahead.

Andrew Lansley later said officials believed a new Royal would prompt economic
growth in the city.

He said: "This was a project which was viable and it was a necessity from the
point of view of the NHS trust.

"This hospital is clearly one which can make economic growth, and this is an
opportunity to go beyond what is currently here."

He added: "The Royal Liverpool Hospital is a place where we can have leading
science, along with leading engineering, and that is important for economic
growth."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               December 21, 2009

Hospitals, health care sector show modest job growth

BYLINE: By Victoria Stagg Elliott, amednews staff. Posted Dec. 21, 2009.

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 612 words



HIGHLIGHT: The industry as a whole seems to be experiencing a modicum of
economic recovery, but some institutions still are struggling, surveys and
reports show.


Health care facilities added more people to their payrolls in November, although
the economic downturn is still taking its toll, according to several recently
released reports.

"Health care and hospitals have been a stable source of employment. It's one of
the areas of our economy where there is job growth," said Caroline Steinberg,
vice president for trends analysis at the American Hospital Assn. "But
individual hospitals can be very different. ... We cannot say that every
hospital is adding staff."

For instance, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released preliminary data Dec. 4
indicating that the unemployment rate dipped to 10% in November from a 25-year
high of 10.2% in October. The change primarily was due to increases in hiring in
the health care sector and temporary help services, the bureau said. Health care
added 21,000 jobs in November, with 6,800 of them at hospitals. Approximately,
12,600 were added in the ambulatory care setting, including 3,800 in physician
offices.

The numbers were adjusted to reflect seasonal variations.

The increases were lower than in prior years, however, and other surveys suggest
less-than-positive economic trends. In November 2008, the health sector added
41,000 jobs, with hospitals contributing 10,500. And AHA data published last
month indicate that tight finances remain an issue at some institutions.

The AHA surveyed 768 hospital chief executive officers in August and September.
Approximately 69% reported moderate or significant increases since June in
uncompensated care as a share of total gross revenues, and 44% said the number
of patients seeking elective procedures had declined. In addition, 53% said
inpatient admissions had gone down.

Because of these trends, 49% reported moderate or significant decreases in total
margins. In response to these financial pressures, 51% said they had reduced
staff, and 84% had cut administrative expenses.

Many of the numbers were similar to or better than those in the AHA's previous
survey, encompassing 1,078 CEOs and released April 27.

Then, 70% noted a moderate or significant increase in uncompensated care as a
percent of total gross revenues, and 59% said demand for elective procedures had
declined. About 55% said inpatient admissions had gone down, and 65% noted a
moderate or significant decrease in total margins. In addition, the April poll
noted that 48% said they had reduced staff, and 80% reported cutting expenses.

"Hospitals are facing rising uncompensated care and a greater percentage of
people on Medicaid," Steinberg said. "When people have lost their jobs, they
don't buy as much stuff, but a lot of health spending is not discretionary.
Demand doesn't fall nearly as much as the ability to pay."

Other recent surveys paint a mixed economic picture for the health care sector.
One, released Dec. 2 by the nonprofit public interest research group Conference
Board on the number of online advertised job vacancies, found that total
listings increased by 106,500 in November. But the number of listings for health
care practitioners and technicians dropped 36,000. Ads for health care support
personnel dipped by 500. The report also found that a greater number of people
were seeking jobs in the medical setting.

But a recent survey from AMN Healthcare Services, a medical staffing company,
said 11% of hospital-based physician jobs were unfilled, as were 6% of nursing
jobs.

"Monthly gains can only be described as sluggish," said Gad Levanon, PhD, senior
economist with Conference Board. "We have yet to see a significant increase in
employers' demand for labor, and, until we see job openings pick up, it will be
hard to bring down the unemployment rate."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 16, 2003

BENNETT FACTFILE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 111 words


Jana Bennett was born in New Hampshire in the US and moved to Britain in 1969.

She studied politics, philosophy and economics at Oxford University and was
awarded an MSc from the London School of Economics.

She joined the BBC in 1979 as a news trainee working on Nationwide, The Money
Programme and Newsnight.

She worked her way up to a producer on Panorama before being appointed editor of
science programme Horizon.

Specialising in science and entertainment, her achievements include the
award-winning programmes Animal Hospital, Walking With Dinosaurs and The Human
Body.

In 2000, she was awarded an OBE for services to science broadcasting.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              316 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                October 27, 1998

Why more opt for government hospitals

SECTION: National; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: Kuala Lumpur


KUALA LUMPUR, Mon. - Private hospitals have to be more realistic in their
pricing of services as people can now make a choice between private or
public hospitals.

Deputy Health Minister Datuk Dr Siti Zaharah Sulaiman said today the
Ministry had steadily increased the number of government hospitals
nationwide to better serve the public.

"We received reports that the hospitals were visited by many patients
and the hospitals offered good services which were very much in demand.

"In times of economic slowdown, the public will look for places where
they can save money and still get good services," she told reporters at
the Parliament lobby here.

"They can now choose between the two sectors as both offer the same
level of quality in their services."

She also advised private hospitals to be more cost effective when
managing their resources and be more cost competitive.

Siti Zaharah also said the trend of private healthcare institutions
offering government hospital employees better salaries was no longer so
because of the economic slowdown.

"Private institutions can no longer offer lucrative salaries and
benefits particularly during these trying times.

"They used to offer a more competitive salary scale but now it is time
for them to be practical.

"At the same time, we are trying to create better synergy between the
private and government hospitals," she said.

"However, cost control is not within the Government's responsibility
alone ... it depends also on market forces, quality services and cost."


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 1998 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              317 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     High Point Enterprise (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday

Economic potential drives hospital debate

BYLINE: Pat Kimbrough, The High Point Enterprise, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 498 words


Dec. 18--HIGH POINT -- From an economic development standpoint, would a
privately-run, state-contracted mental hospital outweigh the commercial
development potential of the former Evergreens Nursing Home site?

That's one issue underlying a rezoning case coming before the City Council
Monday involving the Greensboro Road property, where Florida-based GEO Care
wants to open a forensic hospital to treat defendants with mental competency
issues.

Some High Point leaders, including Mayor Becky Smothers, argue the site's
location at an Interstate 74/U.S. 311 Bypass interchange make it ideal for
commercial development, such as restaurants and hotels, as its highest and best
use.

Jay Wagner, a local attorney representing GEO Care, said a hotel and restaurant
on the site would have fewer employees and pay average wages that are lower than
those of the 185 permanent jobs the company says would be associated with the
hospital.

"There's really no comparison of what is the highest and best use," he said.
"Even three hotels and three restaurants are not going to employ the same number
of people and generate the same amount of economic benefits as this project."

GEO Care Vice President of Corporate Relations Pablo Paez told the Planning &
Zoning Commission Tuesday that High Point residents would be given preference
for the new jobs if the project is approved.

"We're willing to guarantee 80 percent of the 185 jobs for residents of your
community," Paez said. "We're willing to put that in writing."

According to the company, the jobs would range in pay from $23,750 for
housekeeping personnel to $172,000 for an administrator, with 68 licensed
practical nurses or certified nursing assistants ($30,000 to $45,000), 22
registered nurses and supervisors ($60,000 to $75,000) and 16 programming staff
($40,000 to $60,000) among the projected personnel.

The company pledges a $20 million capital investment in renovation and new
construction at the site within the first year, and $40 million in annual
economic benefits to the city.

Company representatives said the facility would have extensive security and
"constant monitoring and observation and working with the patient population."
It would not treat defendants from out-of-state or any federal patients. Inmates
in state prison who need psychiatric services would get treatment from within
the prison system, not the GEO Care hospital.

"These are folks that are incompetent to proceed with their trial or they've
already been adjudicated and the charges have been dismissed and they need
extended treatment before eventually they get released back to their home
community," said Dale Frick, GEO Care Vice President for Residential Treatment
Services. "They don't get released to the High Point community. They go back to
the place they came from."

pkimbrough@hpe.com -- 888-3531

___ (c)2011 The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) Visit The High Point
Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) at www.hpe.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111218-HP-Economic-potential-drives-hospital-debate-1218-20111218

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


                      Copyright 2011 High Point Enterprise


                              318 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                            All-round First Edition

Rudd vows to reform 'finance-crippling' health - ELECTION 2007

BYLINE: Matthew Franklin

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 560  words


KEVIN Rudd has warned that failing to reform the health system urgently will
cripple state government finances and shackle the nation's economic growth.

The Opposition Leader yesterday invoked the reformist spirit of the Hawke and
Keating Labor governments, vowing that if elected he would slash wastage and
duplication between state and federal governments, freeing up billions of
taxpayer dollars.

Mr Rudd also promised to fund more medical training places at universities.

His comments came as a new Australian Institute of Health and Welfare report
showed the commonwealth had reduced its share of public hospital spending
relative to states over the past decade.

Health has taken a central place this week as Mr Rudd visited public hospitals
across the nation to promote his stick-and-carrot plan to offer $2 billion in
grants to states to lift health services or face the possibility of a
commonwealth takeover.

As the tour hit Sydney yesterday, Mr Rudd told a meeting of the Australian
Business Economists that healthcare must be seen as both an economic and social
policy challenge.

''If we do not reform the system, if we don't tackle the preventative health
challenge, if we don't deal with the dysfunctional interaction between the
commonwealth and the states, then the economic consequences for Australia will
be significant,'' he said. ''We'll face higher taxes, deteriorating services and
lower workforce participation.

''The consequences for Australian state budgets will be crippling as the public
health dollar consumes a greater and greater proportion of budgets overall.''

He said poor co-ordination between governments meant public hospital accident
and emergency departments were spending $110 million a year treating
non-emergency cases, which if treated by general practitioners would cost only
$30million.

About 2300 people were in public hospital beds costing $967 a day when they
should be in nursing homes at $100 a day.

A Labor government would eliminate duplication and blame-shifting, saving
taxpayers $900million a year, he said. ''I don't think all the problems lie with
the commonwealth; the states must also accept their responsibility for system
failures.''

Earlier, at Liverpool Hospital in Sydney's west, Mr Rudd promised a Labor
government would find the money to train more doctors after auditing the need
for more doctors and the number of medical students now in training.

The AIHW report, released today, says the federal Government has cut its share
of public hospital funding by 10 per cent over the past decade.

While the actual amount the Government spends on public hospitals has increased
from $5billion to $10 billion over the past decade, it now contributes far less
than the states, which give almost $12 billion.

The report shows the federal Government's share of public hospital funding fell
from 45 per cent to 41 per cent between 1995-96 and 2005-06, while the states'
share rose from 46 per cent to 51 per cent.

A spokeswoman for health Minister Tony Abbott said the commonwealth spent almost
twice as much on health as the state and territories combined, taking into
account its spending on Medicare and medicines as well as its public hospital
funding.

''In 2005-06, commonwealth health spending was $37.2 billion compared to state
and territory funding of $21.7 billion,'' the spokeswoman said.

Nicola Roxon -- Page 12

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                Boston Standard

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Would a national centre for rural health and care help recruit NHS staff?

LENGTH: 295  words


The trust behind hospitals throughout Lincolnshire is to use the county's rural
nature as a selling point in a fresh recruitment drive.

United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust (ULHT) has partnered with Lincolnshire
Economic Action Partnership (LEAP) to work towards creating a national centre
for rural health and care.

David Rossington, from LEAP, a body which pursues economic development
initiatives, said: "This is a big and exciting initiative.

"Lincolnshire is not only one of the biggest rural areas in England, it also has
one of the largest and most dispersed rural populations."

ULHT says rural areas suffer in terms of recruitment as new staff can choose to
work for bigger hospitals. It has vacancies for 318 nurses, 38 consultants and
92 for other grades of doctor.

The centre will aim to help overcome staffing challenges by promoting the
benefits of working in rural hospitals.

ULHT and LEAP have commissioned research led by Rose Regeneration, an economic
development business which works with communities and businesses, as part of
this process.

Chief executive of ULHT Jan Sobieraj said: "Lincolnshire has the potential to
build on its rural assets.

"While there are similar national and international initiatives to tackle
workforce issues, particularly in rural areas, there are no well-known centres
that bring together a range of disciplines and business opportunities around the
provision of rural-based health and care."

"We are working closely with healthcare providers, local authorities, the
Lincoln Institute for Health and businesses to understand what the centre could
achieve."

Mr Rossington said: "We recognise the challenges this centre is seeking to
tackle and how rural can be turned into a strength in the recruitment and
retention of staff."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MBSP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                Horncastle News

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Would a national centre for rural health and care help recruit NHS staff?

LENGTH: 295  words


The trust behind hospitals throughout Lincolnshire is to use the county's rural
nature as a selling point in a fresh recruitment drive.

United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust (ULHT) has partnered with Lincolnshire
Economic Action Partnership (LEAP) to work towards creating a national centre
for rural health and care.

David Rossington, from LEAP, a body which pursues economic development
initiatives, said: "This is a big and exciting initiative.

"Lincolnshire is not only one of the biggest rural areas in England, it also has
one of the largest and most dispersed rural populations."

ULHT says rural areas suffer in terms of recruitment as new staff can choose to
work for bigger hospitals. It has vacancies for 318 nurses, 38 consultants and
92 for other grades of doctor.

The centre will aim to help overcome staffing challenges by promoting the
benefits of working in rural hospitals.

ULHT and LEAP have commissioned research led by Rose Regeneration, an economic
development business which works with communities and businesses, as part of
this process.

Chief executive of ULHT Jan Sobieraj said: "Lincolnshire has the potential to
build on its rural assets.

"While there are similar national and international initiatives to tackle
workforce issues, particularly in rural areas, there are no well-known centres
that bring together a range of disciplines and business opportunities around the
provision of rural-based health and care."

"We are working closely with healthcare providers, local authorities, the
Lincoln Institute for Health and businesses to understand what the centre could
achieve."

Mr Rossington said: "We recognise the challenges this centre is seeking to
tackle and how rural can be turned into a strength in the recruitment and
retention of staff."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MHNP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                  Louth Leader

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Would a national centre for rural health and care help recruit NHS staff?

LENGTH: 295  words


The trust behind hospitals throughout Lincolnshire is to use the county's rural
nature as a selling point in a fresh recruitment drive.

United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust (ULHT) has partnered with Lincolnshire
Economic Action Partnership (LEAP) to work towards creating a national centre
for rural health and care.

David Rossington, from LEAP, a body which pursues economic development
initiatives, said: "This is a big and exciting initiative.

"Lincolnshire is not only one of the biggest rural areas in England, it also has
one of the largest and most dispersed rural populations."

ULHT says rural areas suffer in terms of recruitment as new staff can choose to
work for bigger hospitals. It has vacancies for 318 nurses, 38 consultants and
92 for other grades of doctor.

The centre will aim to help overcome staffing challenges by promoting the
benefits of working in rural hospitals.

ULHT and LEAP have commissioned research led by Rose Regeneration, an economic
development business which works with communities and businesses, as part of
this process.

Chief executive of ULHT Jan Sobieraj said: "Lincolnshire has the potential to
build on its rural assets.

"While there are similar national and international initiatives to tackle
workforce issues, particularly in rural areas, there are no well-known centres
that bring together a range of disciplines and business opportunities around the
provision of rural-based health and care."

"We are working closely with healthcare providers, local authorities, the
Lincoln Institute for Health and businesses to understand what the centre could
achieve."

Mr Rossington said: "We recognise the challenges this centre is seeking to
tackle and how rural can be turned into a strength in the recruitment and
retention of staff."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MLOP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                               Market Rasen Mail

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Would a national centre for rural health and care help recruit NHS staff?

LENGTH: 295  words


The trust behind hospitals throughout Lincolnshire is to use the county's rural
nature as a selling point in a fresh recruitment drive.

United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust (ULHT) has partnered with Lincolnshire
Economic Action Partnership (LEAP) to work towards creating a national centre
for rural health and care.

David Rossington, from LEAP, a body which pursues economic development
initiatives, said: "This is a big and exciting initiative.

"Lincolnshire is not only one of the biggest rural areas in England, it also has
one of the largest and most dispersed rural populations."

ULHT says rural areas suffer in terms of recruitment as new staff can choose to
work for bigger hospitals. It has vacancies for 318 nurses, 38 consultants and
92 for other grades of doctor.

The centre will aim to help overcome staffing challenges by promoting the
benefits of working in rural hospitals.

ULHT and LEAP have commissioned research led by Rose Regeneration, an economic
development business which works with communities and businesses, as part of
this process.

Chief executive of ULHT Jan Sobieraj said: "Lincolnshire has the potential to
build on its rural assets.

"While there are similar national and international initiatives to tackle
workforce issues, particularly in rural areas, there are no well-known centres
that bring together a range of disciplines and business opportunities around the
provision of rural-based health and care."

"We are working closely with healthcare providers, local authorities, the
Lincoln Institute for Health and businesses to understand what the centre could
achieve."

Mr Rossington said: "We recognise the challenges this centre is seeking to
tackle and how rural can be turned into a strength in the recruitment and
retention of staff."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MMRP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                               Skegness Standard

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Would a national centre for rural health and care help recruit NHS staff?

LENGTH: 295  words


The trust behind hospitals throughout Lincolnshire is to use the county's rural
nature as a selling point in a fresh recruitment drive.

United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust (ULHT) has partnered with Lincolnshire
Economic Action Partnership (LEAP) to work towards creating a national centre
for rural health and care.

David Rossington, from LEAP, a body which pursues economic development
initiatives, said: "This is a big and exciting initiative.

"Lincolnshire is not only one of the biggest rural areas in England, it also has
one of the largest and most dispersed rural populations."

ULHT says rural areas suffer in terms of recruitment as new staff can choose to
work for bigger hospitals. It has vacancies for 318 nurses, 38 consultants and
92 for other grades of doctor.

The centre will aim to help overcome staffing challenges by promoting the
benefits of working in rural hospitals.

ULHT and LEAP have commissioned research led by Rose Regeneration, an economic
development business which works with communities and businesses, as part of
this process.

Chief executive of ULHT Jan Sobieraj said: "Lincolnshire has the potential to
build on its rural assets.

"While there are similar national and international initiatives to tackle
workforce issues, particularly in rural areas, there are no well-known centres
that bring together a range of disciplines and business opportunities around the
provision of rural-based health and care."

"We are working closely with healthcare providers, local authorities, the
Lincoln Institute for Health and businesses to understand what the centre could
achieve."

Mr Rossington said: "We recognise the challenges this centre is seeking to
tackle and how rural can be turned into a strength in the recruitment and
retention of staff."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MSKP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                               Sleaford Standard

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Would a national centre for rural health and care help recruit NHS staff?

LENGTH: 295  words


The trust behind hospitals throughout Lincolnshire is to use the county's rural
nature as a selling point in a fresh recruitment drive.

United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust (ULHT) has partnered with Lincolnshire
Economic Action Partnership (LEAP) to work towards creating a national centre
for rural health and care.

David Rossington, from LEAP, a body which pursues economic development
initiatives, said: "This is a big and exciting initiative.

"Lincolnshire is not only one of the biggest rural areas in England, it also has
one of the largest and most dispersed rural populations."

ULHT says rural areas suffer in terms of recruitment as new staff can choose to
work for bigger hospitals. It has vacancies for 318 nurses, 38 consultants and
92 for other grades of doctor.

The centre will aim to help overcome staffing challenges by promoting the
benefits of working in rural hospitals.

ULHT and LEAP have commissioned research led by Rose Regeneration, an economic
development business which works with communities and businesses, as part of
this process.

Chief executive of ULHT Jan Sobieraj said: "Lincolnshire has the potential to
build on its rural assets.

"While there are similar national and international initiatives to tackle
workforce issues, particularly in rural areas, there are no well-known centres
that bring together a range of disciplines and business opportunities around the
provision of rural-based health and care."

"We are working closely with healthcare providers, local authorities, the
Lincoln Institute for Health and businesses to understand what the centre could
achieve."

Mr Rossington said: "We recognise the challenges this centre is seeking to
tackle and how rural can be turned into a strength in the recruitment and
retention of staff."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MSSP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 30, 2009

News in brief - March 30, 2009

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 258 words



HIGHLIGHT: 'New York insurers seeking doctors for medical home initiative' and
other items

New York insurers seeking doctors for medical home initiative

MVP Health Care/Preferred Care and Excellus BlueCross BlueShield are recruiting
primary care physicians in the Rochester, N.Y., area for a three-year medical
home initiative.

Up to 20 physicians who already use electronic medical records will be accepted
into the program and will receive funds for start-up costs and the salary of a
care manager. Physicians who are chosen will also be eligible for enhanced
reimbursements.

Each practice's care manager will work with physicians to coordinate the care of
patients with chronic conditions. Physicians also will be able to schedule fewer
patients per day, allowing more time with each patient.

More Pennsylvania hospitals feeling economic pain

The economic climate for general, acute-care hospitals in Pennsylvania has
gotten worse since December 2008, according to a survey released March 12 by the
Hospital & Healthsystem Assn. of Pennsylvania.

Almost 95% of the hospitals now say the recession has affected their financial
projections for the current fiscal year. This has caused 84% to reduce or
consider reducing staff, up from 62%. Also, 88% reduced capital spending for
building improvements, renovations or new equipment.

According to the survey: 59% saw a moderate-to-significant increase in uninsured
patients or patients needing financial help, 53% reported a
moderate-to-significant decrease in admissions, and 53% reported a
moderate-to-significant decrease in elective procedures. These were up from 50%,
49% and 43%, respectively.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           November 20, 2004 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Why our hospitals replace fees with queues;
GITTINS ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: ROSS GITTINS. Ross Gittins is the Herald's Economics Editor.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 852 words


The waiting lists for elective surgery in public hospitals aren't an unfortunate
stuff-up that we're working to fix, they're a design feature of Medicare and
will be with us for the duration.

Some people are shocked when they hear me say that, but to anyone who's studied
a little economics, it's a statement of the obvious. Indeed, you need only to
have absorbed the very first lesson.

State politicians always seek to give us the impression that waiting lists - or,
more meaningfully, waiting times - are an evil they're struggling to overcome
(especially around election time). And if the government's incapable of fixing
the problem, the opposition's sure it can do the trick.

The doctors' lobby groups give us the impression that waiting lists could be
quickly eliminated if only the pollies weren't so mingy and would spend just a
few million more on our hard-pressed public hospitals.

Because many doctors are surprisingly weak on economics (I know from the letters
they send me), they seek to explain waiting lists in terms of too few operating
theatres or too few of particular kinds of surgeons (just so long as the latter
can be portrayed as the product of government tightfistedness, not the college
of surgeons seeking to bolster surgeons' fees by restricting supply).

But while these factors may play a part in the problem, they don't go to its
heart. At its heart it's an instance of what economists call "the economic
problem".

As you learn on day one of an economics course, the economic problem is that our
wants are infinite, but our means of satisfying those wants - our resources -
are finite. That's true for the individual, but also for society.

The whole point of economics is to help the community deal with this "problem of
scarcity" - there just isn't enough land, labour or capital (or, as we've come
to realise, clean air, clean water or biodiversity) in the world to do all the
things we'd like to do.

It's this comparative scarcity that gives resources their price. Only if
something is infinitely available (such as air to breath, as we used to imagine)
does it come without price. And the price of something, no matter how high, is
the right price when it accurately reflects that item's "scarcity value".

It's because resources are scarce relative to all the uses we'd like to put them
to that we have one of the bedrock concepts of economics: "opportunity cost".
Everything we do has an opportunity cost because the resources we use to do one
thing are no longer available to be used to do anything else.

So the opportunity cost of that one thing is the value of the next most
desirable thing you could have done with the resources used.

Economists' primary contribution to society is to help it in its eternal battle
with the problem of scarcity - that is, help it find ways to satisfy as many
wants as possible from the limited resources available. Help it get more bang
for its buck.

Economists' obsession with scarcity explains their obsession with prices
(because prices are meant to reflect relative scarcity) and their obsession with
productivity (finding ways to extract more output from unchanged inputs of
resources) and efficiency (eliminating waste in the use of resources).

OK, back to hospital waiting lists. The thing that makes economists uneasy about
Medicare is its promise of "free" public hospital treatment to all comers. If
something's free it's bound to be used to excess, to be used wastefully.

By charging a price you avoid wastefulness by rationing the availability of the
resources being used. By using price-to-ration access, you ensure that only
people who would really value something will stump up the money to buy it. (But
what if they really want it but simply can't afford it? Economic efficiency's
answer is: tough luck.)

The point is that, because resources are scarce, they have to be rationed one
way or another. And if you don't ration by price, you ration by queue.

If access to public hospitals really was free, state governments would be
writing an open cheque for each of their hospitals. Spending on hospitals would
grow even more rapidly than it already does.

To cover this ever-expanding cost, governments would have either to keep cutting
spending in other areas or keep raising taxes. Because they're most reluctant to
do either, they set a limit on how much they're prepared to spend on public
hospitals each year - a limit economists call "the budget constraint" - and make
everyone wait their turn for elective (non-urgent) surgery.

This gives priority to people with life-threatening conditions who need
operations. And it doesn't just delay everyone's elective surgery. It probably
also causes there to be less surgery than otherwise because some people look at
the queue and don't bother, while some people in the last months of their life
die before they get to the head of the queue.

So waiting lists are deliberate strategy to limit the growth in government
spending on health care. They exist in almost every other country and it's
impossible to imagine a time when governments will cease using them as a crude
way to limit public spending.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday

All economic indicators belie government claims: Elahi

BYLINE: M RAFIQUE GORAYA

SECTION: Vol. 52 No. 62

LENGTH: 559  words


Pakistan Muslim League (PML) senior central leader and former Deputy Prime
Minister, Chaudhry Parvez Elahi has said that every claim of govt about economic
growth has proved false and all economic indicators are going against the
government.

He was talking to party leaders regarding reorganisation and to the journalists
at his residence. He said "foreign debt in the present rulers' tenure has
already doubled to the record level of $66 billion whereas during our tenure
Pakistan was the only Asian country which had succeeded in getting out of
shackles of the World Bank after repaying all its debt. Every Pakistani is under
debt of Rs0.1 million, Nawaz Sharif has even placed coming generations of
Pakistan under debt", he added.

He said even foreign investment has been reduced to half as compared to
Q-league's tenure. Last year only $2.6 billion foreign investment was made.
According to the Economic Survey Report growth rate of present govt is only 4.2
per cent which was 7.8 per cent in 2007, today dollar is Rs106 whereas it was
Rs61 in 2007, poverty and unemployment have increased so much that the govt has
stopped publishing ratio in the Economic Survey Report which was 60 per cent in
Survey Report 2014. It was even less than 20 per cent in 2007 during our tenure
when 10 million people had crossed poverty line.

Responding to a question regarding oil prices, Chaudhry Parvez Elahi said during
our tenure oil prices in the international had risen to record level but we kept
price hike under control; today despite record reduction in oil prices, price
hike is increasing further, as such the govt claim is just a white lie that
economic indicators are going in its favour.

About new report of Transparency International, he said journalists know that
Adil Gilani is their personal servant and these reports are prepared at Raiwind.
Describing Health Card scheme as a bigger drama than Mobile Heath Unit, Chaudhry
Parvez Elahi questioned as to where were Mobile Health Unit, Sasti Roti and
other show off schemes? He alleged that PML_N leaders intend to shower favours
on the private hospitals of N-Leaguers because if they give Health Card to the
govt hospitals then neither medicines will be available nor bed because they are
advertising to lease out failed govt hospitals on contract.

He said out of Rs24 billion allocated to health sector in the provincial budget
only Rs3 billion have been spent so far. Lahore High Court has remarked that the
Punjab Govt is not paying any attention to health sector; entire funds are being
spent on Orange Line train.

He said all mega health sector projects which his government had started had
been scrapped, about four thousand patients had expired due to Wazirabad
Cardiology Hospital being continuously non-functional, free medicines are not
being provided in govt hospitals. He said so much so that donations are being
asked for 1122, Shahbaz has not held any meeting regarding rescue service after
2010, heart patients get one year late date from Punjab Institute of Cardiology,
four children are lying on one bed in Children Hospital, neither incubators nor
ventilators are available in the hospital, Describing the party's reorganisation
campaign as quite satisfactory, Chaudhry Parvez Elahi said that circumstances
are changing speedily, people will return to the fold of PML-Q with motorway
speed.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Philadelphia Inquirer

                    September 18, 2005 Sunday CITY-D EDITION

A $4 billion growth spurt;
Hospitals, a vital economic force, have stopped downsizing and started huge
expansions.

BYLINE: By Josh Goldstein; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1262 words


Construction cranes tower over West Philadelphia, where Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia is in the midst of a $1.2 billion expansion. In Chester County, a
building across from Paoli Memorial Hospital has been demolished in preparation
for the construction of a new wing. And in South Jersey, Virtua Health is
preparing to build a $300 million hospital on Route 73.

After more than a decade of closures and consolidation, area hospitals are
experiencing a building boom. In all, more than $4 billion is pouring into
projects across the region.

Their total cost is more than twice the combined bill for the Convention Center
(including its planned expansion), the National Constitution Center, and the
Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts.

In some cases, the boom reflects the added market power of some of the region's
best-known names in health care, as other institutions have struggled to
survive. Even as Children's Hospital has won clinical acclaim and financial
success, Medical College of Pennsylvania Hospital, in the city's East Fall's
neighborhood, closed this spring after years of financial turmoil.

But a more powerful force is also at work. As the first wave of baby boomers
begins to retire, many hospitals in the region are expanding to cope with an
anticipated surge in patients. Whether it's new hips, cancer care, or heart
surgery, the over-55 crowd needs more care.

Besides construction jobs, the building boom promises to add thousands of
permanent, well-paying jobs to the health-care sector, which already serves as a
pillar of the region's economy.

"It is a tremendously positive part of our economy, one that is really the
engine for growth in the city and the region," said City Commerce Director
Stephanie Naidoff, of hospitals and health care.

Growth in the hospital sector also attracts other businesses to the region,
including drug companies, Naidoff noted.

The academic medical centers have the scientists, clinicians and patients that
help lure pharmaceutical companies to the region to tap their expertise and
ability to conduct clinical trials.

Children's Hospital is a prime example. When construction is completed in 2012,
it expects to have added 50 hospital beds to its current 390, increased its
operating budget $465 million a year and hired nearly 3,000 full-time workers.
To make room for more patient care, it announced last week that it would shift
300 administrative workers to offices in Center City.

Among the planned improvements:

A new cardiac-care center that will include an intensive-care unit and
noninvasive monitoring of heart patients;

Expanded and modernized research laboratories; and

A cancer-care unit with radiation-therapy facilities and a proton-therapy center
being developed jointly with the University of Pennsylvania Health System.

While health care is a key area of economic strength for the region, some
economists caution that there are inherent limits on the sector.

Most patients served by hospitals - and the money to pay for their care - come
from the area. Moreover, academic medical centers, such as those that dominate
the Philadelphia area, cost more.

"To become an exporter of health care you have to become more and more
specialized and expensive," said Alan Sager, a professor of health economics at
Boston University. The high cost of such super-specialized care "hits home at
everyone who needs or pays for it."

Still, with the decades-long decline of manufacturing, many view health care and
related life-sciences businesses as the region's best hope for sustainable
growth.

Area hospitals draw billions in federal dollars to the region from Medicare and
Medicaid as well as funding for medical education and research.

And in Philadelphia, where high taxes and other barriers to business make it
difficult for many companies, nonprofit organizations can flourish in the city,
said Steven M. Altschuler, president and chief executive officer of Children's
Hospital. "That is why hospitals and universities are critical to the economy of
the city and the entire region."

Health care and education are linked here through the doctors who staff the
medical centers and simultaneously serve as faculty at the five area medical
schools.

In the eight-county region, health care - anchored by the hospitals - is the
largest employer with 375,666 workers or nearly 15 percent of all the
nongovernment jobs here, according 2002 economic data from the U.S. Census
Bureau.

In many area communities, hospitals are the largest employers. They are often a
key source of business for other companies, from those that provide supplies and
other direct support to those such as dry cleaners, restaurants and coffee shops
that health-care workers frequent.

A significant amount of a hospital's spending stays in the area. Between 70
percent and 80 percent of the $1 billion Children's Hospital spends on its
operations each year goes directly into the local economy in the form of wages,
supplies and services, Altschuler estimates.

Although many hospitals are nonprofits, the income taxes paid by workers and
sales taxes by the institutions swell state and local coffers.

Philadelphia's total tax revenue derived from the activities of Children's
Hospital alone should grow from $27.1 million this year to $35.2 million in
2012. The state should see its tax revenue related to the hospital expand from
$73.5 million in 2005 to $111.4 million in 2012, according to an economic impact
assessment commissioned by Children's Hospital.

Additional money flows from Children's Hospital - and other academic medical
institutions - into the local economy from the research activities of affiliated
doctors and scientists.

The University of Pennsylvania alone attracted $464.1 million from the National
Institutes of Health last year - a significant part of the nearly $1 billion the
government sent to the region for funding medical research.

But how big can the health sector grow?

"Ultimately the question is, can the rest of the economy support the continued
growth in the hospital sector?" said Steven Foreman, a health-care economist at
Robert Morris University near Pittsburgh.

"Health-care spending - whether by Medicare, Medicaid or commercial insurance -
is paid for by workers and employers through insurance premiums and tax
dollars," Foreman said. With the current round of hospital expansion "you are
committing the community 10 years from now to bearing the burden of the costs
related to these expenditures."

After the closure or conversion of 15 hospitals in the last decade, however,
some view the expansion of area hospitals and health systems as a boon.

"Health care is one of the very few sectors in this region that competes on a
global basis, and I would argue that this sector is critical to the economic
social vitality of this region," said Andrew Wigglesworth, president of the
Delaware Valley Healthcare Council, which represents local hospitals.

Philadelphia boosters also say that world-reknowned institutions such as
Children's Hospital, the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, and Fox
Chase Cancer Center boost the reputation and appeal of the entire region.

"There is also a more indirect quality-of-life factor that is important,"
Naidoff said. "Having such an influential and impressive sector that is growing
and presents opportunities for high-paying jobs makes the entire region more
attractive."

Contact staff writer Josh Goldstein at 215-854-4733 or jgoldstein@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Experts weigh in on medical school's job, economic effects

BYLINE: Mary Ann Roser maroser@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 849 words


Is a forecast of 15,000 jobs and $2 billion in economic activity a year too
sunny for a medical school, teaching hospital and research facility in Austin?
Or is it on the money?

State Sen. Kirk Watson has touted those numbers for much of the past year and
spotlighted them at a news conference Thursday, releasing a six-page report
prepared by Jon Hockenyos, president of an economic analysis and consulting firm
in Austin. Hockenyos said his research is the genesis of those numbers, and he
came up with them about two years ago.

"We have the opportunity to truly be a contender ... in competition with regions
from Houston to Hong Kong," Watson, D-Austin, said at Austin Community College's
Eastview campus. He was referring to the biotechnology and life-science
industries - which can include pharmaceutical and medical device firms - that he
expects to spin off from a medical school in Austin.

But economic development experts said having a medical school, teaching hospital
and research center is no guarantee that Austin would see that amount of new
jobs and economic benefit.

"It depends on the size of the medical school and teaching hospital" and how
much public funding they attract for research, said Ross DeVol, chief research
officer at the Milken Institute, a Santa Monica, Calif.-based company that does
a variety of economic analyses. "It does take decades to have that type of
return on a medical school and teaching hospital."

Joe Cortright, president of Portland, Ore.-based Impresa, which specializes in
regional economic analysis, innovation and industry clusters, thinks the public
should take the numbers Watson trumpets with a heavy dose of skepticism. Most of
the nation's largest cities have a medical school, teaching hospital and
research facility, but only nine areas have sparked enough economic growth to
become biotechnology/life-science hubs, he said. They are Boston; Los Angeles;
New York; Philadelphia; Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; San Diego; San Francisco; Seattle;
and Washington/Baltimore.

"These nine areas account for more than three-fifths of all (National Institutes
of Health) spending on research and for slightly less than two-thirds of all
biotechnology-related patents," a 2002 report he co-wrote says.

"Austin is coming awful late to this dance," he said Thursday.

Hockenyos, who attended the news conference but didn't speak to the crowd, said
he acknowledges it could take 15 to 20 years for the economic benefits he
estimates to be realized.

But, he added, "I think this is the greatest economic development thing in this
community in a long time."

His report quotes a Milken Institute document that says Seattle and Austin
appear poised to be contenders for biotechnology hubs. Based on that, the report
says a medical complex in Austin could spin off life-science industries that
contribute "$340 million in direct new annual activity and about 2,100 new
permanent jobs."

When those jobs are added to new jobs from a medical school, teaching hospital
and research facility, Hockenyos anticipates that 6,900 jobs would be created
and $1 billion in economic activity would result. Further, his report says,
those jobs would create a ripple effect in the community that would ultimately
produce $2 billion in economic activity and 15,400 jobs.

The 8,900 jobs that are not medical or life science-related would be all the
additional workers in the community, from waiters to carpenters to store clerks,
Hockenyos said. Sixty percent of the 15,400 jobs would not require a bachelor's
degree, he said.

The average salary for all jobs, from doctors to waitresses, would be $58,770,
Hockenyos said.

It's not unreasonable that a top medical school could produce 15,000 jobs or $2
billion in economic activity, said Eric Dickerson, managing director and senior
practice leader over health care at the search firm Kaye/Bassman International
in Dallas.

"I can see where those numbers could be realistic, but it's not going to be
overnight," said Dickerson, who studies health care staffing and does
recruiting. Dickerson and DeVol said that although it takes many factors to be
successful, they see strong potential in Austin. It has the resources of the
University of Texas, an entrepreneurial spirit and some research structure in
place.

Those are among the reasons the Milken Institute had cited Austin as a
biotechnology contender, DeVol said.

"It doesn't have the success of growing companies ... and the missing element to
my experience has been the absence of a medical school," DeVol said. "You can't
have a life science center without a medical school."

The Hockenyos study was funded in part by a group Watson helped form to promote
the medical school, HealthyATX. A consultant to HealthyATX said the Seton
Healthcare Family, which plans to build the new teaching hospital, contributed
the bulk of the money for the study.

But Seton executive Greg Hartman said that although Seton has paid for other
work by Hockenyos, the study released Thursday was not one of those projects.

Hockenyos declined to say how much he was paid for his work.

Contact Mary Ann Roser at 445-3619

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            January 5, 1998, Monday

A healthy prognosis; Healthcare targets Asia

BYLINE: By KATHY LIPARI in Sydney

LENGTH: 382 words


MAYNE Nickless's HealthCare of Australia is mounting an aggressive

drive into the troubled Asian region with plans to quadruple its

investment and become the largest operator in Indonesia.

The managing director of Health Care of Australia, Dr Barry Catchlove,

said yesterday the recent turmoil had opened a number of doors for the

company and would provide opportunities to accelerate its plans.

"We aim to be the biggest private health care operators in Indonesia

within two years and we are also seeking opportunities in India and

the Philippines," Dr Catchlove said.

"The demand for health care in Asia is not likely to be significantly

affected by the recent economic crisis."

The group a division of Mayne Nickless currently has a 250-bed

hospital in Jakarta, a further three hospitals under construction in

Jakarta and Surabaya and another in India through joint venture

partnerships.

About $50 million has been invested in the region to date and Dr

Catchlove said this will be boosted to at least $200 million over the

next four to five years.

He said the turbulent conditions which have seen the Indonesian rupiah

and other Asian currencies fall through the floor in recent times,

would not affect the group and its future projects.

"We have thoroughly reviewed it and the devaluation of the rupiah

obviously has some impact on the value of the dividends we

repatriate," Dr Catchlove said. "However, at the moment on the

construction side we have hedged our financing so we are not overly

concerned."

According to Dr Catchlove the troubled conditions would enable HCA to

capitalise on opportunities.

"Up until now we have not been able to compete in terms of

acquisitions," he said. "If you go back to 1987 when there was a

crash here the people that were able to capitalise on the misfortune

that affected others did very well."

He believed it would still be two to three years before Indonesia and

other Asian countries returned to the economic growth they were

achieving 12 months ago.

HCA is Australia's largest private health concern and the world's

sixth-largest with 35 hospitals, 3570 beds and sales of $720 million.

HCA expects its sales to reach $1.5 billion with Asia contributing 22

per cent of revenue by 2002.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1998 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              331 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            February 2, 2009 Monday

Hospitals hit by downturn

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 440 words


The global recession has driven more than half of wealthy foreign patients
seeking medical care in upscale hospitals out of Thailand, a Bangkok seminar was
told yesterday.

The crisis has also prompted those hospitals to lay off nurses and medical
personnel, said Assoc Prof Piya Natewichien, who represented highend hospitals
at the seminar.

Many luxury hospitals have closed down emergency units to save costs, he said.
However, good management and effective adjustments would make these hospitals
still capable of running their business with minimum risk of shutting down their
operations.

Luxury hospitals at all levels had generated about Bt400 billion each year
through their services for rich foreign patients especially those from the
Middle East, he said.

These patients have sought medical treatment in other counties where the costs
were lower, including India.

The luxury hospitals in Thailand affected most are those designated as Grade A,
because their main source of revenue comes from Arabian patients, while those
designated as Grades B and C have been less affected, because most of their
patients are rich Thais.

Many welloff local patients have also turned to using the services of Grade B
and C hospitals in light of their lower costs.

Wiroj na Ranong, a researcher at the Thailand Development Research Institute,
said local upmarket hospitals would face such a crisis for at least six more
months. And by then, more rich patients will still be seeking fivestar treatment
but not automatically in Thailand, but elsewhere, because they also feel the
pinch of the economic downturn in their countries.

He said the crisis would further prompt middleclass or rich people to seek
treatment in state hospitals - a practice he urged the government to pay special
attention to.

He suggested government hospitals halt their future costly projects and seek
perhead subsidies to treat more patients while the economic situation had not
improved.

Dr Uachart Kanjanaphithak said reductions of medical staff were needed but would
not be practised automatically in the first place. He said other options like
cutting their work hours or duties would be better than making them redundant.

Dr Winai Sawasdiworn, secretarygeneral of the National Health Security Office,
said the gloomy economy had prompted people to save their money for medical care
instead of spending it on everyday life.

He called for a better public health system and welfare benefits, which would
encourage people to spend regularly after they became confident that saving up
for emergency treatment was not needed as much when good stateprovided medical
services were available.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday

FEZ hospitals to be allowed to run hotels

LENGTH: 350 words


Hospitals in free economic zones will be allowed to run hotels and international
conference facilities as subsidiary businesses, officials said yesterday.

The Ministry of Knowledge Economy said that a revised Designation and Operation
of the Free Economic Zone Act has been drawn up to allow foreign investors to
establish subsidiaries in the hospitality and tourism industries and operate
international conference facilities.

Although the act was revised last year to allow hospitals in free economic zones
to establish subsidiaries, the type of businesses that hospitals would be
allowed to operate was included. Last year, the bill was also eased to allow
businesses more than 50 percent owned by foreign investors to establish
hospitals in FEZs.

Before the bill was revised, only foreign investors were allowed to operate
hospitals in the country's three free economic zones. The three are in Incheon,
Busan/Jinhae and the Gwangyang Bay area. In addition to the three existing
zones, the government is working on designating three more FEZs, one in Daegu or
Gyeongsang Province, one in Gyeonggi or the Chungcheong provinces, and one in
North Jeolla Province.

The Ministry of Knowledge Economy officials said that the change would not only
help residents of surrounding areas to use the facilities, but also attract
medical tourists to the country.

In addition, the revised bill includes the criteria for building casinos in the
free economic zones. According to the new regulations, an investor looking to
build a casino must operate at least three businesses in the hospitality
industry, including hotels, and have invested more than $300 million before
applying for a license to run a casino. The applicant must also have received an
investment-grade or higher rating from at least two credit rating companies or
from a global credit rating firm.

Other changes to the regulations include delegating some of the authority to the
head of a local government, including licensing new plans and changes to
existing plans concerning areas less than 450,000 square meters.

By Choi He-suk

(cheesuk@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday

Overseas workers queue for health job

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 448  words

HOSPITAL FACTS AND FIGURES

 The $150 million Ramsay Health owned private hospital will open with 200 beds
in 2013 with 700 staff and 250 construction jobs

The co-located public hospital will open with 450 beds, growing to 738 by 2021
with 3500 staff and 11,000 construction-related jobs

The private hospital will have single rooms with ensuites with a view to the
hinterland and Lake Kawana

Hospital specialities: orthopaedics, urology, ear, nose and throat, general
surgery, oncology, general and respiratory medicine and day chemotherapy - a
total of eight chairs

IT is still two years before the new private hospital at Kawana opens but
already about 400 people from across the globe are lining up for a job.

The Ramsay Health Care project signals the start of a health and construction
job's bonanza for the Sunshine Coast.

An estimated 15,000 jobs will be generated between now and the opening of the
co-located Sunshine Coast University Hospital and Skills, Academic and Research
Centre in 2016.

Ramsay Health Queensland state operations manager Lloyd Hill said as well as
interest from existing Coast healthcare nurses and specialists, more than 150
applications have been received from outside the region.

"This includes interstate - Sydney, Melbourne and Perth and internationally as
far as Canada, India, Ireland and the United Kingdom.

"We knew that there would be a lot of interest but even we have been astounded
by the number and quality of applications that have been received in a short
period of time and with limited advertising.

Mr Hill said the hospital workforce would serve as a springboard to enliven the
local economy.

"When it opens in December, 2013 the hospital will employ over 700 staff from a
range of disciplines and generate nearly $90 million in new economic activity
for the area," he said.

Mr Hill said the positive effect would be beyond the realm of healthcare, with
the large number of doctors, nurses, allied health, support staff and their
families providing a multiplier effect on nearby housing, restaurants and retail
businesses.

"The economic activity of the hospital will extend well beyond the hospital
walls," he said.

"It will have a trickle-down effect spreading outward to hospital manufacturers,
suppliers, local florists, linen companies and other firms that serve as the
lifeblood of Ramsay private hospitals."

Site preparation work on the private hospital began on the new hospital in
September.

Full construction work is on target to commence in the new year.

The $150 million private hospital will have an initial capacity of 200 beds, six
operating theatres, a day surgery centre, a day chemotherapy unit and an
eight-bed intensive care unit.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             January 5, 1998 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Health Care Australia sees opportunities in ailing Asia

BYLINE: Geesche Jacobsen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 476 words


Health Care of Australia, the private health-care arm of Mayne Nickless, is
considering doubling its investment in Asia because of opportunities arising
from the Asian crisis, the company's managing director, Dr Barry Catchlove, said
yesterday.

The company already has $50 million invested in the region and had planned to
increase that to $100 million in the next two to three years - but would
consider a further doubling of investment to around $200 million, Dr Catchlove
said.

"If the right opportunities presented [themselves] and they were attractive in
terms of price, I don't think the Mayne Nickless board would be concerned if we
doubled our level of investment in the Asian area," he said.

While asset prices had fallen as a result of the Asian crisis, increasing the
attractiveness of investment, demand for private health-care facilities by the
growing Asian middle classes should remain largely unaffected by the crisis.

The current crisis had restricted the capacity of Asian governments to fund
public hospital development, Dr Catchlove said. Governments throughout Asia were
encouraging the private sector to meet the growing demand for health-care
services.

"The demand for health care in Asia is not likely to be significantly affected
by the recent economic crisis," Dr Catchlove said.

HCA and its joint venture partners operate a 250-bed hospital in Jakarta, with
three more Indonesian hospitals under construction. HCA is developing another
private hospital in India and is investigating opportunities in the Philippines.

It announced late last year it had created an executive team to further the
expansion of HCA into an international health-care group.

He said the fall in asset values after the economic crisis had made it possible
to buy existing hospitals, not just develop new facilities.

"Assets that six months ago were priced at prohibitively high levels are now
looking a lot more attractive," he said.

Some Asian investors had overextended themselves and needed to sell existing
hospitals, and HCA would now be able to compete with them.

"Our experience was we could never compete with Asian investors because they
were always prepared to pay a great deal more than we were, because they always
put a greater store on the potential growth in the land value," he said.

He said the company had not paid too much for previous assets in the region,
because it was using land owned by joint venture partners.

"We have got confidence in the economies that we're investing in long term,"
said Dr Catchlove.

The crisis in Asia was providing similar opportunities for "prudent investors"
as the stockmarket crash had provided in 1987, he said.

"The current crisis in Asia should be viewed as part of the normal economic
cycle and demonstrates that Asian countries are subject to the same sort of
economic cycles as industrialised Western countries."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: HCA and its partners run a hospital in Jakarta, and are building
three more in Indonesia. Picture: GILLIANNE TEDDER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1998 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

Good Q1 for some listed hospitals

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 480 words


Bumrungrad Hospital posted net profit of Bt338 million in the quarter, up 8 per
cent from the same period last year. Its net profit margin increased slightly,
from 14.1 per cent to 14.4 per cent.

Revenue in the quarter grew by 5 per cent from Bt2.23 billion a year earlier to
Bt2.33 billion, thanks to rising patient numbers.

The hospital has promoted membership of the "Healthy Living Club" programme,
which gives privileges to card members during the economic crisis. The
membership fee for three years is Bt6,300 per person.

Bumrungrad has more than 10,000 members in the programme.

According to United Research brokerage house, Bumrungrad's tight control of its
operating costs since the final quarter of 2008 had an effect in the first three
months of this year. This offset the depreciation of the hospital's new
building, Bumrungrad International Clinic, which was opened in the middle of
last year.

Bangkok Chain Hospital, the operator of Kasemrad hospitals, booked net profit of
Bt175.14 million, a 23.3-per-cent increase from the same quarter last year.
Revenue was Bt1.14 billion, a rise of 13.2 per cent.

Revenue from cash-payment patients rose by 5.4 per cent, while that from the
social security scheme grew by 36.5 per cent and income from the universal
healthcare-coverage scheme went up by 11.5 per cent.

The government this year increased medical benefits for members of the Social
Security Fund from Bt1,674 per person per year to Bt1,996. This has enabled
hospitals to earn more from medical benefit payments.

However, Bangkok Dusit Medical Services (BMDS), one of the top-three private
hospitals, reported consolidated net profit in the first quarter at Bt454.44
million, down by 35 per cent from the same period last year.

Its net profit margin dropped to 8.4 per cent from 12.5 per cent a year earlier.

BMDS's operating revenues fell by 2 per cent from the same quarter of 2008 to
Bt5.38 billion.

It attributed a decrease in its international patient numbers to the global
economic slowdown, while some patients have tended to postpone inpatient
treatment and surgical procedures.

BDMS operates several hospital chains, including Bangkok Hospital, the
second-largest private hospital by revenue.

The hospital has launched the "Thai Help Thai" campaign, under which Thai
patients get discounted room rates and medical treatment.

Chatree Duangnet, CEO of Bangkok Hospital Medical Centre, yesterday said the
hospital would continue to provide these discounts, even though they have
pressured its net profit margin.

He said the hospital was putting more effort into controlling operating costs in
a bid to shore up its profit margin.

Chatree added that Bangkok Hospital would soon sign a contract with the National
Health Security Office, which will see the office transfer 100 heart-disease
patients under universal healthcare coverage for surgery in the Bangkok Hospital
chain.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Americus Times Recorder (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 24, 2009 Tuesday

Hospital employees informed of layoffs with letter

BYLINE: Becky Holland, Americus Times Recorder, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 592 words


Feb. 24--AMERICUS -- Sumter Regional Hospital East (SRH) employees were
notified, according to an e-mail that the Times-Recorder received from Troy
Hammett, the hospital's vice president of finance and chief financial officer,
at the request of David Seagraves, president/CEO of SRH, via a letter regarding
Friday's layoffs at the hospital.

The letter, signed by Seagraves, is dated Feb. 20, 2009, and reads as follows.

"Dear Fellow Sumter Regional Employee: It is with great disappointment and
sadness that I must share with you the news that we must again adjust our
staffing through the elimination of a number of positions across our
organization. These reductions are unfortunately a necessary step in order to
bring our staffing levels into closer alignment with the actual patient volumes
we are experiencing at SRH East. Also contributing to this action is our need to
minimize the adverse financial impact the current economic recession is having
on our organization. As I know you must realize, the recession that plagues our
state and nation has had a detrimental impact on our local economy and hospital
as well. We are not alone in this regard. A recent statewide survey determined
that the economic downturn has caused over 60 percent of Georgia's hospitals to
cut staff or consider it with more than a third having reduced services or they
are contemplating such a move. We will all have to do even more with less in
response to these troubling economic times."

Seagraves continued on in this letter to explain the reason behind the
elimination.

"As a result, today we are eliminating a number of full-time and part-time
positions with scheduled work hours being reduced for still other positions.
Affected employees are being notified today and we will assist those who will be
leaving our employment during this difficult transition. They will be allowed to
work their scheduled hours the remainder of this week, provided with severance
packages and certain employee benefits, and given access to free counseling. In
addition, Phoebe Putney Health System, our proposed strategic partner, has
agreed to take applications from SRH employees whose jobs are being eliminated
in Americus. The fact that this additional reduction in force is a necessary
step in our continuing efforts to restore SRH to a stable financial footing does
not make this action any easier. We have been on an extremely challenging path
of recovery since the tornado devastated our hospital and medical community
almost two years ago and now on top of that we are also dealing with the effects
of an economic recession that is impacting our community, our state and our
nation. At this most difficult time I want you to know how much the Board and I
continue to appreciate and value your contributions and your dedication to our
patients."

The letter was signed, "Sincerely, David H. Seagraves, President & CEO."

A number of employees from the hospital, when asked about the letter, including
some in the administrative offices, said they had not seen the letter.

The Times-Recorder will continue to provide information regarding SRH.

To see more of the Americus Times Recorder, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.americustimesrecorder.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Americus Times
Recorder, Ga. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090224-AF-Hospital-employees-informed-of-layoffs-with-letter-0224

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AF


                                 Copyright 2009


                              337 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           November 06, 2008 Thursday
                                   e1 Edition

Medi-Clinic to keep expanding

BYLINE: Samantha Enslin-Payne Durban

SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 298 words


Medi-Clinic is proceeding with new hospitals and upgrades to existing facilities
despite the global economic slowdown.

Louis Alberts, the chief executive, said yesterday: "All expansion projects have
been re-evaluated and those selected for the coming year will go ahead as
scheduled."

He said it was prudent in the current economic climate to reassess capital
spending, but no project had been cancelled. The group would spend R606 million
in South Africa, R32 million in the Middle East and R235 million in Switzerland.

Projects under way in South Africa include the Cape Gate Medi-Clinic in
Kraaifontein, a R278 million hospital with 140 beds. Construction is due for
completion in 2010. The Hermanus Medi-Clinic will be expanded and there are
projects at the Panorama, Sandton and Morningside Medi-Clinics.

Offshore the group commissioned its new City Hospital in Dubai following the
acquisition last October of Swiss hospital group Hirslanden.

Yesterday Medi-Clinic reported a 12 percent decline in earnings to R334 million
for the six months to September due to higher finance charges relating to the
Hirslanden acquisition.

Revenue rose 132 percent to R7.5 billion and operating profit 118 percent to
R1.2 billion, but finance costs of R724 million damped the performance. The
half-year results were not comparable with a year earlier, due to the Hirslanden
purchase.

Group chairman Edwin Hertzog said the decrease in earnings was no surprise.

Hirslanden had performed beyond expectations and bade well for its offshore
growth potential, the group said.

Lizelle Wentzel, a healthcare analyst at Frost & Sullivan, said Medi-Clinic's
offshore operations were becoming increasingly important, with Hirslanden
contributing just less than half of its revenue.

The shares were unchanged at R17.10.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Washington Times-Herald (Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 25, 2017 Saturday

Hospital opens CORE center downtown

BYLINE: Mike Grant, Washington Times-Herald, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 862 words


Feb. 25--An old retail building in downtown Washington is now a gleaming new
home for rehabilitation, chiropractic and orthopedic services provided by
Daviess Community Hospital.

City, county, economic development, state and hospital officials joined with
hospital staff to cut the ribbon on the new CORE (chiropractic, orthopedic,
rehabilitative excellence) Center on Friday afternoon.

"This is a wonderful addition to the city and the county and it's great that it
is on Main Street," said Washington Mayor Joe Wellman. "It is kind of a
continued revitalization of our Main Street between what has been done with the
theater and this project and the work that has been done up and down the street
has been amazing."

The 18,250 square foot facility will join together several related services and
double the space for rehab offered by the hospital.

"The combination is important," said Daviess Community Hospital CEO David
Bixler. "It enhances the patient experience. We know this facility will be
successful because we have a great team that provides great care."

The $5 million facility includes newly-developed programs, and new equipment,
like a state of the art rehabilitation pool, underwater treadmill and onsite
state-of-the-art x-ray imaging services that officials say will improve the care
for patients.

"We have new services we are are offering here," said Bixler. "Patient privacy
has been enhanced. We have so many quality therapists. Now they have a quality
facility to work in. We have a therapy pool here that we didn't have at the
hospital that's going to be a tremendous benefit for some of our patients. We
know this will be successful. We have a great team that gives great care."

The building was formerly the Tin Lantern, a second hand store. The Daviess
County Economic Development Corporation purchased the building, stripped it down
to the studs and rebuilt it to give the community an improved downtown and
better medical facilities. It also offers a potential attraction to bring new
business and industry to the area, by improving the quality of life, officials
say.

"In any rural community the quality and strength of the medical facilities play
a part in economic development," said President of the Daviess County Economic
Development Corporation Ron Arnold. "That is especially true with larger
corporations. It you want to attract talent, then you need quality health care.
Our goal is to see Main Street become a health and wellness corridor. This
helps. We already have a dentist, yoga studio and chiropractor on Main Street.
We are looking to add more. High-performance health care delivery and economic
development must be joined at the hip for Indiana to advance."

In conjunction with the opening of the CORE center, the EDC, with the help of
the city and county, also demolished some old buildings, created an adjoining
parking lot, a small pocket park and walkway that connects to downtown.

"This is part of an overall effort to improve downtown," said Arnold. "We got
rid of rundown properties and enhanced the parking for the theater and Knights
of Columbus and the CORE Center. We couldn't be happier with the end result and
the user. This shows that Daviess County and Washington knows how to get things
done."

And by getting things done, the city has managed to enhance its Main Street area
with a service that will draw people from all over the region.

"For our citizens now we have a first class modern facility for rehabilitation
and services," said Mayor Wellman. "It's also growing to draw people from the
county and the counties around us who come to Washington for orthopedic and
chiropractic and rehab services."

"The hospital wants to be more than just a place to go when you get sick," added
Bixler. "We think it is real important, and we are here to be a major partner in
our community, and we see this as an opportunity to be that. From an economic
development standpoint, adding this to the downtown is a big plus. Businesses
coming in look at your downtown to see what it looks like when they are looking
at moving a business here and bringing families to be a part of your community."

Officials point out that many communities that have lost their hospitals and
medical facilities are now struggling to develop. The CORE center is expected to
be a big part in getting people interested and involved in Washington.

"It is very gratifying to see this go from a rundown secondhand store to a new
facility for our hospital," said Mayor Wellman. "Wellness is our future. Staying
healthy is what this is about. This is an investment in our community and this
will bring more young people to Washington."

And while the downtown facility might be the crowning new jewel for development
now, hospital officials say they have more plans to enhance facilities and
services in the future.

"We're excited about this project and hopefully it is the start of many others
that are coming," said Bixler. "We have a number of things on the drawing board
that we're excited about."

___ (c)2017 Washington Times-Herald (Washington, Ind.) Visit Washington
Times-Herald (Washington, Ind.) at washtimesherald.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170225-WH-Hospital-opens-CORE-center-downtown-0225-20170225

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WH


                     Copyright 2017 Washington Times-Herald


                              339 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                            April 27, 2013 Saturday

World Veterinary Day-2013 observed at Lalmandi

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, April 27 -- Minister of State for Animal and Sheep Husbandry,
Agriculture, Horticulture and Floriculture Nazir Ahmed Gurezi today inaugurated
Small Ruminant Hospital at Lal Mandi Srinagar under Centrally Sponsored Scheme
ESVHD on the occasion of World Veterinary Day. The function was organized by the
department of Sheep Husbandry Kashmir division.

Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that the hospital will serve the
small ruminant sheep and goat population of district Srinagar. The hospital will
be equipped with modern healthcare facilities to cater the emerging needs of the
healthy livestock. He said such hospitals have also been constructed in other
districts of the State.

Gurezi said that the hospital has Ultra Sonography (USG) facilities for the
livestock to detect different ailments and pregnancy, which is first of its kind
in the State.

The Minister emphasized for introducing the latest technology in all productive
sectors like agriculture, horticulture, floriculture and livestock to increase
the socio-economic conditions of the farming community. He said that this is key
source to ensure the economic growth of the state in general and farming
community in particular as agriculture is the back bone of the State economy. He
stressed for artificial insemination and dosing besides conducting random tests
of all drugs so as to ensure quality medicare facilities for the livestock.

The Minister directed the officers and officials to work with utmost zeal and
dedication. He said dedicated officials will be rewarded while as erring
officials will be seriously dealt with.

The Minister called for launching of awareness campaign at block levels to aware
the farmers and breeders about the latest techniques and the schemes meant for
the welfare of the sheep and cattle rearers. He called for organizing cattle
shows and vaccination day in the state. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Kashmir Times. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

Edmond hospital is focus of meeting ;
PROJECT;
INTEGRIS HEALTH PRESIDENT TO DISCUSS $94 MILLION DEVELOPMENT

BYLINE: DIANA BALDWIN, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS EDMOND/STATE; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: EDMOND


EDMOND - Avilla Williams, the president of Integris Health Edmond, will talk
about the new 40-bed hospital Friday at the Edmond Economic Development
Authority monthly meeting. The meeting begins at 8 a.m. at 825 E Second St.

Work on the $94 million project has been under way since February. The
151,482-square-foot hospital is being constructed east of Interstate 35, just
north of 15th Street. It is expected to open in fall 2011.

Following the groundbreaking in the fall of 2008, construction was delayed until
now because of the economic downturn.

The acute care hospital will have 24 medical and surgical beds, six intensive
care suites, 10 women center suites, four operating suites, a full-service
emergency department and a state-of-the-art imaging center.

The women's center will give mothers an opportunity to deliver their babies
inside the city limits. Women haven't been able to have a baby in an Edmond
hospital setting since 2005, when Renaissance Women's Center closed. Edmond
Regional Medical Center, now OU Medical Center Edmond, stopped delivering babies
in 1995.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Avilla Williams

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

Edmond hospital is focus of meeting ;
PROJECT;
INTEGRIS HEALTH PRESIDENT TO DISCUSS $94 MILLION DEVELOPMENT

BYLINE: DIANA BALDWIN, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS EDMOND/STATE; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: EDMOND


EDMOND - Avilla Williams, the president of Integris Health Edmond, will talk
about the new 40-bed hospital Friday at the Edmond Economic Development
Authority monthly meeting. The meeting begins at 8 a.m. at 825 E Second St.

Work on the $94 million project has been under way since February. The
151,482-square-foot hospital is being constructed east of Interstate 35, just
north of 15th Street. It is expected to open in fall 2011.

Following the groundbreaking in the fall of 2008, construction was delayed until
now because of the economic downturn.

The acute care hospital will have 24 medical and surgical beds, six intensive
care suites, 10 women center suites, four operating suites, a full-service
emergency department and a state-of-the-art imaging center.

The women's center will give mothers an opportunity to deliver their babies
inside the city limits. Women haven't been able to have a baby in an Edmond
hospital setting since 2005, when Renaissance Women's Center closed. Edmond
Regional Medical Center, now OU Medical Center Edmond, stopped delivering babies
in 1995.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Avilla Williams

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                 June 23, 1997

BRINGING HEALTH TO HEALTH CARE

SECTION: Opinion; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 627 words


We've lost count of the legal twists and turns in a business-led fight against
the quest of area hospitals to build new hospitals in growing suburbs.

The Economic Alliance for Michigan, a coalition of business and labor interests,
is usually at the head of the pack, supporting state regulators as they battle
to block hospital applications for construction certificates of need.

The alliance, which includes the Big Three, objects to building hospitals if
empty beds and underused hospitals exist nearby. Why? Because they'll eventually
pick up the tab through fees for their employees' health care services.

The two fights now under review concern a plan by Pontiac Osteopathic Hospital
to build a 112-bed hospital in Clarkston and a 1989 request by Providence
Hospital to build a 200-bed hospital in Novi.

The projects have received a tentative go-ahead from the courts, but more legal
wrangling will have to play out before these dated proposals can clear
regulatory hurdles.

We continue to support state oversight that determines whether an ''unmet'' need
exists to support hospital construction. State regulators decided in 1984 that
no new hospital capacity was needed in Oakland County. Even with population
growth, the shift to outpatient treatment supports that decision.

Understandably, individual hospitals may wish to follow population shifts to
gain or retain market share. But health care, unlike most industries, has a
peculiar market characteristic: Traditional supply-and-demand rules don't apply.
Paying for treatment involves complicated funding structures that combine
private, employer-paid insurance and government-financed Medicare and Medicaid.
Hospitals can charge Medicaid and health insurers capital pass-throughs on top
of fees for medical services to recoup construction costs.

In an interview on Page 37, Pontiac Osteopathic's new CEO, Patrick Lamberti,
says the certificate-of-need process is outdated. Managed care is pushing
medicine into doctor clinics and outpatient facilities and out of the hospitals.
He says POH may not even use its new certificate in Clarkston.  While we agree
that the market is increasingly determining hospital construction, only 20
percent of the Michigan market is under the managed-care umbrella, by the
Economic Alliance's own estimate, compared with more than 50 percent in many
major cities. Also, Southeast Michigan has a high number of managed-care plans
owned entirely or partly by hospitals. What incentive do those plans have in
lobbying against unneeded new construction by their owners?

But we'd like to remind the Economic Alliance: Curbing the growth of health care
costs involves more than blocking hospital construction. Southeast Michigan has
higher-than-average costs because the automakers and others have set a high
standard in negotiating benefits for their unionized employees.  Only in the
past year have the automakers introduced meaningful incentives to push employees
into HMOs and managed care.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Crain Communications Inc.


                              343 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

BGH makes Chiang Mai northern hub

BYLINE: Nop Tephaval

LENGTH: 412  words


Chiang Mai: Bangkok Dusit Medical Services Plc (BGH), the country's largest
medical chain, is tapping into northern and regional economic growth through its
hub hospital expansion.

Dr Chatree Duangnet, chief operating officer for medical affairs, said its new
Chiang Mai hospital will be the hub hospital in the region, with medical
equipment comparable with major hospitals in Bangkok.

The expansion is due to growing demand for private hospitals in Chiang Mai and
an influx of patients from neighbouring countries once the Asean Economic
Community is established.

The 1.72-billion-baht Bangkok Hospital Chiang Mai will eventually have 180 beds
and be capable of treating 1,000 patients a day.

"Previously, there was no hospital in Chiang Mai of the same standard as
hospitals in Bangkok, so patients who often fly to Bangkok for treatment will be
the our primary target, followed by expats, tourists and patients from southern
China," said Dr Chatree.

He estimates 80% of patients will be Thai, 15% expats and 5% tourists.

The branch is negotiating a partnership in elderly care with a well-known US
hospital, Dr Chatree said, declining to name the facility until a deal is made.

"Elderly care will focus on acute illness that cannot be treated at home for
patients who need to be close to their family," he said, adding that other
targets for inpatient treatment were long-stay and subacute care patients.

BGH expects 500 outpatients per day on average in the first six months and 900
outpatients by the end of next year.

Initially, only 36 beds will be available, increasing to 150 by the end of next
year.

"In three years, we hope to have 1,000 patients a day with a total of 300 beds
when another building is completed," Dr Chatree said.

At present, the hospital occupies 12 rai of a 38-rai area. The rest will be used
for expansion.

"The hospital projects to break even in two years and complete loan repayment in
the fourth year. Patient growth is expected at 30-40% a year until the fourth
year and 20% afterwards as the market stabilises," Dr Chatree said.

BGH operates Bangkok Hospital Group, BNH Hospital, the Samitivej hospitals, the
Phaya Thai hospitals and the Paolo Memorial hospitals.

The group comprises 43 hospitals with 5,616 beds. It targets to have 50
hospitals and 8,000 beds next year.

Some 22,000 people visit the group's hospitals each day.

BGH shares closed yesterday on the Stock Exchange of Thailand at 16.40 baht, up
30 satang, in trade worth 652 million baht.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday

Rate of Growth in Healthcare Costs Accelerate in the New Year According to the
S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

LENGTH: 631  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, March 19 -- Data released today by Standard & Poor's for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicate that the average per capita cost of
healthcare services covered by commercial insurance and Medicare programs
increased by 6.29% over the 12-months ending January 2011. This is an increase
over the 6.05% annual growth rate in the December 2010 reading for this index,
and the first time this rate has accelerated since May 2010.

Over the year ending January 2011, healthcare costs covered by commercial
insurance rose by 8.03%, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial
Index. Medicare claim costs for hospital and professional services rose at a
slower rate of 3.40%, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index.
Following the Composite, both the Commercial and Medicare indices recorded an
increase in annual rates of change compared to the +7.72% and +3.27% respective
prints posted for December.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the monthly
index levels versus the same month of the prior year.

"In January, we saw the annual growth rates in healthcare costs picking up
slightly after six consecutive months of decelerating rates in the latter half
of 2010," says David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at Standard &
Poor's. "The Composite Index rose by 6.29%, the Commercial Index was up 8.03%
and the Medicare Index was up 3.40% compared to their January 2010 levels. The
annual growth rates for these headline indices - Composite, Commercial and
Medicare - are up 0.24, 0.31 and 0.13 percentage points from their respective
December 2010 rates. If you look at all of the sub-indices in this family, only
the Hospital Medicare Index reached a new low, +1.72% in January 2011 versus the
same month in 2010.

"In the past year we began to see a trend of deceleration in annual growth rates
for the nine indices in this family, especially in the second half of 2010. The
first month of the New Year shows a departure from this trend; but it is too
soon to predict if this is an anomaly or a sign of what 2011 has in store for
us. The S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital and Professional Services Indices
annual growth rates were +5.64% and +6.76% for January 2011, respectively,
versus December 2010 prints of +5.56% and +6.34%.

"As observed for the majority of these indices six-year history, the rate of
change in expenditures associated with commercial health insurance plans
continues to outpace expenditures for Medicare. The only time we ever saw this
relationship reversed was for a brief period in late 2005. In the past year
alone, the gap has widened by more than 3.0 percentage points."

S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

(12-Month Moving Average)

Index

1-Year Change (%)

S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index

6.29%

S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index

8.03%

S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index

3.40%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Index

5.64%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Medicare Index

1.72%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Commercial Index

8.70%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index

6.76%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Medicare Index

5.58%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Commercial Index

7.26%

Source: Standard & Poor's

Data through January 201 Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 03, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS TODAY; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 330 words



ECONOMIC INDICATORS POINT TO SLOWDOWN: The Conference Board said its Index of
Leading Economic Indicators held steady in June. The index, which attempts to
forecast economic trends for the next three to six months, suggests a break from
rapid economic growth for the rest of 2000. However, the board's Index of
Coincident Indicators, which gauges current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent
in June, the same as the previous month, on gains in employment, income and
industrial production.

BAKERY FACES $ 120-MILLION

JUDGMENT: Interstate Bakeries Corp., the nation's largest wholesale baker, was
ordered to pay $ 120-million in punitive damages to black workers who said they
suffered racial discrimination at a San Francisco Wonder Bread plant. The award
came two days after a jury ordered the company to pay $ 11-million in actual
damages to 21 workers at the plant. Lawyers for the bakery said they would
appeal. Interstate produces Wonder Bread, Twinkies, Home Pride and Hostess
Cupcakes.

HEALTH NETWORK SUES HCA: The Health Network in Orlando has sued HCA - The
Healthcare Company, alleging HCA canceled a deal to invest in the network. The
network contends HCA's decision came the same day in 1997 that former HCA chief
executive Rick Scott resigned. Scott is now one of the principal investors in a
limited partnership that owns half of The Health Network. Scott is not a party
to the lawsuit.

HCA REMOVED FROM WATCHDOG LIST: INFACT, a corporate watchdog group based in
Boston, has removed the former Columbia/HCA Corp. from its corporate Hall of
Shame. The group criticized Columbia, now known as HCA, for wrongdoing in 1997
as the Nashville, Tenn., hospital chain was coming under federal criminal and
civil investigations. INFACT said HCA, under new leadership, has eliminated
federal lobbyists, reduced state lobbying and made no soft-money contributions
during the 2000 election cycle. In 1996, the company had 19 registered lobbyists
in Florida alone.


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              346 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           November 9, 2016 Wednesday

A local example that state, feds should follow Agreement between Winfield,
hospital shows compromise key to government success

BYLINE: The, Daily Herald Editorial Board

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 414 words


With one of the most contentious election campaigns now in the rearview mirror,
it's heartening to read about government working and compromises reached.

That's the back story for an award the village of Winfield received from the
DuPage Mayors and Managers Conference.

As reported by the Daily Herald's Robert Sanchez, Winfield won the conference's
2016 "Best Innovation" award for an agreement it reached with Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital to provide a yearly $900,000 grant over the
next five years to compensate Winfield for the services it provided the
tax-exempt institution.

The agreement, reached at the end of last year, came after much back and forth
between the village and hospital. In the end, the two agreed on a number between
the $1.4 million sought by Winfield officials and the $500,000 offered by CDH.

"This could pave the way for how municipalities can work with large nonprofit
institutions in the future to help defray costs and generate additional revenue
for their residents," said Mark Baloga, executive director of the conference, of
the "payment in lieu of taxes" agreement that is one of the first in Illinois.

"Our collaboration with the village of Winfield is designed to encourage
economic development while stimulating the village's economy," CDH President
Brian Lemon said in December.

Winfield Village President Erik Spande concurred after receiving the award: "Our
compromise demonstrates that municipalities can work collaboratively with large,
tax-exempt entities to help pay for essential public services and investments in
road maintenance, economic development, public safety and technology."

How refreshing that the two entities -- clearly each side needs the other --
figured out a way to work together. It's an art that is sorely lacking at all
levels of government.

Imagine if our next president could work with the House and Senate in a way
where compromise is reached. It would help douse the flames of dissension that
permeate politics in America today.

Imagine if Gov. Rauner and Speaker Madigan could work together in a way that
moved Illinois into a much healthier financial position, protecting the most
vulnerable while also changing its spendthrift ways.

Yes, Winfield and CDH reaching agreement is not as momentous as a federal
immigration policy change or a state-backed pension-plan compromise, but it does
show on a local level what can be achieved when two sides cement a working
relationship for the betterment of the public.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Central DuPage Hospital on Winfield Road offers world-class medical
care and is now part of Northwestern Medicine. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a
$500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help
the village improve its economic health. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000
grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has
offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a
larger amount. Daily Herald file photo On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are
scheduled to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled
to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the
village is seeking a larger amount. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 grant over each
of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance and other
services. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage Hospital offers
world class medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000
grant over each of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance
and other services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to
provide Winfield a $500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the
community and help the village improve its economic health. Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 annual grant over
each of the next five years, Village President Erik Spande said, to help
reimburse the village for police protection, road maintenance and other
services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give
Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. On
Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled to consider a "motion to
approve a multiyear donation agreement" with Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Winfield will receive a
$900,000 annual grant over each of the next five years from Northwest Central
DuPage Hospital. Daily Herald file photo Winfield has won an innovation award
for an agreement that has Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital giving
the town a $900,000 annual grant over each of the next five years. Daily Herald
file photo Winfield has won an innovation award for an agreement that has
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital giving the town a $900,000 annual
grant over each of the next five years. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital and leaders in Winfield found an
innovative way to compensate the village for services provided to the tax-exempt
institution. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital and leaders in Winfield found an innovative way to compensate
the village for services provided to the tax-exempt institution. Daily Herald
file photo Winfield has won an innovation award for an agreement that has
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital giving the town a $900,000 annual
grant over each of the next five years. Central DuPage hospital offers world
class medical care in Winfield's own backyard.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              347 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      April 10, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

China Medical Industry Research Report 2014-2018 Now Available at China
MarketResearchReports.com

LENGTH: 507  words


April 10 -- In China, medical institutions refer to licensed (the Practice
License of Medical Institutions) hospitals, health centers, clinics and firstaid
stations that diagnose and treat diseases.



As a public service provider, medical institutions are regulated by National
Health and Family Planning Commission of China and other related government
departments. Uneven regional distribution of medical resources exhibits the
uneven economic development in aspects of medical institution classification,
assets scale, revenue and expenditure, and distribution of private and
foreignfunded medical institutions for profits. Developed regions like Shanghai,
Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang have more advanced medical technology.

According to the Chinese government, the total medical expense was approximately
CNY 2,891.44 billion (about USD 466 billion) in 2012, up by 18.8% compared with
that in 2011. The medical expense per capita was CNY 2,135.8 (approximately USD
344) at a growth rate of 18.2%. The total medical expense and expense per capita
are increasing rapidly due to economic growth and population aging. In 2012, the
total medical expense accounted for 5.57% of GDP, 0.42% higher than that in
2011. However, the percentage was much lower than that in developed countries.

The number of medical institutions was 0.962 million by the end of November
2013, including 24,000 hospitals, 0.923 million primary medical institutions,
12,000 public medical institutions and 2,000 other institutions. The number of
hospitals and public medical institutions increased by 1,564 and 247
respectively while that of primary medical institutions decreased by 1,606
compared with those in November 2012.

The number of visits in medical institutions reached 6.41 billion in January to
November 2013, up by 8.2% YOY, including 2.41 billion in hospitals (up by 9.5%
YOY), 3.79 billion in primary medical institutions (up by 7.3% YOY) and 0.21
billion in other institutions.

The number of visits in public hospitals was 2.17 billion (up by 8.9% YOY) while
that in private hospitals was 0.24 billion, up by 15.6% YOY, which exhibits
rapid development of private hospitals in China.

The medical system in China was controlled by public medical institutions for a
long time, leading to problems such as lack of competition, uneven resource
distribution, poor service and underdeveloped technology, as well as frequent
disputes between doctors and patients. Hindered by certain interest groups, the
development of the medical system fell far behind other industries in China. The
new government attempts to reform the medical system which exhibits great market
potential. According to CRI, new entrants such as private and foreignfunded
enterprises are bullish about the prospect of the medical industry due to the
reform measures. New medical institutions need at least 35 years to make profits
while M&A institutions need much shorter period of time by taking advantage of
the existing employees, equipment and patients of the purchased medical
institutions.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                           All-round Country Edition

Rudd vows to reform 'finance-crippling' health - ELECTION 2007

BYLINE: Matthew Franklin, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 564  words


KEVIN Rudd has warned that failing to reform the health system urgently will
cripple state government finances and shackle the nation's economic growth.

The Opposition Leader yesterday invoked the reformist spirit of the Hawke and
Keating Labor governments, vowing that if elected he would slash wastage and
duplication between state and federal governments, freeing up billions of
taxpayer dollars.

Mr Rudd also promised to fund more medical training places at universities.

His comments came as a new Australian Institute of Health and Welfare report
showed the commonwealth had reduced its share of public hospital spending
relative to states over the past decade.

Health has taken a central place in political campaigning this week as Mr Rudd
visited public hospitals across the nation to promote his stick-and-carrot plan
to offer $2 billion in grants to states to lift health services or face the
possibility of a commonwealth takeover.

As the tour hit Sydney yesterday, Mr Rudd told a meeting of the Australian
Business Economists that healthcare must be seen as both an economic and social
policy challenge.

''If we do not reform the system, if we don't tackle the preventative health
challenge, if we don't deal with the dysfunctional interaction between the
commonwealth and the states, then the economic consequences for Australia will
be significant,'' he said. ''We'll face higher taxes, deteriorating services and
lower workforce participation.

''The consequences for Australian state budgets will be crippling as the public
health dollar consumes a greater and greater proportion of budgets overall.''

He said poor co-ordination between governments meant public hospital accident
and emergency departments were spending $110 million a year treating
non-emergency cases, which if treated by general practitioners would cost only
$30million.

About 2300 people were in public hospital beds costing $967 a day when they
should be in nursing homes at $100 a day.

A Labor government would eliminate duplication and blame-shifting, saving
taxpayers $900million a year, he said. ''I don't think all the problems lie with
the commonwealth; the states must also accept their responsibility for system
failures.''

Earlier, at Liverpool Hospital in Sydney's west, Mr Rudd promised a Labor
government would find the money to train more doctors after auditing the need
for more doctors and the number of medical students now in training.

The AIHW report, released today, says the federal Government has cut its share
of public hospital funding by 10 per cent over the past decade.

While the actual amount the Government spends on public hospitals has increased
from $5billion to $10 billion over the past decade, it now contributes far less
than the states, which give almost $12 billion.

The report shows the federal Government's share of public hospital funding fell
from 45 per cent to 41 per cent between 1995-96 and 2005-06, while the states'
share rose from 46 per cent to 51 per cent.

A spokeswoman for health Minister Tony Abbott said the commonwealth spent almost
twice as much on health as the state and territories combined, taking into
account its spending on Medicare and medicines as well as its public hospital
funding.

''In 2005-06, commonwealth health spending was $37.2 billion compared to state
and territory funding of $21.7 billion,'' the spokeswoman said.

Nicola Roxon -- Page 12

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            November 11, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

KPMG beefs up its health team

BYLINE: Emma Connors

SECTION: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 473 words


KPMG's economics team has poached Henry Cutler, who led the health economics and
social policy team at Access Economics for four years, just as health funding
reforms gather steam. Access was acquired by KPMG's competitor Deloitte in
March. Dr Cutler quit in August and joined KPMG in September.

The loss couldn't have come at a worse time for Deloitte. Hospitals and state
health departments are hanging out a "help wanted" sign as funding reforms
gather steam and consultancies are scrambling to meet demand.

Other recent KPMG recruits include Stephen Gillett, who worked on the
introduction of activity-based funding for hospitals in Hong Kong, and Sue
Collins, who ran 44 hospitals at private health provider Healthscope.

Industry expertise was "the ticket to play" with healthcare customers, Deloitte
national leader life sciences and healthcare, Alan Eckstein, said. Deloitte
might have lost Dr Cutler, but Access Economics, as the largest health economics
practice in the country, had boosted Deloitte's $60 million health sector
practice substantially - it's growing at about 20 per cent a year, Mr Eckstein
said. KPMG is looking for another 10 health professionals to join its health
practice. The firm recently won a tender from the NSW government to do a health
check on its health area districts to determine how ready they are for next
July, when public hospital funds go from being delivered in unallocated "blocks"
to a form of activity-based funding where dollars are linked to diagnostic
related groups.

This is the pointy end of commonwealth health reforms. By mid next year the
Independent Hospital Pricing Authority (IHPA) will set an efficient price for
each hospital procedure and this will guide the funds directed by state and
Commonwealth governments to public hospitals.

Activity-based funding is already in use in South Australia and Victoria, and
the commonwealth has mined the ranks of those with experience in its use to
oversee the transition.

KPMG's lead partner for healthcare, Shane Solomon, for example, was a top health
bureaucrat in Victoria before introducing activity-based funding to Hong Kong
hospitals, and is the chair elect of IHPA. The deputy chair will be Jim Birch,
Ernst & Young's lead health partner and former chief executive of the SA health
department. PwC partner John Walsh is the deputy chair of the National Health
Performance Authority.

Holding these dual roles is both a plus and a minus for firms. KPMG has already
been ruled out of some jobs because of Mr Solomon's position with IHPA - it
cannot work on anything that would be submitted to the new pricing authority,
for example.

While work on coding a national system continues, even hospitals located in
those states already familiar with activity-based funding will have to make
changes to work with the new national funding program.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KPMG's Shane Solomon, chair elect of the IHPA. Photo: Jim Rice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                    The Hill

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday

Hospitals tout economic impact

BYLINE: By Sam Baker

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 159 words


As hospitals scramble to avert payment cuts, the industry released data
Wednesday that say hospitals create more than $2 trillion in economic activity.
The American Hospital Association said hospitals employ more than 5.4 million
people and spend roughly $342 billion on purchases from other businesses. The
AHA cited figures from Avalere Health that pegged hospitals? ?direct effect" on
the economy at $680 billion in 2009 and their "total contribution" at more than
$2.2 trillion. Other healthcare groups have adopted a similar tactic as Congress
looks for savings in the sector. Nursing homes and proponents of federally
funded research have also recently released reports describing their impact on
jobs and the economy. Hospitals, though, are fighting especially hard. The
industry recently launched a major ad campaign opposing Medicare and Medicaid
cuts, saying hospitals have contributed enough through healthcare reform and
Medicare regulations.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2011 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                    The Hill

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday

Hospitals tout economic impact

BYLINE: By Sam Baker

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 159 words


As hospitals scramble to avert payment cuts, the industry released data
Wednesday that say hospitals create more than $2 trillion in economic activity.
The American Hospital Association said hospitals employ more than 5.4 million
people and spend roughly $342 billion on purchases from other businesses. The
AHA cited figures from Avalere Health that pegged hospitals? ?direct effect" on
the economy at $680 billion in 2009 and their "total contribution" at more than
$2.2 trillion. Other healthcare groups have adopted a similar tactic as Congress
looks for savings in the sector. Nursing homes and proponents of federally
funded research have also recently released reports describing their impact on
jobs and the economy. Hospitals, though, are fighting especially hard. The
industry recently launched a major ad campaign opposing Medicare and Medicaid
cuts, saying hospitals have contributed enough through healthcare reform and
Medicare regulations.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2011 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Business Times Singapore

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday

Keppel taps into China's healthcare market;
Consortium to provide consultancy services to hospital

BYLINE: Crystal Neo

SECTION: SINGAPORE COMPANIES

LENGTH: 509  words


KEPPEL Facilities Management and Operations Pte Ltd (KFMO), part of diversified
Keppel Corp, will head a consortium to provide facilities management, healthcare
and hospital management and consultancy as well as healthcare personnel training
services to Linyi People's Hospital in Shandong, China.

View Keppel's press release

Goh Hai Kok, general manager of KFMO, said the contract marks its first foray
into China's burgeoning healthcare market.

The healthcare management consortium - which includes Alexandra Hospital and SGP
International Management Academy (SIMA) - is the first healthcare-related
alliance supported by International Enterprise (IE) Singapore's International
Partners (iPartners) Programme. Such a move will allow the consortium to seek
opportunities in other hospitals in Shandong before extending the rest of their
services to the rest of China.

Mr Goh said as a leading provider of facilities management services to
healthcare organisations in Singapore, KFMO wants the venture with Linyi
People's Hospital to become a showcase of world-class healthcare standards for
hospitals in China and provide a foothold in the vast market.

'Only 4 per cent of hospitals in China are privately managed at present. As the
Chinese government restructures the government hospitals, this will present
opportunities for the joint venture to offer its services to hospitals in the
rest of China,' he said.

This was one of the joint-venture contracts/MOUs signed at yesterday's 11th
meeting of the Singapore-Shandong Business Council (SSBC), a body to strengthen
economic ties between Singapore and the Chinese province.

The other MOUs signed were between SIMA and Linyi People's Hospital of China;
Singapore Media Academy (SMA) and Qingdao Omnipresent Co Ltd; Singapore Business
Federation (SBF) and the Department of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation of
Shandong Province of China; as well as the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce
and Industry and the Department of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation of
Shandong Province of China.

Singapore's Minister of State for Trade and Industry, Lee Yi Shyan, co-chaired
the council meeting for the first time with Shandong Vice-Governor Sun Shoupu.
Mr Lee recently took over from Chan Soo Sen as co-chairman of SSBC.

At yesterday's meeting, the latest SSBC workplan - which emphasised
environmental engineering - was also revealed.

The council identified industrial waste water treatment, solid waste disposal
treatment and sea water desalination as potential areas that Singapore companies
could explore for investment or collaboration.

Mr Lee explained: 'In this area, I think, so far on average, only 40 per cent of
waste water is treated before they discharge into the environment. If they want
a sustainable development, they have to raise this target to 60 per cent, 80 per
cent and so on . . . These are all the kind of areas, projects that Singapore
firms can look forward to.'

Singapore is now Shandong's seventh largest foreign investor with about $1US.8
billion worth of projects invested to date.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is more complex than expected

LENGTH: 842  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 More physicians are contracting with hospitals through different types of
agreements, but the shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is more
complex than expected, according to new research from Rice University's Baker
Institute for Public Policy.





 The Affordable Care Act and changing economic conditions have encouraged an
increase in the integration of physicians with hospitals, or the level of
contractual control hospitals have with physicians. Current research has focused
on the overall trend of tighter integration, but it has not examined the more
granular level of how hospitals transition between integration forms according
to the study's authors.



 The paper, "The Integration and De-integration of Physicians and Hospitals Over
Time," examines trends in physician-hospital integration at 4,727 hospitals
using the 2008-2013 American Hospital Association annual survey data. It
designates four forms of integration based on the type of contractual
relationship a hospital has with physicians from least to most tightly
integrated: independent practice associations, open physician-hospital
organizations, closed physician-hospital organizations and fully integrated
organizations. The paper was co-authored by Marah Short, associate director of
the Baker Institute's Center for Health and Biosciences; Vivian Ho, the chair in
health economics at the institute and director of the Center for Health and
Biosciences; and Ayse McCracken, president of eNNOVATE Health Ventures.



 The researchers examined the overall changes in the number and percentage of
hospitals engaged in varying forms of physician-hospital integration and the
transitions between these integration forms by hospitals over time. Between 2008
and 2013, the share of hospitals with physicians on salary rose from 44 to 55
percent of all facilities. Looser forms of physician-hospital integration, such
as joint contractual networks with managed care organizations, decreased in
prominence, they found. In all, the authors found 1,525 hospital integration
form transitions reflecting a change in the integration form of 1,445 hospitals
between 2008 and 2013. They found 599 cases in which a hospital switched from no
integration to some form of integration between years. The form of integration
with the greatest change is the fully integrated hospitals category, with 710
transitions to fully integrated organization agreements. A majority of this
growth comes from the 550 hospitals changing from no integration to a fully
integrated organization.



 However, the aggregate shift toward tighter integration masks the fact that
many hospitals de-integrated or shifted to less tightly integrated physician-
hospital relationships during this time period, the authors said. Although the
number of hospitals reporting no integration declined by only 110 facilities
between 2008 and 2013, there were 489 cases between these two years in which a
hospital de-integrated.



 "During the time period studied, the optimal direction for hospital-physician
integration wasn't clear for either hospitals or physicians," said Ho, who is
also a professor of economics at Rice and a professor of medicine at Baylor. "It
appears that many hospitals that chose to integrate then de-integrated by 2013."




 The authors elaborated on the complexity of the overall shift to tighter
physician-hospital integration. "When physicians seek hospital employment, they
may expect little change in the way their businesses operate, but shifts in
decision-making authority, transparency, electronic health records and practice
management systems and HR policies affecting practice staff are among the
challenges physicians have to face after integrating with a hospital," McCracken
said.



 Future studies that distinguish between integration types are essential for
setting policies that foster integrated care to improve quality and lower costs,
instead of raising prices and harming patient welfare, the researchers said.
Loose forms of integration that generate more managed care contracts and provide
administrative services could increase utilization and expenditures, with no
improvement in quality or lower costs. Achieving these latter two goals is
likely only with tighter integration, which has features similar to those of
Accountable Care Organizations (ACO) and medical homes, they said.



 "A hospital seeking to participate as a Medicare ACO must build relationships
with primary care physicians (PCP) and will have better control of hospital
referrals if these PCPs are hospital employees," Short said. "Physician groups
that lack the financial and technical expertise to adopt electronic health
records that have increasingly become necessary to obtain higher reimbursements
by public and private payers will be the likeliest source of integration in the
future."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is more complex than expected

LENGTH: 842  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 More physicians are contracting with hospitals through different types of
agreements, but the shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is more
complex than expected, according to new research from Rice University's Baker
Institute for Public Policy.





 The Affordable Care Act and changing economic conditions have encouraged an
increase in the integration of physicians with hospitals, or the level of
contractual control hospitals have with physicians. Current research has focused
on the overall trend of tighter integration, but it has not examined the more
granular level of how hospitals transition between integration forms according
to the study's authors.



 The paper, "The Integration and De-integration of Physicians and Hospitals Over
Time," examines trends in physician-hospital integration at 4,727 hospitals
using the 2008-2013 American Hospital Association annual survey data. It
designates four forms of integration based on the type of contractual
relationship a hospital has with physicians from least to most tightly
integrated: independent practice associations, open physician-hospital
organizations, closed physician-hospital organizations and fully integrated
organizations. The paper was co-authored by Marah Short, associate director of
the Baker Institute's Center for Health and Biosciences; Vivian Ho, the chair in
health economics at the institute and director of the Center for Health and
Biosciences; and Ayse McCracken, president of eNNOVATE Health Ventures.



 The researchers examined the overall changes in the number and percentage of
hospitals engaged in varying forms of physician-hospital integration and the
transitions between these integration forms by hospitals over time. Between 2008
and 2013, the share of hospitals with physicians on salary rose from 44 to 55
percent of all facilities. Looser forms of physician-hospital integration, such
as joint contractual networks with managed care organizations, decreased in
prominence, they found. In all, the authors found 1,525 hospital integration
form transitions reflecting a change in the integration form of 1,445 hospitals
between 2008 and 2013. They found 599 cases in which a hospital switched from no
integration to some form of integration between years. The form of integration
with the greatest change is the fully integrated hospitals category, with 710
transitions to fully integrated organization agreements. A majority of this
growth comes from the 550 hospitals changing from no integration to a fully
integrated organization.



 However, the aggregate shift toward tighter integration masks the fact that
many hospitals de-integrated or shifted to less tightly integrated physician-
hospital relationships during this time period, the authors said. Although the
number of hospitals reporting no integration declined by only 110 facilities
between 2008 and 2013, there were 489 cases between these two years in which a
hospital de-integrated.



 "During the time period studied, the optimal direction for hospital-physician
integration wasn't clear for either hospitals or physicians," said Ho, who is
also a professor of economics at Rice and a professor of medicine at Baylor. "It
appears that many hospitals that chose to integrate then de-integrated by 2013."




 The authors elaborated on the complexity of the overall shift to tighter
physician-hospital integration. "When physicians seek hospital employment, they
may expect little change in the way their businesses operate, but shifts in
decision-making authority, transparency, electronic health records and practice
management systems and HR policies affecting practice staff are among the
challenges physicians have to face after integrating with a hospital," McCracken
said.



 Future studies that distinguish between integration types are essential for
setting policies that foster integrated care to improve quality and lower costs,
instead of raising prices and harming patient welfare, the researchers said.
Loose forms of integration that generate more managed care contracts and provide
administrative services could increase utilization and expenditures, with no
improvement in quality or lower costs. Achieving these latter two goals is
likely only with tighter integration, which has features similar to those of
Accountable Care Organizations (ACO) and medical homes, they said.



 "A hospital seeking to participate as a Medicare ACO must build relationships
with primary care physicians (PCP) and will have better control of hospital
referrals if these PCPs are hospital employees," Short said. "Physician groups
that lack the financial and technical expertise to adopt electronic health
records that have increasingly become necessary to obtain higher reimbursements
by public and private payers will be the likeliest source of integration in the
future."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      May 20, 1999, Thursday, Home Edition

Partners for Tomorrow gets a shot in the arm;
 County hospital CEO drafted to lend expertise to local economic initiative.

BYLINE: Peter Scott, Staff

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Rockdale Extra; Pg. 1JR

LENGTH: 301 words

The man Rockdale counts on to make sure the sick receive proper care has been
asked to monitor the county's economic development.

Nelson E. Toebbe, president and chief executive officer of Rockdale Hospital and
Health System Inc., has been named board chairman of Partners for Tomorrow,
Rockdale County's economic initiative.

As head of the county's hospital, Toebbe managed the 107-bed acute care
facility, home health services, two medical plazas and an after-hours immediate
care center. As head of Partners, he is expected to provide leadership and
vision for growth and economic development in Rockdale, where 43 of the nation's
Fortune 500 companies are located in Conyers.

"We are working to bring new business to the area, but we are also dedicated to
making our existing businesses more successful," said Toebbe.

"Our definition of economic development is very broad," said Toebbe. "We are
also focused on quality of life issues and helping shape our community for the
next generation through leadership, visioning and collaborative efforts."

Toebbe replaces Pete Cornell, who left the economic development group to return
to work in New Jersey.

Partners was founded in 1997 to recruit new businesses to Conyers and Rockdale
County, retain and expand existing businesses and to address county's existing
and future labor and infrastructure needs. More than $ 1.8 million was raised by
local businesses to make the economic venture possible.

Besides Toebbe, four new members have been added to Partners' governing board.
They are: Guy Dabbs, president of Main Street Bank and chairman of the Conyers
Rockdale Chamber of Commerce; Patricia "Pat" Klink, district manager for AT[T]
Glenn Sears, branch manger at John Deere Company; and Danny Stone, manager for
Snapping Shoals EMC.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Nelson Toebbe: "Our definition of economic development
is very broad."

                    Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution


                              356 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2013 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

We Can Be Healthy And Rich

BYLINE: By EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL.

An oncologist, a former White House adviser, a vice provost at the University of
Pennsylvania and a contributing opinion writer.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 827 words


Just about everyone agrees that health care in America is too expensive, and
that something must be done to control the rising costs. Except for one group:
hospitals and the unions representing hospital workers.

They believe that controlling health care costs will hurt the economy and
increase unemployment. They point out that hospitals are among the largest
employers in many communities and that, unlike other employers, they are adding
jobs at a good clip.

But the truth is that bending the health care cost curve will actually spur the
economy forward. According to the Council of Economic Advisers, reducing health
care cost increases by just 1 percentage point every year would lead to a 4
percent increase in G.D.P. by 2030. In today's dollars, that would mean an extra
$600 billion for our economy and an extra $7,000 for the average family.

In some ways, it's easy to sympathize with the hospitals' worries: their concern
is that competition in the new insurance exchanges and other changes catalyzed
by the Affordable Care Act will result in lower premiums. To stay profitable,
insurance companies will have to pressure hospitals to reduce their rates. And
since 60 percent of an average hospital's costs are labor, employees will be
laid off and wages cut. At a time when hospital support jobs pay about 10
percent more and typically come with more generous benefits than comparable jobs
in other industries, it's understandable that health care employees are
resistant.

But this line of reasoning is misguided. First, cost control is not the same
thing as cost reduction. The financial goal of reforms like reducing hospital
readmissions and hospital-acquired infections and encouraging competition among
insurance companies is to stem the rate of growth in health care spending. We
spent about $2.8 trillion on health care last year, and the system wastes
approximately $700 billion annually, but no one is proposing that these
expenditures decline to even $2.6 trillion. Cost control is simply about staving
off the date when health care spending exceeds $4 trillion.

In addition, even if hospitals had to restructure their operations to deliver
care more efficiently, it wouldn't necessarily mean fewer health care workers
over all - any decline in hospital jobs would probably mean an increase in other
health-related jobs like home health aides.

Where the opponents of cost control really go wrong is on the macroeconomics.
Layoffs in the health care industry would increase unemployment and lower wages,
they argue, thereby reducing consumer spending and hurting the economy. But both
liberal and conservative economists agree that ever rising health care spending
is a huge drag on the economy. As one of the Heritage Foundation's fellows
wrote: "If Americans could attain the current level of health for a lower total
cost, the resources saved could be used for some other beneficial purpose, and
U.S. economic well-being would undoubtedly improve."

There is a good parallel in the agriculture industry. The introduction of
tractors with internal combustion engines in the early 20th century caused
unemployment among farmworkers, but it also increased productivity and made food
cheaper. In 1920, about 40 percent of an American family's income went to
purchasing food. Today the average family spends approximately 10 percent of its
income on food, which means more disposable income to spend on other rewarding
items - education, appliances, smartphones, computers - and more jobs in these
industries.

Health care will follow a related path. Savings won't just disappear. They'll go
into other purchases, often ones that are more valuable, like higher education
or rapid transit, creating construction jobs while making our commutes easier.
Small businesses, if they don't have to cover ever increasing insurance costs,
could instead pay higher wages and hire more workers. The estimated reduction in
health care premiums because of the Affordable Care Act will mean that in 2019
average families will pay about $2,000 less than they would have without cost
control, freeing up money for purchases or retirement.

Some people may argue that they would take a lower G.D.P. and slower growth if
it meant that we were healthier. But this, too, is wrong. There is no link
between how much we spend and how healthy we are. Many other countries,
including Australia, France and Germany, spend less but perform better on many
health care measures. It's true even for different regions in the United States:
there is no link between higher spending and better health.

It's clear that, far from creating unemployment and hurting the economy, the
more we can control health care costs, the more Americans will prosper.
Ultimately, however, this debate should be irrelevant. Health care is about
keeping people healthy or fixing them up when they get sick. It is not a jobs
program.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/02/02/we-can-be-healthy-and-rich/

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   West Central Tribune (Willmar, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 15, 2010 Friday

EDC outlines economic development goals for next five years

BYLINE: Anne Polta, West Central Tribune, Willmar, Minn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 595 words


Oct. 15--WILLMAR -- An ambitious set of goals is taking shape for the Kandiyohi
County and City of Willmar Economic Development Commission to pursue over the
next five years.

At a retreat Thursday at the Prairie Woods Environmental Learning Center,
members of the EDC's joint operations and joint powers boards began filling in
the details for how the five-year plan will be carried out.

Steve Renquist, executive director of the Economic Development Commission,
called the plan "the big picture" for the agency's future direction.

"Each and every year there should be some work," he said. "The essential goal
should be moving us forward."

At the top of the list: Finding ways to support existing businesses in Kandiyohi
County.

"We need to look at existing business because we know that's where our growth is
going to occur," said Betty Bollig of the joint operations board.

During a work session that lasted almost four hours, board members identified at
least half a dozen specific goals for helping local businesses remain viable and
helping them expand.

One key strategy is removing barriers that might exist to business growth, and
working to enhance efforts by Kandiyohi County and the city of Willmar to be
business-friendly in their regulations, ordinances and practices.

Another high-ranking priority is to assist Rice Memorial Hospital with
strengthening its position as a regional hospital.

Bev Dougherty, of the EDC operations board, said she had surgery earlier this
year at Rice Hospital and was asked by numerous people why she didn't go out of
town for the procedure.

"It was an eye-opener," she said.

Perceptions of the local hospital need to be assessed and improved, she said.

Board member Ron Erpelding agreed there are image problems with the hospital.
"I've heard the same thing. It's concerning," he said.

Other areas in which the EDC might be able to work with Rice Hospital could be
in the development of extended-stay lodging for patients' families and in the
development of a parking ramp, Dougherty said.

Recruitment for the MinnWest Technology Campus remains a goal of the EDC as
well, and dovetails with yet another objective: to create a regional biosciences
corridor in which Kandiyohi County is a key player.

The EDC also has the commercialization of at least two renewable energy projects
and the expansion of three value-added ag businesses as a goal within the next
five years.

Increasing the use of the Willmar Municipal Airport is on the list too.
Strategies suggested by the board include addressing air cargo, air taxi and
charter flights, and developing on-field aviation-related businesses.

Renquist said the list will undergo further tweaking and refining before going
back to EDC board members for a final review. The EDC's volunteer committees
will be asked to come up with a plan by January for how each of them will help
accomplish the goals on the list.

Although the five-year plan is ambitious, it's not unrealistic, Renquist said.
"I think we can accomplish many of these goals. ... I feel very good that this
is a process that can work and be very productive for our organization."

To see more of the West Central Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.wctrib.com. Copyright (c) 2010, West Central Tribune, Willmar, Minn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101015-YM-EDC-outlines-economic
-development-goals-for-next-five-years-1015-20101015

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YM


                      Copyright 2010 West Central Tribune


                              358 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 24, 2002

Building work started on RNI site

BYLINE: C. Dennier

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 335 words


Clive Dennier WORK has started on the redevelopment of the Royal Northern
Infirmary site in Inverness to improve hospital facilities and create a new
residential development.

Morrison Construction, in conjunction with the RNI redevelopment, is also
constructing a new 15,000sq-ft office building for the Highland Primary Care NHS
Trust, at Inverness Retail and Business Park.

The building firm is working closely with the Highland Primary Care NHS Trust
and Inverness Retail & Business Park to deliver the developments.

The trust, who owned the whole of the RNI site, sold off the six-acre housing
development site to assist funding the GBP 2.7million hospital project.

This will involve the renovation of part of the existing hospital buildings as
well as the construction of a new community wing within the grounds being
retained by the trust.

Relocate The new hospital facilities and the new office building will be
complete in autumn 2002, at which time the trust will relocate their office
function to Inverness Retail & Business Park and Morrison will begin work on the
GBP 10million residential development.

The 147 new homes will comprise a mix of one, two and three-bedroom apartments
and three, four and five-bedroom detached houses.

The development will be situated within the grounds of the existing hospital and
will include the main listed buildings.

A new access road will be formed from Bishop's Road.

Iain Logue, Morrison's Highland director, says: "We are delighted to be involved
in the delivery of all three component parts involved in this development which
has ultimately enabled the trust to provide a new hospital facility and relocate
their administrative function to modern purpose built offices." Mr Logue
continued: "This is a rare opportunity for us to renovate a building which is
familiar to many people in the Highlands.  It really is a magnificent setting
for quality homes and hospital facilities in the city centre with open views
across the river."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal


                              359 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                     July 5, 2001 Thursday Ontario Edition

'Pancake' approach will leave research flat

BYLINE: David Crane

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 735 words

OUR MEMBERS of Parliament are unhappy with the success of the University of
Toronto and its associated teaching hospitals in developing the capacity to
become an international centre for research and development excellence, and they
want to do something to slow it down.

In a recent report, MPs on the House of Commons Committee on Industry, Science
and Technology complain that the University of Toronto has received more funding
for research infrastructure from the Canada Foundation for Innovation than
universities in Atlantic Canada, Saskatchewan and Manitoba combined. They also
make it clear that's a bad thing.

Aside from the MPs' statement being factually incorrect, what this report really
shows is that our MPs have a "pancake" mentality.

This term comes from a leading Swedish think tank that, in a report this year,
rejected what it called the "pancake" approach to economic development, where
economic activity is spread evenly across a country. That approach, it said,
means nothing happens anywhere.

Instead, it said, "we believe in a vision of Sweden with 'spots' of high
economic activity well dispersed across the country." These "spots" are called
clusters.

This should be Canada's approach as well building centres of excellence with the
critical mass to produce significant research results, serve as a magnet for
talent and investment, and create economic activity.

Our goal should be "spots," not a pancake.

Much of Canada's past effort to promote innovation has been badly compromised by
this reluctance to accept that much of Canada's innovative strength will
inevitably be concentrated in a small number of centres.

This critical mass is essential if serious research is to be sustained.

In their report, the MPs take some nasty digs at the Canada Foundation for
Innovation, which was established by the federal government in 1997 to help fund
research and development infrastructure at universities, research hospitals and
other non-profit research institutes.

The foundation receives applications, subjects them to a peer review by Canadian
and international experts and typically provides 40 per cent of the needed
funding. The rest comes from provincial governments, universities and the
private sector.

The foundation makes its decisions at arm's length from government, as an
independent body, to avoid political favouritism.

The MPs come close to accusing the foundation of improper behaviour because the
University of Toronto and its associated research hospitals have been so
successful at submitting winning proposals.

Terming the university's success "disturbing," the MPs say "this inequity" is
"symptomatic of the arm's-length structure of the (foundation) from government"
and promise to review the independence of the foundation.

The University of Toronto and associated research hospitals have received 14.5
per cent of the foundation's awards. That proportion is in line with their share
of research grants from the three federal research-granting councils.

The MPs do not offer a shred of evidence of favouritism in the foundation's
awards. Moreover, do we really want Industry Minister Brian Tobin or any other
politician determining who receives grants?

It's not just the Canada Foundation for Innovation's record of awarding
significant grants to the University of Toronto that the MPs are attacking.
Their underlying message is that Canada's small universities should have a much
bigger share of research awards, including the federal government's new research
chairs.

Left out of this calculation are other programs, such as Ottawa's $300 million
Atlantic Innovation Fund, or the decision that 12 per cent of research chairs
must go to small universities.

There's no doubt there are good researchers in our smaller universities. And the
Canada Foundation for Innovation, the research chairs panel and other grants
bodies have looked for ways to support research excellence in small
universities.

But there's a real question of how many serious research centres a country of
Canada's size can afford, especially when total funding is far less than is
needed.

Instead of whining about Toronto's success, MPs should cheer its record of
building up a major centre of research capacity and talent in North America.

But if you have a pancake mentality, as the MPs do, then it stands to reason
you'd be unhappy.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              360 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday
                                  ML2 Edition

Six counties in 60 seconds

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 659 words


No deal on hospital tax breaks:

Talks between hospital leaders and consumer advocates have ended in Springfield
without an agreement on a legal standard for hospital property tax exemptions.
Illinois Hospital Association spokesman Danny Chun says the meeting lasted two
hours and was "productive and cordial." Chun says the hospital association wants
talks to continue. But others say talks have failed. They are calling for Gov.
Pat Quinn to stick to his Thursday deadline and authorize more rulings on
hospital tax exemptions. Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle pressed
Quinn to direct the Department of Revenue to resume considering whether
hospitals should be granted or denied tax-exempt status following a 2010
Illinois Supreme Court ruling. The Department of Revenue decides which
institutions are eligible for tax exemptions.

Emanuel touts economic plan:

Saying the city has been mired in a "lost decade," Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel
unveiled a plan he contends is designed to revitalize the metropolitan area's
economy. Emanuel on Wednesday accepted a blueprint called "A Plan for Economic
Growth and Jobs," which was developed by World Business Chicago, the city's
economic development agency. The study promotes 10 goals, among them speeding up
growth in advanced manufacturing, becoming more competitive in transportation,
making the city more attractive as a center for business services and
headquarters, and making it more attractive as a tourist destination. While the
60-page report has lofty goals, it stops short of proposing initiatives. Emanuel
says the city must take bold action and promote the city's strengths to avoid
another decade of lost economic opportunity.

Wanted man arrested:

A 65-year-old man wanted for a 1996 killing outside a Chicago pool hall has been
arrested in California.

The FBI says Giovanni Spiller was arrested last week outside of his home in
Hemet, Calif., and is awaiting extradition to Illinois. Authorities say Spiller
was charged with the killing in December 1996, but fled the following year. He's
believed to have traveled to the Philippines, among other places. Agents found
Spiller after receiving a tip he was living in California, where he was
allegedly using a fake name. The Chicago Tribune reports the tipster called the
FBI after seeing a story about fugitives that featured Spiller.

Ammo tax, guns registry?

An Illinois House committee has approved legislation requiring registration of
handguns and creating a new tax on ammunition. Both bills passed 7-4 Wednesday
and now go to the House floor. Lobbyist Todd Vandermyde of the National Rifle
Association opposes both measures. He says requiring handgun registration would
cost money for law-abiding citizens without affecting people who have guns
illegally. But Democratic Rep. Will Davis of Homewood says registration would
help police track guns that were purchased legally but later sold and used in a
crime. Vandermyde also argued it would be unconstitutional to tax ammunition.
The sponsor disagreed, however. Democratic Rep. Kelly Cassidy of Chicago says a
2 percent tax would raise money for trauma centers in high-crime areas.

Feds push for immigration law:

A federal official is trying to undo part of a controversial Cook County
ordinance that prohibits the jail from notifying them when suspected illegal
immigrants are poised to complete their sentences or post bail. The Chicago
Tribune reports that Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director John Morton
has sent a letter to Cook County Board President Tony Preckwinkle. Morton is
offering to pay the cost of holding inmates until federal agents can pick them
up for deportation proceedings. Morton is a vocal critic of the county
ordinance. The letter follows a suggestion earlier this year by Cook County
Sheriff Tom Dart. Dart runs the jail and has suggested tweaking the ordinance so
that he could alert immigration officials when a violent offender is about to be
freed.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              361 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday
                                   AV EDITION

HOSPITAL TO BE A JOB-MAKING 'ECONOMIC ENGINE'

BYLINE: By Jim Skeen Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. AV2

LENGTH: 419 words


PALMDALE - A new hospital in Palmdale will open several months later than
expected and will cost $20 million more to build, but it will be an economic
powerhouse, city and hospital officials said Friday.

The Palmdale Regional Medical Center being built by Universal Health Services
will cost about $100 million, up from the projected $80 million, because
material costs went up from a building boom. The hospital is slated to open in
December 2007 rather than early 2007 as first anticipated.

Along with two medical office buildings being constructed as part of the overall
project, the hospital construction will employ 1,300 workers and pump about $200
million into the region's economy, according to UHS.

When the complex is complete, it will provide between 800 to 1,000 jobs and have
an economic impact of $359 million.

``A whole new economic engine is coming to the Antelope Valley - the UHS
hospital,'' said Palmdale Mayor Jim Ledford.

Grading work for the project, located south of Palmdale Boulevard at 10th Street
West, is nearly complete. Bids will go out next week to select the project's
general contractor, said Robert Trautman, chief executive officer of Lancaster
Community Hospital and UHS's top area official.

Built for 239 beds, the new hospital is expected to open with 171 beds, because
that is as many as officials expect they can find the staff for. The new
hospital will have 35 emergency room beds, Trautman said.

``It's going to keep health care in the local market and address the needs of
the community,'' Trautman said.

Trautman defended the Palmdale hospital against criticism from Antelope Valley
Hospital officials, who assert the new hospital will transfer out poor patients.

Antelope Valley Hospital officials fear a new private hospital will draw off
patients with insurance, leaving Antelope Valley Hospital caring for a higher
percentage of patients unable to pay for their treatment.

By law, the hospital must treat any patient who shows up at the emergency room,
whether or not they have insurance or money to pay, Trautman said.

Trautman said corporation-wide, UHS had about $597 million in uncompensated
care. Lancaster Community Hospital, which UHS acquired in 2002, had about $7.3
million in uncompensated patient care last year.

``We will take our share of indigent care,'' Trautman said.

Lancaster Community Hospital, which has 117 beds and a staff of about 500,
contributed about $217 million into the region's economy, Trautman said.

Jim Skeen, (661) 267-5743

james.skeen@dailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Digital First Media


                              362 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: KIPS BAY;
Bellevue Neighbors See a Rush to Develop

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

SECTION: Section 14;   Page 10;   Column 3;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 425 words


Bellevue Hospital Center's neighbors are denouncing the way the city is calling
for ideas to develop part of the center's campus, including the historic former
psychiatric ward.

Last month, the Economic Development Corporation asked for plans to be submitted
by Dec. 22 for a 3.5-acre site on the northern edge of the campus. The land,
between 28th and 30th Streets and from First Avenue to Franklin D. Roosevelt
Drive, includes an 850-bed men's shelter that was once the psychiatric building.

Some neighbors fear that the city may award a contract without requiring
detailed proposals from developers. They say that the Dec. 22 deadline does not
give many developers enough time to come up with plans, and leaves no room for
opinions from neighboring residents.

"You would think they would have come and asked what the community thinks should
go in there," said Edward Rubin, chairman of the Community Board 6 land use
committee.  "But they didn't."

On Thursday, the community board unanimously approved a resolution urging the
city to adopt a two-stage process asking for detailed proposals before choosing
a developer. The resolution also calls for city agencies to recommend uses for
the site, and demands that the city accept board comment at all stages and
preserve the psychiatric building's exterior.

The nine-story building, built in 1936, is listed as a historic site on state
and federal registers, but has received no such city designation.  Bellevue
moved its psychiatric services into another building about 15 years ago.

Last year, Mayor Giuliani announced that the men's shelter would be shut down
because a children's ward was being built nearby. City officials said it was too
early to tell when the shelter would be closed or where the men would go.

In its call for ideas, the Economic Development Corporation suggests that any
development should preserve the historic nature of the former psychiatric
building. The agency can award a contract after reviewing the proposals.

As for the community board's criticisms, Michael Carey, corporation president,
said, "This is not a ramrod process by any means."

"I don't see any reason why people can't put together a proposal very quickly,"
he said, adding that he expects to receive six to eight designs.

One New Jersey developer, Castle Senior Living, wants to build a 150-unit
residence for assisted living.

"With bureaucracy the way it is," said Stanley Diamond, the company chairman,
"I'd like to get rolling on this as soon as possible."
   EDWARD WONG

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

Poudre Valley, Banner hospital executives join northern Colorado business
alliance

BYLINE: Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 238 words


Dec. 03--The two chiefs of northern Colorado hospital systems have joined the
board of the Northern Colorado Economic Alliance, according to a news release.

Kevin Unger, president and CEO of Poudre Valley Hospital and Medical Center of
the Rockies, and Margo Karsten, CEO of Northern Colorado-Banner Health, join a
group of business executives from Weld and Larimer counties that serve on the
board: Alison Larsen-Rogers, Tom Gendron, Mark Driscoll, John Pawlikowski, Troy
McWhinney, Roger Knoph, Ed Holloway, Royal Lovell, Charlie Monfort and Board
Chairman Scott Ehrlich.

Unger received both his undergraduate and doctorate degrees from Colorado State
University. He joined Poudre Valley Hospital in 2001 and was named president and
CEO of both Poudre Valley Hospital and Medical Center of the Rockies in 2005.

Karsten also received her doctorate from Colorado State University. She
previously served as the president and CEO of Poudre Valley Hospital and Poudre
Valley Health System for more than eight years. She joined Northern Colorado
Banner Health as CEO in September.

The Northern Colorado Economic Alliance is a nonprofit economic development
organization focused on primary industry attraction and continuous improvement
of the region's economic infrastructure.

___ (c)2016 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune
(Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161203-GY-Poudre-Valley-Banner-hospital
-executives-join-northern-Colorado-business-alliance-1203-20161203

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2016 Greeley Tribune


                              364 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday

'Eds and meds' strengthen Baltimore's credit

BYLINE: Alissa Gulin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 646  words


Baltimore was one of three U.S. cities singled out by Moody's Investors Service
Inc. as "primary examples" of how universities and hospitals can contribute to
economic vitality and help strengthen cities' credit ratings.

Moody's explored the impact of institutions such as Johns Hopkins Health System
and the University of Maryland, Baltimore, in a note released Monday titled:
"Prominent 'Eds and Meds' Bolster Northeast Cities. "

"As the manufacturing and trade sectors shrank along the eastern seaboard in the
last 50 years," the note reads, "hospitals and universities gradually expanded
and became the new economic anchor of some older cities, effectively propping up
local economies that would have otherwise declined far more sharply. "

The "Eds and Meds" sectors represent 21.5 percent of combined total employment
in the three cities, according to the report, compared to the national average
of 15.4 percent.

The numerous "large and well-respected institutions" are reliable sources of
employment during both economic growth periods and recessions, the report said.
Moody's analysts predict employment in the health care and higher education
sectors will outperform total national job growth by at least 0.5 percent over
the next decade.

"The stability and growth" of employment in those two sectors distinguishes them
from "the volatility of most other sectors, especially construction, financial
services and manufacturing," the report says. "The large presence of these
sectors explains why Baltimore, Boston and Philadelphia fared far better in job
stability than the U.S. as a whole during the severe 2008-2009 crisis period. "

Although hospitals and universities are typically exempt from property tax,
these institutions do produce some degree of direct economic benefit to their
cities, the report said, such as revenue from building permit fees and income
tax on employees.

The report went into more detail about the indirect economic benefits, such as
private biotechnology or medical device startups that result from research
partnerships between universities and hospitals. That activity helps make the
city stronger in critical hotbed industries like pharmaceutical development,
analysts wrote.

However, the report cautioned that eds and meds are not a panacea for cities.
The two sectors face ongoing "economic, technological and regulatory challenges
that are more significant than in the past," the analysts wrote.

Moody analysts anticipate limited revenue growth for both universities and
nonprofit hospitals, due to factors like increased competition among colleges
and less grant funding available for medical research.

Constraints on revenue growth is a primary reason behind analysts' negative
outlooks for both sectors.

But there is good news. Moody says the "standout" medical and educational
institutions in Baltimore -- with Johns Hopkins at the top of the list, as the
country's No. 1 recipient of funding from the National Institutes of Health --
will be most likely to adapt to the changing environment.

Hopkins and other hospitals and universities have maintained high credit rating
due to their diverse revenue streams, favorable global reputations, broad donor
support, strong leadership and solid balance sheets, analysts wrote.

Despite comparable concentrations of these high-performing institutions,
Baltimore, Boston and Philadelphia have different credit profiles. Boston comes
out on top, boasting the highest credit rating awarded by Moody's: Aaa stable.

Baltimore is second, with a rating of Aa2 stable, which means the city's bonds
are "high quality and subject to very low credit risk. " That rating was
assigned in July.

Philadelphia was assigned a slightly lower, though still good rating of A2
stable.

http://www.mddailyrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2014 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                              May 10, 2009 Sunday

Service Sector Promotion

LENGTH: 489 words


The Lee Myung-bak administration announced a plan to beef up the nation's
service sector on Friday. It is fourth of its kind since the government began to
take measures to raise the competitiveness of the sector. But the service
industries have shown few signs of improvement despite a series of support
packages.

No one can oppose such packages because the service sector is key to the
nation's economic recovery. It is natural for the nation to put more stress on
the promotion of the sector to reduce its heavy reliance on exports. Especially,
the nation is required to boost domestic demand to offset the fallout from the
global financial and economic crisis.

It is not easy to produce successful results from the government packages.
Previous governments had repeatedly come up with a set of measures for the
sector since the country was hit hard by the 1997-98 Asian financial meltdown.
But, the nation has made little progress in implementing such measures.

In short, policymakers have been long on words but short on action. Since the
start of the new millennium, the government has sought to allow hospitals to
become profit-seeking entities and enable foreigners to open their schools more
freely in free economic zones here. But these measures have only proven to be
hollow slogans.

The Lee government's new service sector support program is focused on nine
areas, including broadcasting, design and logistics. Its top priorities are
unequivocally placed on medical service and education. The measures include
plans to allow medical foundations to issue hospital bonds to attract more
operational funds. Foreigners will also be able to open hospitals in free
economic zones.

But, the government has delayed making a decision until October over whether to
allow hospitals to turn themselves into profit-seeking organizations because of
persistent objections from trade unions and civic groups. It goes without saying
that the medical service sector should serve the goal of public health care.
But, it is also necessary for hospitals to increase their competitiveness and
upgrade their medical services through profit-seeking activities.

In the education field, the government has decided to ease regulations to
promote the creation of foreign elementary, middle and high schools in free
economic zones. But, it is disappointing that the government plans to allow
those foreign schools to recruit Korean students within 30 percent of their
enrollment quotas. The percentage is seen as too much for local students,
raising concerns that only children from wealthy Korean families might attend
foreign schools.

The nation's service sector only accounts for 57 percent of the nation's gross
domestic product (GDP), lower than the 72-percent average of the 30 members of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The government
should no longer pay lip services to raise the percentage and ensure sustainable
growth.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Press - Victorville (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday

St. Mary's breaks ground on Victorville campus

BYLINE: Tomoya Shimura, Daily Press, Victorville, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 582 words


Sept. 26--VICTORVILLE -- St. Joseph Health, St. Mary broke ground on its
Victorville hospital Tuesday that's expected to add 128 hospital beds -- and the
first trauma center in the High Desert.

"I would suggest to you that building a hospital this size and all of the other
things that we have planned for this Oasis campus, at a time of economic
downturn throughout the country, doesn't make a lot of sense from the financial
perspective," Alan Garrett, president and CEO of St. Mary, told local
dignitaries and employees gathered at an open desert field. "It makes perfect
sense from the mission perspective."

The new hospital, equal to the size of about four football fields, is scheduled
to be completed in 2016. St. Mary purchased a 98-acre property along Amargosa
Road between Bear Valley Road and Main Street to build a campus, which St. Mary
is trying to turn into a health and wellness "oasis."

"It will not only provide jobs but it will provide greater access to care
especially for those residents that are living on the west side of the I-15
freeway," Victorville Mayor Ryan McEachron said. "This is where the growth of
Victorville will occur in the future as it occurred over the last decade."

Three out of four patients St. Mary gets at its Apple Valley hospital come from
Victorville and Hesperia, Garrett said.

"I live in Pinon Hills so I think the new hospital will be so much closer for my
family," Gail Entriken posted on the Daily Press website. "It brings peace to my
mind knowing a hospital will be closer."

Administrators at St. Mary came up with the idea of building a new hospital in
2005 when they were assessing local health care conditions, Garrett said.

While hundreds of thousands of people migrated to the Victor Valley seeking
affordable housing, the desert community didn't have enough hospitals to serve
them. One third of local residents traveled out of the area to see doctors at
the time, according to St. Mary.

"At that point, we began the process of thinking, 'How do we address that?' "
Garrett said.

The new hospital is expected to become a trauma center equipped to provide
emergency medical services to patients suffering traumatic injuries. Between 440
and 480 trauma patients get transported to Loma Linda University Medical Center
or Arrowhead Regional Medical Center every year from the High Desert, Garrett
said.

The High Desert is located in the longest stretch without a trauma center in the
contiguous United States, Garrett said.

After building new medical facilities and infrastructure, St. Mary plans to
start adding wellness facilities and retail space on the campus.

John Husing, chief economist for the Inland Empire Economic Partnership, told
the crowd Tuesday about the economic impact of the $261 million Oasis project.

Construction accounts for half of the jobs lost in the Inland Empire during the
recession, Husing said, and the Oasis project is expected to create 1,235
construction jobs over four years. St. Mary hired seven local contractors for
the project, according to McEachron.

"A major project like this, one of the few hospitals built in California, is
hugely important to that particular part of our economy and to the High Desert,"
Husing said.

Tomoya Shimura may be reached at (760) 955-5368 or TShimura@VVDailyPress.com
Follow Tomoya on Facebook at facebook.com/ShimuraTomoya.

___ (c)2012 the Daily Press (Victorville, Calif.) Visit the Daily Press
(Victorville, Calif.) at www.vvdailypress.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120926-VV-St-Mary-s-breaks-ground-on-Victorville-campus-0926-20120926

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VV


                           Copyright 2012 Daily Press


                              367 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C11

LENGTH: 303 words


Impact of MCG hits $820 million

The Medical College of Georgia's hospitals and clinics pumped more than $820
million into the area economy in 2004, according to a recent report by the
Georgia Hospital Association.

The report showed that MCG-affiliated facilities had direct expenditures of $333
million. When combined with an output multiplier developed by the U.S.
Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total economic impact
of the hospital was more than $820 million.

This multiplier considers the ripple effect of direct hospital expenditures on
other sectors of the economy.

Financial service firms plan merger

NEW YORK - Bank of New York Co. has agreed to take over Mellon Financial Corp.
for stock valued at $17.6 billion in a deal that will create the world's largest
securities servicing company and one of the biggest asset managers.

The deal, which is expected to be completed by the middle of next year, combines
two financial institutions steeped in American history.

The new company - which will call itself Bank of New York Mellon Corp. - will be
the world's leading asset service with $16.6 trillion in assets under custody.

LSI Logic to buy Agere Systems

PHILADELPHIA - LSI Logic Corp. said Monday that it will purchase rival storage
and communications chip maker Agere Systems Inc. for $4 billion in stock, a move
that will help it expand into the fast-growing market for the electronic brains
of portable gadgets.

Agere shareholders will receive 2.16 shares of LSI for each Agere share held,
valuing Agere at $22.81 per share. The purchase price represents a 28 percent
premium to Agere's Friday closing price of $17.79 on the New York Stock
Exchange.

Shares of Agere rose $1.50, or 8.4 percent, to close Monday at $19.29, while
LSI, of Milpitas, Calif., fell $1.44, or 14 percent, to $9.12.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                            April 27, 2013 Saturday

World Veterinary Day-2013 observed at Lalmandi

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, April 27 -- SR Minister of State for Animal and Sheep Husbandry,
Agriculture, Horticulture and Floriculture Nazir Ahmed Gurezi Saturday
inaugurated Small Ruminant Hospital at Lal Mandi Srinagar under Centrally
Sponsored Scheme ESVHD on the occasion of World Veterinary Day. The function was
organized by the department of Sheep Husbandry Kashmir division.

Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that the hospital will serve the
small ruminant sheep and goat population of district Srinagar. The hospital will
be equipped with modern healthcare facilities to cater the emerging needs of the
healthy livestock. He said such hospitals have also been constructed in other
districts of the State.

Gurezi said that the hospital has Ultra Sonography (USG) facilities for the
livestock to detect different ailments and pregnancy, which is first of its kind
in the State.

The Minister emphasized for introducing the latest technology in all productive
sectors like agriculture, horticulture, floriculture and livestock to increase
the socio-economic conditions of the farming community. He said that this is key
source to ensure the economic growth of the state in general and farming
community in particular as agriculture is the back bone of the State economy. He
stressed for artificial insemination and dosing besides conducting random tests
of all drugs so as to ensure quality medicare facilities for the livestock.

The Minister directed the officers and officials to work with utmost zeal and
dedication. He said dedicated officials will be rewarded while as erring
officials will be seriously dealt with.

The Minister called for launching of awareness campaign at block levels to aware
the farmers and breeders about the latest techniques and the schemes meant for
the welfare of the sheep and cattle rearers. He called for organizing cattle
shows and vaccination day in the state.

Responding to the demands, Gurezi said that the directions have been issued to
the concerned for filling up of the vacancies under promotion quota in all
categories including Class-IV categories within two months. He said that
creation of 200 Veterinary doctor posts is under active consideration of the
government. He also said that the matter with regard to confirmation of doctors
in Animal and Sheep Husbandry departments has been taken up with the Public
Service Commission and orders in this regard would be issued soon.

Secretary, Animal and Sheep Husbandry Mushtaq Ahmad Bukhari also spoke on the
occasion and threw light on importance of World Veterinary Day.

Directors of Animal and Sheep Husbandry department of Kashmir and retired
Directors also spoke on the occasion. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Kashmir Images. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      April 26, 2017 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

US Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Report 2017 - Research and
Markets

LENGTH: 408  words


April 26 -- Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "US Hospitals
and Outpatient Care Centers Market Report 2017" report to their offering.

The USA had the highest GDP in the world worth about $18 trillion accounting for
24% in $73 trillion global GDP. The healthcare system in the USA lacks
uniformity in terms of facilities as well as insurance coverage. This coupled
with high administrative and infrastructural cost results in unequal access to
private healthcare and some of the world's highest insurance premiums. The
American Hospital Association (AHA) is a major healthcare association in the USA
that comprises different hospitals and healthcare networks. It has network of
around 5,000 hospitals and 43,000 individuals.

Hospitals and outpatient centers are medical facilities that provide diagnostic
and medical treatment to patients with a wide range of medical conditions.
Outpatient care centers offer medical care or treatment that does not require
any overnight stay in a hospital or medical facility.

Key Topics Covered:

1. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Characteristics

2. USA's Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market

3. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Global Context

4. Porters Five Force Model

5. PESTLE Analysis

6. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Segmentation

7. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Regional and Country Analysis

8. Global Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Comparison with Macro
Economic Factors

9. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Comparison with Macro Economic
Factor Across Countries

10. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Indicators Comparison

11. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Competitive Landscape

12. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Customer Information

13. Key Mergers and Acquisitions in The Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers
Market

14. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Trends and Strategies

15. Market Background: Global Healthcare Market

16. Appendix

Companies Mentioned

* National Health Service

* Kaiser Permanente

* Davita

* Mayo Clinic Scottsdale AZ

* Johns Hopkins Medicine

* Clevel Clinic

* M D Anderson Cancer Center

* Memorial Sloan Kettering

* Cancer Center

* University Of Maryland Medical Center

* St. Jude Children's Research Hospital

For more information about this report visit
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/bcdlcl/us_hospitals_and

Source: Research and Markets

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday

'Solve haze through innovation'

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 353 words


MALACCA: Researchers here have been called on to come up with new innovations to
reduce the impact of haze in the country.

Deputy Science, Technology and Innovation Minister Datuk Dr Abu Bakar Mohamad
Diah said the transboundary haze, which is a recurring issue in the country
yearly, should be solved scientifically through new innovations.

"Local researchers who have the expertise in developing products in the field of
environment should not miss the opportunity to apply for InnoFund funding from
us."

Under the InnoFund scheme, researchers will be given a quantum of up to
RM500,000 for each project for the development or improvement of new or existing
products, processes or services with elements of innovation that must have
economic value and improve the societal wellbeing of the community.

Abu was commenting on the call by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak, who
urged local and foreign scientists to gather and find solutions to the haze
problem, which has plagued the country for 18 years.

Najib also requested science advisers to find ways to prevent peat fires,
whether deliberate or due to climate change, as the findings could be raised in
the upcoming Asean Summit and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting.

Earlier, Abu witnessed the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU)
between Pantai Hospital Ayer Keroh (PHAK) and Universiti Teknikal Malaysia
Melaka (UTeM) in Ayer Keroh, here, yesterday.

The MoU will see UTeM introducing software to the hospital to improve patient
management system and reduce the dependency of patients on hospital staffs in
the long run.

PHAK chief executive officer Michael E.C. Wong said Pantai Hospital Ayer Keroh
would be the pioneer hospital to use the software before it was introduced to 13
other Pantai hospitals nationwide, as well as other Pantai and Gleneagles
hospitals worldwide.

UTeM Vice-Chancellor Professor Datuk Dr Shahrin Sahib said the signing of the
MoU created new dynamics in the health industry, where technologies produced by
universities were being introduced in healthcare institutions to improve the
delivery of healthcare services.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           February 5, 2009 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Survey: Recession hits hospitals hard;
Day-to-day operating expenses a strain

BYLINE: ANDY MILLER; Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 468 words


The recession has left a deep gash in Georgia's hospital industry, a new survey
shows.

The downturn has caused 60 percent of Georgia's hospitals to cut staff or
consider it, and more than one-third to reduce services or contemplate such a
move, according to a survey of 63 hospitals and health systems by the Georgia
Hospital Association.

And about 60 percent of hospitals say the economy and low payments from the
Medicaid insurance program have affected their ability to meet day-to-day
operating expenses.

The survey was conducted in mid-January to gauge the impact of the economic
downturn on the state's hospitals. Because health systems have multiple
hospitals, GHA speculated that the survey responses represent at least half of
the 174 acute-care hospitals in the state.

The results mirror those of national hospital surveys. Individual hospitals in
metro Atlanta recently have reported increases in uninsured patients, coupled
with major losses from investments.

Release of the survey comes at the same time the Georgia General Assembly is
considering Gov. Sonny Perdue's proposal to levy a tax on hospital revenues. The
tax would help fill a shortfall in Medicaid and fund a statewide trauma care
network.

GHA, which opposes the tax, said the survey shows that hospitals are not
recession-proof.

Joe Parker, GHA president, said Wednesday that it's the worst economic climate
he has seen in more than 30 years in the hospital industry. "Hospitals are
walking the same financial tightrope as other American businesses," he said. "We
are having to do the same thing that other businesses do, bringing our costs
under control to match the revenues."

Among other survey findings:

* Nearly three of four hospitals have experienced increases in bad debt and
charity care since October.

* About half have experienced declines in elective procedures, often the most
profitable service for hospitals.

* Almost three of four hospitals are postponing or reconsidering capital
expenditures, such as information technology.

* More than half have seen a decline in charitable contributions.

Survey respondent Ty Cobb Healthcare System, which operates hospitals in Royston
and Hartwell, has seen its bad debt and charity care rise as people have lost
jobs.

"The unemployment rate in our area is pushing 10 percent," said Chuck Adams, CEO
of the Ty Cobb system. "We're seeing people with insurance not able to pay their
deductible."

The Ty Cobb system has consolidated some hospital services and has frozen hiring
and capital expenditures. The credit crunch, meanwhile, has delayed the system's
plan to build a new hospital to replace the other two.

Adams added that the Ty Cobb hospitals lost money in 2008, and the system's
investment income plunged 33 percent. "We'll have to do everything it takes to
stay in business," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2009 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              372 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                         The Gympie Times (Queensland)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday

1500 rally over delay on our Coast hospital

BYLINE:  Arthur Gorrie

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305  words



HIGHLIGHT: 'Beds needed right now'


PREMIER Anna Bligh, along with her deputy and Health Minister Paul Lucas, were
not there on Sunday, when 1500 people marched in protest at the latest
postponement of our region's long-promised Sunshine Coast University Hospital.

This was the hospital, which Gympie people would have expected to be using by
2014, but has now been postponed to 2016.

Our two top State leaders were joined in their absence by hoardes of other
elected representatives.

However Sunshine Coast councillor Ted Hungerford, Opposition health spokesman
and Caloundra MP Mark McArdle, his predecessor and Maroochydore MP Fiona
Simpson, and Kawana, Glasshouse and Buderim MPs Jarrod Bleijie, Andrew Powell
and Steve Dickson were noted as welcome

attendees.

To chants of "hospital delay, no way!" protesters marched along Innovation
Parkway to a field near to the proposed site of the promised 450-bed hospital on
Kawana Way, Butinya. While there, they tied 450 yellow ribbons - one for each
bed in the promised hospital - to a fence at the hospital site.

They made it loud and clear that Sunshine Coast and Gympie people are not
prepared to remain silent in the face of postponement of the much-needed
facility.

More than 22,00 people have so far signed a petition to try and force the
government to bring forward construction of the hospital.

The $1.57 billion facility was postponed early this year, in response to the
financial crisis-led economic downturn.

Noosa-based doctor Richard Pearson told the crowd it was imperative the new
hospital open on its originally scheduled date.

"Our conviction is that 500 new hospital beds are needed right now on the
Sunshine Coast," he said.

Mr Lucas issued a statement saying the government was well aware of community
concerns on the Sunshine Coast and saying its plan to purchase private beds
would deliver results sooner.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GGT


                    Copyright 2009 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                         The Gympie Times (Queensland)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday

1500 rally over delay on our Coast hospital

BYLINE:  Arthur Gorrie

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305  words



HIGHLIGHT: 'Beds needed right now'


PREMIER Anna Bligh, along with her deputy and Health Minister Paul Lucas, were
not there on Sunday, when 1500 people marched in protest at the latest
postponement of our region's long-promised Sunshine Coast University Hospital.

This was the hospital, which Gympie people would have expected to be using by
2014, but has now been postponed to 2016.

Our two top State leaders were joined in their absence by hoardes of other
elected representatives.

However Sunshine Coast councillor Ted Hungerford, Opposition health spokesman
and Caloundra MP Mark McArdle, his predecessor and Maroochydore MP Fiona
Simpson, and Kawana, Glasshouse and Buderim MPs Jarrod Bleijie, Andrew Powell
and Steve Dickson were noted as welcome

attendees.

To chants of "hospital delay, no way!" protesters marched along Innovation
Parkway to a field near to the proposed site of the promised 450-bed hospital on
Kawana Way, Butinya. While there, they tied 450 yellow ribbons - one for each
bed in the promised hospital - to a fence at the hospital site.

They made it loud and clear that Sunshine Coast and Gympie people are not
prepared to remain silent in the face of postponement of the much-needed
facility.

More than 22,00 people have so far signed a petition to try and force the
government to bring forward construction of the hospital.

The $1.57 billion facility was postponed early this year, in response to the
financial crisis-led economic downturn.

Noosa-based doctor Richard Pearson told the crowd it was imperative the new
hospital open on its originally scheduled date.

"Our conviction is that 500 new hospital beds are needed right now on the
Sunshine Coast," he said.

Mr Lucas issued a statement saying the government was well aware of community
concerns on the Sunshine Coast and saying its plan to purchase private beds
would deliver results sooner.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GGT


                    Copyright 2009 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                November 4, 2002

Talk to spell out fears of economic malaise

BYLINE: John Thomson

SECTION: News; Business; Economy; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 433 words


Fears of a growing economic malaise affecting the Banff and Macduff areas will
be spelled out this week to Aberdeenshire Council's top official. Chief
executive Alan Campbell has accepted an invitation to meet the business
community at Banff and Macduff to hear their concerns.

He is likely to be encouraged to explain what the local authority can do to help
reverse the decline.

Banff councillor John Cox has been involved in arranging the talks, which will
be held on Wednesday.

He said: "The business community is very concerned about the downturn in the
local economy, part of which has come about with a transfer of council jobs out
of the area.

"There's also the impact of the closure of Ladysbridge Hospital, the problems
affecting the fishing industry and the general slowdown in the local economy.

"It would appear, meanwhile, that the council is addressing similar problems in
other parts of Aberdeenshire." Ladysbridge Hospital is due to close next spring
as part of the Government's care in the community policy for people with
learning disabilities.

Patient numbers have been reduced over the last 15 years and today there are
only about 80 beds used.

While some hospital staff have been relocated, councillors in the Banff area are
concerned at the economic impact of the impending closure.

The exact number of people who will be made redundant is not yet known but there
are concerns that even a small number of unemployed people is a problem for the
area to absorb.

Mr Cox said controversy over the closure of toilets and the number of derelict
buildings in the area were also symptoms of the economic stagnation.

He said a number of high- profile council jobs had disappeared from the Banff
area since Aberdeenshire Council was formed.

Mr Cox claimed that although Aberdeenshire was set up with a decentralised
structure, decisions were made centrally. He said this meant local areas had
very little influence on tackling problems such as economic wellbeing and the
area committee was little more than a glorified planning committee.

Mr Cox said: "I think Aberdeenshire Council has a role to play in the social
welfare of communities.

"The business people will be telling Mr Campbell about day-to-day issues and
they hope he can come up with suggestions for regenerating the economy.

"As chief executive, he has a responsibility to ensure there is consistency in
supply and service of all council facilities throughout Aberdeenshire." Mr
Campbell's meeting with the business community will be held at County Hall on
Wednesday morning.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal


                              375 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                  May 15, 2002

Hospital appeals ruling of racial discrimination

BYLINE: By NUALA HAUGHEY, Social and Racial Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 430 words


One of the State's biggest hospitals, St James's in Dublin, has lodged an appeal
against a ruling that it discriminated against a Malaysian doctor on racial
grounds.

The Labour Court will hear the appeal on May 29th, following a ruling last
December by the Office of the Director of Equality Investigations that the
hospital discriminated against a former intern, Dr Bennet Eng (26).

The director's office held that it was unlawful for Dr Eng to work as an intern
without a basic salary when Irish intern colleagues working alongside him were
in salaried positions.

Dr Eng, a graduate of Trinity College Dublin, worked for nine months in 2000 and
2001 as an unpaid intern in St James's.

A specific number of funded intern posts are available to medical graduates
every year in St James's, as well as the State's other main hospitals.

If the number of graduates in a given year exceeds the number of funded posts on
offer, the remaining doctors are allocated unpaid intern positions.

However, priority for funded posts is given to Irish doctors or those from the
European Economic Area, the 12 EU states and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein,
with non-EEA graduates displaced from paid posts to make way for EEA graduates.

In Dr Eng's case, an EU graduate who was ranked lower than him on merit was
allocated a paid internship post.

The hospital had contended that this system was justified, as it was obliged
under employment law to offer paid intern jobs to EEA nationals who do not
require work permits, before offering them to non-EEA nationals who do.

It also maintained that this system was necessary to meet the requirements of
the Treaty of Rome, which provides for equal treatment for workers within the
EEA.

The equality officer ruled that the treaty did not oblige employers to
discriminate against non-EU nationals and that national law governed the rights
and entitlements of third-country nationals resident here.

A spokesman for the hospital said yesterday it was seeking a Labour Court
determination due to "the apparent conflict between provisions in the Employment
Equality Act and the work permit system".

The hospital contends that its recruitment practices are "wholly compliant" with
existing employment laws, he said, stressing its track record as an equal
opportunities employer with a multi-ethnic workforce.

In his submission to the Labour Court, Dr Eng contends that the existing work
permit rules are unlawful and undermine the Employment Equality Act, as they
oblige employers to discriminate against non-nationals.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


                              376 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            December 1, 2006, Friday
                            South City Final Edition

Replacement site for City Hospital

BYLINE: Alison Dayani

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 213 words


THE site for a new hospital for west Birmingham was revealed today.

Industrial land in Grove Lane, Smethwick, has been earmarked for the project,
bringing a pounds 366 million investment for the area and 1,000 jobs.

A public consultation is under way until February on the plans to close City
Hospital, in Winson Green, and Sandwell Hospital, in West Bromwich, and replace
them with the new building.

Sandwell and West Birmingham Trust bosses said today that if plans went ahead,
the current hospital sites would be sold off and redeveloped, mainly as housing.

A spokeswoman said:

"The hospital would be one of Sandwell's most significant development projects,
and would bring forward under-used, brownfield land for redevelopment.

"Grove Lane is the preferred location because of its central location on the
Birmingham and Sandwell border, its accessibility for patients and emergency
vehicles, and because of the regeneration and economic development benefits.

"This site would provide a significant boost to regeneration and economic
development in the area, creating investment of up to pounds 366 million in the
development of a new hospital.

"It could result in approximately 1,000 jobs."

Construction of the hospital is forecast to start in January 2010, with the
opening in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                            January 11, 2013 Friday

Hospitals to cure the Coast

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 444  words



HIGHLIGHT: The economic benefits will drive growth


THE Sunshine Coast's property industry could be one of Australia's best
performing areas in the next 10 to 15 years, according to industry insiders.

With economic drivers such as the public and private hospitals under
construction in Kawana, the Sunshine Coast can expect to see significant growth
for the region, they claim.

Investor Property's Mal Cayley said the Coast's property industry should see the
start of an improvement this year after the post-global financial crisis
depressed market.

"I believe 2013 and 2014 are significant years for change for the Sunshine Coast
and I think it will be the beginning of a protracted upswing in specific parts
of the Coast," Mr Cayley said.

"Places like Brightwater, Maroochydore and that belt south of Maroochy River to
Caloundra will see significant growth over the next 10 to 15 years.

"My call is this area of the Sunshine Coast in and around the hospital will be
one of the best performing areas in Australia."

Mr Cayley said with economic development picking up there had been much spending
in the construction industry and it should continue to improve.

"A lot of people might have been working away for big dollars in the mines, but
there will be more incentive to stay and work here," he said.

"We'll see a whole new group of workers to work in and around the private
hospital from this year and over 2014-15 we will see an increasing volume of
construction that will be associated with that and ancillary hospital services.

"From 2016, even though the construction work will die off on the hospital
project, it's all the new jobs that will start flowing from there with the
hospital and the university, and then all the retail and the other things that
come as a result."

He also said the number of people expected to move to the Sunshine Coast as a
direct result of the hospitals was much higher than originally anticipated and
its flow-on affect would boost the region's economy.

"Thousands of people are coming to the Sunshine Coast to work, but if you think
about those thousands of jobs in those two hospitals, there are 3500 direct
jobs," he said.

"If we're talking about 3500 coming, we're actually talking about 9000 because
they are bringing their families and their children.

"So you must think about the implications that will have on retail, housing,
schooling, child care and car sales.

"It is the flow-through economic benefit of something as significant as this
that is hard to put a number on today and it's only just begun."

MAL CAYLEY'S BEST BUYS

 Anywhere near the new hospitals at Kawana

Brightwater

Maroochydore

Between Caloundra and Maroochy River

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                              June 25, 2010 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Health secretary backs Royal ...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 310 words


HEALTH secretary Andrew Lansley has revealed why the government gave the
go-ahead to rebuilding the Royal Liverpool Hospital.

Mr Lansley visited Liverpool just a week after it was announced the pounds 451m
project was taken off ministers' spending cuts hit list.

He said officials believed a new Royal would prompt economic growth in the city.

After meeting senior officials at the hospital, he told the ECHO: "This was a
project which was viable and it was a necessity from the point of view of the
NHS trust.

"If they did not have a new building, the only alternative was to have a major
refurbishment, which would have been immensely disruptive and time-consuming.

"Looking at the projects which had been approved since the start of the year, we
had to see which were value for money and needed to go ahead.

"This hospital is clearly one which can make economic growth and this is an
opportunity to go beyond what is currently here. The Royal Liverpool Hospital is
a place where we can have leading science, along with leading engineering, and
that is important for economic growth."

Tony Bell, Royal chief executive, added: "We were delighted to welcome the
secretary of state to the Royal and talk to him about our plans for the new
hospital, which he confirmed last week.

"The new Royal will be a great boost for the city's vision, providing not only a
world-class hospital but a biocampus which will bring together academia,
industry and healthcare into a major health science research hub."

Mr Lansley would not be drawn on whether Alder Hey children's hospital would
secure its own funding.

He said: "I have recently been to Alder Hey and they are proceeding with their
plans. They are not asking me for approval.

"I understand how much people value the care they get at Alder Hey and some of
the difficulties the staff are working with."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SUPPORT: Andrew Lansley visited the Royal where he met, above, Tony
Bell and Judith Greensmith Pictures: GAVIN TRAFFORD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 23, 2017 Tuesday

City OK's $250K for hospital renovations

BYLINE: Mitchell Kirk Staff reporter, Pharos-Tribune, Logansport, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 503 words


May 23--Logansport City Council approved on first reading a contribution of
$250,000 Monday to Logansport Memorial Hospital's cancer treatment and
obstetrics projects.

The two developments will bring a new cancer treatment center and remodeled
obstetrics unit to the hospital.

The hospital and Logansport Memorial Hospital Foundation were seeking to raise a
combined $500,000 from the city and Cass County outside of their capital
campaign to raise 10 percent of the projects' $7.5 million cost. The Cass County
Council agreed to contribute $250,000 last Friday. Both councils plan to
distribute funds in five $50,000 annual increments.

Dave Morris was one of six city council members who voted in favor of the
ordinance May 22 authorizing funding from the city's county economic development
income tax, or CEDIT, fund to the hospital. A second vote is necessary to pass
an ordinance.

"Even though they're one of our larger employers, they're also one of the city's
best advocates," Morris said after Monday's meeting. "They have the trail system
that their foundation supports and they reach out for the community, so I just
felt like it was the right thing to do."

City Councilman Matt Meagher, a hospital employee, abstained from the vote.

Scott Kraud, a member of the hospital foundation board, said after the meeting
that he and his fellow board members are grateful for the city's and county's
contributions.

"Just having the city and county on board means a lot to our organization, the
hospital foundation," he said. "It says they believe in the project and they
want to see our community grow."

Health care is an important factor in economic development, Kraud continued.

"Economic development in our community is more about retention than it is about
expansion, than it is attraction, just because we're just not at that point
anymore," he said. "So anything that we can do to help the hospital move forward
and provide that type of service to our community members so that they don't
have to drive to Lafayette or Indianapolis to get health care, they can get it
right here."

In other news, the council also:

--Approved unanimously a resolution authorizing a five-year tax abatement for
Tyson Foods' $9.2 million investment in new equipment that will be 100 percent
the first year, 80 the second, 60 the third, 40 the fourth and 20 the fifth.

--Approved unanimously a resolution authorizing a 10-year tax abatement for
Tyson Foods' $6 million investment in real estate improvement that will be 100
percent the first year, 90 the second, 80 the third, 65 the fourth, 50 the
fifth, 40 the sixth, 30 the seventh, 20 the eighth, 10 the ninth and 5 the
tenth.

--Approved unanimously an ordinance on first reading committing $25,000 in CEDIT
funds to renew the city's contract with Voorhees Studio.

Reach Mitchell Kirk at mitchell.kirk@pharostribune.com or 574-732-5130

___ (c)2017 the Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, Ind.) Visit the Pharos-Tribune
(Logansport, Ind.) at www.pharostribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170523-LG-City-OK-s-250K-for-hospital-renovations-0523-20170523

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LG


                         Copyright 2017 Pharos-Tribune


                              380 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Hickory Daily Record (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 17, 2009 Friday

Hospital expansion moves ahead, in phases

BYLINE: Dee Henry, Hickory Daily Record, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 541 words


Jul. 17--HICKORY -- The planned $70 million expansion of Catawba Valley Medical
Center will continue, but will be broken into phases rather than being done at
one time.

The first phase, which will focus on the Surgical Suite and is estimated to cost
$25 million, will begin next month and be financed through incentives available
to the county through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.

"A good thing about this project is the debt will be repaid with revenues from
the hospital's operation and won't be on the citizens in the county to repay the
debt," said David Boone, chief financial officer for CVMC.

Boone and Tony Rose, CVMC president, will request the county allow the use of
Build America Bonds and Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds to fund the
first phase of the project. The request is slated for the board of
commissioner's regular meeting Monday, July 20.

Both types of bonds give refunds on the interest incurred on loans. County
Finance Director Rodney Miller said the plan is to put two-thirds of the $25
million under Build America Bonds, which will give 35 percent credit on the
interest on the loan. The remaining one-third will be put under an Economic
Recovery Zone Bond, which gives a 45 percent rebate on the interest.

Miller said Catawba County qualifies for the Economic Recovery Zone Bonds due to
its high unemployment rate, 15.4 percent as of June 26.

The first phase, set to begin in August, is expected to last three to four
years, Rose said. The work will include three new operating rooms added onto the
existing operating room suite, followed by renovations to the existing operating
rooms.

According to information from the hospital, at least 12 operating rooms will be
operational at all times during the work period so no delays or impact to the
surgery schedule should occur.

All new operating rooms will be at least 600 square feet, large enough to
accommodate modern and future technology.

A feature of the new Surgical Suite will be a sterile core, offering separate
entrances for patients and staff. Other areas will be designated for
decontamination, equipment storage, anesthesia, offices and a break room.

Rose said the second phase of the project will be dedicated to a central energy
plant, and upgrade for when the planned tower, Phase 3, goes operational.

Hospital staff had hoped to break ground for the project in January and had
planned to issue a hospital revenue bond to finance it. However, the state of
the credit market resulted in the recommendation to break the project into
phases. Future phases of the project will be considered as more affordable fixed
rate credit becomes available.

A resolution to approach the county commissioners for the funding was approved
by the CVMC board of trustees June 22.

The hospital was constructed about 40 years ago.

To see more of the Hickory Daily Record or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.hickoryrecord.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Hickory Daily Record, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090717-HI-Hospital-expansion-moves-ahead-in-phases-0717

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HI


                      Copyright 2009 Hickory Daily Record


                              381 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

Monterey County hospitals have $1.6 billion impact, study says

BYLINE: By Phillip Molnar pmolnar@montereyherald.com @PhillipMolnar on Twitter

SECTION: LOCAL; Business; Health

LENGTH: 551 words


Clarification: The money earned by hospitals from patients is net revenue, not
profits. An earlier version of this story may have been unclear.

MONTEREY &GT;&GT; Monterey County hospitals have an annual economic impact of
$1.6 billion, according to a report released Thursday.

The first study from the nonprofit Hospital Council of Northern and Central
California looked at direct spending, local purchases and employee spending.

It used mainly 2012 and '13 numbers but adjusted for inflation.

The four county hospitals have 3,648 full-time employees and a combined annual
payroll of $359.6 million.

The hospitals made $935 million in net patient revenue in 2012.

Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula made $395 million from patient
revenue, the most of the county's four hospitals.

George L. Mee Memorial Hospital in King City, which along with Community
Hospital is a nonprofit, made $59 million.

The two public Salinas hospitals, Natividad Medical Center and Salinas Valley
Memorial, earned $306 million and $173 million, respectively.

The results of the study were revealed Thursday at the Higher Education and
Research Leadership Summit at the Monterey Marriott. There were about 100 people
in attendance.

Council regional vice-president Jo Coffaro said the high cost of health care is
largely offset by economic impacts locally. However, she said costs need to come
down.

"Hospitals are actively wanting to lower the cost of health care. We have to be
able to survive," she said. "We agree (costs are) high and we're doing all we
can to lower the costs."

On the plus side, she said technology was helping keep costs down.

Individuals and hospitals both feel the burden of rising costs, said Laura Zehm,
chief financial officer of Community Hospital.

"Medical care comes at a cost to everyone," she said. ". . . It is also
important the community keep that in mind and we work together to manage that
resource very efficiently."

Kelly O'Keefe, the interim CFO of Natividad, said the study proved hospitals are
more than just places to help sick people.

"We provide a rich source of high-paying jobs for graduates of our high schools,
community colleges, universities," he said. ". . . Individuals who want to stay
in this particular area, we provide opportunities."

Much of the study focused on what the council referred to as the "Monterey Bay
Region," which was made up of Monterey, San Benito and Santa Cruz counties.

Some of the findings for the three-county area were:

Health care services are the second largest private industry, making up 16
percent of the employment base. Agriculture is first.

From 2002 to 2012, the industry grew 14.6 percent as the rest of private
industry reduced 0.4 percent.

Employment is expected to grow by about 20 percent by 2020.

Health care workers in this region earn 2 percent more than health care workers
in the rest of California.

There are 5,576 full-time workers making a total of $601.5 million in wages. The
average annual earnings were $107,879 per person.

Annual tax revenues for the city, county and state government are "at least"
$126.8 million. That includes property, sales and personal income taxes of
employees.

Hospital construction projects over the next five years are expected to net $140
million in spending.

Phillip Molnar can be reached at 726-4361.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Hospital Council of Northern and Central California's economic
report on Monterey Bay region hospitals was released Thursday morning at the
Monterey Marriott. From left are Laura Zehm, CFO of Community Hospital of the
Monterey Peninsula; Britt Ellis, CSU Monterey Bay dean; Lex Smith, Mee Memorial
Hospital CEO; and Kelly O'Keefe, Natividad Medical Center interim CFO. (Phillip
Molnar - Monterey Herald)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Indian Banking News

                    September 19, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

S&P Dow Jones Indices: Annual Growth Rates Remain Stable in July 2013 According
to the S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

LENGTH: 637  words


New Delhi, Sept. 19 -- Data released today by S&P Dow Jones Indices for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicates that the average per capita cost
of healthcare services covered by commercial insurance and Medicare programs
increased by 3.06% over the 12-months ending July 2013, remaining flat at the
level recorded in June.



Four of the nine S&P Healthcare Economic Indices showed the same annual growth
rates for July 2013 as for June 2013. They were the Composite Index, the
Medicare Index, the Commercial Index and the Hospital Medicare Index. As
measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index, healthcare costs
covered by commercial insurance plans rose by 4.15% in July. Annual growth rates
in Medicare costs increased by 1.40% in July, according to the S&P Healthcare
Economic Medicare Index. The Hospital Medicare Index's growth rate recorded
2.29% in July. These indices' growth rates remain flat from June to July.

The Hospital Index's growth rate posted 2.30% in July, up from 2.10% reported in
June. The Hospital Commercial annual growth rate was 2.30% in July, up from
1.94% recorded in June.

The Professional Services Index annual growth rate hit a recent low of 3.70% in
July; it was down from 3.93%  posted in June. The Professional Services
Commercial Index decelerated to 5.77% in July, down from 6.10% reported last
month. The Professional Services Medicare annual growth rate hit a new low of
-0.26% in July, down from -0.23% recorded in June. This is the only index of the
nine headline indices that remains in the negative territory.

"Since last summer we saw health care cost growth rates dropping and now they
are stabilized near recent levels for most of the indices.  The indices' growth
rates are among the lowest since the indices' start date in 2005. Four of the
nine headline indices' annual rates remained flat between June and July," says
David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices. "The
annual growth rate for the S&P Healthcare Composite Index was 3.06%, the annual
growth rate for the Commercial Index was 4.15%, and for the Medicare Index was
1.40%.

"The Hospital Index posted a 2.30% annual growth rate in July; it accelerated by
20 basis points since last month. The Hospital Medicare Index remained flat at
2.29% since June. The Hospital Commercial Index posted a 2.30% annual rate,
accelerating by 36 basis points. It has the highest acceleration among the
healthcare indices covered.

"The Professional Services Index annual growth rate hit a recent low of 3.70% in
July, 23 basis points down from the last month. The Professional Services
Medicare Index growth rate hit a new low of -0.26% in July, three basis point
down from June. It has the lowest annual growth rate among our healthcare
indices and remains the only negative one. The Professional Services Commercial
Index posted a 5.77% rate in July, 33 basis points down from its June value. It
remained the highest among the healthcare indices we cover."

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the monthly
index levels versus the same month of the prior year.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index is a weighted average of the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare
Index.  Alternatively, it is a weighted average of the S&P Healthcare Economic
Hospital Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index, as
each of these indices has the analogous Commercial and Medicare component.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                              June 25, 2010 Friday
                                  2ND Edition

Health secretary backsRoyal...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 308 words


HEALTH secretary Andrew Lansley revealed why the government gave the go-ahead to
rebuilding the Royal Liverpool Hospital.

Mr Lansley visited Liverpool just a week after it was announced the pounds 451m
project was removed from ministers' spending cuts hit list.

He said officials believed a new Royal would prompt economic growth in the city.

After meeting senior officials at the hospital he told the ECHO: "This was a
project which was viable and it was a necessity from the point of view of the
NHS trust.

"If they did not have a new building the on ly alternative was to have a major
refurbishment which would have been immensely disruptive and time-consuming.

"Looking at the projects which had been approved since the start of the year, we
had to see which were value for money and needed to go ahead.

"This hospital is clearly one which can make economic growth and this is an
opportunity to go beyond what is currently here. The Royal Liverpool Hospital is
a place where we can have leading science, along with leading engineering, and
that is important for economic growth."

Royal chief executive Tony Bell said: "We were delighted to welcome the
secretary of state to the Royal and talk to him about our plans for the new
hospital which he confirmed last week.

"The new Royal will be a great boost for the city's vision, providing not only a
world-class hospital but a biocampus which will bring together academia,
industry and healthcare into a major health science research hub."

Mr Lansley would not be drawn on whether Alder Hey children's hospital would
secure its own funding.

He said: "I have recently been to Alder Hey and they are proceeding with their
plans. They are not asking me for approval.

"I understand how much people value the care they get at Alder Hey and some of
the difficulties the staff are working with."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SUPPORT: Andrew Lansley visited the Royal where he met, above, Tony
Bell and Judith Greensmith Pictures: GAVIN TRAFFORD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   New Orleans CityBusiness (New Orleans, LA)

                                 June 29, 2009

Commentary: Delays for teaching hospital slow economic pulse

BYLINE: Mark Singletary

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 727  words


New Orleans wants to build an economic base around the health care industry.
That strategy for economic growth has served many rebounding economies quite
well and it could work well for us.

Often referred to as the biomedical corridor, plans have been laid to
reconstruct a new teaching hospital owned by the Louisiana State University
System. The hospital site will be adjacent to LSU's medical school and a new
Veterans Affairs hospital.

All the preliminary drawings are complete, but plans are still bubbling in the
caldron that is our state government.

The hospital site remains controversial. Many feel renovating the existing
Charity hospital would be a faster and much more friendly use of the
historically significant building. LSU and, more importantly, Gov. Bobby Jindal
want to build a new facility, and until very recently the state was pushing to
make the new hospital happen.

But in a surprising announcement last week, Louisiana Commissioner of
Administration Angele Davis said there will be no more land purchases for the
new University Medical Center in New Orleans until LSU can reach a compromise on
the hospital's governance with the other schools involved.

Does this mean the new teaching hospital planned for Mid-City is dead or at
least on life support? Who knows? And who is in charge?

According to a CityBusiness report last week, the LSU Board of Supervisors
approved a governance structure that provides the state school with more seats
on the nonprofit board that will run the medical facility, altering a proposal
Jindal's administration brokered recently involving LSU, Tulane and Xavier
universities.

LSU leaders have plans for an 11-member board with five representatives for the
school, while the governor's proposal outlines a board with 12 members,
including four LSU seats.

"The governance structure is a critical step toward developing a financing model
for the new facility," Davis said in a prepared statement. "There remains no
agreement on the proposed governing structure and it is critical that we make an
intensified effort to reach an agreement before the state acts to purchase the
property. "

Everyone seems to want in on the planning.

Earlier this month, Louisiana House Speaker Jim Tucker, R-Algiers, introduced
and then abandoned a bill that would have drastically changed the hospital's
board structure. He apparently thought earlier memos of understanding among LSU,
the state and several participating colleges needed to be set aside and his
guidance was necessary. Or maybe he was just trying to force a final decision.

Again, who knows?

All the while, we are depending on the federal government to continue with its
plan to build a new VA hospital in the same neighborhood.

There are no indications any of the local rancor has affected VA plans - yet.

We have no way of knowing whether there is any timidity inside the VA's
construction plans. But who would blame them if they begin to question the
decision to spend hundreds of millions here while uncertainties continue to
swirl around the LSU teaching hospital.

A new teaching hospital, tied to some form of charity-based health care system,
is the key component to any real biomedical complex in downtown New Orleans. All
of the indecision and lack of progress puts this fundamental economic
development plan at risk.

There are many questions about any successful strategy that could possibly add
thousands of jobs for downtown New Orleans. The best questions don't involve who
sits on the governing board or who has veto power.

There are work force issues every participant in the health care site will have
to answer. How do we train and recruit nurses, technicians and maintenance staff
for the hospitals and teaching facilities? If the state's leadership is this
wishy-washy on who sits on the board of directors, imagine the fights when it
comes down to who gets to train the nurses and lab technicians needed for the
new facilities to operate efficiently.

Every college and technical center will want to participate in the training
programs. Now it looks as though any participation by any training center might
yield another round of bickering over who's in charge.

Sadly, all too often, it looks like no one is in charge, and that's led us to
where we are right now, caught between what might be and what could be.

Not exactly a great place for our biomedical future.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      Northern Territory News (Australia)

                           November 14, 2009 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

Our hospitals failing

SECTION: SATURDAY NEWS EXTRA; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 794 words


A NEW report confirms what we all already knew, public hospital waiting times
far exceed acceptable levels. And Territory hospitals fare worst than most. GREG
LINDSAY and ROGER BATE report

MAUREEN Watts' mother and both her grandfathers had bowel cancer. So when the
63-year-old Territorian started to feel ill, she became concerned. When she went
to the Royal Darwin Hospital for a colonoscopy, though, she was told that the
wait would be at least eight months.

This is hardly surprising.

A new report from the Australian Medical Association shows waiting times are far
exceeding acceptable levels.

The median wait for hip surgery in an Australian public hospital is nearly three
months. For cataract surgery, it's over two months. In the Australian Capital
Territory, the median waiting time for elective surgery is 72 days. Major public
hospitals throughout Australia are bursting at the seams with bed occupancy
rates of well over 100 per cent a daily occurrence.

A new study from the Legatum Institute -- an international development think
tank based in London -- shows these kinds of inefficiencies are hurting
Australia's prosperity.

Legatum just released its annual rankings of world prosperity. Australia came in
an impressive sixth out of 104 countries surveyed -- the top five are all small
Northern European countries with populations of less than 10 million.

Researchers found that while Australia is very strong on the economic
fundamentals required for long-term growth, problems in the healthcare system
are keeping Australia from reaching its full potential, in terms of both
economic progress and quality

of life.

Australia's stunning economic growth over the past few decades is largely
attributable to the government's decision to free up the economy.

In the early 1980s, regulators started scaling back the tariffs, quotas, and
other protectionist measures established during the Great Depression.

Now, Australia has strong trade relationships with all the world's economic
superpowers. Indeed, the total value of commodity exports in 2009 is expected to
top $160 billion, despite the reduction in world demand. Fully half (47 per
cent) of those exports are going to North Asia, and about a fifth to America.

Consequently, Australia has weathered the global economic turmoil better than
virtually any other country. National unemployment has remained relatively low,
at 5.8 per cent since June. And GDP increased by 0.6 per cent in the last
quarter -- the fastest rate among all advanced economies.

Australia's school system has also played a strong role in its prosperity.

The Legatum Index puts this country sixth in its education sub-category.

The Federal Government has established a strong national curriculum and made
primary and secondary school financing a priority. And just last year, the
government spent an estimated $6.5b on forward-looking school improvement
initiatives, including establishing trade-school centres, running teacher
training programs, and subsidising student laptops and other equipment.

Yet the nation's ailing healthcare system continues to undermine Australian
prosperity. It ranked a lowly 21st in this sub-category, behind countries like
Singapore, Spain, and the Czech Republic.

Australia lags behind on a number of important healthcare indicators. It's 28th
in infant mortality. It's 47th for number of doctors per capita. And on
available hospital beds, estimates put Australia behind Slovakia and Hungary.

Overcrowding and inefficiency has compromised patient safety. A new study from
the Queensland University of Technology shows that $1b annually is lost due to
hospital-acquired infections. Medical errors cost an estimated $1-2b annually,
with half of

these errors classified as ``potentially preventable''.

These healthcare problems are draining billions from the Australian economy,
both directly by taking money away from players in the health sector and
indirectly by compromising worker health and undermining productivity.

The Legatum Prosperity Index reflects that Australia is very strong in many
areas crucial to long-term economic growth. Placing sixth out of over 100
countries is an impressive feat. The Government's moves to cultivate individual
freedom and economic competition have led to wealth and well-being. Australians
are among the most prosperous populations on the planet.

But the country's health sector is in need of significant improvement. Cutting
away waste and improving quality in health care would go a long way toward
making Australia even stronger.

GREG LINDSAY is the executive director of the Centre for Independent Studies in
Sydney.

ROGER BATE is the Legatum Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington, DC. The 2009 Legatum Prosperity Index is available at
www.prosperity.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NTN


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WEEK IN BUSINESS;
LEADING INDICATORS PAINT ROSIER PICTURE

BYLINE: By Merrill Perlman

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 893 words


Economic signals are improving, but still show some weakness. Leading
indicators, down for two months, rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in May, helped
by new orders for consumer and industrial goods. Coming on top of the ''flash''
estimate that the economy is growing at a 3.1 percent rate in the second
quarter, the report indicated that most of the past year's sluggishness is gone.
Durable goods orders rose 4.1 percent in May; without the military category,
though, the gain would have been 1.1 percent.

On the negative side, the merchandise trade deficit rose to $12.7 billion in
May, the second-highest ever. And despite the improving economy, the number of
delinquent mortgages was at a record in the first quarter. Some economists
believe the dismal performance in trade could overshadow falling interest rates
and lead the economy into another downturn.

The linkup of I.B.M. and MCI could open a new era in telecommunications
competition and deregulation. In buying 18 percent of MCI, with an option for up
to 30 percent, I.B.M. gains access to a worldwide telecommunications network to
link its computers. MCI gets the financial backing and broad technical knowledge
it needs. But the deal probably means that some of the smaller long-distance
telephone companies will be muscled aside. One competitor, Satellite Business
Systems, an I.B.M. venture, will be absorbed by MCI.

A.T.&T. gained new footholds in the computer market. It reached an agreement to
allow its computers to communicate with I.B.M.'s machines, and the National
Security Agency said it would buy up to $946 million of its minicomputers.

The shift at American Express could mean a new direction for the travel and
financial services giant. Sanford I. Weill will leave as president. Mr. Weill
headed Shearson when it was acquired by American Express and continued to build
American Express's banking arm via other acquisitions, including Lehman
Brothers. Mr. Weill said he wanted to find something else to build. Analysts
speculated he was disappointed that his attempts to buy out the Fireman's Fund,
American Express's insurance division, failed. Mr. Weill's replacement, Lewis V.
Gerstner Jr., has been credited with infusing life into the company'stravel
operations. He must now balance American Express's financial and travel
operations in turbulent markets.

Baxter Travenol's offer for American Hospital is appearing less friendly, and a
tender offer could be in the offing. The big health-care and drug company
originally offered $3.7 billion for American Hospital, saying the bid was
friendly. When American Hospital chose to stay with its planned stock swap with
the Hospital Corporation of America, Baxter guaranteed all shareholders $50 in
cash or stock. But American Hospital is unconvinced. Analysts are puzzled,
noting that the Hospital Corporation deal is worth about $35 a share and that
Baxter's operations would make a better fit.

Stocks hit records on Thursday on news that Congress was discussing budget cuts.
The Dow gained again Friday in lackluster trading, to close at a record
1,335.24, up 10.76 for the week. Bond prices regained some ground as the
Treasury finished mini-refunding, and on the news of a $1.5 billion fall in the
money supply.

The failure of a Chinatown bank caused resentment and confusion in New York's
Chinese community. The bank's branches will reopen as offices of the Hongkong
and Shanghai Banking Corporation, but the status of $49 million in deposits
remained in doubt. Investigators are examining whether some bank officers sold
certificates, described as insured certificates of deposit, that were never
entered on the bank's books.

Arco's chief executive and president, William F. Kieschnick, will retire in
October and will be succeeded by Lodwrick M. Cook. Mr. Kieschnick said he waited
to leave until he was sure Arco's $4 billion restructuring program was well on
its way.

President Reagan's tax plan came under more fire. The nonpartisan Congressional
Budget Office said the revisions would mean lower revenues over 15 years; the
President has said it would be ''revenue neutral'' over five years. And, said
the Fed chairman, Paul A. Volcker, the provisions for business investment are
not sufficient.

Lyle Gramley is resigning from the Federal Reserve Board. Mr. Gramley had been a
stong ally of Mr. Volcker, the Fed chairman, who is often at odds with the
President on monetary policy. With the expected departure of Charles Partee in
January, the President will have an opportunity to appoint a majority of the
board.

A former reporter and two others were found guilty of fraud for trading on
information that was to appear in the reporter's column in The Wall Street
Journal. The former reporter, R. Foster Winans; his roommate, David J.
Carpenter; and a stockbroker, Kenneth P. Felis, plan to appeal.

India refused to join a consolidated suit against Union Carbide for the Bhopal
tragedy. A Federal judge ordered the consolidation, and dozens of American
attorneys joined the suit.

Miscellanea. Lilco was fined $1.35 billion for mismanaging the construction of
its Shoreham nuclear plant. Lilco said it would appeal. . . . Enserch is writing
down its assets by $225 million in the second quarter. . . . Cleveland Electric
Illumination and Toledo Edison are merging, the first utility merger in years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph of leading economic indicators (Commerce Department); Drawing

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                              July 13, 2009 Monday

Studying York County hospitals' financial health

BYLINE: KATHY STEVENS The York Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 531 words


Area hospitals fared well financially from 2004 through 2008, according to a
recent report released that outlines facilities' expenses and revenue statewide.

The report offers a financial snapshot of 170 hospitals in Pennsylvania just
before the economy began its downward spiral.

It looks at three-year averages of patient revenue and operating costs showing
long-term viability for all area hospitals.

But some health care officials say the report by the Pennsylvania Health Cost
Containment Council provides a skewed picture of hospital well being, that the
fiscal year that ended June 30 would reveal the full impact of the economic
downturn.

"It paints a picture that's different than what it is today for most hospitals,"
said Barry Sparks, spokesman for WellSpan Health's York Hospital. "It's skewed
because it was before the economic downturn."

What it says: The Containment Council reports the following:

---Hanover Hospital's net patient revenue increased from $93 million in fiscal
2004-05 to $115 million in fiscal 2007-08. Operating expenses grew in the past
three years from $91 million in 2004-05 to $116 million last year.

---Memorial's net patient revenue increased from $75 million in fiscal 2004-05
to $94 million last fiscal year. Its operating expenses grew from $75 million in
2004-05 to $98 million last fiscal year.

---York's net patient revenue increased from $417 million in 2004-05 to $644
million last fiscal year. Its operating expenses in the past three years
increased from $437 million in fiscal 2004-05 to $603 million last year.

All of the hospitals during that time made improvements to deal with an
influx of patients and demand for care.

Cutbacks: But as the economic horizon darkened, facilities were forced to cut
back.

York Hospital put the brakes on expansion plans in March 2008, citing decreased
investment revenue as the stock market began to plummet.

In January 2009, Memorial cut 32 positions to adjust staff-to-patient ratio due
to a decrease in elective procedures and reduced in-patient population, said
Sally Dixon, Memorial's chief executive officer.

She said the hospital was overstaffed, and that once personnel adjustments were
made, the facility's bottom line leveled.

Outlook now: Like Sparks, Dixon said the report is information they've already
digested, adjusted for and forgotten.

She said Memorial's net patient revenue has not grown as quickly as operating
costs have but that things appear to be looking up this fiscal year. Outpatient
surgeries, emergency visits and elective procedures have increased. And while
the facility hasn't brought back positions it cut in January, vacant positions
are being filled, Dixon said.

"A lot of people who still have jobs have kind of held off (on medical
procedures) because they're not sure what's happening (financially)," Dixon
said. "All people, whether they have jobs or not, are being more judicious."

Sparks said York Hospital has not seen the decline in patient volumes that 40
percent of hospitals nationwide have reported.

He added that expansion plans for its Emergency Department are on hold until the
economic situation stabilizes.

-- Reach Kathy Stevens at 505-5437 or kstevens@
yorkdispatch.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday

Foreign doctors allowed in Incheon FEZ

LENGTH: 542 words


Decision by Health Ministry hints at introduction of for-profit hospitals

The government has recently allowed foreign medical doctors, dentists and nurses
to work at foreign medical facilities to be established in Incheon Free Economic
Zone, but not at non-profit hospitals.

Only doctors who have been trained in Korea are allowed to work outside free
economic zones.

The move is an indication that the Ministry of Health and Welfare will allow the
establishment of for-profit hospitals in FEZs.

According to the ministry Wednesday, it revised the rules on condition of the
approval of foreign medical licenses on Aug. 22, which take effect only by
public notice, to allow foreign medical doctors, dentists and nurses to work in
such medical facilities in the Incheon Free Economic Zone as long as their
certificates are proven to be genuine.

Ministry officials explained that the conditions have been specified upon
request from the IFEZ operators, who were concerned that Songdo, the main place
of the IFEZ, has yet managed to attract any foreign investors in the medical
field.

Medical tourism is seen as a growth opportunity by President Lee Myung-bak's
administration.

"Recently, a consortium of multinational investors has taken Songdo into
consideration but said the relevant rules are too vague," a ministry official
said.

"So, we had to specify some qualification and approval process to facilitate the
process. The content of the public notice was modeled after the Jeju free
economic zone, where details about the establishment of for-profit hospitals
have been drawn up in 2008," he said, adding that there had been "minor"
opposition from doctors but the overall reaction was rather calm.

However opposition from Jeju residents has meant that no for-profit hospitals
have been set up there.

Civic groups argue that profit-oriented hospitals will polarize medical services
between those for the wealthy and those for the poor.

In Korea, individual schools, religious groups and other non-profit
organizations are allowed to run hospitals as nonprofit organizations. Though
the law strictly limits the location of profit-oriented hospitals, which can
only be established by foreign investors or joint ventures with foreign
investors, to six free economic zones set up to draw foreign investment,
opponents argue that for-profit hospitals will have a strong impact on the wider
Korean medical system.

The Korean Federation of Medical Groups for Health Rights estimates that the
establishment of for-profit hospitals will increase medical bills by 20 percent
because unnecessary tests will be provided to patients. They also say that high
salaries offered to doctors by large commercial hospitals will lure skillful
doctors from non-profit ones where they currently work. Such public concern has
hindered the government from pushing the program even inside the IFEZs.

On Wednesday, the government reaffirmed that no profit-oriented hospitals will
be allowed inside Korean territory except for the designated zones.

"However, in the IFEZ, it is a totally different story. In order to induce
foreign patients to choose Korea over other destinations, we will ease some
regulations and give more perks to the investors," a ministry official said.

By Bae Ji-sook (

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 12, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trinity medical center opening delayed to 2011

BYLINE: CARL ORTH, The Suncoast News

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 537 words


Despite recession, construction crews make progress on hospital.

By CARL ORTH

The Suncoast News

TRINITY - The opening date for Medical Center of Trinity continues to slip
because of the recession, despite steady progress by construction crews.

The new hospital, which will replace Community Hospital of New Port Richey, now
has a projected opening date of 2011, spokeswoman Mary Sommise said.

"The current economic downturn has impacted the construction schedule," the
hospital said in a news release. "Some contracts such as dry wall and mechanical
have been released in anticipation of a potential timetable slowdown and will be
renegotiated at the appropriate time."

Groundbreaking at the 55-acre site along S.R. 54 near Little Road, in the
then-booming Trinity area, took place in May 2006. Optimism abounded at the time
to open the $195 million hospital by June 2008.

Much has changed since construction started during the economic boom in Pasco
County in 2006.

"Not a single one of us anticipated the slowdown in the housing market," Kathryn
Gillette, chief executive officer of Community Hospital, said last year, as the
effects of the collapse in the Florida housing market were becoming increasingly
apparent.

Community Hospital has been weathering the economic storm, Sommise reported last
week. "Our volumes are strong and up from last year, but the number of uninsured
or underinsured is increasing."

Remodeled sections of Community provide a sneak peek of the Trinity facility,
the first hospital in Pasco that will feature all private rooms. The Spine and
Joint Care Center officially opened in January 2007 at Community. The orthopedic
unit has 16 private rooms and amenities reminiscent of a hotel.

The first new hospital to be built in the area in 20 years is licensed for 236
beds. University Community Health opened Long Term Acute Care Hospital at
Connerton in March.

The new long-term care hospital is on 38 acres in the Connerton community off
U.S. 41, about nine miles north of State Road 54.

Another hospital is planned for Wesley Chapel. The new hospital will be a joint
venture between Adventist Health System and University Community Health, which
plan to build an 80-bed medical center just north of State Road 56 and Bruce B.
Downs Boulevard.

Medical Center of Trinity's five-story hospital tower will have an attached
three-story medical office building. For a preview, go to www.medicalcenter
trinity.com.

Crews should complete the first-floor concrete slab soon, according to the
advisory from Sommise. Concrete slabs are now being completed for the second,
third and fourth floors.

Metal decking is about half complete.

Interior walls are being laid out on the first, second and third floors.

Electrical, mechanical and underground plumbing work is finished.

Rainwater leaders, part of a roof-to-ground stormwater drainage system, are
being installed as areas become available, in preparation for roof installation.

Photo credit: Suncoast News photo by ERIC HORCHY

Photo: The shell of Medical Center of Trinity is taking shape, even though the
opening date for the new hospital has been delayed to 2011.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              390 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                           November 28, 2000, Tuesday

REGION BRIEFS

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 612 words


REBUILD AFTER FLOYD

Communities get fed money

The U.S. Department of Commerce has made $ 55.8 million in Economic Development
Administration funding available to help communities recover from Hurricane
Floyd and other disasters.

Communities can use the money for planning assistance, construction grants,
revolving loan funds and other ways of helping businesses recover and get people
back to work. Of the $ 55.8 million, $ 49.9 is for communities affected by
Hurricane Floyd, and $ 5.9 million is for victims of other recent disasters.

Communities interested in tapping the funds should contact the Economic
Development Administration's regional office in Atlanta, (404) 730-3002. William
Day Jr. is the director of the multi-state region, which includes North
Carolina.

NATIONAL HEALTH BOARD

Atkinson appointed

Bill Atkinson, president of New Hanover Health Network, which includes New
Hanover Regional Medical Center, has been appointed to a national health care
policy board.

The American Hospital Association appointed Dr. Atkinson to its Regional Policy
Board 3, which covers the Southeastern United States, including North Carolina.

He will represent health care systems on the board, which meets three times a
year to discuss policy issues and alternatives. The American Hospital
Association uses the regional board's recommendations and analyses in its policy
discussions.

Dr. Atkinson, who joined New Hanover Regional Medical Center in October 1997,
was appointed to a term that begins in Jan. 1 and expires Dec. 31, 2004.

Since Dr. Atkinson took over as president of New Hanover Regional Medical
Center, the hospital bought Cape Fear Hospital, agreed to manage Pender Memorial
Hospital and took over a county-run ambulance system.

SATURDAY EVENING

Wonders of sky on display

The rings of Saturn. Cloud bands on Jupiter. Mountains and craters on the moon.

All of these heavenly delights and more will be on display as the Cape Fear
Astronomical Society sets up its telescopes for a public viewing starting at
twilight Saturday and continuing until about 10:30 p.m. at New Hanover High
School's East Campus, the former Snipes Elementary School, at Chestnut and 21st
streets.

The Society asks that visitors park on the street so the school's parking lot
can remain relatively dark for viewing. If it's overcast or rainy, the viewing
will be rescheduled.

For information, call Ronnie Hawes at 762-1033.

DOT MEETING DEC. 7

Public invited to comment

The N.C. Department of Transportation will hold a public meeting from 2 to 4
p.m. Dec. 7 in the New Hanover County Commissioners planning room, 24 N. Third
St.

The meeting will give the public the opportunity to comment on the department's
Draft 2002-08 Transportation Improvement Program, or TIP.

The TIP outlines the transportation projects planned for the next seven years.

For more information, call the Transportation Department toll free at (877)
DOT-4YOU.

BRIGHT IDEAS

2 Topsail High teachers honored

The Jones-Onslow Electric Membership Corp. has awarded a $ 1,000 Pender County
Bright Ideas Grant to Amy Stuart and Judy Dietz, English teachers at Topsail
High School.

The grant will be used to start a literary magazine. Students now have no forum
to formally share their writing with each other and the community. The magazine
will be produced in the spring semester creative writing and poetry classes.

The classes will create monthly preview magazines and a full-length booklet at
the end of the school year.

The magazine will include creative nonfiction, fiction, poetry and artwork by
students, faculty, parents and community members.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Wilmington Star-News, Inc.


                              391 of 994 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright © 2008, American Health Lawyers Association. All
                               rights reserved.
                     Journal of Health & Life Sciences Law

                                  April, 2008

                 Vol. 1, No. 3, J. Health & Life Sci. L. Pg. 39

LENGTH: 14816 words

SUMMARY: ABSTRACT: Investments by physicians in specialty hospitals, ambulatory
surgery centers, and other competing facilities have caused many full-service
acute care hospitals a great deal of concern. These full-service hospitals
believe they are at a disadvantage in competing against such centers because
physician-investors allegedly can "pre-select" profitable patients. Full-service
hospitals have reacted in a variety of ways, including adopting economic
credentialing policies. Physician-owned centers often view these policies as
anti-competitive and seek relief under the antitrust laws. Hospitals attempt to
defend these actions on the grounds that they prevent what economists call
"free-riding." A key element of this defense is whether pre-selection is
occurring and whether the hospital has sufficient evidence of pre-selection to
justify the conduct under the antitrust laws.

TITLE: ARTICLE: Can Preventing Diversion of Profitable Patients Justify
Hospitals' Economic Credentialing Under the Antitrust Laws?

AUTHOR: MARK L. MATTIOLI, Esquire, is a partner in the Business Law and
Litigation Department of Post & Schell, P.C. in Philadelphia, PA. He
concentrates his commercial litigation practice in the areas of health law and
antitrust litigation, including price fixing, monopolies, staff privilege
disputes, and class action antitrust litigation. He also counsels healthcare
clients on joint venture relationships, exclusive contracting, and economic
credentialing. He has written and spoken on a wide variety of topics, including
antitrust law, health law, the false claims act, and aviation law. Contact him
via email at mmattioli@postschell.com.

TEXT:

   ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING AND ANTITRUST LAW

Introduction

   The current trend of physician investment in specialty hospitals, ambulatory
surgery centers (ASCs), and other competing facilities has concerned many
full-service acute care hospitals. At the center of this concern is the fear
that physician-owned centers will siphon off lucrative patients from the
full-service hospitals. These full-service hospitals believe that they already
are operating at a disadvantage in competing with physician-owned centers due to
low reimbursement by the government and private payors for many services.
Full-service hospitals have reacted to the competition in a variety of ways, but
primarily through developing economic credentialing policies, which physicians
often view as anti-competitive. This article examines the antitrust
justifications cited by full-service hospitals in defense of these policies,
namely that they are designed to prevent unfair competition through physician
pre-selection of patients. Economists label this type of justification as
protection from "free-riding." n1



   n1 The term "free-riding" is an economic term of art, and not intended as a
pejorative term. It is defined as a consumer or producer that does not pay for a
nonexclusive good on the hope that others will pay for it. See ROBERT S. PINDYCK
AND DANIEL L. RUBINFELD, MICROECONOMICS at 668 (6th Edition, Prentice Hall,
2005).

   This article will focus on the most controversial of the approaches, conflict
of interest policies, discussing the pro-competitive justifications offered by
hospitals for such policies (i.e., prevention of pre-selection and its
theoretical underpinnings as they relate to antitrust doctrine). First, however,
we must define economic credentialing and explore the antitrust issues facing
hospitals that adopt such policies.

   Overview: What Is Economic Credentialing?

   The generic term "economic credentialing" connotes many different types of
policies. In its simplest form, economic credentialing can be defined as the use
of any criteria not directly related to clinical competency in determining
whether to grant medical staff membership and clinical privileges to a physician
or healthcare provider. n2 These considerations may include the business goals
of the hospital, utilization of hospital resources by physicians, and other
financial considerations, such as whether the physician competes with the
hospital or affiliates with a competing facility. What distinguishes economic
credentialing from typical medical staff credentialing is that economic
credentialing considerations are not based upon quality of care, professional
conduct, or other competency-based criteria.



   n2 AMA Policy H230.975 (economic credentialing), available at
www.ama-assn.org/ama1/pub/upload/mm/475/811.doc.

   Elements of economic credentialing are not new; they have been around for
many years. Indeed, at least one court has viewed manpower or medical staff
development plans that limit the number of physicians allowed to practice in a
given specialty based upon the anticipated needs of the community as a form of
economic credentialing. n3 Although such plans had economic motivation in that
they sought to limit over-utilization of hospital resources, they were bottomed
upon concerns that over-utilization would result in poor quality.



   n3 See Davis v. Morristown Mem'l Hosp., 254 A.2d 125 (Ch. Div. 1969) (closing
of obstetrics department to new applicants was an appropriate exercise of
hospital discretion).

   Economic credentialing policies tended to change toward "pure" economic
credentialing policies in the 1990s, as hospitals placed more emphasis on
physician profitability and resource utilization. Pure economic credentialing
policies were, and remain, highly controversial, especially among physicians.
These policies looked at and examined whether the physician was bringing
"profitable" cases to the hospital. Although many hospitals contemplated such
policies, few actually took steps to adopt them. Given the highly charged
political nature of the policies and the difficulty in policing their legitimate
application, hospitals have not widely adopted these pure economic policies.

   Physician competition and its relation to economic credentialing

   To a greater degree than in most business relationships, the hospital/
physician dynamic is one of cooperation and competition. Indeed, a major
challenge for any hospital administrator is to maintain the delicate balance
between the economic viability of the hospital and a workable relationship with
the medical staff. n4 To the hospital, these two goals can appear mutually
exclusive, especially when physicians seek to expand beyond the traditional
realm of professional services and compete directly with the acute care hospital
by offering services previously viewed as hospital-only services. There are
multiple well-publicized cases in which physicians seeking to open competing
specialty hospitals claim that competition was necessary because the physicians
could provide higher quality services at a lower cost. n5



   n4 Robert Berenson, Paul Ginsburg & Jessica May, Hospital-Physician
Relations: Cooperation, Competition, or Separation?, 26 HEALTH AFFAIRS WEB
EXCLUSIVE W31, W33 (December 5, 2006) (hospital competition with physicians
identified as one of the top three pressures facing the hospital).


   n5 There is some support to refute this assumption. See Robert Bereson,
Gloria Bazzoli and Melanie Au, Do Specialty Hospitals Promote Price Competition
?, CENTER FOR STUDYING HEALTH SYSTEM CHANGE, ISSUE BRIEF NO. 103 (January 2006)
(concluding that specialty hospitals do not lower costs for services).

   In addition, many physicians are investing in competing ambulatory surgery
centers. n6 Full-service acute care hospitals continue to be concerned with
competition by ASCs and perceive them as infringing upon their turf. Most
importantly, hospitals believe that physician investors will attempt to leverage
their relationships with patients to pre-select high-paying and profitable cases
for their facilities, while simultaneously directing all free and
low-reimbursement patients to the hospital.



   n6 New ASCs are increasing at alarming rates as more procedures can be
performed safely in such centers. Additionally, many physicians are offering CT
scans in their offices. Robert. A. Bereson, Thomas Bodenheimer & Hoangmai Pham,
Specialty-Service Lines: Salvos in the New Medical Arms Race, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS
w377, w341 (published online December 5, 2006, 10.1377/hlthaff.25.w337).

Role of cost-shifting as influencing credentialing policy

   Hospitals must offer a wide variety of services to patients. Some services
will not be profitable, while others will. Moreover, the profitability of a
particular service may depend upon the identity of the payor. Overall, a
hospital must balance profitable services with non-profitable services to remain
financially viable. If the balance tips towards unprofitable payors or services,
the hospital will find itself in a difficult financial position. This process of
offsetting unprofitable services with the profitable ones is sometimes referred
to as cost-shifting. The inability to cost-shift is at the center of the
economic credentialing debate. Hospitals argue that when physicians siphon off
lucrative patients, the hospital cannot then offset the unprofitable services
against profitable ones. Physicians, the hospitals claim, have the ability to
pre-select profitable patients, an ability the hospital does not possess.

   This perceived ability to pre-select patients based upon reimbursement
potential is a source of considerable anxiety for hospitals, because they rely
upon a broad mix of payer types to maintain financial stability. n7
Specifically, full-service hospitals complain that they are saddled with a
larger percentage of charity cases for which they will receive no reimbursement,
complicating further their financial condition. n8 Unfortunately, due to cuts in
governmental programs, hospitals often are forced to subsidize indigent and
governmental program care with more lucrative payments from private insurers. n9
This cost-shifting has been a major concern for private insurers attracted to
the potential for more favorable rates from physician-owned centers, which treat
fewer Medicaid patients and may rely less on cost-shifting subsidies. n10



   n7 Stacey Burling, Surgical Centers' Growth Criticized, PHILA. INQUIRER, Nov.
20, 2007, at D1 (Hospital and Health-System Association of Pennsylvania notes
that outpatient centers siphon off healthiest, best-insured patients, making it
hard for hospital to make a profit).


   n8 The CMS Final Report found that acute care hospitals provided a
substantially higher amount of charity care than did specialty hospitals. U.S.
DEPT. HEALTH & HUMAN SERV., FINAL REPORT TO THE CONGRESS & STRATEGIC &
IMPLEMENTING PLAN, 52 n.79 (Aug. 9, 2006). [hereinafter CMS Report].


   n9 See Allen Dobson, Joan DaVanzo and Namrata Sen, The Cost-Shift Payment
Hydraulic: Foundation, History and Implications, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 22 (2006).
According to the authors, "the cost-shifting dynamic places hospitals in the
unenviable position of playing the role of private-sector tax collectors, to
maintain their financial solvency." The authors conclude that the inability to
cost shift likely will result in the demise of many hospitals and services
currently provided by acute care hospitals.


   n10 The CMS Report also concluded that physician-owned specialty hospitals
served a lower percentage of Medicaid patients than were served by acute care
hospitals. CMS Report, supra note 8, at 12.

   Hence, the perceived inability to cost shift becomes a focal point of the
economic credentialing controversy. As discussed below, hospital conflict
policies are largely designed to prevent and/or punish this perceived
pre-selection of patients. Hospitals may attempt to use a variety of different
mechanisms to obtain this goal, some cooperative and some coercive.

Hospital responses to pre-selection: cooperative and coercive polices

   The first reaction by hospitals facing competition from ASCs and other
physician-owned entities often is to attempt to partner with the physicians in a
joint venture. The idea behind this is that the hospital will run the facility
while the physicians continue to provide professional services and receive some
profit from the technical services by way of the joint venture. In these joint
ventures, the hospital's and physicians' goals are aligned. In fact, according
to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Report on specialty
hospitals, this lack of alignment causes physicians to open specialty hospitals:


        We believe that closer alignment of physician and hospital
     incentives has the potential to reduce physicians' motivation for
     creating specialty hospitals and to improve patient outcomes and the
     efficiency of care delivery. Current Medicare payment systems often
     put physicians and hospitals at cross purposes. For example, under the
     physician fee schedule, a physician has an incentive to provide a
     large quantity of services to maximize revenue while, under the DRG
     prospective payment system, a hospital is incented to conserve
     resources to maximize its profit. n11





   n11 CMS Report, supra note 8, at 64.

   Where a joint venture with physicians is not an option, acute care hospitals
have reacted to the competition by employing economic means, such as exclusive
contracting with providers, in an attempt to prevent physicians from entering
these new markets. In antitrust parlance, the hospital attempts to create
economic barriers to entry. n12 Finally, when none of the above options are
viable, but a hospital feels threatened economically, it may attempt to create
economic credentialing policies that prohibit physicians with financial
interests in competing facilities from maintaining or acquiring medical staff
privileges at the acute care hospital. This is often a last step and carries its
own economic disadvantages, not to mention significant political hospital
-physician relationship ramifications.



   n12 See, e.g., Rome Ambulatory Surgical Ctr. v. Rome Mem'l Hosp., 349 F.
Supp. 2d 389 (N.D.N.Y. 2004) (Surgery center alleged, among other things, that
hospital attempted to stifle competition from surgery center by contracting,
exclusively, with third-party insurers).

   At one end of the economic credentialing spectrum are policies that prohibit
physicians who are either employed by, or have ownership interests in, competing
facilities from holding board positions or leadership positions on the acute
care hospital's medical staff. These types of policies can be justified on the
grounds that the physician may have a mixed allegiance, and may not make
decisions in the best interest of the hospital. Physician investors may have an
independent personal stake in the eventual decision, which may influence their
judgment. n13 For example, if a medical staff is considering approval of a new
procedure similar to one presently provided by other specialists, those
specialists may be disinclined to approve the new procedure out of a purely
economic motivation. In this case, the physician's judgment of what is best for
the hospital is clouded by his or her economic motivations. These types of
policies are typically very low risk from an antitrust standpoint.



   n13 The AMA, which has strenuously opposed economic credentialing, has not
opposed the concept that physicians with competing business interests should not
hold hospital positions where their financial interests may conflict. Letter
from Michael D. Maves, M.D., MBA to Janet Rehnquist, Office of Inspector Gen. 2,
(Feb. 6, 2003), available at
www.ama-assn.org/ama1/pub/upload/mm/395/rev_oig_comments.pdf.

   At the far end of the continuum are policies that prevent physicians with
conflicting financial interests from obtaining or maintaining medical staff
membership at the acute care hospital. Along the continuum are policies that
deny certain prerogatives to physicians holding financial interests in competing
facilities, such as obtaining unassigned emergency room referrals or being
included on a rotational list for unassigned diagnostic services.

Conflict of interest policies as a mechanism to prevent pre-selection

   Of all the economic credentialing policies along the continuum, conflict
policies have generated the most controversy. These conflict of interest
policies mandate denial of medical staff appointment where the practitioner,
directly or indirectly, acquires or holds an ownership or investment interest in
a competing facility. n14 In some cases, the policy may allow some limited
competition--such as allowing the physician to provide radiology services in his
or her office--but prevent the physician from becoming an investor in a
specialty hospital or ambulatory surgery center. Often, however, these policies
define broadly what constitutes a conflicting interest. For example, in Baptist
Health v. Murphy, n15 direct ownership was defined by the hospital policy as an
ownership interest by the practitioner or the practitioner's immediate family.
Further, indirect ownership was defined as a situation where "between the
practitioner (or the practitioner's immediate family member) and the competing
hospital there exists an unbroken chain of any number of persons or entities
having ownership or investment interest between them." n16



   n14 See, e.g., J. Marks & J. Matchinski, Recent Developments in Health Care
Law: Conflicts Credentialing: Hospitals and the Use of Financial Considerations
to Make Medical Staffing Decisions, 31 WM. MITCHEKK L. REV. 1009 (2005).


   n15 Baptist Health v. Murphy, 226 S.W. 3d 800 (Ark. 2006) (granting
preliminary injunction to prevent implementation of conflict criteria).


   n16 Id. at 805 n.1.

   The rationale for conflict policies is the belief that the physicians are
able to compete unfairly because they have the ability to pre-select which
patients will be treated at their own facilities, directing unprofitable
patients to the full-service hospital. A full-service hospital, however, cannot
discriminate against patients based upon type of insurance or whether the
patient has an ability to pay.

   Conflict policies are premised upon the argument that physicians do steer
patients to entities in which they have financial interests. It is this
presumption that drives the adoption of most economic conflict credentialing
policies. The problem for the hospital is that this presumption is not easily
proven or rebutted. A common argument made by acute care hospitals seeking to
adopt conflict policies is that they cannot wait for actual proof of physician
pre-selection to materialize, as by the time such proof does materialize, the
hospital will be in a dire financial situation. Nevertheless, the accuracy of
this critical presumption determines whether the hospital's conduct is justified
under the antitrust laws.

   As discussed above, conflict policies are adopted as a last resort by those
acute care hospitals that do not have other means or incentives to prevent
physicians from opening competing facilities. For a conflict policy to be
effective, however, physicians must not have a viable alternative to the
hospital. Otherwise, barring collusion among hospitals, physicians would simply
shift their practices to a different hospital. Accordingly, economic
credentialing policies tend to alter the competitive landscape and prevent
physician entry into some markets. From an antitrust perspective, it is this
lack of feasible alternatives, necessary for the success of a economic conflict
credentialing policy, that creates the most significant antitrust risk for a
hospital.

Antitrust Overview: Claims of Improper Economic Credentialing

   To put the pre-selection argument in an antitrust context, it is first
necessary to examine the theories utilized by physician-plaintiffs to challenge
conflict policies under the antitrust laws. Physicians and other investors in
ambulatory surgery centers and specialty hospitals may cite antitrust laws to
challenge conflict of interest policies. These physicians typically will allege
that the policy is an improper restraint of trade under Sherman Act Section One,
or that the hospital has monopolized or is attempting to monopolize the market
for the particular service in violation of Section Two of the Sherman Antitrust
Act.

   Multiple physicians have resorted to the federal antitrust laws when
challenging credentialing decisions because of the potential threat of treble
damages and collecting attorneys' fees from the hospital. Often, these claims
are dismissed on summary judgment because the hospital is immune from damages
under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986. n17 In most cases, where
the issue is one of competence, the courts will not second guess the clinical
decision of the hospital as to the physician's competency or professional
conduct. Nevertheless, the courts may be more willing to become involved in
privileging decisions that are economic in nature. n18



   n17 Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. § 11111(a).


   n18 Gordon v. Lewistown Hosp., 423 F.3d 184 (3d Cir. 2005) (ophthalmologist
whose privileges were terminated for disruptive behavior alleged, among other
things, that hospital retaliated against him because of his plans to open a
competing outpatient surgery center), cert. denied, 126 S. Ct. 1777 (2006).

   A typical plaintiff contends that the hospital conspired with other members
of the medical staff to boycott the physician and/or the affiliated surgery
center in violation of Section One of the Sherman Act. This conspiracy,
depending on the circumstances, may occur when competitor physicians influence
adoption of the hospital medical staff credentialing policy, or when the
hospital conspires with other physicians to prevent them from providing services
at the plaintiff's physician center. For example, the physician investor may
claim, as in Gordon, that the hospital conspired with anesthesiologists to
prevent them from providing services at the plaintiff's surgery center.
Additionally, plaintiffs may claim that the hospital has tied the provision of
surgical services to the provision of professional services, also in violation
of Section One. Finally, such physicians may claim that the hospital is
attempting to monopolize the market or has engaged in a refusal to deal in
violation of Section Two of the Sherman Act.

   In response, the hospital may contend that the policy has rational
pro-competitive justifications, and moreover, does not harm competition. For
example, the hospital may contend that it is designed to prevent physicians from
siphoning off lucrative patients that otherwise would be lost to the
freestanding facility. In antitrust terms, the policy is claimed to prevent
"free-riding" by the physician investors.

   Claims under Section One of the Sherman Act

   As discussed above, a physician threatened with having his or her privileges
revoked as the result of a conflict of interest policy, or a physician whose
center has been excluded may potentially challenge the action under Section One
of the Sherman Act. These physicians will allege some type of concerted group
boycott whereby the hospital coerced other physicians on staff not to utilize
the plaintiff's facility. Section One of the Sherman Act prohibits contracts,
agreements, and conspiracies in restraint of trade, and it is invoked frequently
in staff-privilege antitrust disputes. n19



   n19 15 U.S.C. § 1 (2007).

   To state a claim under Section One, a plaintiff must establish:

        1. concerted action (two or more persons or entities have
     conspired, combined, or contracted with each other);

        2. injury to competition within relevant product and geographic
     markets;

        3. the objects of the challenged conduct pursuant to the concerted
     action were illegal; and

        4. the plaintiff sustained injury as a proximate result of the
     concerted action. n20





   n20 Petruzzi's IGA Supermarkets, Inc. v. Darling-Delaware Co., 998 F.2d 1224,
1229 (3d Cir.), cert. denied, 144 S. Ct. 554 (1993).

   Accordingly, Section One concerns itself only with "concerted" activity--two
or more separate economic persons or entities acting together to restrain
competition.

Concerted action

   First, a plaintiff challenging an economic credentialing policy under Section
One must prove that two or more separate individuals or entities that are
legally capable of conspiring agreed to do something illegal under the Sherman
Act. Such claims are predicated upon an allegation that the hospital conspired
with individual members of the medical staff to remove or harm the
plaintiff-physician. In many cases, the plaintiff-physician will allege that a
competitor physician was economically motivated to remove the physician from
practicing at the hospital with the hope that he or she would capture the ousted
physician's patients. In addition, where the hospital also is involved in a
joint venture with other physicians, such as in a surgery center that competes
with the plaintiff's ambulatory center, this fact may establish the requisite
concerted action under Section One.

   In many cases, however, the hospital will have adopted the economic
credentialing policy unilaterally. n21 In these cases, it may be more difficult
to establish concerted action. Nevertheless, a theory sometimes advanced by
physician-plaintiffs is that the physician subject to the policy is a "coerced"
co-conspirator, thereby satisfying the concerted action element of Section One.
n22 In Gordon v. Lewistown Hospital, n23 for example, the plaintiff
ophthalmologist alleged that the defendant hospital attempted to tie the
provision of inpatient ophthalmological surgery to an ophthalmologist affiliated
with the Geisinger Health Plan. As part of the conspiracy, the plaintiff alleged
that the hospital imposed onerous conditions that had the effect of preventing
him from disclosing truthful information to his patients about the quality of
care provided by the competing ophthalmologist. The court denied the hospital's
motion for summary judgment, holding that the agreement between the physician
and the hospital could constitute an "agreement" for purposes of Section One.
n24 Although not expressly stated, the court in essence held that the plaintiff
was a coerced co-conspirator.



   n21 To the extent that the hospital medical staff is involved in developing
economic credentialing policies, such involvement may give rise to a claim that
the hospital conspired with its medical staff. Inasmuch as economic
credentialing policies are outside the traditional medical competency realm
typically delegated to the medical staff, the intracorporate immunity doctrine
may not apply. See Oksanen v. Page Memorial Hosp., 945 F.2d 696, 703 (4th Cir.
1991) (en banc), cert. denied, 117 L. Ed. 2d 137 (1992); Weiss v. York Hosp.,
745 F.2d 786, 817 (3d Cir. 1984).


   n22 See Areeda, 6 ANTITRUST LAW 1404b ("The precedents are numerous that a §
1 conspiracy arises when an unwilling dealer, to avoid termination by his
supplier, promises to buy a second commodity, to deal exclusively, or to
restrict resales.") See also Gordon v. Lewistown Hosp., 272 F. Supp. 2d 393
(M.D. Pa. 2003) (Conditions of reappointment between hospital and disruptive
physician created a "contract" to satisfy the concerted action requirement under
Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act), aff'd, 423 F.3d 184 (3d Cir. 2005),
cert. denied, 126 S. Ct. 1777 (2006).


   n23 Gordon, 272 F. Supp. 2d 393.


   n24 Id. at 417.

Effects on competition

   If the aggrieved physician can establish concerted action, he or she next
must establish that the economic credentialing policy unreasonably restrains
trade as opposed to affecting the physician's business. n25 To this end, the
antitrust laws recognize that competition is often a fierce battle between
rivals for the hearts and minds of consumers that can lead to the demise of
competitors. n26



   n25 Spectrum Sports, Inc. v. McQuillan, 506 U.S. 447, 458 (1993) ("The law
directs itself not against conduct which is competitive, even severely so, but
against conduct which unfairly tends to destroy competition itself. It does so
not out of solicitude for private concerns but out of concern for the public
interest.").


   n26 Seagood Trading Corp. v. Jerrico, Inc., 924 F.2d 1555, 1573 (11th Cir.
1991).

   Accordingly, Section One claims are analyzed under two frameworks: those that
are presumptive, or "per se," violations, and those that fall under the "rule of
reason," where the court must consider the totality of the circumstances to
determine whether the conduct violates the antitrust laws. Per se antitrust
violations include horizontal price fixing, market allocations, some forms of
group boycotts, and some forms of tying. n27 If the court deems conduct per se
violative of Section One, the defendant is not permitted to explain its reasons
for the conduct. It is exceedingly rare for a healthcare-related antitrust case
to be analyzed as a per se violation. n28



   n27 See ABA, I-I ANTITRUST LAW DEVELOPMENTS § B(3)(a) (5th ed.).


   n28 Weiss v. York Hospital, 745 F.2d 786 (3d Cir. 1984), cert. denied, 105 S.
Ct. 1777 (1985) (group boycott by hospitals to prevent osteopathic physicians
from obtaining medical staff membership).

   Most healthcare antitrust cases are analyzed under the rule of reason. Under
this analysis, the burden is on the plaintiff to establish that the alleged
conduct affects competition. This can be demonstrated directly by establishing
that the defendant's actions have a direct effect on price or output, n29 or
indirectly by demonstrating that the defendant has market power, i.e., the power
to raise price above competitive levels. n30 Although there is no precise
definition of what constitutes market power, courts will look to a variety of
factors, such as the relative market shares of the participants; n31 the nature
of the restraint (i.e., whether it has the potential to increase price, reduce
output, and lessen quality); n32 and the purpose for the restraint. Given
Congress's belief that concerted action is more dangerous than unilateral
action, the test for whether conduct violates Section One is more fluid.



   n29 For example, a plaintiff challenging an economic credentialing policy may
argue that hospital efforts to thwart competing ambulatory centers contribute to
a backlog of cases. This backlog, they may argue, results in additional
bargaining power for the hospital, which can leverage it in its negotiations
with private payors. To date, however, these arguments have not been made
successfully in the healthcare antitrust setting. Nevertheless, a pricing
analysis comparing pre- and post-merger prices charged by hospitals to MCOs was
utilized in In re Evanston Northwestern Healthcare Corp., Opinion of the
Commission, FTC File No. 011 0234, Docket No. 9315 (Aug. 6, 2007), available at
www.ftc.gov/os/adjpro/d9315/070806opinion.pdf.


   n30 FTC v. Ind. Fed'n of Dentists, 476 U.S. 447 (1986) (full market analysis
not required if the plaintiff can show direct effects on competition). Compare
Cal. Dental Ass'n v. FTC, 526 U.S. 756 (1999).


   n31 See, e.g., Oltz v. Saint Peter's Cmty. Hosp., 861 F.2d 1440 (9th Cir.
1988) (market share of 85 percent). A lesser market share is needed under
Section One than is required under Section Two monopolization claims. Reazin v.
Blue Cross & Blue Shield, Inc., 899 F.2d 951 (10th Cir. 1990) (market power
under Section One and Monopoly power under Section Two differ only in degree, as
monopoly power is thought of as "substantial" market power).


   n32 See, e.g., State Oil Co. v. Khan, 522 U.S. 3 (1997) (courts look at a
variety of factors including specific information about the relevant business,
its condition before and after the restraint, and the restraint's history,
nature, and effect).

   Finally, and important to the court's analysis of hospital reactions to
physician competition, in rule of reason cases, the hospital may present
evidence of its legitimate business justifications for the policy. These
justifications must further the competitive process and not themselves stifle
competition. Justifications that have been accepted by the courts include
increasing efficiencies and the prevention of free-riding. n33 However, the
prevention of pre-selection (free-riding) by physicians probably is cited the
most by hospitals adopting conflicts policies.



   n33 These issues are discussed in detail in this article, infra, in the
section titled "Justification for Pre-Selection Recognized Under the Sherman
Act."

   Claims under Section Two of the Sherman Act

   Most claims challenging conflicts policies will be brought under Section Two
of the Sherman Act. Section Two prohibits the illegal formation or maintenance
of monopolies, as well as attempts to monopolize and conspiracies to monopolize.
n34 Unlike under Section One, however, a hospital's unilateral activity can
violate Section Two--under Section Two, the plaintiff need not establish that
the hospital conspired with any other person or entity. For this reason, Section
Two may be, from a plaintiff's perspective, a better mechanism to challenge
conflict policies. Nevertheless, proof of a Section Two violation requires
showing that the defendant possesses monopoly power, or that the hospital has a
dangerous probability of obtaining monopoly power. Monopoly power under Section
Two is more difficult to establish than market power under Section One. n35



   n34 15 U.S.C. § 2 (2007).


   n35 Reazin, 899 F.2d at 966-67.

   Typical Section Two theories include attempts to monopolize, refusals to
deal, and allegations that a hospital engaged in exclusionary contracting
practices with payors to drive the plaintiff from the market. n36 The use of
payor contracts to attempt to monopolize the market is exemplified in Cascade
Health Solutions v. PeaceHealth. n37 There, the defendant (PeaceHealth) gave
discounts to managed care plans in exchange for the plans' agreement to use the
defendant exclusively for primary, secondary, and tertiary care services. n38 In
the attempt to monopolize claim, the plaintiff alleged that these bundled
discounts constituted predatory conduct in violation of Section Two of the
Sherman Act. n39



   n36 For example, in Surgical Care Ctr. of Hammond, L.C. v. Hosp. Serv. Dist.
No. 1, 309 F.3d 836 (5th Cir. La. 2002), the plaintiff outpatient surgical
facility argued that a hospital attempted to monopolize the outpatient surgical
market by entering into exclusive contracts with managed care organizations,
offering steep discounts if the organizations used the hospital's outpatient
services instead of the plaintiff's facility.


   n37 Cascade Health Solutions v. PeaceHealth, 502 F.3d 895 (9th Cir. Or.
2007).


   n38 Id. at § IA.


   n39 Id. at § IIA. A jury found for the plaintiff. The verdict was reversed on
appeal. There, the Ninth Circuit found that the bundled contracts could not be
considered predatory unless the defendant priced the services below cost.

   The most typical and direct challenges to conflicts policies allege that the
hospital is attempting to monopolize the market. Attempt to monopolize claims
involve three elements:

        1. predatory or anticompetitive conduct,

        2. a specific intent to monopolize, and

        3. a dangerous probability of achieving monopoly power. n40





   n40 Spectrum Sports v. McQuillan, 506 U.S. 447, 456 (1993). Although there
are no hard rules, market shares of less than 30 percent typically are deemed
insufficient, while shares of greater that 50 percent usually are sufficient to
sustain an attempt to monopolize claim. M & M Med. Supplies & Serv., Inc. v.
Pleasant Valley Hosp., 981 F.2d 160, 168 (4th Cir. W. Va. 1992), cert. denied,
508 U.S. 972 (1993).

   Section Two does not prohibit monopolies. Rather, it prohibits the unlawful
acquisition or maintenance of monopoly power. Thus, conduct alleged to violate
Section Two must be analyzed similar to a Section One rule of reason claim,
where the pro-competitive justifications are balanced against the
anticompetitive effects. The question here often becomes whether the proffered
pro-competitive justification is pretextual. As discussed above, hospitals
typically rely on the notion that conflicts policies prevent improper
pre-selection of lucrative patients. The validity of the justification depends
on whether this proposition is accurate. n41



   n41 See infra, section titled "Application of the Defense to Hospital
Reactions to Physician Competition."

   Case examples: Rome Ambulatory Surgical Center and Heartland Hospital

   Examination of antitrust litigation by specialty hospitals and ambulatory
surgery centers will exemplify how a hospitals' proffered procompetitive
justification applies. Two cases, Rome Ambulatory Surgical Center v. Rome
Memorial Hospital n42 and Heartland Surgical Specialty Hospital v. Midwest
Division, Inc., n43 exemplify the types of antitrust cases brought by physician
investors against hospitals that have adopted strategies to stop patient
pre-selection.



   n42 Rome Ambulatory Surgical Ctr., LLC v. Rome Mem'l Hosp., Inc., 349 F.
Supp. 2d 389 (N.D.N.Y. 2004).


   n43 Heartland Surgical Specialty Hosp., LLC v. Midwest Div., Inc., No.
05-2164-MLB (D. Kan. Oct. 1, 2007).

   One of the leading cases in this context is Rome Ambulatory Surgical Center
v. Rome Memorial Hospital. n44 There, a physician-owned ambulatory surgery
center filed an antitrust action against a hospital, contending that the
hospital conspired to drive the ASC out of the market for ambulatory surgery
services in Rome, N.Y. Among other things, the center contended that the
hospital engaged in a pattern of anticompetitive activity designed to prevent
competition by entering into exclusive contracts with health plans, intimidating
surgeons from using the surgery center, threatening to withhold privileges from
physicians who used the center, and inducing a group of physicians to refer to
the defendant hospital exclusively. n45



   n44 Rome Ambulatory Surgical Ctr., 349 F. Supp. 2d at 389.


   n45 Id. at 397.

   Additionally, the plaintiff challenged a defendant-hospital bylaw provision
allowing the medical staff to consider "the nature and extent of ownership ...
interest held by the applicant ... in any health care facility which is in
direct competition with the hospital" when determining whether to grant
physician staff privileges. The hospital defended on the grounds that the
plaintiff-investor physicians used the competing facility to refer profitable
procedures to their facility, while referring unprofitable cases to the
hospital.

   The federal trial court ruled that the plaintiff's tying claims, alleging
that the defendant required third-party payors to exclusively contract for
outpatient surgery as a condition for contracting for inpatient services, were
flawed. n46 In so ruling, the court found no evidence of forcing. In addition,
the court dismissed several of the plaintiff's other claims. n47



   n46 Id. at 408.


   n47 Id. at 411-17.

   The court, however, allowed the plaintiff's Section One exclusive contracting
claim to proceed to trial. There, the plaintiff alleged that the defendant-
hospital foreclosed a large percentage of the insured outpatient surgery market
such that it denied the plaintiff the opportunity to compete. Denying the motion
for summary judgment, the court rejected the hospital's argument that it was
merely protecting its turf. n48



   n48 Id. at 410-11.

   The court also refused to dismiss the plaintiff's attempt to monopolize
claim, finding sufficient predatory conduct based on the hospital intimidating
referral sources and entering into exclusive contracts. n49 At issue was a bylaw
provision that would have allowed the hospital to revoke the medical staff
membership and clinical privileges of physicians who competed with the hospital.
Although the hospital never utilized the bylaw provision, the court held that
the threat could be viewed as predatory. The court also allowed the conspiracy
to monopolize claim to proceed to trial. n50



   n49 Id. at 417.


   n50 Id at 422. The case was settled before trial. See also Little Rock
Cardiology Clinic, P.A. v. Baptist Health, Civil Action No. 4-06-cv-1594,
Amended Complaint (E.D. Ark., December 5, 2006). Plaintiff, a specialty
cardiology hospital owned by physician investors, alleged that defendant
hospital conspired with an insurer to exclude them from the market, and
developed an "economic credentialing" policy to prevent competition.

   Although not a case involving conflict policies, Heartland Hospital
exemplifies how hospitals may use managed care contracting to thwart competition
by a specialty hospital. In this case, the court found the hospital's proffered
justification pretextual. n51 The plaintiff, a physicianowned specialty hospital
providing orthopaedic, neurological, plastic, and general surgery, as well as
pain management services, filed an antitrust suit against a number of insurers,
systems, and hospitals under both Sections One and Two of the Sherman Antitrust
Act. After what the court deemed "contentious" discovery that resulted in more
than two dozen separate discovery orders, the remaining defendants, Aetna,
Coventry, HCA Midwest, St. Luke's, Shawnee Mission, and Carondelet, moved for
summary judgment. n52



   n51 Heartland Surgical Specialty Hospital, LLC v. Midwest Division, Inc., No.
05-2164-MLB (D. Kan. Oct. 1, 2007).


   n52 United, Cigna, Blue Cross, Humana, and North Kansas City Hospital settled
with the plaintiff and were dismissed from the case. Id. at 5.

   The plaintiff claimed that the defendant hospitals conspired with the managed
care organizations to prevent it from obtaining managed care contracts. Without
these contracts, it argued, it could not effectively compete. n53 The court
aptly characterized the dispute as follows:

        [T]his case ultimately involves the proper place of physician-owned
     healthcare ventures in the broad landscape of United States
     healthcare. Both sides insist they solely possess the moral high
     ground. Heartland contends that physician ownership yields higher
     quality care at a lower cost; that physicianowned facilities are
     better able to react to new ideas and patient needs; and that patients
     appreciate the convenience of smaller facilities with increased
     nursing care and patient amenities. Defendants contend that
     physician-owned healthcare ventures "cherrypick" the best patients,
     leaving traditional hospitals with costly obligations such as
     emergency and uninsured care; that physician-owned healthcare ventures
     increase the overall cost of healthcare; and that physician-owned
     facilities are unable to respond to the emergent situations of their
     patients in the same manner as a general hospital. Neither side can
     make a colorable argument that the parties' profits is not a central
     factor in their dispute. n54





   n53 Id. at 6.


   n54 Id. at 6-7.

   A central focus of the case was a "network configuration" clause insisted
upon by the defendant hospitals. Under this clause, the managed care
organization had to obtain the approval of the contracted hospital before
allowing a new facility into the network. n55 With regard to the agreement
between Coventry and HCA, the network configuration clause initially was placed
in the contract in 2003, and it was continued in subsequent agreements. The
provision automatically increased HCA's fees by 10 percent if Coventry included
a new facility on its panel without HCA's consent. n56 Admittedly, there was no
real justification by HCA for the provision--it was intended as "punitive" if
Coventry admitted "niche" providers to the network. Importantly, the clause did
not apply to facilities where a hospital was at least a 50 percent owner. n57
Accordingly, it was targeted exclusively at physicianowned facilities.



   n55 Id. at 20.


   n56 Id. at 22.


   n57 Id. at 43.

   Other hospitals and managed care organizations had similar agreements. The
plaintiff alleged that the hospitals conspired among themselves and with the
managed care organizations to boycott the plaintiff. The proffered justification
for the clauses was that it was in each hospital's independent interest to
restrict the number of competitors that may contract with the MCO. The court
rejected this justification as pretextual, arguing that the hospitals'
willingness to include competitors who were majority-owned by other hospitals
effectively nullified the proposed rationale. n58



   n58 Id. at 94.

   Finding sufficient issues of fact, such as dinners hosted by one of the
hospitals where the topic of competition with specialty hospitals was discussed,
n59 the court denied summary judgment in favor of the defendants. Notably absent
from the court's lengthy discussion is any argument developing the concept that
network configuration clauses were designed to prohibit potential siphoning-off
of lucrative patients by physician investors. A potential basis to differentiate
between facilities that are majority-owned by full-service hospitals versus
physician-owned centers is the notion that the majority-owned centers compete
with the same impediments and are therefore not at a competitive advantage due
to their ability to steer patients. n60



   n59 Id. at 54-56.


   n60 Payors also may use exclusive contracts to prevent competition. In Reazin
v. Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Kan., 899 F.2d 951 (10th Cir. 1990), the
defendant-insurer was found to have conspired with other area hospitals to
exclude the plaintiffs' hospitals from its network. The plaintiffs contended
that Blue Cross sought to prevent the plaintiffs from gaining a foot-hold in the
health care financing market. Id. at 965. See also Abraham v. Intermountain
Health Care, Inc., 461 F.3d 1249 (10th Cir. 2006) (optometrists alleged that
managed care organization conspired with ophthalmologists).

   What these two cases make clear is that where a hospital has engaged in
conduct that, at least facially, has the purpose of preventing competition by
specialty hospitals or ambulatory surgery centers, the court will examine the
proffered justification very carefully to determine whether the true purpose is
to enhance some pro-competitive goal--or whether the intent is to stifle
competition.

Justifications for Pre-Selection Recognized Under the Sherman Act

   We will next explore the types of pro-competitive justifications courts have
allowed, with a special emphasis on those justifications that seek to prevent
seemingly unfair competition by rivals.

   If a plaintiff can prove that an economic/conflict credentialing policy has
an effect on competition, the burden then shifts to the defendant to establish a
pro-competitive justification for the conduct. Even where the defendant
establishes a legitimate pro-competitive justification, the plaintiff may
respond that a less restrictive restraint could have satisfied the
pro-competitive rationale, as this article will address later.

   The courts have accepted only pro-competitive justifications that enhance the
competitive process. Often, hospitals and other providers seek to justify
facially anticompetitive policies on the grounds of social welfare. For example,
some proponents of economic credentialing policies argue that the polices are
pro-competitive because they prevent the hospital from being eliminated from the
marketplace, which would result in the loss of charitable care and of community
services not provided by specialty hospitals. These social welfare arguments
have not fared well with the courts, especially the United States Supreme Court.
n61 The antitrust laws are designed to promote the competitive process and are
blind to the choices actually made by consumers, whether good or bad:

        The argument is, in essence that an unrestrained market in which
     consumers are given access to the information they believe to be
     relevant to their choices will lead them to make unwise and even
     dangerous choices. Such an argument amounts to nothing less than a
     frontal assault on the basic policy of the Sherman Act. n62





   n61 See Nat'l Soc. of Prof'l Engrs. v. United States, 435 U.S. 679 (1978).


   n62 FTC v. Ind. Fed'n of Dentists, 476 U.S. 447 (1986).

   Rather, appropriate pro-competitive defenses include creating administrative
efficiencies, n63 increasing quality, n64 making available new products or
services that would not have been available but for the alleged restraint,
mitigating market imperfections or curing asymmetries in information, n65 and
preventing free-riding.



   n63 Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 43-44 (1984).


   n64 See Wilk v. Am. Med. Ass'n, 895 F.2d 352 (7th Cir. 1990) (AMA's policy
discouraging medical doctors from working with chiropractors did not promote
quality).


   n65 Cal. Dental Ass'n v. FTC, 526 U.S. 756 (1999). There, the court held that
the Dental Association's policy of restricting advertising was necessary to
avoid deceptive or misleading advertising by dentists. Rejecting the proffered
abbreviated "quick look" analysis advanced by the F.T.C., the Court focused on
the unique characteristics of the market for dental services, finding that in
markets for professional services, there is often an asymmetry of information
between the consumers and providers, increasing the risks of misleading
advertising. Restricting difficult-to-verify claims about quality, according to
the Court, could have a pro-competitive effect, making an abbreviated rule of
reason analysis inappropriate.

   Prevention of free-riding as a pro-competitive justification

   When hospitals discuss the concept of physician pre-selection of patients as
justification for conflict of interest credentialing policies, in antitrust
terms, they are alleging that the physicians are engaging in a form of
"free-riding" that the conflict policy appropriately is designed to prevent.
Free-riding prevention is a well-established economic justification for
seemingly anticompetitive conduct under the antitrust laws. The doctrine appears
in a number of contexts, in both Section One and Section Two Sherman Act cases.
In summary, a firm invokes the defense to justify a policy adopted to prevent a
competitor from benefiting from the firm's work. Presently, the doctrine has not
been offered as a defense in any reported healthcare antitrust cases. Rather, it
has been invoked primarily in manufacturer/dealer cases.

   A few examples in this context will illustrate the doctrine. A classic
example appears in Continental T.V. v. GTE Sylvania. n66 There, the United
States Supreme Court held that a manufacturer lawfully prohibiting its
franchised retailers from selling Sylvania televisions outside of their
geographic franchised area was appropriate because: the prohibition promoted
interbrand competition; it allowed the manufacturer to obtain efficiencies in
distribution; and it prevented potential free-riding by discount dealers. Stated
the Court:

        For example, new manufacturers and manufacturers entering new
     markets can use the restrictions in order to induce competent and
     aggressive retailers to make the kind of investment of capital and
     labor that is often required in the distribution of products unknown
     to the consumer. Established manufacturers can use them to induce
     retailers to engage in promotional activities or to provide service
     and repair facilities necessary to the efficient marketing of their
     products. Service and repair are vital for many products, such as
     automobiles and major household appliances. The availability and
     quality of such services affect a manufacturer's goodwill and the
     competitiveness of his product. Because of market imperfections such
     as the so-called "free rider" effect, these services might not be
     provided by retailers in a purely competitive situation, despite the
     fact that each retailer's benefit would be greater if all provided the
     services than if none did. n67





   n66 Cont'l T.V. v. GTE Sylvania, 433 U.S. 36 (1977).


   n67 Id. at 55.

   The doctrine is designed to prevent one competitor from taking unfair
advantage of the work of another competitor. The focus is on prevention of
unfair competition, where one competitor benefits by obtaining a service from
the other for which it does not have to pay.

   An example of how the federal government allows firms to protect themselves
from free-riding in another context is found in the patent laws, which prevent
competitors from taking advantage of the research of another firm. n68 Assume it
costs a pharmaceutical manufacturer $ 20,000,000 to bring a new drug to market.
If another firm reverse engineers the drug and sells it in competition with the
developing company, the copying company would benefit from the research and
marketing of the developing company without incurring any research costs. As a
result, the copying company could undercut the developing company's price,
making it less likely that the developing company would bring new products to
market in the future.



   n68 35 U.S.C. §§ 100-376 et seq.

   The patent laws prevent this free-riding by granting the developing company
the exclusive use of the product for the life of the patent. This enables the
developing company to recoup its research expenses and stimulates competitors to
create new products. In the absence of patent protection, an atmosphere where
firms simply wait to copy a rival's product, instead of innovating, would
prevail.

   Often, the prevention of free-riding is proffered as a justification for
exclusive dealing policies in the Sherman Act Section Two context. n69 In the
classic free-riding situation, a manufacturer provides subsidies to a dealer to
use in promoting the manufacturer's products, creating opportunities for
free-riding that may be classified in one of three ways. n70 In Type One, the
manufacturer may provide subsidies (such as display fixtures or training)
directly to the dealer with the intent that the subsidies be used to promote the
manufacturer's own products. If these subsidies are used by the dealer to
promote the other manufacturers' products, the dealer has engaged in a classic
form of free-riding. The dealer is only incentivized to free-ride, however, if
it makes more profit on the sale of the other manufacturer's goods.



   n69 See, e.g., H.P. Marvel, Exclusive Dealing, 25 J.L. & ECON. 1 (1982).


   n70 See Benjamin Klein & Andres V. Lerner, The Expanded Economics of
Free-Riding: How Exclusive Dealing Prevents Free-Riding and Creates Undivided
Loyalty, 74 ANTITRUST L.J. 473 (2007) (discussing the economic theory of various
forms of free-riding).

   Type Two free-riding may occur where the manufacturer pays the dealer for
promoting the manufacturer's products. If the dealer uses the payments to
promote other manufacturers' products, then the dealer has engaged in a form of
free-riding. As described by Klien and Lerner, this type of free-riding may
occur where the profit to be earned by the dealer from promoting the
manufacturer's product is significantly less than the profit to be earned by the
manufacturer. n71 In these cases, the dealer has less incentive to promote the
product because there is less of a benefit. This occurs, in large part, because
the dealer's profit from promoting the manufacturer's product is offset by the
resulting loss of sales of other manufacturers' products. The manufacturer in
question, however, does not have such an offsetting loss, because the sales of
its product likely will reduce the sales of competing manufacturers. n72



   n71 Id. at 486.


   n72 Kline and Lerner describe this process as "cannibalization" of dealer
sales. Id. at 489.

   Type Three free-riding occurs where the dealer refuses to provide promotional
services that have been paid for by the manufacturer. Unlike the first two
scenarios, the dealer is not using the subsidies to promote competing products.
n73 Rather, it is simply refusing to provide the service for which the
manufacturer has already paid. This form of free-riding may be the least
intuitive. Free-riding occurs here because the dealer is receiving the subsidy,
but not expending any resources to promote the goods. n74



   n73 Id. at 502.


   n74 The form of the subsidy may vary, including providing the dealer with an
exclusive franchise or imposing a vertical pricing structure. Id.

   Application of the free-riding doctrine to healthcare relationships

   Similar principles apply in the hospital/physician relationship. In this
context, however, the physician stands in the role of the dealer, the hospital
assumes the role of the manufacturer, and patients stand in the role of the
customers.

   Type One: Medical education, electronic medical records, etc.

   In a classic Type One free-riding arrangement, the manufacturer provides
materials to the dealer to use to promote the manufacturer's products. In
healthcare, of course, payment of subsidies to induce a physician to refer is
prohibited under the federal Anti-kickback Statute. n75



   n75 See United States v. Greber, 760 F.2d 68 (3d Cir. 1985) (remuneration is
illegal if any purpose of the payment is to induce referrals).

   Nevertheless, an analogy applies if we think in terms of materials that
enhance quality for patients, as opposed to limiting the analysis to pure
economic inducements. Often, a hospital will provide medical training to its
physicians so that physicians can offer new services to patients, and to
enhance, overall, the quality of care. An additional variable not found in
traditional dealer/manufacturer cases is that the physician may compete with the
hospital for the provision of certain services, further incentivizing the
physician (i.e., the dealer in our previous example) to promote alternative
services. In such cases, the physician receiving the training and/or other
materials from the hospital to promote and enhance the quality of care at the
hospital is using the training and services to promote the competing services,
for example, of an ambulatory surgery center. Despite the fact that the
physician may not be promoting one service over another outwardly, this is a
classic example of Type One free-riding.

   In the dealer/manufacturer context, exclusivity policies may effectively
force dealers to promote the manufacturer's products and prohibit the dealer
from promoting competing products even if promoting the products would be more
profitable to the dealer. In the hospital context, forcing the physician to
utilize the hospital for all services would serve a similar function.

   There may be additional forms of potential Type One free-riding if the
hospital supplies computer equipment for physicians to use for implementing a
comprehensive electronic medical records system. Again, the focus here is on
enhanced quality. To the extent that the physician can utilize the system to
benefit his or her own patients and thereby promote the services of the
physician's competing facility, the physician may be able to engage in classic
Type One free-riding.

Type Two: Physician referral lists and advertising

   As discussed above, Type Two free-riding occurs where the manufacturer
provides subsidies to the dealer to use to promote the manufacturer's product.
If these subsidies are redirected to promote other more profitable products,
then the dealer has engaged in free-riding. Again, because hospitals cannot
offer payments directly to physicians for promoting hospital services, the
process must be somewhat different. Although a hospital does not provide direct
advertising subsidies, most hospitals do assist physicians with advertising. For
example, it is not uncommon for a hospital to maintain a website with extensive
information on the services offered, as well as a directory of physicians on
staff.

   In addition, most hospitals produce newsletters and engage in various
community activities that spotlight community physicians and provide, in a
sense, a form of advertising subsidy to the physicians. While this is not like
providing money to physicians for marketing the services of the hospital, the
purpose of these promotions is to induce favorable patient opinions regarding
the hospital and the physicians on staff. If physicians are allowed to utilize
these efforts to promote their own competing centers, then the physician is
engaging in free-riding behavior. Again, there is an additional consideration in
that the physician may be competing directly with the hospital for services.
Hence, the physician has a real incentive to promote his or her own
free-standing center over the hospital because such services will, in many
cases, be more profitable.

Type Three: Failing to promote services

   The third type of classic free-riding occurs when the dealer receives
subsidies from the manufacturer to promote the goods of the manufacturer but
simply refuses to provide the promotion services. Once again, this type of
classic free-riding may be applicable in the physician/hospital relationship as
well.

   To the extent that the physician accepts promotional subsidies from the
hospital but refuses to promote the hospital's service, under the model
articulated by Klien and Lerner, a form of free-riding has occurred. This type
of free-riding, however, is not the primary concern of economic credentialing
policies, which are directed at the deliberate steering of patients to the
physicians' own centers. Nevertheless, one can argue that physicians who have a
competing interest in a freestanding center can engage in free-riding even if
they do not actively promote their centers.

   Assume for example that the hospital assists its physicians with the
production of advertising to be used at local malls and community events. n76
Although the promotional material likely will promote the services of the
physician, its true purpose is to promote the hospital in terms of goodwill and
reputation. Because physicians are the gatekeepers for hospital services, much
the same as dealers are gatekeepers for a manufacturer's products, one can argue
that the promotional material constitutes a subsidy to the physicians for
promoting hospital services. If the physician does not promote the hospital
services, this could be an example of Type Three free-riding.



   n76 We will ignore, for purposes of this example, whether the subsidies
violate the Anti-Kickback Act.

   When does prevention of free-riding cross the line into suppression of
competition?

   Unlike other pro-competitive justifications, such as enhancing efficiencies,
policies designed to prevent free-riding tend to resemble efforts to thwart, and
not enhance, the competitive environment. In this regard, they tend to prohibit
others from acting in a certain way as opposed to offering a new product or
service. As such, there is a fine line between legitimate efforts to prevent
free-riding and the outright suppression of competition.

   Most policies designed to prevent free-riding have, by their very nature,
restrictive elements that in some way thwart open competition. The difference
between a justification that advances competition and a justification that
prevents legitimate competition is one of degree. Outwardly, both appear to
thwart competition. Therefore, conflict credentialing policies often appear, at
least to physicians, to be inherently anticompetitive, making them a target for
antitrust challenge.

   At this point, it may be helpful to explore antitrust cases in other industry
sectors that discuss the free-riding defense to determine when such conduct
crosses the line into anticompetitive conduct. An example of the legitimate
prevention of free-riding can be found in Rothery Storage and Van Company v.
Atlas Van Lines. n77 Former carrier agents of Atlas Van Lines alleged that when
Atlas terminated their agency contracts for performing independent interstate
moves, doing so constituted horizontal price fixing, an unreasonable restraint
on trade because the carriers were forced to utilize Atlas's rates for
interstate shipments. Atlas argued that the terminations were an effort to
prevent free-riding by the carrier agents, who were competing with Atlas for
some interstate moves and using Atlas equipment, thereby causing Atlas to be
liable for any damage. Additionally, Atlas's national image (i.e., goodwill)
attracted customers to the carrier agents. The court concluded that the
carriers' use of Atlas's equipment and name for independent business constituted
a subsidization of the carriers' independent business. The court accepted this
free-riding defense and upheld Atlas's policy. n78



   n77 Rothery Storage & Van Co. v. Atlas Van Lines, Inc., 792 F.2d 210 (D.C.
Cir. 1986).


   n78 Id. at 221-22. See also Morris Commc'ns. Corp. v. PGA Tour, Inc., 235 F.
Supp. 2d 1269 (M.D. Fla. 2002).

   Where there is an opportunity to force the competitor to pay for the services
being provided, however, the defense has failed. Such an example is found in
Chicago Professional Sports v. WGN Continental Broad-casting Company, n79 where
the plaintiffs challenged a National Basketball Association (NBA) telecast
requirement that limited the number of games authorized stations were permitted
to telecast nationally. The WGN network telecasted Chicago Bulls games
nationally in violation of the rule prohibiting superstations from telecasting
more than 20 games and in violation of the rule prohibiting WGN from telecasting
games in competition with NBC or TNT. When plaintiffs WGN and the Bulls
challenged the rule, the NBA contended that the rule prohibited free-riding.
According to the NBA, the networks NBC and TNT advertised the NBA on other
shows. The limit on broadcasts by superstations such as WGN, according to the
NBA, allowed the NBA to revenue share and "prop up" less competitive teams,
thereby enhancing the league. It argued that the plaintiffs were "free-riding"
on the league's efforts to compete with other sports. The court rejected the
free-riding argument, holding that the league could require that the Bulls pay
for such additional use, as was done by the Major League Baseball Association.
n80



   n79 Chi. Prof'l Sports Ltd. P'ship v. Nat'l Basketball Ass'n, 961 F.2d 667
(7th Cir. 1992).


   n80 Id. at 675.

   Other companies have invoked the free rider defense to prevent a competitor
from taking advantage of advertising expenditures, n81 to prevent limited
service mail order retailers from free-riding on the full level of services
provided by other distributors, n82 and to prevent competitors from taking
advantage of another competitor's efficiencies to help market its own products.
n83 Notably, where a court deems the defense pretextual and the defendant cannot
justify its practice, the court has rejected the defense. United States v.
Dentsply International n84 exemplifies this type of case. There, the United
States Department of Justice alleged that defendant Dentsply's policy of
exclusivity violated Section Two of the Sherman Act. Dentsply sold artificial
teeth to dealers, who in turn sold the teeth and other items to dental
laboratories. Dentsply's policy mandated that its dealers sell only Dentsply
artificial teeth, prohibiting the dealers from selling competing artificial
teeth. In defense of its policy, Dentsply argued that it ensured that the
dealers effectively promoted Dentsply products. n85 The court rejected this
proffered pro-competitive justification as pretextual in that the defendant was
not able to offer any evidence to support this justification. n86 Hence, it is
not enough to allege free-riding. Rather, the court will require specific proof
to justify the pro-competitive aspects of the conduct.



   n81 The Movies of Tarzana v. Pac. Theatres, Inc., 828 F.2d 1395 (9th Cir.
1987).


   n82 H.L. Hayden Co. v. Siemens Med. Sys., Inc., 879 F.2d 1005 (2d Cir. 1989).


   n83 Seagood Trading Corp. v. Jerrico, Inc., 924 F.2d 1555 (11th Cir. 1991).


   n84 United States v. Dentsply Int'l, Inc., 399 F.3d 181 (3d Cir. 2005), cert.
denied, 126 S. Ct. 1023 (2006).


   n85 Id. at 184. Dentsply enjoyed a market share of between 75 percent and 80
percent. Id.


   n86 Id. at 196-97.

Application of the Defense to Hospital Reactions to Physician Competition

   We will next examine how the prevention of the free-rider problem may be
applied to policies designed to prevent physician pre-selection. In antitrust
terms, what hospitals are most concerned about is the ability of physicians to
pre-select patients by sending low pay patients to the hospital. In most cases,
hospitals fear that competition from physicians is unfair for a variety of
reasons. First, hospitals believe that physicians affirmatively pre-select
patients referred either to the hospital or to their owned facilities. Second,
many hospitals believe it is unfair for physicians to utilize the goodwill and
prestige of a hospital to market their own facilities. Finally, hospitals are
concerned that they serve as a referral source for patients later steered to the
physician's facility. To determine the validity of these arguments, the
underlying assumptions must be tested.

   Pre-selection of patients by physicians with favorable reimbursement

   Acute care hospitals contend that smaller specialty hospitals that do not
provide the full panoply of services are able to compete more favorably in terms
of pricing. Some studies suggest that development of specialty hospitals does
not result in lower prices but, to the contrary, results in higher prices. n87
These factors, they argue, result in a detriment to the community because they
potentially render the acute care hospital unable to support charitable
missions. n88



   n87 Robert Berenson, Gloria Bazzoli, and Melanie Au, Do Specialty Hospitals
Promote Price Competition?, CENTER FOR IMPROVING HEALTH SYSTEM CHANGE ISSUE
BRIEF, NO. 103 (January 2006). The authors state that general hospitals have
responded to the loss of profits by increasing prices in areas with less
competition. Overall, payors believed that competition did not lower prices
because specialty hospitals did not compete over enough service lines. Id. at 2.
See also Stacy Burling, NJ Ruling Threatens Surgery Centers, PHILA. INQUIRER,
DEC. 13, 2007 at C1 (insurer claims that physician owned surgery centers drive
up costs through self-referrals).


   n88 Nevertheless, some researchers have concluded that when considering taxes
paid and charitable care provided, specialty hospitals provide more of a
community benefit. See Leslie Greenwald, Jerry Cromwell, Walter Adamache,
Shulmit Bernard, Edward Drozd, Elisabeth Root, and Kelly Devers, Specialty
Versus Community Hospitals: Referrals, Quality and Community Benefits, 25 HEALTH
AFFAIRS 106 (2006).

   From an economic standpoint, a system where the physician refers patients to
the hospital and the hospital provides the full panoply of patient services
results in mutual free-riding by the physician and the hospital. In an optimum
economic environment, the hospital would pay for the referral and the physician
would pay for the right to practice at the hospital. n89 As discussed,
free-riding cannot occur when a hospital can charge for the services provided.
Unfortunately, hospitals are unable to charge physicians for the right to
practice at the hospital.



   n89 David A. Argue, An Economic Model of Competition Between General
Hospitals and Physician-owned Specialty Facilities, 20 ANTITRUST HEALTH CARE
CHRON. (July 2006).

   A hospital's primary concern when a physician holds a financial interest in a
competing facility is that the physician will pre-select the more lucrative
patients. n90 Acute care hospitals argue that this ability to pre-select
patients is a form of unfair competition. In antitrust terminology, there is an
asymmetry of information between the patient and the physician. Patients lack
information regarding the type of medical services that they require and
frequently are unable to determine the best facility at which to obtain
services. Accordingly, patients depend upon the recommendations of their
physicians. n91



   n90 This trend has been described as "favorable selection." For example, if a
facility is to receive a fixed level of reimbursement, as for example through a
DRG, a more complex patient will be less profitable to treat. Physicians with
ownership interests in competing specialty hospitals do tend to refer less
severe, and therefore more profitable, patients to the facilities in which they
have a financial interest. See Greenwald et al., Specialty Versus Community
Hospitals: Referrals, Quality and Community Benefits, supra note 88.


   n91 Jeffrey Stensland and Ariel Winter, Do Physician-Owned Cardiac Hospitals
Increase Utilization?, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 119 (2006) (discussing asymmetry of
information between patients and physicians as a potential cause of
over-utilization).

   The real concern from an antitrust standpoint is that the physician may be
able to free-ride on the hospital's inability to turn away patients, regardless
of reimbursement. In this regard, due to EMTALA, tax, and state law
requirements, a hospital typically cannot turn away a patient who is not
profitable or cannot pay. n92 Indeed, even in a non-emergent situation, any
hospital that refuses to treat patients based on reimbursement likely would be
faced with potential loss of not-for-profit status. Moreover, the political and
public relations ramifications likely would be more than any hospital would want
to endure.



   n92 By some estimates, uncompensated care and community service costs may
amount to as much as $ 80 to $ 95 billion per year. See Bruce Valadeck, Paying
for Hospitals' Community Service, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 34 (2006).

   In addition to the legal and public relations ramifications, hospitals are in
the business of providing care to patients. Although every not-for-profit
hospital hopes to have some positive margin at the end of the year, a hospital's
mission to the community is its primary objective. Thus, the very mindset of
most hospitals would preclude turning away patients.

   A physician who can shift unprofitable patients to the acute care hospital
effectively is acting as a free-rider by obtaining a free service from the
hospital. This inability to prevent free-riding is more acute in the healthcare
setting than in other service industries.

   The problem is compounded because it is difficult to determine why an
individual patient is referred to the acute care hospital versus the physician's
free-standing specialty hospital or ASC. The physician naturally will argue that
case referrals are made not on economic grounds, but upon the particular needs
of the patient. As such, it would be natural to see more complex patients
treated at the full-service hospital, with relatively straightforward cases
treated in the physician's facility. n93 Moreover, to the extent that cases are
more complex, there may be additional costs of medical-legal liability risks
that the physician owner is able to shift to the hospital. n94 Therefore, it is
extremely difficult to determine the reasons for a particular referral.



   n93 Furthermore, the argument can be made that it is more costly to care for
low-income Medicare beneficiaries than other beneficiaries. Thus, the ability to
pre-select patients may pose a double detriment to acute care hospitals both in
terms of overall reimbursement (usually fixed in Medicare) and the fact that
these patients are more costly to treat. See Bruce Valedeck, Paying for
Hospital's Community Service, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 34 (2006).


   n94 See Jean Mitchell, Effects of Physician-Owned Limited-Service Hosptials:
Evidence from Arizona, HEALTH AFFAIRS (Web Exclusive) W5-481 (October 24, 2006).

   Nevertheless, it is only through balancing profitable cases with numerous
unprofitable cases that a community hospital can survive economically. n95
Removing profitable cases and forcing the hospital to accept non-profitable
cases places the hospital on a financial slope toward imminent financial
disaster. n96 In these instances, the hospital will argue that conflict policies
are justified to prevent inappropriate free-riding by the physicians.



   n95 See Allen Dobson, Joan DaVanzo, and Namrata Sen, The Cost-Shift Payment
Hydraulic: Foundation, History and Implications, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 22 (2006).


   n96 In Memorial Hermann Healthcare System v. Stealth, L.P., Civil Action No.
4:07-cv-1914 (S.D. Tex., June 8, 2007), a hospital filed a declaratory judgment
action against a defunct specialty hospital. The specialty hospital had been
sued by its investors alleging that it was mismanaged. In defending against the
allegations, the specialty hospital contended that it was put out of business by
Memorial Hermann Healthcare System. Memorial Hermann Healthcare filed the
declaratory action to prevent the defendant from alleging that the plaintiff
acted anti-competitively. In the complaint, the plaintiff-hospital alleges that
specialty hospitals engage in cherry-picking, and that the specialty hospital
was not successful because of the conflicts of the physician investors. The case
was dismissed on September 6, 2007.

   Goodwill/referral source free-riding

   A second argument that full-service hospitals may raise in support of the
free-riding defense in economic credentialing cases is that physicians who
utilize the hospital as a referral source are free-riding on the good will and
reputation of the facility. n97 This argument is most prevalent where the
physician receives unassigned call patients from the hospital. In these cases,
the patient initially may have contacted the hospital because of the hospital's
reputation for a particular service or overall reputation. Indeed, many patients
do not understand that physicians are independent from the hospital; many
believe that the physicians are employed by the hospital. Thus, these patients
assume the physician to be of the same quality as the hospital. If the patient
views the hospital as providing high quality care, he or she may regard the
physicians practicing at the facility likewise.



   n97 Greenwald et al., supra note 88, state that many physicians who have
ownership interest in competing facilities also take call in community
hospitals.

   Even if the physician does not compete with the hospital directly, many
economic credentialing policies prohibit physicians employed by competing
hospitals from practicing at the hospital or being placed on unassigned call
lists. Again, such policies tend to protect against the Type Three goodwill
free-riding described above. If a patient is unassigned, he or she probably
decided to contact the hospital based upon the perception as a superior
hospital. n98 There was some intangible reason for the initial contact. If the
patient is then diverted to another facility, that competing facility has taken
advantage of the initial goodwill and reputation of the first facility. This
type of free-riding is very difficult to measure. In fact, the alternative of
prohibiting physicians from taking call may place the hospital in a position
where it is understaffed.



   n98 This assumes that a patient contacted a referral line operated by the
hospital or presented in the hospital's emergency room for a non-emergent
complaint. It is likewise conceivable that the initial condition that brought
the patient to the emergency room was a true emergency, but that the condition
was stabilized, allowing subsequent care to be provided elsewhere.

   Issues of proof

   As discussed above, under a rule of reason analysis under Section One, or to
justify the practice under Section Two, the physician first must prove that the
policy has anticompetitive effects. Next, the hospital may attempt to establish
that the policy furthers the hospital's legitimate pro-competitive objectives,
including the prevention of free-riding. Even if a hospital is successful in
establishing its pro-competitive justification, the physician still may attempt
to establish that the policy is overbroad in that the anticompetitive aspects of
the policy spill over beyond the stated purpose. Thus, two issues must be
addressed: (1) Is pre-selection occurring? and (2) Does the economic
credentialing policy appropriately address the problem?

Is pre-selection occurring?

   Although it is easy to speculate that a physician's ownership interest in a
competing facility will result in the diversion of patients to the competing
facility, proving it is difficult for a variety of reasons. The first challenge
is that many economic credentialing policies are prospective in nature. In other
words, they seek to avoid future pre-selection.

   Full-service hospitals frequently attempt to justify economic credentialing
policies or exclusivity by citing the rumor that a physician is building a
competing center--if the hospital waits until the center is built and patients
are diverted, the damage already will have been done. The problem with these
prospective policies is that they are inherently speculative. Nevertheless,
these concerns cannot be dismissed easily as there is some empirical research to
support such claims. n99



   n99 For examples of such policies, see Robin L. Nagele, Practice Resource:
Model Conflict of Interest Policies, 38 JOURNAL HEALTH L. 353 (2005).

   For example, in a recent study of Arizona cardiac hospitals, researchers
found that physician owners treated a higher percentage of patients with
generous insurance coverage, but a lower percentage of patients enrolled in less
lucrative HMO-type plans. n100 The study also showed that physician owners
tended to refer cases of lower severity to their centers, whereas there was no
difference in the comorbidity of patients referred by non-owners to acute care
hospitals versus specialty heart hospitals. n101



   n100 Mitchell, supra note 94, at W5-486.


   n101 Id. at W5-485.

   Further, research by economists William Lynk and Carina Longley on the
effects of new physician-owned surgery centers also suggest that opening such
centers decreases referrals. n102 In their study, the authors examined the
effects of the opening of surgery centers in Louisiana and South Dakota. The
authors concluded that, in Louisiana, outpatient procedures at the acute care
facility dropped considerably after the opening of the surgery center. The data
reflected an expected decrease in referrals to the acute care hospital by
physician investors, while referrals by non-investors to the acute care hospital
remained steady. n103 Previously, the physician-investors had been the largest
referrers to the acute care facility. The authors identified a marked change in
referral patterns, thereby adding support to hospitals' fears of declining
referrals.



   n102 William J. Lynk and Carina S. Longley, The Effect of Physician-Owned
Surgicenters on Hospital Outpatient Surgery, 21 HEALTH AFFAIRS 215 (2002).


   n103 Id. at 217.

   In South Dakota, although there was limited data, the authors concluded that
the decline in referrals was even more pronounced. After the surgery center
opened in South Dakota, referrals to the hospital fell by 77 percent, and volume
fell from an average of 78 procedures per month to approximately 18 cases per
month. n104



   n104 Id. at 218.

   In the context of an antitrust challenge, the economists concluded:

        These two cases may shed some preliminary light on two
     considerations that often come up in the antitrust assessment of such
     events. One is a standard hypothesis in favor of such ASCs that their
     main effect on incumbent hospitals is a competitive reduction in
     price, but on balance not a large loss of hospital outpatient surgery
     volume. Contrary to that hypothesis, our examples show a substantial
     loss of hospital volume. The second consideration is whether any such
     shift of outpatient surgery volume reflects an across-the-board
     response by physicians generally, presumably because the new ASC is a
     clinically superior facility. Our observation in Louisiana is that the
     volume shift was largely confined to physician-investors who had a
     financial interest in the ASC. n105





   n105 Id. at 219.

   Even assuming that a hospital could establish, conclusively, that a physician
diverted a large proportion of free or low-pay cases to the hospital, the
physician likely would argue that such referrals were made for medical, not
economic, reasons. Indeed, without a case-by-case analysis of the particular
circumstances of each patient, as well as an analysis of the patients treated at
the physician-controlled center, the physician's argument would be difficult to
refute. Thus, unless the physician is willing to make patient records available
for review, proof of actual free-riding may be difficult to develop outside of a
litigation context. Hence, while pre-selection may very well occur, it is
difficult to prove.

Does the policy appropriately address the problem?

   The final issue that a hospital must address is whether the conflict or
exclusion policy actually prevents pre-selection by physicians. Moreover, if the
policy does address pre-selection, are there less restrictive means that could
address the problem? Typically, these two issues are intertwined.

   Assume that a group of orthopedic surgeons plans to open a competing surgery
center to perform some outpatient procedures. The hospital reacts to these plans
by adopting a policy prohibiting the renewal of the privileges of any physician
associated with the group. The surgeons, naturally, will claim that the policy
is anticompetitive and designed to restrain trade or perpetuate a monopoly of
orthopedic surgical services.

   If the reasoning behind the economic credentialing policy is to prohibit
referral free-riding whereby the physician is using the hospital as a feeder,
the question that must be asked is whether the surgery center patients are being
steered from the hospital. If not, then the physicians will argue that the
policy really does not cure the free-rider problem it professes to cure. In
other words, if the patients are self-referring to the physician's surgery
center, referral free-riding may not be occurring.

   On the other hand, if the hospital is concerned that the physicians are
sending free and low-reimbursement outpatient surgery patients to the hospital,
it may be able to identify change in the reimbursement mix of the patients
referred to the hospital. In this situation, the policy may be more restrictive,
because the free-riding that it purports to stop is not happening.

   Additionally, policies that outwardly deny staff privileges to physicians
with competing interests are subject to claims of being overbroad. If, for
example, the purpose of the policy is to prevent the type of referral
free-riding whereby the patient enters the system as an unassigned patient
through the hospital's emergency room department and is diverted to the
physician's surgery center, a policy prohibiting the competing physician from
being placed on the unassigned call list may address the issue in a less
restrictive fashion.

   The difficulty is defining the type of free-riding that the hospital is
attempting to prevent. In many cases, the full-service hospital is unsure what
it expects to achieve, and accordingly, the goals of the policies are
ill-defined from a business and antitrust standpoint. Simply wanting to prevent
competition is not an appropriate antitrust justification for an economic
credentialing policy. n106



   n106 See Nat'l Soc'y of Prof'l Eng'rs. v. United States, 435 U.S. 679 (1978)
(wanting to avoid competition is never a pro-competitive justification).

Conclusion

   Economic credentialing policies designed to prevent physician preselection
raise considerable antitrust issues for acute care hospitals. Even where they
lack market power, hospitals may find themselves subject to claims by physicians
or the government that they are attempting to create a monopoly. Hospitals
considering such policies must explore carefully the reasons for adopting
economic credentialing policies. Where there is a legitimate risk of
pre-selection, an economic credentialing policy may be warranted. Nevertheless,
a hospital must define the nature of the pre-selection problem and have
documentation proving that pre-selection is likely to occur. This proof may be
evidence of actual pre-selection seen in other service lines, such as evidence
that referral patterns have changed after a physician has opened a competing
center. Even then, the proof may be difficult to assemble, because the hospital
may not have access to the full level of information from the free-standing
center to fully evaluate differences in the types of patients referred to that
center versus the hospital.

   Finally, the full-service hospital must be able to articulate a coherent
business justification for why turning cases away makes pro-competitive sense
and cannot be construed simply as predatory conduct. Policies that are a last
resort, rather than an initial threat, are more likely to withstand antitrust
challenge.

REFERENCE: CITATION: Mark L. Mattioli, Can Preventing Diversion of Profitable
Patients Justify Hospitals' Economic Credentialing Under the Antitrust Laws?, J.
HEALTH & LIFE SCI. L., April 2008, at 39. (c) 2008 American Health Lawyers
Association. All rights reserved.


                              392 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 18, 2016 Monday

Florida: Orlando EDC to Honor Lars Houmann and Randy Berridge at Annual Award
Dinner

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Tallahassee: Orlando Economic Development Commossion, The State of Florida has
issued the following news release:



   The Orlando Economic Development Commission (EDC) will host the 2016 James B.
Greene Annual Award dinner on Tuesday, May 17, 2016 from 6 to 9 p.m. at the
Hyatt Regency Orlando located at 9801 International Drive.





 Lars Houmann, President and CEO of the Florida Division of Adventist Health
System is the 2016 recipient of the James B. Greene Award, the highest honor
bestowed by the EDC to a local community leader. The 2016 Chairman's Award will
be given to Randy Berridge, President of the Florida High Tech Corridor Council.




 The James B. Greene Award, first presented in 1990, recognizes an individual
whose work has contributed substantially to the economic prosperity of the
region. The EDC Chairman's Award, first presented in 2007, recognizes a
long-term contributor to the work of the Orlando EDC.



 "Both Lars and Randy have been important community collaborators and their
incredible influence over the years has helped shape Orlando into what it is
today - a thriving region with diverse opportunities for individuals, businesses
and organizations," said Orlando EDC Board Chair David Fuller. "The EDC is
pleased to bestow upon them this great honor and I am proud to name them the
2016 James B. Greene and Chairman's awards winners."



 Houmann first joined Florida Hospital in 1993 and served as CEO since 2006. He
was responsible for major hospital expansion projects including Florida Hospital
Celebration Health and Florida Hospital for Women. While Houmann's career has
been spent entirely in hospital administration, his experience ranges from small
community hospitals to multi-hospital systems and large teaching hospitals in
Massachusetts, California and Arizona. Through his leadership at Florida
Hospital, it has been named the top hospital in Florida and among the best in
the country by U.S. News and World Report. He volunteers and supports community
organizations including the American Heart Association, Shepherd's Hope Clinics,
American Diabetes Association, United Global Outreach, and the Seventh-day
Adventist Church.



 Berridge has held the position of president of the Florida High Tech Corridor
Council since its formation in 1996. He also serves as president of the Berridge
Consulting Group, Inc. and as an advisory board member for SunTrust Bank, N.A.
and the UCF Business Incubation Program.



 The James B. Greene Annual Award dinner is attended by hundreds of Orlando
region business and community leaders. This year's event will feature the Boy
Scouts of America color guard and performance of the National Anthem by the
Orlando Repertory Theatre Power Chords. The price for an individual EDC investor
is $245, non-investors is $265 or $2,300 for a corporate table of 10 (plus tax).
More information is available online at http://OrlandoEDC.com/JBG. For questions
or to RSVP, send an e-mail to Events@OrlandoEDC.com or call 407.719.7159 ext.
246.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 18, 2016 Monday

Florida: Orlando EDC to Honor Lars Houmann and Randy Berridge at Annual Award
Dinner

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Tallahassee: Orlando Economic Development Commossion, The State of Florida has
issued the following news release:



   The Orlando Economic Development Commission (EDC) will host the 2016 James B.
Greene Annual Award dinner on Tuesday, May 17, 2016 from 6 to 9 p.m. at the
Hyatt Regency Orlando located at 9801 International Drive.





 Lars Houmann, President and CEO of the Florida Division of Adventist Health
System is the 2016 recipient of the James B. Greene Award, the highest honor
bestowed by the EDC to a local community leader. The 2016 Chairman's Award will
be given to Randy Berridge, President of the Florida High Tech Corridor Council.




 The James B. Greene Award, first presented in 1990, recognizes an individual
whose work has contributed substantially to the economic prosperity of the
region. The EDC Chairman's Award, first presented in 2007, recognizes a
long-term contributor to the work of the Orlando EDC.



 "Both Lars and Randy have been important community collaborators and their
incredible influence over the years has helped shape Orlando into what it is
today - a thriving region with diverse opportunities for individuals, businesses
and organizations," said Orlando EDC Board Chair David Fuller. "The EDC is
pleased to bestow upon them this great honor and I am proud to name them the
2016 James B. Greene and Chairman's awards winners."



 Houmann first joined Florida Hospital in 1993 and served as CEO since 2006. He
was responsible for major hospital expansion projects including Florida Hospital
Celebration Health and Florida Hospital for Women. While Houmann's career has
been spent entirely in hospital administration, his experience ranges from small
community hospitals to multi-hospital systems and large teaching hospitals in
Massachusetts, California and Arizona. Through his leadership at Florida
Hospital, it has been named the top hospital in Florida and among the best in
the country by U.S. News and World Report. He volunteers and supports community
organizations including the American Heart Association, Shepherd's Hope Clinics,
American Diabetes Association, United Global Outreach, and the Seventh-day
Adventist Church.



 Berridge has held the position of president of the Florida High Tech Corridor
Council since its formation in 1996. He also serves as president of the Berridge
Consulting Group, Inc. and as an advisory board member for SunTrust Bank, N.A.
and the UCF Business Incubation Program.



 The James B. Greene Annual Award dinner is attended by hundreds of Orlando
region business and community leaders. This year's event will feature the Boy
Scouts of America color guard and performance of the National Anthem by the
Orlando Repertory Theatre Power Chords. The price for an individual EDC investor
is $245, non-investors is $265 or $2,300 for a corporate table of 10 (plus tax).
More information is available online at http://OrlandoEDC.com/JBG. For questions
or to RSVP, send an e-mail to Events@OrlandoEDC.com or call 407.719.7159 ext.
246.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday

Recession's REAL BITE;
From birth, to parties, to death - recession hits them all. As Singapore sinks
deeper into the economic downturn, it is not just retrenched bankers and
unemployed workers who suffer. Insight checks out five other occupations to see
recession's impact.

BYLINE: Aaron low

LENGTH: 699 words


GYNAECOLOGIST: New parents seek to cut costs

MS IRENE Wee had enjoyed welcoming her baby girl in the privacy of a single-bed
ward when she was born two years ago.

But Ms Wee will have to forgo that same luxury when her second child is born in
April.

Instead she will hold her baby boy's tiny fingers for the first time with three
other sets of parents in the same room.

'I'm not looking forward to having to share the first few precious hours of my
baby's life with three other mothers but I have no choice,' the sales executive,
34, told Insight.

The reason? She opted to take up cheaper government-subsidised care for her
pregnancy because of the uncertain economic conditions.

This means not having a personal gynaecologist attend to her, bearing with
longer waiting hours and staying in a four-bed ward.

This was not her ideal situation.

In fact, as late as August last year, MsWee was still seeing her gynaecologist
at a private hospital and had planned to deliver there in a single-bed room.

But the financial fallout took its toll and by the end of the year, her
husband's IT firm had started to talk about pay cuts.

As a precautionary measure, the couple decided to switch doctors and take up
government-subsidised care at KK Women's and Children's Hospital (KKH).

She estimates she would save about $1,800 in cash by going through the public
health-care system.

'Every dollar counts,' she said.

Indeed, the recession is proving to be a real turn-off for couples when it comes
to having babies. Couples, like Ms Wee and her husband, are either going for
cheaper care or are delaying the arrival of the stork altogether.

Currently, such a trend has not yet picked up momentum.

Both KKH and Thomson Medical Centre say they do not detect a clear trend of
people opting to go cheap or switching from private to public health care.

But several private gynaecologists tell Insight it will just be a matter of time
before such a situation pans out.

Dr Yap Lip Kee, who has been in practice for more than 25 years, said that there
was a dip in the number of people seeing private doctors in the past.

'But people would return to the private sector when the economy recovered as the
public sector would be stretched in providing the same quality care to an
increased load of patients.'

One gynaecologist, who runs a clinic in the north of Singapore, expects the
figures to start dropping after Chinese New Year, when retrenchments are
expected to soar.

Figures seem to bear his views out.

In the past 15 years, there were four recessions - 1985, 1997, 2001 and 2003.

In the year following each recession, there was a perceptible drop in the number
of babies born.

For instance, in 1985, 41,100 babies were born but in 1986, the number fell to
37,159 - a drop of 10 per cent.

Similarly, the number of babies fell by 8.2 per cent in 1998 to 41,636, from
45,356 in 1997.

The figure hovered at 41,327 in 1999 before jumping to 44,765 in 2000.

But these figures do not mean that there is a direct link between babies and
recessions. Couples may simply not want children or are opting for fewer kids as
a matter of personal choice, regardless of whether they are rich or poor.

Nonetheless, social workers say they have been seeing cases of couples who are
increasingly worried about being retrenched.

Mr Samuel Chua, a counsellor at Shan You Counselling Centre, said that couples
he has been seeing for marriage preparation courses are still excited about
starting their own families.

'Many are also anxious about losing their jobs. If they lose their jobs, plans
might be turned upside down,' he said.

But some couples remain unaffected by the gloomy outlook and will continue to
have children - and in abundance.

Mr Bernard Chao and his wife Ai Jin will have their third child in just two
weeks. Beyond recycling used baby items and taking hand-me-downs, the Chaos are
not taking extreme measures to cut costs.

Said Mr Chao, 36: 'We don't plan children around the economy but view them as
gifts.'

aaronl@sph.com.sg

Recession babies

Number of resident babies born in post-recession years

Recession #1

1985: 41,100

1986: 37,159

Recession #2

1997: 45,356

1998: 41,636

Recession #3

2001: 39,281

2002: 38,555

Recession: #4

2003: 35,474

2004: 35,135

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                          November 17, 2004, Wednesday

Foreign Hospitals in FEZ to Accept Local Residents

LENGTH: 439 words


The government decided to allow local residents to receive medical services at
foreign-run hospitals in the free economic zones to be set up in Inchon, Pusan
and Kwangyang during a Cabinet meeting Tuesday.''Medical services for native
Koreans are inevitable for the establishment of prominent foreign hospitals,
which is a key factor for the successful establishment of free economic zones
and the government project to make the nation a business hub for Northeast
Asia,'' a Health and Welfare Ministry official said.According to the government
plan, general hospitals, dental clinics and recuperation facilities to be
established by foreigners or foreign corporations in the special economic zone
will be able to provide medical services to local residents. But pharmacies
operating in the zones will not be allowed to sell medicine to locals, the
official said.Hospitals are expected to have 500-1,000 beds and be completed by
around 2008. Health insurance will not cover medical fees at the foreign
hospitals.The planning office of free economic zones is contacting several
foreign hospitals to invite competent doctors and medical teams.The government
also pledged to strengthen public medical services to lessen the possible impact
that might be caused by foreign hospitals giving services to local patients,
allocating a budget of 4 trillion won from 2005 to 2009.However, controversy is
expected on the issue as associations of local doctors and hospitals as well as
civic groups are strongly opposed to the plan, saying the measure would result
in discrimination against domestic medical institutions.'' Prominent Korean
medical manpower should be also used in the establishment of a medical hub for
Northeast Asia. The government should scrap such discriminatory policies and
give Korean hospitals the same support they are giving to foreign
institutions,'' Kwon Yong-jin, spokesman of the Korean Medical Association
said.Kwon added the government should establish a presidential committee to map
out a detailed strategy for the development of the domestic medical service.The
Korean Federation of Medical Groups for Health Rights (KFHR) also denounced the
government decision, saying such profit-making hospitals would lead to the
collapse of the nation's medical system, as medical institutions here have not
been allowed to become profit-making corporations.''Also, with wealthy Korean
residents visiting these expensive hospitals where health insurance does not
cover the medical fees, it will aggravate the gap between the rich and the poor
in terms of medical service,'' the KFHR said in a written statement.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                          Copyright 2004 Hankook Ilbo


                              396 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            February 20, 2009 Friday

Nod for 45 new private hospitals

BYLINE: Vasantha Ganesan

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 234 words


THE government has approved licences for a total of 45 new private hospitals and
this will grow the number of beds at private hospitals by a third to 15,178.

As at end of 2008, Malaysia had a total of 209 registered hospitals with a total
of 11,689 beds.

"Since the implementation of the Private Healthcare Facilities and Services Act
1998 and its regulations in 2006, we have received 55 applications for the
establishment of new private hospitals, of which 45 have been approved," the
Minister of Health Datuk Seri Liow Tiong Lai said.

The 45 hospitals have a total of 3,489 beds.

"...the number of private hospitals operating in the country has increased
almost two fold from 135 at the end of December 2001 to 209 by the end of
December 2008," he added.

Liow was speaking to reporters yesterday following the launch of "Rebirth of
Pantai" for Pantai Holdings Bhd.

On whether the healthcare sector can expect anything from the second stimulus
package, Liow said there will be some goodies in store to boost medical tourism
and training for nurses.

"We should prepare for medical tourism and take it to the next level ... we
should promote this sector further," he said, adding that medical tourism has
been identified as a key sector to generate economic growth.

A second stimulus package to boost the economy will be announced on March 10
2009, adding to the RM7 billion stimulus package announced last November.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Express-Star (Chickasha, Oklahoma)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday

City approves EDC grant to give hospital gust of fresh air

BYLINE: James Bright, The Express-Star, Chickasha, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 416 words


Sept. 01--Grady Memorial Hospital will receive up to $532,000 from the City of
Chickasha to help fix issues found in the facility's operating room during an
inspection last month.

The council voted 9-0 in a special meeting Monday night to approve the action.

The hospital announced Aug. 19 that it will be closing its operating rooms for
an estimated 45 days to make repairs to the 30-year-old air conditioning system,
following an audit from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).

Mayor Hank Ross said Chickasha was the only major city in the county with the
funds to help out the hospital.

"We will pull the funds from non-essential road projects," Ross said.

Grady Memorial CEO Warren Kean Spellman said he has not received a final written
report on the operating room's problems, but did receive an oral prognosis
following the survey.

The grant money came from projects earmarked in the EDC budget that either got
taken care of in another way or from projects that were no longer necessary
expenditures, Economic Development Director Christy Elkins said.

Duncan Regional Hospital and Norman Regional HealthPlex have granted GMH
physicians emergency privileges to continue to care for patients affected by the
temporary closure.

"Norman and Duncan, in particular, they reached out to make sure our patients
are being served," Ross said. "We have some great practitioners. They're
dedicated. This is just a financial obstacle that has to be resolved."

While 45 days is still the plan, Spellman said Monday that time period could be
significantly extended.

"What the people from other facilities that have gone through this are telling
me is 45 days is optimistic," Spellman said. "What we're learning is that the
regulatory progress is time consuming. With other facilities, it's been multiple
months."

Spellman said the EDC grant will help speed up the process by ensuring the funds
are available. Christy Elkins, director of the Chickasha EDC, said it is
important to support the hospital because of what it provides in terms of
economic growth.

"On top of losing the 450 or so jobs, you can't recruit any new businesses
without a hospital," Elkins said. "We want to provide this grant not only to
save the current jobs, but also in order to bring new jobs and businesses to the
community. The hospital is key to economic development."

___ (c)2015 The Express-Star (Chickasha, Okla.) Visit The Express-Star
(Chickasha, Okla.) at chickashanews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150901-XE-City-approves-EDC-grant-to-give-hospital
-gust-of-fresh-air-0901-20150901

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XE


                        Copyright 2015 The Express-Star


                              398 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    April 16, 1998, Thursday, METRO EDITION

Hospitals ask for $300 million fix

BYLINE: FROM CANADIAN PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 224 words


   Ontario hospitals struggling with funding cuts, a massive restructuring and
rising salaries have asked the province for $300 million in aid.

They're also planning an emergency summit next month to discuss the financial
crunch.

Hospitals ran up total deficits of $113 million in 1996-97, a 60 per cent
increase from the year before, according to the Ontario Hospital Association.

The association has requested a $300 million "stabilization fund" from the
government to help those and other institutions short of cash, says spokesperson
Sam Galati.

"More and more hospitals are going into the red," Galati said in an interview.

Health Minister Elizabeth Witmer said she hadn't seen the proposal but will meet
association representatives this month.

The government-appointed Health Services Restructuring Commission has ordered
dozens of hospitals merged or closed in a process it says should reduce overhead
costs and eventually leave more money for patient care.

But the Conservatives have already forced hospitals to make cuts, reducing their
grants by more than $600 million over the last two years.

The government put off a third year of cuts. But Galati said a funding freeze
translates into a cut of 4.5 per cent because of inflation, wage increases and
ballooning populations in some areas.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              399 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Times of Central Asia

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Prospects of Tajik-German economic cooperation to be discussed in Dushanbe

LENGTH: 209  words


Prospects of cooperation between Tajikistan and Germany for 2014-2015 will be
discussed at the intergovernmental consultation, which opened in Dushanbe on
Tuesday.

Tajikistan plans to further develop relations with Germany, Deputy Minister of
Economic Development and Trade of Tajikistan Sayidrahmon Nazriyev said.

According to him, promising areas of cooperation are implementation of projects
in the areas of health, education and microfinance.

He also said that projects funded by German government allowed rehabilitating
and equipping two tuberculosis hospitals in southern Tajikistan, to build
tuberculosis hospital for children in suburbs of Dushanbe, to improve the
quality of emergency medical care. German government also funded projects on
construction of new schools in Khatlon and Rasht districts, on restoration of
public infrastructure and development of energy sector.

Ambassador of Germany to Tajikistan Holger Gren said that Germany will look for
opportunities for further cooperation. He noted that economic cooperation
between two countries in recent years became more dynamic.

The consultation, which will end on October 23, will focus on preparations for
intergovernmental negotiations on cooperation for 2014-2015, scheduled for next
year.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Times of Central Asia
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                 Central Asian News Service (English language)

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday

Prospects of Tajik-German economic cooperation to be discussed in Dushanbe

LENGTH: 208  words


Prospects of cooperation between Tajikistan and Germany for 2014-2015 will be
discussed at the intergovernmental consultation, which opened in Dushanbe on
Tuesday.



Tajikistan plans to further develop relations with Germany, Deputy Minister of
Economic Development and Trade of Tajikistan Sayidrahmon Nazriyev said.

According to him, promising areas of cooperation are implementation of projects
in the areas of health, education and microfinance.

He also said that projects funded by German government allowed to rehabilitate
and equip two tuberculosis hospitals in southern Tajikistan, to build
tuberculosis hospital for children in suburbs of Dushanbe, to improve the
quality of emergency medical care. German government also funded projects on
construction of new schools in Khatlon and Rasht districts, on restoration of
public infrastructure and development of energy sector.

Ambassador of Germany to Tajikistan Holger Gren said that Germany will look for
opportunities for further cooperation. He noted that economic cooperation
between two countries in recent years became more dynamic.

The consultation, which will end on October 23, will focus on preparations for
intergovernmental negotiations on cooperation for 2014-2015, scheduled for next
year.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 894


                         Copyright  2013   CA-NEWS.org
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           February 10, 1997, Monday

University news

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 370 words


Queen's University, Belfast

The university has won research funding for Pounds 2.8 million. The latest
grants have come from various sources, including the Department of Economic
Development's Industrial Research and Technology Unit, industry, charities,
research councils, and the European Commission.

The funding is for studies in the university's Faculties of Agriculture and Food
Science, Arts, Economics and Social Sciences, Education, Engineering, Law,
Medicine and Science. The Institute of Irish Studies at Queen's and the
university's Health and Health Care Research Unit and Palaeocology Centre have
also benefited.

The largest award, of more than Pounds 1 million, has gone to the Department of
Electrical and Electronic Engineering, while Pounds 900,000 has been won by the
School of Agriculture and Food Science. Other research awards include a British
Academy Joint Institutional Fellowship, worth Pounds 140,000, to the
university's Institute of Irish Studies and the Centre for Irish Literature and
Bibliography at the University of Ulster.

Honorary Titles

The following honorary titles have been conferred:

Honorary Lecturer in the School of Clinical Medicine, for five years: Dr Terence
Mc Murray, consultant in cardiac anaesthesia and intensive care, Royal Victoria
Hospital; Dr Stuart Elborn, consultant, Belfast City Hospital and director of
the hospital's adult cystic fibrosis unit; Dr J G Barr, head of the microbiology
service, Royal Victoria Hospital; and Dr Philip Murphy, consultant in the
department of bacteriology, Belfast City Hospital.

Honorary Lecturer in the School of Psychology, for five years: Raman Kapur,
consultant clinical psychologist and Northern Ireland training co-ordinator,
Richmond Fellowship; Maxine Cresswell, acting consultant clinical psychologist,
Whiteabbey Hospital; Adrian McKinney, principal clinical child psychologist,
Sperrin Lakeland Health and Social Care Trust, Omagh; Dr Nichola Rooney,
consultant clinical psychologist and deputy manager of psychology services,
Royal Group of Hospitals Trust; for two years: Dr Michael Stuart and John Eakin,
educational psychologists with the Southern Education and Library Board.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited


                              402 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           November 29, 1990 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

PRINCE HENRY HOSPITAL FACING A SLOW, CRUEL DEATH, SAYS CARR

BYLINE: LUIS M. GARCIA

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 510 words


One of Sydney's best-known public hospitals, the Prince Henry Hospital at Little
Bay, will be starved of money over the next few years and allowed to die a
"slow, cruel and lingering death", according to the Leader of the Opposition, Mr
Carr.

Mr Carr's prediction follows a decision by the State Government to abandon a
$200 million plan to transfer the hospital to a new site in Randwick.

The ambitious plan, unveiled with great fanfare more than two years ago by the
Minister for Health, Mr Collins, would have involved the sale of the Little Bay
land.

The money raised from the sale would then be used to fund much of the cost of
the transfer.

But Mr Collins confirmed yesterday that the plan had been abandoned by the
Government because the downturn in the property market would have made it
difficult, if not impossible, to sell the land.

He said he had asked his department to find some money to upgrade the
dilapidated buildings at Prince Henry, although he declined to say how much this
would cost.

Earlier estimates had placed the cost of upgrading the hospital, which is one of
the oldest in NSW, at between $5 million and $20 million.

"It is most unfortunate that economic circumstances in Australia have changed so
much since the proposal was first announced," Mr Collins said.

"Delays in preparation of the proposal have made the plans unworkable in the
current economic climate (but) I can assure staff that refurbishment money will
be found for existing facilities at the hospital.

"The Premier has also indicated that at some future date, given an improved
economic climate, it is possible that the transfer of Prince Henry may be
revived."

But he warned that the Government's health funding priorities would continue to
be the relocation of the Children's Hospital from Camperdown to Westmead, and
the upgrading to teaching hospital status of Liverpool and Nepean hospitals.

Mr Carr said he did not expect the Government to allocate adequate funds to
ensure that Prince Henry's buildings were properly upgraded and its medical
services maintained.

He predicted that most of the hospital's specialist units, including its
neurological, renal and coronary grafting units, would be transferred to other
hospitals in the eastern suburbs.

This would result in the dismembering of the hospital, increased uncertainty and
poor staff morale.

"Senior medical staff at the hospital have complained that at the present rate
of deterioration, facilities at Prince Henry will not last 10 years," he said.

"Even at the height of the property market there was not enough money to be made
from the sale of the Prince Henry site to redevelop the hospital at Randwick in
the way the Government was seeking."

The Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of NSW, Professor Darty
Glover, and the chairman of the Eastern Sydney Area Health Service board, Lady
Susan Street, issued a joint statement last night expressing disappointment at
the Government's decision.

Professor Glover said the planned transfer would have been the best option for
the clinical needs of the State.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1990 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 22, 2009 Friday

BRIEF: Mercy Health Partners lays off 13 at 2 regional medical facilities

BYLINE: James Haggerty, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 214 words


May 22--Mercy Health Partners laid off 13 people at two regional medical
facilities this week as a result of the weak economy.

The consortium operates Mercy Hospital in Scranton and Mercy Special Care
Hospital in Nanticoke.

"It's a difficult time for our economy, and we have to be smarter for our
businesses," said Elizabeth Leo, vice president of human resources at Mercy
Hospital.

The layoffs took place on Tuesday, and hospital officials on Thursday said
declining revenues and an increase in unreimbursed care led to the furloughs.
The action affected people in ancillary care and office positions. Mercy employs
about 1,400 people regionally.

Last month, Community Medical Center cited the economic downturn when it laid
off 10 employees and reassigned 14 others. In January, Wilkes-Barre General
Hospital laid off 15 employees permanently and 20 temporarily.

To see more of The Times-Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thetimes-tribune.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Times-Tribune,
Scranton, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090522-YT-BRF-HOSPITAL-LAYOFFS-20090522

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                                 Copyright 2009


                              404 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Reporter (Milwaukee, WI)

                            February 17, 2003 Monday

Hospital construction tied to health costs

BYLINE: Jeremy Harrell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 914 words


A state legislator has once again suggested limiting building projects at
hospitals to deal with rising health-care costs, but construction and medical
industry groups said the idea is misplaced.

Reprising an unsuccessful fight he led last year, Sen. Russ Decker, D-Schofield,
said the Legislature should consider establishing state-controlled mechanisms to
curb spending on capital projects at hospitals. He pointed to statistics showing
that profits at hospitals in north central Wisconsin rose dramatically in 2001,
as did the price inpatients pay per day.

State hospitals posted profits of $614.4 million, up more than $200 million from
2000, said Decker, a member of the Legislature's Joint Finance Committee. The
average daily rate for a hospital stay also rose by $266 to $2,508, he said.

"When you've got these huge profits, why do rates go up?" Decker said, adding
that his proposal last year to place a moratorium on hospital construction came
at the suggestions of hospital officials.

Decker's position comes as little surprise to Michael Fabishak, executive vice
president of the Associated General Contractors of Greater Milwaukee. He said he
anticipated this would happen as lawmakers try to contend with rising insurance
premiums and the strain higher costs place on the state budget.

But hospital construction is also one of the few industry market sectors
experiencing any kind of growth, Fabishak said. Manufacturing is in a slump, and
the state building program is in a holding pattern following a decision last
month to freeze projects not under contract, he said.

Restraining hospital projects would be an unwise move, given lawmakers'
declarations to spur economic growth, Fabishak said.

"The only thing that has any legs is hospital construction," he said. "Now you
have legislators looking at that when the link to overall (health-care) costs
has not been proven. Purely from the point of view of economic development, if
hospital construction is corralled unnecessarily, that will have a huge impact
on the construction industry and dig the hole deeper."

By the numbers

Eric Borgerding, vice president of government affairs with the Wisconsin
Hospital Association, said Decker's conclusions start from faulty premises. For
instance, construction costs account for 5 percent to 6 percent of an average
hospital's operating budget while labor constitutes 50 percent to 60 percent, to
say nothing of prescription drugs and equipment costs, which are rising steeply,
he said.

Borgerding also said Decker's profit figures show hospitals' "gross margins,"
which include intake from snack bars, parking ramps, philanthropic gifts and
interest earnings on endowments. Profits solely from patient care average about
5 percent statewide. He said that is consistent with national statistics, has
marginal effect on insurance premiums and is necessary "to maintain a quality
operation."

Moreover, the larger profit margins Decker cites don't consider how the hospital
reinvests that money, Borgerding said. Most of that money goes into facilities
and services other than inpatient care - such as nursing homes and hospices -
and those services "simply don't make any money," he said.

Two of the hospitals Decker singled out - Rusk County Memorial in Ladysmith and
Memorial Health Center in Medford - heavily subsidize their nursing homes and
other community services from their gross margins, Borgerding said.

"Sen. Decker, with all due respect, uses the most inaccurate data the state
collects to make his point," he said. "He's saying that health-insurance
premiums are being driven by profits, and that's simply not the case. Ladysmith
and Medford have nursing homes that would close without those profits."

Hazy future

Decker said he wouldn't again propose the construction moratorium. But he said
he does plan to introduce a measure that would either re-establish the state
Hospital Rate Setting Commission, which disbanded in 1987, set up a capital
expenditure restraint program with the state Public Service Commission or both.

In either case, Decker said the objective is to tie patient rates to inflation.
If a hospital wanted to build a project or buy more than $1 million in
equipment, it would need state approval if the result of the project or purchase
would increase inpatient rates beyond the rate of inflation.

"We're trying to slow this down and not compromise anyone's quality of care,"
Decker said. "The question I always put to the hospital association is, 'Why
don't they come up with their own idea if they don't like my proposal to rein in
health-care costs?'"

Fabishak said Decker and any other legislator who proposes something similar
have good intentions. But singling out the struggling construction industry
makes little sense in light of the state's slow economic growth and because
building has little effect on overall medical costs, he said.

"The bottom line is that there are so many pressures put on hospitals that have
nothing to do with bricks and mortar," Fabishak said.

Hospital construction totaled more than $600 million in 2001, up from an annual
average of between $300 million and $400 million, according to the AGC of
Wisconsin. Using the 2.2 multiplier effect AGC implements to calculate ancillary
economic impacts from construction, hospital building accounted for $1.4 billion
in economic activity in 2001.

Jeremy Harrell can be reached at 608-260-8570.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Government activity

                      Copyright 2003 Dolan Media Newswires
                                All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             March 16, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Fate of Bulli Hospital;
your say

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 552 words


Fate of Bulli Hospital

How do you know when politicians are telling you a lie? Their lips move.

A classic example of this is the announcement by the Illawarra health boss that
ophthalmology services undertaken at Bulli Hospital will be moved to
Shellharbour Hospital - a decision totally opposite to Minister John Della
Bosca's assurances in 2008 of a status quo on services at Bulli Hospital.

Despite representing an essential component of the South Eastern Sydney and
Illawarra Area Health Service, Bulli Hospital has been systematically and
deliberately starved of government funding.

Quality patient care has relied upon the hard work of voluntary auxiliaries and
the goodwill of the community to provide the dedicated hospital staff with the
funding for equipment that is essential to their task.

In November 2008, at the commissioning service of the new chapel at Bulli
Hospital, the bureaucrats waffled on about their personal commitment to the
hospital.

I would suggest more than one of those volunteers in attendance would have been
thinking, "Why a chapel when it is patient care that requires more funding?"

I guess the bureaucrats believed then and now that the new chapel will provide
an ideal venue to administer the Last Rites for Bulli Hospital.

Barry Swan, Balgownie.

Keep mall closed

According to an article in the Mercury (March 12), there is an economic study
that "proves" opening up Crown St Mall to traffic will improve the economics of
the merchants.

The claim is that the administrators have ignored this apparent economic study
by sending a final decision on the mall to the Government Architect.

Hopefully, this economic study is a public document which all may analyse before
the Government makes the final decision.

City mall management do not appear to know of the study.

It will be interesting to see if this study qualitatively measured consumer
growth if the merchants were to increase their funding of entertainment and
special events to encourage people to come to the mall.

That is, if the merchants want economic viability then they should accept the
responsibility for growth rather than depending on the government sector and
scarce ratepayer dollars to bail them out.

It is disturbing to see merchants' reluctance to address publicly this events
option, and quantitatively measure it against ratepayer money being used to give
them something they do not want - traffic in the mall.

IBC et al - you need to be engaging the community rather than always extracting
dollars out of ratepayer and resident pockets.

Ray Robinson, Corrimal.

Concerns over trust

I refer to the article in the Mercury (February 20), stating that NSW Lands
Minister Tony Kelly has prevented the Kiama council delegate from being a member
of the Killalea State Park Trust.

This is a matter of concern as the trust should represent all sections of the
community.

Killalea is a large and significant piece of coastal land.

It encompasses many fine natural features and should be preserved.

As the suburbs continue to expand, conserving land for recreation and habitat
protection is vital.

The National Parks Association Illawarra Branch supports the many community
members who are against the development (as outlined on the Department of Lands
website).

Dirk Stuber, President, National Parks Association Illawarra Branch, Mt Keira.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2009 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Texas: Study: Shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is more complex
than expected

LENGTH: 861  words

DATELINE: New York



 Austin: University of Rice, The State of Texas  has issued the following news
release:



   More physicians are contracting with hospitals through different types of
agreements, but the shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is more
complex than expected, according to new research from Rice University's Baker
Institute for Public Policy.





 Credit: shutterstock.com /Rice University



 The Affordable Care Act and changing economic conditions have encouraged an
increase in the integration of physicians with hospitals, or the level of
contractual control hospitals have with physicians. Current research has focused
on the overall trend of tighter integration, but it has not examined the more
granular level of how hospitals transition between integration forms according
to the study's authors.



 The paper, "The Integration and De-integration of Physicians and Hospitals Over
Time," examines trends in physician-hospital integration at 4,727 hospitals
using the 2008-2013 American Hospital Association annual survey data. It
designates four forms of integration based on the type of contractual
relationship a hospital has with physicians from least to most tightly
integrated: independent practice associations, open physician-hospital
organizations, closed physician-hospital organizations and fully integrated
organizations. The paper was co-authored by Marah Short, associate director of
the Baker Institute's Center for Health and Biosciences; Vivian Ho, the chair in
health economics at the institute and director of the Center for Health and
Biosciences; and Ayse McCracken, president of eNNOVATE Health Ventures.



 The researchers examined the overall changes in the number and percentage of
hospitals engaged in varying forms of physician-hospital integration and the
transitions between these integration forms by hospitals over time. Between 2008
and 2013, the share of hospitals with physicians on salary rose from 44 to 55
percent of all facilities. Looser forms of physician-hospital integration, such
as joint contractual networks with managed care organizations, decreased in
prominence, they found. In all, the authors found 1,525 hospital integration
form transitions reflecting a change in the integration form of 1,445 hospitals
between 2008 and 2013. They found 599 cases in which a hospital switched from no
integration to some form of integration between years. The form of integration
with the greatest change is the fully integrated hospitals category, with 710
transitions to fully integrated organization agreements. A majority of this
growth comes from the 550 hospitals changing from no integration to a fully
integrated organization.



 However, the aggregate shift toward tighter integration masks the fact that
many hospitals de-integrated or shifted to less tightly integrated physician-
hospital relationships during this time period, the authors said. Although the
number of hospitals reporting no integration declined by only 110 facilities
between 2008 and 2013, there were 489 cases between these two years in which a
hospital de-integrated.



 "During the time period studied, the optimal direction for hospital-physician
integration wasn't clear for either hospitals or physicians," said Ho, who is
also a professor of economics at Rice and a professor of medicine at Baylor. "It
appears that many hospitals that chose to integrate then de-integrated by 2013."




 The authors elaborated on the complexity of the overall shift to tighter
physician-hospital integration. "When physicians seek hospital employment, they
may expect little change in the way their businesses operate, but shifts in
decision-making authority, transparency, electronic health records and practice
management systems and HR policies affecting practice staff are among the
challenges physicians have to face after integrating with a hospital," McCracken
said.



 Future studies that distinguish between integration types are essential for
setting policies that foster integrated care to improve quality and lower costs,
instead of raising prices and harming patient welfare, the researchers said.
Loose forms of integration that generate more managed care contracts and provide
administrative services could increase utilization and expenditures, with no
improvement in quality or lower costs. Achieving these latter two goals is
likely only with tighter integration, which has features similar to those of
Accountable Care Organizations (ACO) and medical homes, they said.



 "A hospital seeking to participate as a Medicare ACO must build relationships
with primary care physicians (PCP) and will have better control of hospital
referrals if these PCPs are hospital employees," Short said. "Physician groups
that lack the financial and technical expertise to adopt electronic health
records that have increasingly become necessary to obtain higher reimbursements
by public and private payers will be the likeliest source of integration in the
future."



 The research was supported by a grant from the Agency for Healthcare Research
and Quality.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                             June 29, 1999, Tuesday

Expensive Medical Equipment Raising Health Care Costs

LENGTH: 499 words


   High-priced medical equipment has been blamed for the soaring cost of medical
services, putting heavier burdens on patients and draining health insurance
resources.

Hospitals have entered a race to purchase expensive high-tech medical testing
machines,'' said Dr. Yang Bong-min, professor of economics at the School of
Public Health, Seoul National University.

He acknowledged that the introduction of such advanced medical equipment can
help hospitals provide better medical services to patients.

But Prof. Yang said that hospitals are struggling to make up for the cost of
medical equipment by forcing patients to have unnecessary medical tests, which
are very expensive and not covered by the health insurance system.

Among the most equipment is the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machine, which
is used to take pictures of internal organs.  MRIs are sold at the price of
$500,000 or more in the international market.

Diagnosis using MRI usually costs patients about 400,000 won to 500,000 won
($340 to $450) for a one-time test.

Technological breakthroughs generally brings about a decline in costs in the
manufacturing sector. But such progress often results in a surge in health care
costs,'' Dr. Yang said in a recent seminar.

He stressed that the government will have to control the introduction of
expensive medical equipment and its use, saying that hospitals should share such
equipment with each other to reduce costs.

He said member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) put strict controls on the use of high-priced equipment.

There are 286 MRIs at medical institutions throughout the nation as of Feb. 28
this year, up 274 at the end of 1998 and 249 at the end of 1997.

The French government set a quota on the number of MRIs per 1 million people.
There are three MRIs for all the hospitals in Ottawa, the capital city of
Canada.

It was often reported that some Korean hospitals made money by conducting
unnecessary MRI tests on patients.

The Ministry of Health and Welfare plans to lift any restrictions on the
purchase or use of such expensive high-tech equipment in 2001, fueling fears
about skyrocketing health care costs.

The total sum of medical bills for all patients soared to 9.96 trillion won in
1998 from 8.8 trillion won in 1998 and 7.62 trillion won in 1997, according to
the National Health Insurance Corp. (NHIC).

The sum was estimated at 7.62 trillion won in 1996, 6.14 trillion won in 1995,
4.89 trillion won in 1994, 4.34 trillion won in 1993, 3.73 trillion won in 1992,
3.2 trillion won in 1991 and 2.94 trillion won in 1990.

The medical insurance coverage also increased 14.3 percent to 6.57 trillion won
last year from 5.75 trillion won in 1997, the NHIC figures said.

The coverage totaled 4.94 trillion won in 1996, 3.93 trillion won in 1995, 3.1
trillion won in 1994, 2.73 trillion won in 1993, 2.33 trillion won in 1992, 2
trillion won in 1991 and 1.89 trillion won in 1990.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                          Copyright 1999 Hankook Ilbo


                              408 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 22, 2015 Sunday

BUSINESS AWARDS

SECTION: ; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 564 words


HEALTH CARE

Atrium recognized as Top Performer

Atrium Medical Center announced recently that it has been recognized as a 2014
Top Performer on Key Quality Measures by The Joint Commission, the leading
ac-creditor of health care organizations in the United States.

Atrium Medical Center was recognized as part of The Joint Commission's 2015
annual report "America's Hospitals: Improving Quality and Safety." for attaining
and sustaining excellence in accountability measure performance for heart
attack, heart failure, pneumonia, surgical care, perinatal care and stroke.
Atrium Medical Center is one of only 1,043 hospitals out of more than 3,300
eligible hospitals in the United States to achieve the 2014 Top Performer
distinction.

The Top Performer program recognizes hospitals for improving performance on
evidence-based interventions that increase the chances of healthy outcomes for
patients with certain conditions. The performance measures included in the
recognition program including heart attack, heart failure, pneumonia, surgical
care, children's asthma, inpatient psychiatric services, stroke, venous
thromboembolism, perinatal care, immunization, tobacco treatment and substance
use.

GOVERNMENT

Fairborn's Annual Report wins award

The City of Fairborn Economic Development Department received a Bronze Award
from the International Economic Development Council (IEDC) in recognition for
its 2014 Annual Report.

Staffed by Economic Development Director Chris Wimsatt and Economic Development
Specialist Janel Ranly, this two-person office has been operating for just over
two years with 2014 being the first full year of focused economic development
activity for the city. The number of completed and ongoing projects along with
increased jobs and marketing, and new investment in the Fairborn area allow this
department to keep momentum flowing as they move forward with development
activity in the city.

Recipients of the IEDC's Excellence in Economic Development Awards demonstrate
to an experienced panel of judges that they are at the forefront of the economic
development profession. They are recognized as the world's best economic
development programs and partnerships, marketing materials, and the year's most
influential leaders. These awards honor organizations and individuals for their
efforts in creating positive change in urban, suburban, and rural communities.

COMMUNITY

Dayton Chamber gets 5-Star rating

The United States Chamber of Commerce has awarded the Dayton Area Chamber of
Commerce with 5-Star Accreditation for its sound policies, effective
organizational procedures, and positive impact on the community.

Accreditation is the only national program that recognizes chambers for their
effective organizational procedures and community involvement. In order to
receive Accreditation, a chamber must meet minimum standards in their operations
and programs, including areas of governance, government affairs, and technology.
This extensive self-review can take 6-9 months to complete.

Local chambers are rated Accredited, 3-Stars, 4-Stars, or 5-Stars. State
chambers are recognized as either Accredited State Chamber or Accredited State
Chamber with Distinction. The final determination is made by the Accrediting
Board, a committee of U.S. Chamber board members.

The Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce is the only accredited Chamber of Commerce
in the Dayton Region.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              409 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Bond Buyer

Bond Calls & Redemptions PENNSYLVANIA

                             July 25, 1997, Friday


       Paris Hospital Authority, hospital revenue bonds, Series 1983 (St.
Joseph's Hospital Project)   175,000   Aug 1, 12   Aug 1,12   Aug
1, 97   Tex Comm Bk   PA
       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
economic development   400,000   n/a   Aug 1, 02   Aug 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       revenue bonds, 1995 Series D9 (North American Communications, Inc.
Project)
       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
economic development   25,000   n/a   Aug 1, 13   Aug 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       revenue bonds, 1996 Series D1 (Creative Properties Project)
       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
economic development   50,000   n/a   Aug 1, 06   Aug 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       revenue bonds, 1996 Series D7 (Tri-State Hydraulics, Inc. Project)

       Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority (Harrisburg),
taxable development revenue   25,000   n/a   Aug 1, 07   Aug 1, 97
Mellon Bk   SU
       bonds, 1993 Series B6 (Anthony Mikec Project)
       Philadelphia Authority for Industrial Development, revenue
refunding bonds, Series A of 1994   40,000   n/a   Aug 1, 23   Aug
1, 97   Mellon Bk   SU
       (FHA Insured Mortgage-River's Edge Nursing & Rehabilitation Center
Project)
       Upper Southampton Township Municipal Authority, water revenue
bonds, Series M   20,000   n/a   Aug 1, 03   Aug 1, 97   PNC BANK TR
       Upper St. Clair Municipal Authority, school building revenue bonds,
Series of 1968   35,000   n/a   Aug 15, 06   Aug 15, 97   PNC Bank SU


SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 329 words

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 The Bond Buyer, Inc.


                              410 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Texas: Baker Institute study: Shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is
more complex than expected

LENGTH: 861  words

DATELINE: New York



 Austin: University of Rice, The State of Texas  has issued the following news
release:



   More physicians are contracting with hospitals through different types of
agreements, but the shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is more
complex than expected, according to new research from Rice University's Baker
Institute for Public Policy.





 Credit: shutterstock.com /Rice University



 The Affordable Care Act and changing economic conditions have encouraged an
increase in the integration of physicians with hospitals, or the level of
contractual control hospitals have with physicians. Current research has focused
on the overall trend of tighter integration, but it has not examined the more
granular level of how hospitals transition between integration forms according
to the study's authors.



 The paper, "The Integration and De-integration of Physicians and Hospitals Over
Time," examines trends in physician-hospital integration at 4,727 hospitals
using the 2008-2013 American Hospital Association annual survey data. It
designates four forms of integration based on the type of contractual
relationship a hospital has with physicians from least to most tightly
integrated: independent practice associations, open physician-hospital
organizations, closed physician-hospital organizations and fully integrated
organizations. The paper was co-authored by Marah Short, associate director of
the Baker Institute's Center for Health and Biosciences; Vivian Ho, the chair in
health economics at the institute and director of the Center for Health and
Biosciences; and Ayse McCracken, president of eNNOVATE Health Ventures.



 The researchers examined the overall changes in the number and percentage of
hospitals engaged in varying forms of physician-hospital integration and the
transitions between these integration forms by hospitals over time. Between 2008
and 2013, the share of hospitals with physicians on salary rose from 44 to 55
percent of all facilities. Looser forms of physician-hospital integration, such
as joint contractual networks with managed care organizations, decreased in
prominence, they found. In all, the authors found 1,525 hospital integration
form transitions reflecting a change in the integration form of 1,445 hospitals
between 2008 and 2013. They found 599 cases in which a hospital switched from no
integration to some form of integration between years. The form of integration
with the greatest change is the fully integrated hospitals category, with 710
transitions to fully integrated organization agreements. A majority of this
growth comes from the 550 hospitals changing from no integration to a fully
integrated organization.



 However, the aggregate shift toward tighter integration masks the fact that
many hospitals de-integrated or shifted to less tightly integrated physician-
hospital relationships during this time period, the authors said. Although the
number of hospitals reporting no integration declined by only 110 facilities
between 2008 and 2013, there were 489 cases between these two years in which a
hospital de-integrated.



 "During the time period studied, the optimal direction for hospital-physician
integration wasn't clear for either hospitals or physicians," said Ho, who is
also a professor of economics at Rice and a professor of medicine at Baylor. "It
appears that many hospitals that chose to integrate then de-integrated by 2013."




 The authors elaborated on the complexity of the overall shift to tighter
physician-hospital integration. "When physicians seek hospital employment, they
may expect little change in the way their businesses operate, but shifts in
decision-making authority, transparency, electronic health records and practice
management systems and HR policies affecting practice staff are among the
challenges physicians have to face after integrating with a hospital," McCracken
said.



 Future studies that distinguish between integration types are essential for
setting policies that foster integrated care to improve quality and lower costs,
instead of raising prices and harming patient welfare, the researchers said.
Loose forms of integration that generate more managed care contracts and provide
administrative services could increase utilization and expenditures, with no
improvement in quality or lower costs. Achieving these latter two goals is
likely only with tighter integration, which has features similar to those of
Accountable Care Organizations (ACO) and medical homes, they said.



 "A hospital seeking to participate as a Medicare ACO must build relationships
with primary care physicians (PCP) and will have better control of hospital
referrals if these PCPs are hospital employees," Short said. "Physician groups
that lack the financial and technical expertise to adopt electronic health
records that have increasingly become necessary to obtain higher reimbursements
by public and private payers will be the likeliest source of integration in the
future."



 The research was supported by a grant from the Agency for Healthcare Research
and Quality.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              411 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            February 5, 2016 Friday
                               Australian Edition

PUBLIC HEALTH NEEDS A JAB OF PRIVATE PRODUCTIVITY

BYLINE: Jeremy Sammut

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 806  words


Taxpayers' bankrolling of doctors and nurses is a kind of middle-class welfare

Since the 2013 election, the -national conversation has been dominated by calls
to revive the mojo of the 1980s and undertake economic reform to repair
government budgets. Yet according to some analysts, South Australian Premier Jay
Weatherill's plan to raise the GST to fund public health and education services
is "doable".

The real question, however, is whether we should do this kind of so-called "tax
reform" at all.

Public hospitals and public schools are the two areas of the public sector that
have remained largely quarantined from the reform agenda of the past 30 years.
Opening other government utilities - such as electricity, ports and transport -
to competition and privatisation has improved performance in those crucial areas
of the economy. But social services such as hospitals and schools, which consume
huge amounts of government expenditure, continue to be sheltered from reform and
propped up by taxpayers.

Pouring billions more GST revenue into public hospitals would represent the
antithesis of economic reform, which is meant to be about generating higher
"outputs" for the same or even fewer "inputs".

Taxes should not be hiked to fund inefficient services in a sector that is ripe
for restructuring to improve outcomes. Anyone familiar with the health policy
debate should know current health funding is not being used efficiently.

Inefficiencies range from expensive hospital admissions that could have been
prevented by lower-cost community-based care, to over-servicing due to
unnecessary and sometimes unsafe surgical procedures. Moreover, if public
hospitals employed the more efficient management and workplace practices common
in private hospitals, elective waiting times could be reduced.

This is just the tip of the -efficiency problem in public hospitals. Clinical
staff are employed on favourable terms and conditions under centralised,
statewide sweetheart agreements negotiated by public sector unions. Salaries
account for two-thirds of hospital budgets.

According to the latest Productivity Commission report on government services,
national recurrent expenditure on public hospitals topped $44 billion in 2014,
up from $28bn in 2005. Over this period, labour costs grew by 56 per cent, and
non-labour costs by 54 per cent.

Public hospitals face rising demand due to the ageing and growing population,
rising rates of chronic illness, and new medical technologies that create more
things to do for more patients. But the crucial question is whether the system
is productive, and if the higher amounts being spent are producing a
proportionate increase in services.

The one answer we have to this question suggests not. The 2013 Queensland
Commission of Audit headed by Peter Costello found that in the previous five
years, funding for the state's public hospitals increased by 43 per cent but
"activity" - the number of -patients treated and operations performed -
increased by only 17 per cent.

No wonder the former federal treasurer disagrees with his predecessor Paul
Keating, who wants a smaller GST rise hypothecated into state coffers. Costello
has remained true to the bipartisan spirit of economic reform that prevailed in
Canberra during the period of the Hawke Labor government, and has spoken out
against the Turnbull government's apparent willingness to take a GST rate hike
to the 2016 federal election.

The flagged rise in the GST is difficult to reconcile with the Prime Minister's
statement that he wants to lead a government committed to economic reform.
Financial pressure is the one thing that is most likely to force the state
governments down the alternative path canvassed by the Harper competition
review, which is to extend and apply the reform principles of choice,
competition, and private provision to the public health sector.

Before they jump on the "tax more, spend more" bandwagon, all members of the
political class should also ask themselves how fair it is to make average voters
pay higher prices for essential goods and services to preserve the cosseted
positions of some of the highest paid professionals in the nation.

Average doctor salaries in public hospitals top $188,000 a year, and the average
nurse earns $91,000. Taxpayer-funded employment in this part of the public
service should be called out for what it really is - a form of middle-class
welfare. There is no reason doctors and nurses (and teachers for that matter)
should continue to be treated differently to how blue-collar electricity, ports
and transport workers were long ago treated to achieve genuine economic
reform.Jeremy Sammut is a research fellow at the Centre for Independent Studies,
and co-authored with David Gadiel the research report How the NSW Coalition
Should Govern Health: Strategies for Microeconomic Reform.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bakersfield Californian

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           January 28, 2016 Thursday

Business roundup: Weir merges with local CPA firm, more

BYLINE: The Bakersfield Californian

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 550 words


Jan. 28--Bakersfield City Councilman Ken Weir has combined his accounting firm
with another in town, Hardaway Axume CPAs LLP.

The new firm, dubbed Hardaway Axume Weir CPAs LLP, will be owned by Donald R.
Hardaway Jr., Oscar I. Axume and Weir. All three are certified public
accountants.

The firm's specialties range from management services and financial planning to
business development and income taxes. Its address is 5001 California Ave.,
Suite 121.

Closing out a record year of earnings, Valley Republic Bank posted a 25 percent
jump in quarterly net income, to $983,000, during the three months ended Dec.
31.

The Bakersfield-based financial institution's income for the year came to $3.54
million, 30.3 percent more than it reported in 2014.

Valley Republic said its net loans ended 2015 at $316.3 million, 29.4 percent
more than a year earlier. Its total assets as of Dec. 31 came to $490.5 million,
16.4 percent greater than 2014's tally.

"Our accomplishments since the inception of the bank on Feb. 2, 2009 are
impressive," President and CEO Bruce Jay said in a news release.

"Valley Republic Bank is close to $500 million assets, with consistent year over
year growth in both assets and earnings," he continued. "This is especially
significant when compared (with) challenging economic conditions over the past
seven years."

Kern County hospitals together generate $7.9 million in annual spending and
55,235 jobs, according to a new study by Cal State Bakersfield economist Abbas
Grammy on 10 health centers' direct and indirect local economic impacts.

Hospital construction alone provides 112 direct and indirect jobs, while overall
spending by health centers produces $1.1 billion per year in tax revenue, with
30 percent of that money going to state and local governments.

Based largely on 2013 data from the State of California Office of Statewide
Health Planning and Development, Grammy's study was commissioned by the Hospital
Council of Northern and Central California.

"The 2015 Economic Impact Analysis of Hospitals in Kern County illustrates why
the region's hospitals are important to our communities and the region as a
whole, and why it is necessary to invest in and protect our regional health-care
safety net," the council said in a note accompanying Grammy's report.

San Joaquin Community Hospital has won a top national honor for the second
consecutive year.

Healthgrades, an online provider of information about physicians and hospitals,
awarded SJCH the 2016 Distinguished Hospital Award for Clinical Excellence.

The award puts the hospital among the top 5 percent of more than 4,500 U.S.
hospitals, as ranked by clinical performance.

A new business has opened in Bakersfield providing various services to help
senior citizens continue living independently.

Jax & Lady owner Sandy Buchanan, herself a baby-boomer, says the business caters
to people with a range of health and mobility issues.

"Having a helping hand available improves quality of life and reduces fear of
losing independence," she wrote in an email.

The company's phone number is 426-5359. Buchanan's email address is
sandy02buchanan@gmail.com

___ (c)2016 The Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) Visit The
Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) at www.bakersfield.com Distributed
by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20160128-BK-Business-roundup-Weir-merges-with-local-CPA-firm-more-0128-20160128

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BK


                   Copyright 2016 The Bakersfield Californian


                              413 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

NEPA nonprofit hospitals provide region with $132M in community benefits

BYLINE: Michael Iorfino, The Citizens' Voice, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


May 08--Northeastern Pennsylvania's nonprofit hospitals and health systems
provided the region with more than $132 million in charitable community benefits
in 2011, a report released Tuesday said.

Meanwhile, all for-profit and nonprofit Northeastern Pennsylvania hospitals
contributed a combined $3 billion to the region's economy in 2011 through
employee salaries and business and household spending.

The report, compiled by the Hospital & Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania,
defined Northeastern Pennsylvania as Bradford, Lackawanna, Luzerne, Monroe,
Pike, Sullivan, Susquehanna, Wayne and Wyoming counties.

Comparatively, the Northeast ranked No. 7 out of the eight regions in both
charitable community benefits and total economic impact of regional hospitals
and health systems.

In 2011, the former Community Medical Center in Scranton, before joining with
Geisinger Health System, provided the region with $13.4 million in charitable
community benefits, and contributed $287 million to the region's economy through
employee salaries and household and business spending, Geisinger Community
Medical Center spokeswoman Wendy Wilson said.

The hospital's charitable community benefits include charity care -- as the
hospital "treats people regardless of their ability to pay" -- Medicaid
shortfall and community health improvement services, such as blood pressure
screenings and educational seminars on proper nutrition, she said.

Also, the hospital loses between $2 million and $4 million a year to run its
trauma unit -- the only one in Lackawanna County -- as it costs them to have
doctors, surgeons and anesthesiologists available 24/7, she said.

Meanwhile, Geisinger Health System, which owns facilities across the state,
including Geisinger Wyoming Valley Medical Center and Geisinger South
Wilkes-Barre, contributed $5.7 billion in economic impact and provided $300
million in community benefits in 2011, she said.

Commonwealth Health, which has eight for-profit area hospitals -- including
Regional Hospital of Scranton, Moses Taylor Hospital and Wilkes-Barre General
Hospital -- did not provide a breakdown of its community impact in 2011.

However, the hospital system invested $71 million in improvements to facilities
and provided $37 million in charity and uncompensated care to the area's
low-income residents in 2012, spokesman James McGuire said in a statement.

He said the affiliated hospitals contributed more than $677 million of direct
spending into the region's economy in 2011.

miorfino@timesshamrock.com, @miorfinoTT

___ (c)2013 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130508-YC-NEPA-nonprofit-hospitals
-provide-region-with-132M-in-community-benefits-0508-20130508

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YC


                       Copyright 2013 The Citizens' Voice


                              414 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                             March 27, 2009 Friday

After losing $466M, Maryland hospitals ask: What's next?

BYLINE: Danielle Ulman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 622  words


The strain of the economic crisis caused Maryland's hospitals to lose $466
million in the fourth quarter of 2008, a dramatic decrease from the $41 million
profit in the corresponding period in 2007.

According to a financial analysis completed by the Maryland Hospital
Association, 34 of the state's 58 hospitals lost money in the quarter.

The Washington County Health System got hit by the tanking stock market, said
James Hamill, president and CEO of the hospital.

"We've lost quite a bit of money," he said. "It's mostly driven by investment
income; we've been conservative, but we've still lost money. "

Losses statewide stemmed from increased interest rates on loans or lines of
credit, smaller returns on investments and higher costs for upgrading or
expanding programs and underwriting new technology. To help ease the burden of
higher expenses, many hospitals have implemented hiring freezes, reduced
administrative staff and curtailed spending on new technology upgrades, like
moving medical records into electronic form, said Nancy Fiedler, senior vice
president of communications for the hospital association.

"There is a lot of belt tightening, and if these numbers continue, it will
probably lead to cutting beds and patient care staff at the very time when we're
seeing our emergency room admissions grow," she said.

More doctors are seeking hospital employment or pay increases for services as
insurance reimbursements decline. Hospital payments to physicians in Maryland
last year reached $210 million, more than doubling the $103.9 million hospitals
paid in 2003.

Carmela Coyle, president and CEO of the hospital association, said two-thirds of
hospital costs are for staff salaries and benefits. Most hospitals have already
cut back on discretionary spending, she said, leaving little fat to trim.

"I think the concern here is that as the economic crisis continues, what's next?
I think hospitals are on the precipice of making more difficult decisions,"
Coyle said. "They have few choices other than personnel choices to fill those
gaps. "

Washington County's Hamill said his hospital is in the process of putting
together a budget for fiscal 2010, but it is waiting for the state's Health
Services Cost Review Commission to issue the new rates. Maryland is the only
state in the country with government-controlled rates for hospital services.

"I think the key is for us to get fair and adequate rate adjustments," he said.

The MHA said that anecdotally the financial picture for the state's hospitals
does not look better for the first quarter of 2009. That will make the
commission's rate decision "one of the most important in many, many years
because it will make or break the financial liability of hospitals in this very
difficult economic time," Coyle said.

The commission has only lowered fees once, according to Executive Director
Robert Murray, and he said current draft plans do not show a reduction. While
Murray said he sympathizes with the hospitals' position, the commission will
also take into account the 6.3 percent contraction in the economy in the fourth
quarter.

"Raising rates at the same pace as in years before would make health care that
much less affordable," he said.

In the first half of fiscal 2009, Murray said hospitals have had operating
profits "in excess of 5 percent" in the areas the commission regulates, like
fees for day charges, emergency room service, lab services and radiology
services, but not doctor's fees, where hospitals are taking a big hit.

"More and more doctors are looking to the hospitals to employ them, and that's
in part why they're generating losses on the physician side because they are not
charging as much as it costs them to secure those physicians' services," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Financing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           December 5, 2015 Saturday

Private hospitals to benefit from regulatory relief;
Beijing policy reform likely to encourage private investment in health care as
outpatients grow

BYLINE: Laura He

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business; Pg.2

LENGTH: 511 words


As China relaxed its bureaucratic procedures for hospitals applying for basic
medical social insurance, private hospitals are set to benefit from a projected
big increase in outpatients, analysts said.

A number of  local governments have recently slashed  the administrative
approval process for medical institutions applying for basic medical social
insurance (BMSI), including Shaanxi province and Lanzhou city. The moves came
after Beijing issued an order in mid-October to relax the bureaucratic
procedures on the BMSI scheme, thus allowing patients to claim government health
insurance for their visits to private hospitals.

In a research report, Fitch Ratings analysts said the move was one in a series
of supportive polices China has launched to boost the private hospital sector
and reduce pressure on the public health care system.

Public hospitals have been overwhelmed with demand for years, as patients are
less inclined to go to private hospitals, most of which are not  covered by
China's government medical insurance programme.

In contrast, outpatients at public hospitals only pay a small amount  for
prescription drugs.

In June, the State Council said it will encourage private investment in the
hospital sector by offering tax-favoured treatment, streamlining the approval
process for establishing a hospital, allowing private players access to
diversified funding sources, and cutting red tape to encourage the free flow of
talent among different medical agencies.

The latest relaxation of BMSI rules sets no deadline for implementation, but it
marks "a good start in enhancing private hospitals' competitiveness", Fitch
analysts said, adding it may lead to an increase in outpatients for private
clinics and hospitals.

It will also lure more private investment into the sector.

"Drug-makers are the main force in private-hospital investment, with economic
incentives to underpin the downstream market by centralising and optimising the
medicine supply chain, instead of expanding the hospital market by compromising
with high kickbacks to the latter amidst fierce drug market competition.

"On the other hand, as China undergoes changing dynamics at a slower economic
growth, some industry capital has quit the previous high-yield sectors such as
real estate and mining and crowded instead into the medical service industry,"
Fitch said.

But some analysts also highlighted the risks in the sector.

China's health care service industry is characterised by high investment, low
returns and a long cycle. Risks involved in private-hospital development include
various obstacles at the administration level, only faint profitability
visibility, low social recognition, and hence only a limited number of
outpatients, they said.

The number of outpatient visits to private hospitals accounted for only 11 per
cent of total visits in 2014, compared with 8 per cent in 2009, according to
statistics from China's National Health and Family Planning Commission.

laura.he@scmp.com


     Some industry capital has ... crowded  into the medical service
     industry





     Fitch Rating report



LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:                  Private hospitals handled 11 per cent of outpatient
visits in 2014.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    December 20, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

PHALEN PROJECT LURES CLINIC
OUTPATIENT FACILITY TO OPEN BY 2005

BYLINE: KARL J. KARLSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL


Regions Hospital said Friday it will open a $10 million outpatient clinic by
2005 in a new East Side business center under a deal approved this week that is
expected to involve the creation of more than 100 new hospital jobs.

The St. Paul clinic is being hailed as the first development attracted to the
area solely because of the Phalen Boulevard that St. Paul is building as an
economic stimulus for the East Side.

"The clinic would not have happened where it is without Phalen Boulevard," said
Curt Milburn, executive director of the Phalen Initiative, which has worked for
more than a decade to get the road built. The segment between Payne Avenue and
Interstate 35E opened two weeks ago. It is the first of three segments.

Brock Nelson, chief executive officer of Regions, said the site was chosen
because it is centrally located; there is easy access via the interstate system;
and the new facility can be more user-friendly there.

"There will be a surface parking lot so patients can park and walk in, not have
to park in a ramp," Nelson said.

The clinic will occupy almost all of a 60,000-square-foot building on one of the
seven sites in the Westminster Junction Business Park. The business park is at
Phalen Boulevard and Cayuga Street, a few blocks from Regions and just east of
I-35E.

Moving outpatient services to the new facility will open space at the main
hospital campus for more patient beds and other services. However, a hospital
spokeswoman said it has not been decided which of the many outpatient services,
such as the Regions Senior Clinic, will be in the new facility.

The St. Paul Port Authority this week agreed to sell the 5-acre, $670,000 site
for $1 for the development. The deal includes several provisions. These include
a requirement that the hospital's expansion and new facility create at least 127
full-time positions and that the hospital make a good-faith effort that at least
70 percent of the jobs go to St. Paul residents.

An estimated 64 jobs will be at the new facility, many of them transferred from
the main hospital campus.

The hospital also stipulated that the jobs will pay $9.50 an hour or more, plus
benefits. The provisions meet the Port Authority's purpose of creating jobs and
economic growth in St. Paul, according to Tom Collins, a vice president of the
agency.

The clinic is another example of the continuing growth at Regions. The campus at
Jackson Street at University Avenue completed a $62 million, 140,000-square-foot
expansion in 2000.

The hospital started in 1877 as a public institution and for years was known as
Ancker Hospital, then St. Paul-Ramsey Medical Center. It became a private,
nonprofit facility in 1986, merged with HealthPartners in 1994 and changed its
name in 1997 to Regions Hospital.

Karl J. Karlson can be reached at kkarlson@pioneer press.com or 651-228-5260.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

New Regions outpatient clinic

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 5, 1988

GP budgets 'may harm hospitals'

BYLINE: By DAVID BRINDLE, Social Services Correspondent

LENGTH: 546 words


Scope for improving the efficiency of hospitals through competition may be
limited, the Government is warned today by leading health researchers.

More likely is that if family doctors were given their own budgets for the care
of their patients, they may decide not to refer them to hospital at all, the
researchers say in proposals which support the running of experiments with
general practitioners as budget-holders.


The idea of giving budgets to GPs, which has emerged in the Government's review
of the health service, is based on the theory that they would send their
pateints to the more efficient hospitals. Payment for treatment would then
follow, thereby forcing the less efficient hospitals to improve.

Powys health authority in Wales is already bidding to run the first experiment
along these lines, under which four or five GP group practices would be given
notional budgets to buy all the care for their patients except emergency
treatment.

But this exception is one of the reason for the doubts expressed today by the
researchers from York and London.

They also say that many patients may be willing to go only to their local
hospital, while those who are willing to travel may be prepared to do so only to
beat long waiting lists, and not to get cheaper or better-quality care.

So although inter-hospital competition has been the focus of attention until
now,the researchers say that more importance should be henmceforth attached to
the potential for GPs to choose alternatives to acute hospital treatment for
their patients.

'In an internal market, where the GP has a notional budget for the patient and
acts as his guardian,e ach group practice could decide to increase
community-based care, and possibly demand community hospitals. Where this would
differ from a centrally-planned initiative is that the pattern could vary across
the UK.'

A third possible effect of GPs having budgets would be to iron out differences
between health districts in expenditure terms.

The researchers say that GPs who referred more patients to hospital than the
average, and consequently spent more, would be exposed by the new financial
discipline.

But in encouraging the Government to go ahead with limited experiments in which
GP budget-holders would plan their patients' use of hospital and community
services, the researchers say there could be measurable benefits of prolonged
patient life or improved quality of life.

However, they acknowledge that the results could have costs, saying: 'It is
unclear that there is consensus for accepting the unpleasant aspects of
effective competition: uncertainty, restricion of choice, losses of jobs and
hospital closures'.

The proposals have been drawn up by Professor Alan Maynard, director of the
Centre for Health Economics at York University; Professor Walter Holland,
chairman of the community health division of the United Medical and Dental
Schools of Guy's and St Thomas's hospitals; and Mr Gwyn Bevan and Mr Nicholas
Mays, respectively senior lecturer in health economics and lecturer in medical
sociology in the community health division.

Reforming UK Health Care to Improve Health; Centre for Health Economics, York
University, Heslington, York YO1 5DD; Pounds 3

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              418 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday

PATRICK- MURRAY ADMINISTRATION CELEBRATES GROUNDBREAKING OF SPAULDING
REHABILITATION CENTER IN CHARLESTOWN

LENGTH: 909  words

DATELINE: Grille


Grille, Oct. 13 -- The State Of Massachusetts has issued following Press
Release:

As part of the Patrick-Murray Administration's historic efforts to promote job
growth and long-term economic recovery in Massachusetts, Governor Deval Patrick
today joined health care advocates and lawmakers for a groundbreaking ceremony
at the site of the new Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Charlestown.
Construction of the new facility reflects the Administration's commitment to job
growth and economic development, and also reflects a technological upgrade for
delivery of the hospital's specialty, occupational and physical therapy. The
Charlestown project will translate into new jobs and economic development
opportunities in the area.

"Spaulding is a valued resource to the Commonwealth, offering critical
rehabilitative services to the residents of Massachusetts and greater New
England," said Governor Deval Patrick. "This project ensures the future of this
vital institution and will provide over 300 construction jobs. Spaulding's
commitment to our environment by investing in the clean up of this site and the
project's LEED silver certification speak to their mission to not only
rehabilitate their patients, but the community they will call home."

"The new facility will serve individuals with a range of needs in a
state-of-the-art setting," said Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. JudyAnn
Bigby. "We are pleased with the commitment Spaulding has made to also address
chronic conditions like obesity in persons with disabilities."

The new hospital will be a state-of-the-art rehabilitation facility, and will
provide numerous therapeutic and operational benefits that are not delivered in
the existing facility. The new facility will include 120 private adult
rehabilitation beds and 12 private pediatric beds. It will also include
gymnasiums and therapy rooms, swimming pools, research space, multi-purpose
conference spaces, radiology, a large outpatient clinic, laboratories, a
pharmacy and water access for patient therapy. The project will be completed by
January 2013.

"The construction of Spaulding's new location is a testament to the quality of
the hospital's care," said Massachusetts Rehabilitation Commissioner Charles
Carr, "Spaulding's decreased re-admissions and reduced stays reflect how
effectively they treat patients."

"Spaulding's new facility is good news because it will improve people's physical
health with a new state-of-the-art facility and strengthen the city's economic
health with the creation of much needed construction jobs. I'm delighted that
we've broken ground on several new health care facilities in the last couple of
weeks because we are so fortunate to have these institutions in our city. They
provide top notch care to our residents and help move our economy forward.
Spaulding's new facility will greatly improve this section of the Charlestown
Navy Yard by turning a brownfield into a greenfield and providing additional
open space including new Harborwalk connections," said Mayor Thomas M. Menino.

"For 40 years, thousands of patients and families from our region and all over
the world have come to Spaulding to create their own remarkable recoveries
guided by our dedicated caregivers. As we stand today as stewards of this rich
legacy of care, SRH is positioned to enter a new phase in its journey with a New
Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital," said David E. Storto, President, Spaulding
Rehabilitation Hospital. "Growing in national prominence to now our #4 ranking
in US News & World Reports " Best Hospitals" and serving as a center of
research, Spaulding is poised to reach unprecedented heights and create new
avenues of recovery while increasing our efficiency in healthcare delivery."

"Spaulding Rehab has provided high-quality, innovative care to our community for
40 years and made a difference in the lives of thousands of patients and their
families. The groundbreaking of this new, state-of-the-art facility and
conference center marks a great day for Spaulding and their continued commitment
to the neighborhood of Charlestown," said Senator Sal DiDomenico.

"It has been a difficult route, legislative and otherwise, to arrive at-but we
are here and Spaulding now has a building with employees and professionals that
will provide 21st century rehabilitative care to our community," said
Representative Eugene L O'Flaherty.

The construction of a new facility for Spaulding reflects the Administration's
jobs growth strategy, which focuses on investing in education, innovation,
infrastructure, promoting strong regions and supporting small business growth.
Massachusetts continues to lead the nation in recovery. Massachusetts has added
more jobs in the first eight months of 2010 than during any entire year since
2000, growing nearly 65,000 new jobs since December 2009. In its 2010 edition of
America's Top States for Business, CNBC named Massachusetts in the top five
nationally for business competitiveness. And Massachusetts has an unparalleled
entrepreneurial spirit, which is why for the second year in a row, Suffolk
University's Beacon Hill Institute ranked Massachusetts at the top in its annual
Competitiveness Report.

For more information please contact info@plusmediasolutions.co Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            October 16, 2011 Sunday
                             South Pinellas Edition

NONPROFITS STEP INTO SPOTLIGHT AS ECONOMIC DRIVER

BYLINE: ROBERT TRIGAUX

SECTION: BUSINESS; ON BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1122 words


They boast billions in revenues and assets and employ tens of thousands in the
Tampa Bay area. Yet they rarely are considered real players in the regional
economy.

"They" are thousands of nonprofit organizations, some of them giants, including
major area health care systems, universities and human services groups. And they
would like a little more economic respect.

"If I say I work for a nonprofit, faces glaze over and people say, 'Oh, that's
nice,'" says Grace Armstrong, who heads the Nonprofit Leadership Center of Tampa
Bay. "If I say I am the CEO of a nonprofit, they say, 'Oh, that must be nice.'"

Trying to counter the notion of nonprofits as lightweights, Armstrong's group
released a detailed, 24-page economic impact study of the 100 largest of the
3,694 nonprofit organizations in Hillsborough and Pinellas counties. The results
were posted Thursday on the Leadership Center's website
(nonprofitleadershipcenter.com).

The findings are muscular, and reinforce the contention of nonprofits that they
are a powerful but often overlooked piece of the Tampa Bay economy.

For example: The top 100 nonprofit organizations alone have 86,057 employees in
the work force in Hillsborough and Pinellas counties. This represents 9.3
percent of the total work force in these counties.

And that does not include the other 3,594 (though smaller) nonprofits not
counted in the study.

"It's time," Armstrong argues, "to take nonprofits more seriously."

Not that nonprofits have proved invulnerable to the severe downturn in recent
years. Armstrong is the first to admit her nonprofit and many others - just like
their for-profit brethren - took serious hits in 2009 and 2010. More than a
third cut staff in 2009.

The Nonprofit Leadership Center, whose mission includes training nonprofit
directors to be more adept board members, suffered a 25 percent loss to its
already modest funding in 2009. It has taken time for that to be rebuilt.

Many nonprofits in the arts world now say they are recovering from the downturn
with funding starting to return to pre-recession levels. But human services
nonprofits - those dealing with domestic violence, the homeless and food banks -
are struggling to keep up with the high demand perpetuated by high unemployment
and foreclosures.

According to this economic impact study, based on revenues and assets, the
largest Hillsborough-Pinellas nonprofits are dominated by area hospital systems.
The biggest of all is the nonprofit known as Florida Health Sciences Center Inc.
We know it as Tampa General Hospital, with just under $1 billion in revenues and
just over $1 billion in assets.

Not far behind in revenues is St. Joseph's Hospital, based in Tampa but part of
the regional Baycare Health System in Clearwater. And No. 2 in assets, behind
Tampa General, is the Shriner's Hospital for Children in Tampa.

(See more of the nonprofit rankings by revenue, type and employees at right.)

Outside of health care, the big area nonprofits range from the University of
Tampa ($164 million by revenue, $313 million in assets) and the University of
South Florida Foundation Inc. Sam & Martha Gibbons Alumni Center (whose assets
are $462 million) to the Raymond James Charitable Endowment Fund ($109 million
in assets) and the organ donation organization LifeLink Foundation ($108
million).

Some of the best-known area nonprofits by name place lower in the rankings.
Tampa's Metropolitan Ministries ranks 49th in assets with just $12 million, and
$13 million in revenues, among Hillsborough nonprofits. The nonprofit has
increased its appeals to individuals as other sources of funding have become
tighter.

St. Petersburg's Museum of Fine Arts is tops among art nonprofits among Pinellas
nonprofits, ranking 21st in assets with $47 million and 88th in revenues with
about $3 million.

Of course, if nonprofits want to share more of the economic spotlight with
for-profit businesses, they will find they also share the financial severity of
these times. And they are about to bump into another big distraction to donors:
the 2012 political elections. This may affect how people use their discretionary
income.

Of the two counties, Armstrong says Hillsborough nonprofits are more stressed,
mostly because they have encountered more kids and younger families in economic
need.

According to "Giving USA," the annual estimate of American philanthropy, the
slow national economic recovery likely will spell trouble for charity
fundraising until at least 2016. The report was issued earlier in the summer.

Contributions rose just 2.1 percent in 2010 after consecutive declines of 6.2
percent in 2009 and 7 percent in 2008. Those are the deepest drops in the
history of the 56-year-old study by Indiana University's Center on Philanthropy.

So, nonprofits, welcome to a bit more of the economic spotlight. And, by the
way, brace yourselves.

Robert Trigaux can be reached at trigaux@sptimes.com

* * *

Tampa Bay's top nonprofits*
Top 10 health care nonprofits by revenue
Name                                                                  Revenue
1. Florida Health Sciences Center Inc.**                                 $949
                                                                      million
2. St Joseph's Hospital Inc.                                             $720
                                                                      million
3. H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute Hospital          $528
Inc.                                                                  million
4. Morton Plant Hospital Association Inc.                                $518
                                                                      million
5. University Community Hospital Inc.                                    $441
                                                                      million
6. Trustees of Mease Hospital Inc.                                       $336
                                                                      million
7. All Children's Hospital Inc.                                          $313
                                                                      million
8. Bayfront Medical Center Inc.                                          $294
                                                                      million
9. St. Anthony's Hospital Inc.                                           $182
                                                                      million
10. Baycare Health Systems Inc.                                          $179
                                                                      million
Top 10 education nonprofits by revenue
Name                                                                  Revenue
1. University of Tampa                                                   $164
                                                                      million
2. Eckerd Youth Alternatives Inc.                                        $101
                                                                      million
3. Eckerd College                                                 $96 million
4, Florida School Choice Fund Inc.                                $92 million
5. Hillsborough County School Readiness Coalition Inc.            $76 million
6. Amikids Inc. Group Return                                      $70 million
7. University of South Florida Foundation Inc. Sam & Martha       $61 million
Gibbons Alumni Center
8. University of South Florida Medical Services Support Corp.     $59 million
9. USF Financing Corp.                                            $43 million
10. Compass Rose Foundation Inc. Southwest Florida College        $39 million
Top 5 human services nonprofits by revenue
Name                                                                  Revenue
1. Hospice of the Florida Suncoast Inc.                                  $127
                                                                      million
2. Senior Care Group Inc.                                                $107
                                                                      million
3. NCF Charitable Trust                                           $91 million
4. Lifepath Hospice Inc.                                          $82 million
5. Hillsborough Kids Inc.                                         $67 million
Top 5 nonprofits by employees
Name                                                                Employees
1. Florida Health Sciences Center Inc.**                                6,873
2. St. Joseph's Hospital Inc.                                           5,479
3. Morton Plant Hospital Association Inc.                               3,775
4. University Community Hospital Inc.                                   3,683
5. H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute Hospital         2,947
Inc.

* Includes Hillsborough and Pinellas county nonprofits only

** Better known as Tampa General Hospital

Source: Nonprofit Leadership Center of Tampa Bay 2011 economic impact study.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Indian Banking News

                    September 24, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia Announces Appointments to Economic Advisory
Council

LENGTH: 802  words


Sept. 24 -- Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia issued the following news
release:

The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia today announced the appointments of
four executives to the Bank's Economic Advisory Council (EAC): Madeline Bell,
president and COO, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP); Varsovia
Fernandez, president and CEO, Greater Philadelphia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
(GPHCC); Maria Rodale, chairman and CEO, Rodale Inc.; and Lynn M. Utter,
president and COO, Knoll Office, a unit of Knoll, Inc. Each will serve
three-year terms on the EAC.

The EAC advises Philadelphia Fed officials on regional business conditions and
economic issues that have an impact on the marketplace. The council includes
representatives from diverse industries as well as nonprofits and organized
labor in the Third Federal Reserve District, which includes eastern
Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey, and Delaware.

Madeline Bell began her career at CHOP, the nation's first hospital exclusively
for children, and after a variety of management and executive promotions, she
was named president and COO in 2007.

Bell serves as a board member for the University City District, the Schuylkill
River Development Corporation, the Delaware Valley Healthcare Council, the
Children's Hospital Association, and the Villanova University College of Nursing
advisory board. She has an M.S. and a master's degree in philosophy, both from
the University of Pennsylvania, and a B.S. in nursing from Villanova University.

Varsovia Fernandez is president and CEO of the GPHCC, a not-for-profit
organization that promotes the advancement and economic growth of Hispanic
businesses and professionals in the Greater Philadelphia region. Previously,
Fernandez worked with Congreso de Latinos Unidos as vice president of external
affairs from 2003 to 2006, and, before that, she held several senior corporate
positions in a variety of industries.

Fernandez serves on various boards and commissions, including Comcast's National
Joint Diversity Advisory Council, the Pennsylvania Early Learning Investment
Commission, the Philadelphia Youth Network Council for College and Career
Success, and the Governor's Advisory Council on Privatization and Innovation.
She is also a member of the board of the Community College of Philadelphia
Foundation. Fernandez has a B.S. in business management from Rosemont College.

Maria Rodale is the chairman and CEO of Rodale Inc., publisher of health and
wellness lifestyle books, magazines, websites, and the e-commerce site Rodale's
(Rodales.com). Rodale joined the family business in 1987, initially working in
circulation and direct marketing. In 1998, she became the director of strategy,
and in 2007, she was elected chairman.

Rodale is the author of several books, including Organic Manifesto: How Organic
Farming Can Heal Our Planet, Feed the World, and Keep Us Safe. She is cochair of
the Rodale Institute board and a member of the board of Bette Midler's New York
Restoration Project. She has a B.A. in communications and art from Muhlenberg
College.

Lynn M. Utter is president and COO of Knoll Office, a unit of Knoll, Inc., a
global firm that designs and manufactures office and home furnishings. She has
been president and COO of Knoll Office since 2012. Previously, Utter was
president and COO of Knoll North America from 2008 to 2012. From 2003 to 2008,
Utter was the chief strategy officer at Coors Brewing Company, a business unit
of Molson Coors Brewing Company. She was also group vice president of operations
and held various operational titles during her tenure with Coors, which began in
1997. Before that, Utter was the vice president of sales at the Frito-Lay
Company.

Utter is a director of WESCO Distribution, Inc. and WESCO International, Inc.
She is also a member of the Internal Audit Committee at the University of Texas.
Utter has an M.B.A. from Stanford University and a B.B.A. from the University of
Texas at Austin.

The four new EAC appointees are replacing retiring members Kevin Flemming,
president of Integrity Personnel and CEO of Integrity Business Services, LLC;
Teresa Bryce Bazemore, president of Radian Guaranty, Inc.; Cheryl Feldman,
executive director of District 1199C Training & Upgrading Fund; and Edward
Graham, chairman, president, and CEO of South Jersey Industries, who was
appointed to the Bank's board of directors in January 2014.

The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia helps formulate and implement monetary
policy, supervises banks and bank and savings and loan holding companies, and
provides financial services to depository institutions and the federal
government. It is one of the 12 regional Reserve Banks that, together with the
Board of Governors in Washington, D.C., make up the Federal Reserve System.

Source: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Bangkok Hospital Dental focuses on CRM

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 320 words


Hospital director Valailuck Kiatthanakorn recently said the number of overall
patients in the first six months of the year had dropped by 6 per cent from the
same period last year, during which it had 5,300 patients per month on average.

The decline in patient numbers has occurred not only at Bangkok Hospital Dental
Centre but also at other similar-sized dental centres, because people are more
careful about their spending in the current economic climate, she said.

As part of its CRM, the hospital sent direct mails to its existing clients
during the first half of the year, as well as to the client base of Bangkok
Hospital Medical Centre (BMDC), to inform them of its dental services and
promotional packages.

Bangkok Hospital Dental Centre is part of the BMDC network.

As a result, Bangkok Hospital Dental Centre's revenue in the period increased by
2 per cent from a year earlier, despite the fall in patient numbers.

"The dental centre's revenue last year grew by 15 per cent from 2007. Despite a
growth rate of 2 per cent in the first half of 2009, we are quite satisfied with
the figure. In general, the centre's revenue increases at twice the rate of the
country's gross domestic product. So, I think our performance was good because
we were able to grow amid a negative GDP growth rate," she said.

Thanks to the centre's efforts, its revenue per bill per patient in the first
half rose to more than Bt2,000. The centre has discovered that its clients, who
are mostly high-income people, have more time to come to the dental centre than
in the normal economic situation, she added.

Apart from existing patients, Valailuck said Bangkok Hospital Dental Centre had
also tried to approach new customers, particularly foreigners, who are BMDC
patients.

It has added oral-cavity checking to BMDC's general health check-ups.

It has already seen an increase in the number of foreign patients, particularly
from the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              422 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Times of Central Asia

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Prospects of Tajik-German economic cooperation to be discussed in Dushanbe

LENGTH: 204  words


Prospects of cooperation between Tajikistan and Germany for 2014-2015 will be
discussed at the intergovernmental consultation.

Tajikistan plans to further develop relations with Germany, Deputy Minister of
Economic Development and Trade of Tajikistan Sayidrahmon Nazriyev said.

According to him, promising areas of cooperation are implementation of projects
in the areas of health, education and microfinance.

He also said that projects funded by German government allowed rehabilitating
and equipping two tuberculosis hospitals in southern Tajikistan, to build
tuberculosis hospital for children in suburbs of Dushanbe, to improve the
quality of emergency medical care. German government also funded projects on
construction of new schools in Khatlon and Rasht districts, on restoration of
public infrastructure and development of energy sector.

Ambassador of Germany to Tajikistan Holger Gren said that Germany will look for
opportunities for further cooperation.

He noted that economic cooperation between two countries in recent years became
more dynamic. The consultation, which will end on October 23, will focus on
preparations for intergovernmental negotiations on cooperation for 2014-2015,
scheduled for next year.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Times of Central Asia
                              All Rights Reserved


                              423 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times (Munster, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday

Report shows health care's $31B impact on state

BYLINE: Vanessa Renderman, The Times, Munster, Ind.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 636 words


Dec. 15--Indiana hospitals and outpatient medical centers have a $31.3 billion
economic impact, according to a report that examines the financial role of
health care facilities in the state.

Local hospital executives are not surprised by the finding, but some say the
figure does not fully measure the role of a hospital in a community.

Franciscan Alliance Northern Indiana Region CEO Gene Diamond described the
report as interesting and informative.

"But, if anything, I think it underestimates the economic impact of hospitals,"
Diamond said. "Hospitals, by engaging in their mission work, particularly in
working with their local communities on preventive care and wellness
initiatives, have an impact that is significant, beyond what is recorded in
reports of this kind."

The report, released in October, references charitable care, showing the cost to
deliver that care represents an average 5 percent of all hospitals' budget. In
2011, $607 million in charitable care was delivered by all hospitals in Indiana,
according to the report.

Porter Health Care System CEO Jonathan Nalli said the most significant impact
the health system offers is being an asset to the community through the services
it provides, which enhances the good health and wellness of families in
Northwest Indiana.

"Our contributions and dedication to the good health of our community directly
impacts the good health of our economy," he said.

Battelle Technology Partnership Practice prepared "The Economic Impacts of
Indiana's Public and Private Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers" for
BioCrossroads, the state's life sciences initiative.

The $31.3 billion economic impact figure is comprised of $18.3 billion in direct
expenditures within the sector and another $13 billion in indirect and induced
spending in the Indiana economy, according to the findings.

"This leads to an output multiplier of 1.71, meaning for every $1 of direct
hospital and outpatient medical center expenditures, an additional 71 cents is
generated in the state economy," the report states.

The direct effects, indirect effects and induced effects add up to the total
impact.

Health care systems employ more than 150,000 Hoosiers, with nearly 15,200 of
those in the Gary metropolitan region, according to the report.

Matt Doyle, chief financial officer for Methodist Hospitals, said the report's
$31 billion figure is not surprising, because health care is a large employment
sector.

"Methodist is the 13th largest employer in Northwest Indiana, and our total
economic impact on the regional economy is estimated at around $123 million," he
said.

In Porter County, Porter Health Care System is one of the largest employers,
providing jobs and creating jobs by buying goods and services from other
businesses, Nalli said.

The impact is multiplied by the housing needs and retail sales generated by
associates. Porter also offers technology and medical services that attract
patients, specialized vendors and contractors to the county, he said.

"Porter also helps to attract new businesses and development as companies
relocating want quality health care nearby," Nalli said.

With Northwest Indiana sitting on the outskirts of Chicago, residents often seek
care at major hospitals there.

The report does not measure that impact on Indiana's economy, said Simon Tripp,
senior director of Battelle Technology Partnership Practice.

"But, it is not unusual for a state to see some leakage of patients who seek to
access certain highly specialized care based on institutional reputation," he
said.

Battelle has not done an impact study of all hospitals or health systems in an
entire state before, so there is no state-by-state comparative data, Tripp said.

___ (c)2013 The Times (Munster, Ind.) Visit The Times (Munster, Ind.) at
www.nwitimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131215-MU-Report-shows-health-care-s-31B-impact-on-state-1215-20131215

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MU


                            Copyright 2013 The Times


                              424 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday

Making case for city

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 254 words


Pittsfield officials were in Boston Wednesday to make the case for the city's
economic potential, and recession aside, there is a good case to be made. As
Deanna L. Ruffer, the community development director, pointed out, the Stanley
Business Park is an ideal spot for the kind of "shovel-ready" project to be part
of an economic stimulus plan. As MassDevelopment President Robert Culver said in
a speech, the expansion of broadband will enable nano-technology and other
online driven businesses to put down roots in desirable locations to live. While
in some ways isolated, Berkshire County is in a position to take advantage of
opportunities in Massachusetts and bordering states when they emerge, hopefully
sooner rather than later, in a better economy.

A tribute to BMC

It is a considerable tribute to Berkshire Medical Center, a modest-sized
community hospital, that it and the substantially larger Massachusetts General
in Boston are the only two hospitals in the state to be named a distinguished
hospital by the consumer health group HealthGrades. The group rated more than
5,000 hospitals across the state, honoring 270 that finished in the top 5
percent of hospitals across 26 procedures and diagnoses. BMC has built a strong
financial base, enabling it to purchase cutting-edge equipment and recruit top-
grade people in all departments. The high marks in areas from pulmonary and
critical care to treatment for stroke and gastrointestinal ailments should make
residents feel confident in the care they will receive.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                               gazettelive.co.uk

                        July 18, 2014 Friday 5:40 PM GMT

James Cook Hospital railway station opened by transport minister;
New stop was opened to boost access to the hospital as well as help tackle
traffic congestion on Marton Road

BYLINE: By Laura Woodcock

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 257 words


A hospital railway station has been officially opened - two months after it
carried its first passengers.

Minister of State for Transport, Baroness Kramer today opened the new £2.2m
James Cook University Hospital station.

She named the train she arrived on - Captain James Cook, Master Mariner - and
unveiled an official plaque to mark the development of the station, which lies
behind the hospital.

Up to 17 Northern Rail trains on the Esk Valley line call at the new stop, which
was launched to boost access to the hospital as well as help tackle traffic
congestion on Marton Road.

It was funded following a Local Sustainable Transport Fund bid from the
Department for Transport by TVU, the Local Enterprise Partnership for Tees
Valley.

James Cook University Hospital train station

Transport Minister Baroness Kramer said: "I am very pleased that we have been
able to contribute £2m towards the new station at The James Cook University
Hospital, which will serve staff, patients and visitors as well as enhancing the
wider transport network. Good transport connections act as an engine for
economic growth, and link local people to vital services."

Councillor Charlie Rooney, Middlesbrough Council's executive member for
regeneration, said: "The new station is fantastic for the town, the hospital and
our communities.

"As well as helping the area realise one of its ambitions to improve rail
passenger facilities and enhance the rail network, it supports economic
regeneration by improving transport links for workers and accessibility to key
sites."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEGM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Union Daily Times, S.C.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 7, 2014 Saturday

Sinclair takes interrelated approach to county issues

BYLINE: Charles Warner, The Union Daily Times, S.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1144 words


June 07--UNION COUNTY -- An understanding of the interrelated nature of issues
such as the hospital district, the county jail, and economic development and
policies that reflect that understanding are what Tommy Sinclair said he will
continue to implement if elected to a second term as Union County Supervisor.

The Democratic and Republican parties will hold their primaries on Tuesday, June
10. Voters must choose which primary they vote in before casting their ballots.

In the Democratic primary the only local race is for the Democratic nomination
for Union County Supervisor.

Incumbent Union County Supervisor Tommy Sinclair and District 2 Union County
Councilman Frank Hart running for the Democratic nomination. The winner of the
primary will be the next supervisor because no Republican is running for the
office in the November general election.

Sinclair, who is seeking his second term as supervisor, pointed to the
achievements of his time in office.

"They include stabilizing and putting confidence back in government by
transparency and public policy-based decisions rather than political ones,"
Sinclair said. "Obvious economic growth which provides jobs and tax base
investment, not to mention the jobs have health insurance which will benefit the
hospital and health care collectively."

In the area of information technology, Sinclair said that early on he determined
that county government was at the "bag phone" level of development in a "cell
phone world. We are now online with deeds, taxes, property cards, and open for
everybody to see."

In addition, Sinclair said "we have a planned yearly investment as we upgrade
technology and information services. It will take a while to catch up but we're
gaining ground."

In public works, Sinclair said that "after some involuntary personnel changes
and reorganization we're now a state model in the area of waste management and
recycling. We have increased recycling threefold while reducing the budget by
thousands and thousands of dollars."

Sinclair said the county has also purchased new equipment to maintain its roads.

Union Hospital District

As for the future, Sinclair said he sees the county playing an important role in
the efforts to help the Union Hospital District address its financial and
related issues. He said the county can play a role in helping facilitate the
district's plans to affiliate with a larger health care system in order to
reduce costs while maintaining services.

"Any of what I call 'major muscle movement' in public health, public safety, or
even public education has to involve the county," Sinclair said. "In health
care, if we use Spartanburg and Greenville as an example, both are special
purpose districts within the county. For example, when Laurens County affiliated
with Greenville, the Laurens County government had standing as the Spartanburg
County government had some standing in Spartanburg Regional. Besides the dialog
between hospitals there has to be some degree of government to government
dialog."

Sinclair pointed out that the county is already involved with the hospital
district as the members of the hospital board are appointed by Union County
Council. He said this gives the county standing to be involved in the
affiliation process, even if the district is looking at affiliating with a
private entity.

Union County levies tax millage to support the operations of a number of outside
agencies and institutions. It does not, however, levy tax millage to support the
hospital district. Sinclair said he would support using tax millage to help
support the hospital district if it proved necessary, pointing out that the
county has already provided it with financial assistance.

"I would based on some discussion and dialog," Sinclair said. "We have in fact
supported the hospital recently with GEO bond funds and reserve funds."

Sinclair said he favors the county's involvement with the hospital district and
its affiliation efforts because "public health and public safety and public
education is a basic and integral part of government."

Union County Jail

The structural problems of the Union County Jail is another issue the county has
had to deal with for the past several years and will likely continue to be an
issue for some years to come. Sinclair said the county is continuing to work to
address these issues through a combination of maintenance and reduction of the
inmate population.

"The jail does need some upgrading to extend its short-term life," Sinclair
said. "We do that by maintenance activities and by reducing the jail population
by putting an additional public defender on staff last year. The inmate
population last year was around 60 and now it is around 40."

Economic Development

Sinclair said the long-term solution not only will address the jail's problems
but could also play a role in the future economic development of the county.

"The long-term solution is a new facility with up to date systems in a different
location that would vacate the area to accommodate additional industrial
development," Sinclair said.

The jail is currently located off SC 18 in the Bonham area and sits near the
Gonvauto manufacturing facility. There has been much talk about the possibility
of eventually relocating the jail and other adjacent facilities such as the
Ellen Sagar Nursing Home to free up the area for future industrial development.

"I can see a scenario where the nursing home was relocated to the existing
hospital, which would be transformed to meet health care needs either there or
at a new location," Sinclair said. "Then we have a large area connected to the
existing Commerce Park between Highway 176, Highway 18, and the rail line, all
with upgraded water, sewer and power.

"That is more than a scenario but less than a plan," he said. "That's the
direction I'm going to try to lead us in."

Sinclair pointed out that the issues of economic development, health care, and
public safety are interrelated and must be addressed as such.

"The point here is you just can't talk about the hospital or the jail or the
nursing home or economic development or even education," Sinclair said. "They
are so interrelated and even interdependent that you must talk about them at one
time."

Sinclair added that economic development and quality of life improvement for the
county can occur in different ways in different areas. In the case of the
southern part of the county, that can take the form of the Patriots Lake Project
which would provide the county with increased water supplies in an era when
water source are diminishing. In the northern part of the county it will take
the form of projects like the Trakas site which can help the county attract more
distribution-type centers or light industry.

___ (c)2014 The Union Daily Times (Union, S.C.) Visit The Union Daily Times
(Union, S.C.) at uniondailytimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140607-UH-Sinclair-takes-interrelated-approach-to-county-issues-0607-20140607

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UH


                                 Copyright 2014


                              427 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright (c) 1995 Gonzaga Law Review
                               Gonzaga Law Review

                                  1995 / 1996

                              31 Gonz. L. Rev. 427

LENGTH: 22777 words

COMMENT: Physician Credentialing: Economic Criteria Compete with the Hippocratic
Oath

NAME: Leonard A. Hagen *

BIO:



   * Candidate for J.D., Gonzaga University School of Law, 1996. Chartered
Property Casualty Underwriter, Loma Linda University Medical Center, Risk
Management Department, 1991.

 TEXT:
 [*428]  I. INTRODUCTION


     "Being against managed care [economic credentialing] is like being
     against gravity."  n1


   Health care costs in the United States have tripled from 1980 to 1992, and
were expected to reach $ 1 trillion by the end of 1995.  n2 By the year 2000,
[*429]  health care costs will accelerate to nearly $ 1.7 trillion, accounting
for approximately 18% of the United States gross national product.  n3 The
Office of Technology Assessment ("OTA") categorized health care spending in 1991
as follows: the private sector spent $ 421.8 billion; the federal government
spent $ 222.9 billion; and state and local governments spent $ 107.1 billion.
n4 These impressive numbers have sparked enormous debate surrounding health care
reform -- a reform that is focused not only on issues of access and quality of
care, but also on the efficiency and cost of care. Thus, market pressures are
driving reform efforts and necessitating creative solutions to controlling
health care costs. In its report to Congress, OTA declared "the ability of a
reform approach to control the rate of growth in national health care
expenditures is one of the key issues in the debate over health care reform."
n5

   Physicians control nearly 80% of hospital resources; therefore, much of the
focus surrounding health care efficiency and cost effectiveness centers on
physician utilization practices.  n6 A significant area in analyzing and
monitoring physician utilization is "Cost-Effective Analysis" ("CEA") for
medical treatment,  n7 or what other experts refer to as the "Critical Pathway."
n8 These clinical guidelines are rapidly gaining recognition and acceptance as a
useful utilization tool.  n9 However, the import of economic analysis into the
arena of medical treatment raises decisive points of contention between the
providers of medicine and the purchasers of medicine. Such issues include
measuring treatment in economic units in addition to quality and constraining
medical judgment by limiting the provider's decision-making through the use
[*430]  of defined clinical guidelines. This debate intensifies when deviation
from a guideline triggers an adverse result on the physician's ability to
practice medicine. The process of scrutinizing a physician's practice patterns
through an economic lens (for credentialing purposes) is commonly called "
economic credentialing."  n10

   The recent emergence of economic credentialing is due largely to its use in
managed care organizations ("MCO") that use discounted provider contracts and
efficient utilization of resources to reduce hospital beds by up to 75%.  n11
Most analysts agree that economic incentives impact a physician's clinical
practice.  n12 Thus, even traditional delivery systems such as hospitals are
beginning to use economic criteria in their credentialing process.  n13 This
comment shows that economic credentialing is here to stay, and that if used
correctly, it will play a significant role in controlling the cost and
utilization of resources without lowering the quality of care. This comment
focuses on hospitals and MCOs because hospitals illustrate the traditional
delivery system that presents certain barriers to economic credentialing,
whereas MCOs illustrate the modern delivery system that presents fewer barriers
to economic credentialing.

   II. HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

   A. Quality of Care

   One of the Hippocratic principles still honored by physicians is that it is
immoral to consider third party costs when treating a patient.  n14  [*431]
Traditionally, the quality of care has been the sole focus of credentialing
standards for physicians. Medical practices came under closer scrutiny in the
early 1900s, and in 1917, the American College of Surgeons ("ACS") created
quality of care standards that hospitals complied with on a voluntary basis.
n15 However, by 1946 only ten states had passed laws regulating health care
facilities.  n16 This prompted Congress' response to incorporate the ACS
standards into a model licensure law known as the Hill-Burton Act.  n17

   Under the Hill-Burton Act, states must have licensure laws in effect before
receiving federal funds for constructing hospitals in medically underserved
areas.  n18 Within one year of the Act, every state enacted some form of
licensure for hospitals, addressing the "adoption of medical staff bylaws,
physician appointment procedures, classification of staff membership,
departmentalization, and periodic meetings to review clinical work."  n19
Because each state had different licensure provisions, a need was recognized for
a national organization that could provide guidelines and monitor the quality of
care on a consistent basis. Thus, in 1951, the national supervision of quality
health care was vested in a private non-profit organization called the Joint
Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals ("JCAHO").  n20

   The JCAHO sets forth its standards in the JCAHO Accreditation Manual.  n21
After a thorough review of a facility's physical plant, administration, and the
quality of patient care, the JCAHO awards a hospital with accreditation.  n22 In
1965, the JCAHO's power was significantly increased when legislation
specifically endorsed the JCAHO standards as a  [*432]  prerequisite for
receiving Medicare payments from the federal government.  n23 Thus, while
accreditation is not mandatory, losing it can be financially devastating.  n24
Although the JCAHO requirements address all aspects of hospital treatment and
administration, this comment focuses on section 3 of the JCAHO Manual which
discusses the Governing Board and the Medical Staff.  n25

   B. Cost Containment and Utilization of Resources

   During the last decade there has been a noticeable shift from the paradigm of
the primary physician practicing quality health care with little concern for
costs,  n26 to the primary physician as the gatekeeper of efficient quality
health care.  n27 "The concept that if excellent patient care is provided,
financial matters will take care of themselves is no longer likely to be true
for physicians."  n28 Even the JCAHO, which focuses heavily on quality of care,
has recognized the need for greater efficiency in the utilization of health care
resources.  n29 To a much greater degree, the states, the federal government,
and the judicial system are all beginning to consider economics as a factor in
health care delivery.  n30

    [*433]  1. The JCAHO

   In recent years the JCAHO Manual has made a subtle shift toward encompassing
economic factors. Two examples of this change are the incorporation of Total
Quality Management ("TQM") and performance indicators. TQM is a management
approach, first gaining widespread acceptance in Japan, that focuses not only on
product quality, but also on product efficiency.  n31 The JCAHO Manual expressly
uses TQM as a means of measuring a hospital's performance.  n32 The 1993 JCAHO
Manual states that credentialing for medical staff membership or clinical
privileges may include criteria such as "utilization management . . . risk
management data . . . and other performance-improvement activities."  n33 An
important tool of TQM is the critical pathway, a suggested course of treatment
for a specific diagnosis that will decrease costs by more effective utilization
of resources and generate data not previously available to hospitals.  n34
Following the JCAHO incorporation of TQM, approximately 3,100 hospitals
implemented TQM programs.  n35 Perhaps an even greater change from a
credentialing perspective is the intent of the JCAHO to adopt performance
indicators by 1996, and to create a database allowing hospitals to compare their
overall performance.  n36

   The JCAHO "wields enormous influence over the organization and  [*434]
management of hospitals."  n37 In recognizing this power, it is interesting to
note that physician associations control three of the five organizations that
administer the JCAHO, and during the past four decades the quality of medical
care has been the focal point of credentialing with little attention placed on
the utilization of hospital resources.  n38 However, with the advent of the
1990s came the harsh reality that health care facilities were struggling for
financial survival.  n39 The JCAHO, although certainly not adopting economic
criteria into the credentialing process, has responded with a more fiscally
responsible approach to hospital organization and management.

   2. State Legislation

   States have passed legislation to lower health care costs; and, in fact, some
states have opened the door to economic criteria in the credentialing process.
n40 In an aggressive move toward integration and cost cutting, the State of
Washington passed legislation requiring a study on the integration of quality
assurance and improvement standards.  n41 The legislation states that "quality
assurance and improvement standards are necessary to promote the public
interest, [and] contribute to cost efficiencies."  n42 This study includes such
components as provider and facility credentialing, licensure, staff ratios,
average total costs for length of stay for specific diagnoses, health plan
fiscal performance standards, provider utilization profiles, and utilization
management that monitors both underutilization and overutilization.  n43 Goals
[*435]  of Washington's health care reform include "gains in cost efficiency of
health services [and] improvements in utilization of health services and
equipment."  n44 Washington's health care reform is demonstrative of states'
interest in controlling health care costs.  n45

   Illinois passed legislation adopting an integrated health care system, which
provides in part: "It shall be the public policy of the State to adopt . . . a
health care program that encourages the integration of health care services and
manages the health care of program enrollees while preserving reasonable choice
within a competitive and cost efficient environment."  n46 Illinois also passed
legislation that directly acknowledged economic credentialing.  n47 Although the
Illinois statute cautions against the misuse of economic credentialing, it does
not prohibit its use in the credentialing process.  n48

   Florida opened the door to economic credentialing by including the phrase "or
such other criteria as the governing board deems necessary" in its hospital
licensing statute.  n49 In 1992, a Florida court used this phrase to justify a
medical center's use of financial criteria to deny staff privileges to an
otherwise qualified physician.  n50 Likewise, California legislation instructs
governing boards to "provide for the control and use of the physical and
financial resources of the hospital."  n51 These are only a few of the states
actively seeking new and innovative measures to contain rapidly rising health
care costs.

   3. Federal Government Legislation

   The federal government also has a history of implementing cost control
measures. In 1965, the government created the Medicare program in response
[*436]  to a perceived need to ensure health care for the elderly.  n52 The
following year, Medicaid was created to ensure health care for the poor.  n53 In
1983, the federal government implemented a fixed payment schedule for medicare
patients based upon diagnostic related groups ("DRG").  n54 The DRG program has
been labeled by some commentators as a mega event in hospital administration.
n55 While the underlying purpose of DRGs was to cut health care expenditures by
restricting hospital reimbursement to a predetermined amount, a more subtle
expectation was that a hospital would in turn apply institutional control over
its attending physicians.  n56

   In 1986, the government, still concerned with escalating health care costs,
declared that medical malpractice and "the need to improve the quality of
medical care have become nationwide problems that warrant greater efforts than
those that can be undertaken by any individual State."  n57 In 1993, President
Clinton submitted his proposal advocating a national health care system based
upon managed care concepts of integration and competition.  n58

   The federal government is continually reviewing various methods of reducing
health care costs. In its report to Congress, OTA outlined several ongoing
studies under the heading of "federal cost-effectiveness activities."  n59 One
remarkable statement in the report declares: "HCFA [Health Care Finance
Administration] has long contemplated establishing regulations that would permit
it to use cost-effectiveness as a criteria more explicitly in decisions
regarding coverage. . . . Agency anxiety about the reception of the regulations,
however, has delayed their being made final."  n60 With the escalation of health
care costs, the political climate is ripening for  [*437]  HCFA to implement
some of these controversial measures, many of which are based upon managed care
concepts.  n61

   A recent development was the August 14, 1995 publication of Congress' Stark
II anti-referral legislation.  n62 This legislation was passed in order to
broaden the physician referral prohibition in Stark I of referring Medicare
patients to entities in which they, or their immediate family, have a financial
interest.  n63 In passing this legislation, Congress has sent a strong and clear
message that overutilization of resources will not be tolerated.

   C. Doctor-Patient Relationship

   Another development pollinating the climate for economic credentialing is the
changing physician-patient relationship. Traditionally, physicians would
contract independently with hospitals for the use of a facility to treat their
patients. Thus, physicians were classic independent contractors. However, with
the advent of new health care delivery systems such as Health Care Maintenance
Organizations ("HMO") and Physician Hospital Organizations ("PHO"), physicians
are increasingly hired as employees.  n64 Hospitals are also hiring their own
physicians under exclusive contracts in departments such as pathology,
radiology, anesthesia and emergency.  n65 Some of the fundamental issues in the
doctor-patient relationship are also being re-examined by the courts.  n66 The
significance of this changing physician-institution relationship to the
physician-patient relationship is that employers have more control over their
employees than over independent  [*438]  contractors.  n67 Thus, an institution
may find it easier to restrict the undesired practices of its own employees than
independent contractors.  n68

   D. Compilation of Utilization Data

   Today, vast amounts of physician utilization data is available due to
technological advances in computer information systems. Because of these
advances, the Health Care Quality Improvement Act,  n69 state statutes,  n70 and
the JCAHO require reporting of utilization data.  n71 These reporting
requirements greatly increase the volume of available data, and many companies
are actively synthesizing this data into meaningful outcome-based information.
n72 One existing barrier to effectively using this data is the difficulty in
making it fair and objective. Research conducted at the direction of OTA
revealed that some of the most common medical problems could be diagnosed using
over 10 billion different pathways.  n73 However, this drawback is not as
ominous as it may first appear. First, many companies have been tracking data
since the mid 1980s, making their data more credible.  n74 Second, advances in
computer technology are occurring so rapidly that the credibility is short
lived.

   With billions of dollars at stake in the health care industry and the visible
advances in computer technology, data information will continue to expand and
respond to the demands of providing data that is flexible and sensitive to
[*439]  patient disparities. In fact, there are currently hundreds of practice
guidelines (critical pathways) and software programs available for all forms of
health care purchasers.  n75 "Medicine has witnessed the development and
introduction of medical practice guidelines . . . [which] has developed into a
plethora of diagnostic . . . treatment recommendations from many national
medical organizations."  n76

   The availability of physician utilization data, combined with the increasing
scrutiny of health care resources, has set the stage for the use of economic
credentialing as a cost-containment management tool. However, evaluating
physicians based upon economic criteria, such as utilization of resources, is
not readily accepted.  n77 Physicians, firmly entrenched in quality of care,
n78 rely on the JCAHO's traditional focus on quality rather than cost, the
doctrine of corporate medicine, and tortious interference with the
doctor-patient relationship. On the other hand, institutions firmly committed to
greater efficiency, rely on fierce competition  n79 and judicial and legislative
concerns of rising health care costs to justify economic credentialing.  n80

   III. SETTING THE STAGE

   If used correctly, economic credentialing can significantly impact the
utilization of health care resources without detrimentally affecting the quality
of care. However, it is important to define the credentialing process, economic
credentialing, and the various health care delivery systems discussed in this
comment.  n81

    [*440]  A. Physician Credentialing

   The medical staff screens physicians through a credentialing process to
determine which physicians should be granted medical privileges at the facility.
Physician credentialing began as a simple mandate to trustees of both private
and public hospitals to "select physicians suitable for practice."  n82 However,
during the 20th century, credentialing has developed into a much more complex
and meaningful process.  n83

   The JCAHO Manual expressly requires that there be a "single organized medical
staff that has overall responsibility for the quality of professional services
provided by individuals with clinical privileges, as well as the responsibility
of accounting therefor to the governing body."  n84 The Medical Staff Executive
Committee's credentialing duties include the process of credentialing, making
recommendations for medical staff membership and clinical privileges to the
governing board, developing termination policies, and establishing ongoing
"performance-improvement activities."  n85 Four core criteria for membership and
clinical privileges that JCAHO requires are "current licensure, relevant
training and/or experience, current competence, and health status."  n86 Most
states, as well as HCFA, follow the JCAHO model.  n87

   B. Clinical Practice Guidelines

   A clinical practice guideline ("CPG") can be defined as "systematically
developed statements to assist practitioner and patient decisions about
appropriate health care for specific clinical circumstances."  n88 Over 1,500
such guidelines currently exist with diverse applications.  n89 Once an
institution incorporates CPGs, the question becomes: How will the guidelines
[*441]  impact clinical practice? OTA describes passive and active
dissemination, two broad approaches to changing clinical practice patterns.  n90

   The passive approach simply disseminates information, whereas the active
approach applies economic incentives.  n91 As evidence of its economic theory,
OTA cites studies which show higher utilization for services such as radiation
therapy, physical rehabilitation, and diagnostic imaging in physician-owned
facilities than in non-physician facilities.  n92 Some health care purchasers
have taken the active approach a step further by implementing negative or
adverse outcomes in order to change clinical practices. Under this approach, a
physician may be denied staff privileges or the opportunity to participate in a
managed care system because of overutilization as measured against CPGs or other
data measured for clinical efficiency.

   C. Economic Credentialing

   Traditional credentialing is the process by which an institution reviews
information such as education, experience, personal references and adequate
limits of malpractice coverage, in order to extend privileges only to competent
physicians. It is now possible to add a physician's utilization patterns to the
credentialing process and measure them against other physicians' practices or
against standardized CPGs. If a provider's utilization of resources falls
outside expected norms, the provider may be labeled under some programs as an
"outlier."  n93 The provider is then barred from practicing medicine at or with
the respective facility. Currently, managed care organizations and large
insurers (as third-party payors) are the main users of economic credentialing.
n94 However, as hospitals struggle to compete with more efficient delivery
systems, they too are beginning to incorporate economic criteria into their
credentialing processes.  n95

    [*442]  No single definition of economic credentialing has achieved general
acceptance.  n96 The American Medical Association's ("AMA") definition stops
short of placing any kind of parameters on what economic credentialing actually
includes: "economic criteria unrelated to quality of care or professional
competency in determining an individual's qualification for initial or
continuing hospital medical staff membership or privileges."  n97 However, this
definition does little to actually define the term.  n98

   A narrower definition of economic credentialing is simply the evaluation of
physicians based solely on measures not directly related to quality of care.
n99 This definition was further clarified in 1992 by the California Medical
Association ("CMA") and the California Association of Hospitals and Health
Systems ("CAHHS") in response to legislation which effectively allowed economic
credentialing. The joint statement, which adeptly includes both of the above
definitions, reads in part:


     CMA and CAHHCS believe that termination or granting of medical staff
     privileges based solely on economic criteria unrelated to clinical
     qualifications, professional responsibilities or quality of care is
     inappropriate, with the exception of statutory, regulatory or judicial
     requirements, such as professional liability insurance, or other
     exceptions which are defined in the medical staff bylaws.  n100


   The use of economic credentialing can be separated into two categories: a
means of generating a profit or acquiring a desired patient mix or an evaluation
of a physician's performance data to select only those demonstrating the desired
level of resource utilization and quality of care.  n101 The latter definition
can be further isolated into two forms: hybrid and pure economic credentialing.
n102 Hybrid economic credentialing is more  [*443]  acceptable because it
attempts to combine quality of care and economic performance. Economic factors
that are often used include malpractice history, hospital admissions, lengths of
stay, resource utilization, and the physician's payor profile.  n103 Pure
economic credentialing, on the other hand, considers only economic performance.
n104

   Because of the enigmas that can arise when the term "economic credentialing"
is defined too narrowly, it is doubtful that either the courts or the
legislatures will attempt to adopt a strict, inclusive definition. Unless
restricted by statutory definitions, the courts are likely to use a broad
definition that allows room for balancing financial concerns with quality of
care concerns.

   D. Managed Care and Capitation

   Before identifying various organizational structures, it is important to
understand the meaning of managed care and capitation. Managed care is defined
by the Health Insurance Association of America ("HIAA") as:


     Those systems that integrate the financing and delivery of appropriate
     health care services to covered individuals by means of: [1]
     arrangements with selected providers to furnish comprehensive set of
     health care services to members; [2] explicit criteria for the
     selection of health care providers; and [3] formal programs for
     ongoing quality assurance and utilization review . . . .  n105


"Arrangements with selected providers" include contractual agreements and
incentives, and discounted fees for service.

   Capitation occurs when a provider agrees to an up-front, flat fee per
enrollee regardless of what the actual care may cost.  n106 Thus, the provider
is placed at risk for costs exceeding the capitated amount. Capitation may or
[*444]  may not be included in managed care contracts. However, it is gaining
popularity both as a cost-cutting tool and as an implicit concept for avoiding
antitrust issues.  n107 Because managed care contracts are discounted, and
capitated payments place the provider at risk, more emphasis is placed on the
utilization of resources. This in turn facilitates the subsequent use of
economic credentialing. HMOs and Preferred Provider Organizations ("PPO") were
among the first to introduce these two concepts; however, they are now
integrated with most delivery systems, as well as traditional indemnity plans.
n108 For the purpose of analyzing economic credentialing, only HMOs and PPOs are
discussed since they adequately represent the network-based managed care
arrangement.

   E. Delivery Systems

   An HMO is a health plan that provides comprehensive health care services to a
voluntary group for a fixed prepaid fee.  n109 HMOs were among the founders of
managed care concepts, and they are cited as the most efficient in terms of cost
effectiveness.  n110 Standard requisites of HMOs include an enrollee co-payment
for services and coverage which is only triggered when using the HMO network.
n111 However, HMOs fell short of their anticipated popularity. Although cost
effective, the rigidity of HMO plans kept them from attracting the expected
number of enrollees.  n112 Thus, PPOs were introduced with the same capitated
(prepaid) fee structures, but they offered more flexibility in physician
selection.

   A PPO is "an entity, consisting of a panel of providers under contract with
the PPO, that contracts with payors for such provider panel to provide medical
services to enrollees on a discounted fee-for-service basis."  n113 PPO provider
panels are closed, meaning providers that are not selected cannot participate in
the PPO plan. PPOs offer administrative functions including  [*445]  plan
coordination, utilization review, and quality review.  n114 Similar to HMO
providers, PPO providers can also be at risk under capitated agreements.

   The traditional hospital has struggled to compete with these more efficient
delivery systems. During the last decade, nearly 700 hospitals have closed their
doors, largely due to MCOs effectively competing with hospitals for patients.
n115 Thus, if hospitals are to survive economically, they must be able to
compete on a level playing field with these networks. With physicians utilizing
nearly 80% of resources,  n116 this playing field must include the ability of
hospitals to implement economic credentialing as a means to control resource
utilization.

   F. Licensure and Insurance Regulations

   The effect that licensure and insurance regulations have on credentialing
decisions depends on what statutes apply. Because states generally regulate both
hospital licensure and insurance, statutes must be reviewed on a state by state
basis.  n117 For example, Washington hospitals are subject to the Hospital
Licensing and Regulation Act.  n118 HMOs are subject to certain provisions of
both hospital licensure and insurance regulations under the Health Maintenance
Organizations Act,  n119 and some MCOs are subject to insurance regulations.
n120 Because HMOs are medical facilities and share in the risk of loss, they are
usually subject to hospital licensure laws as well as insurance regulations.
n121 Likewise, PPOs may be subject to state health insurance regulations if they
qualify as a "risk bearing" structure.  n122

   With this general background of legislative cost-containment mandates and the
different participants in health care delivery, the discussion becomes one of
specific legal issues regarding economic criteria in the credentialing  [*446]
process. Legal barriers that once may have prohibited economic credentialing are
now nonexistent, or at least do not posit the same level of deterrence.

   IV. JUDICIAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS

   With ample evidence that economic credentialing is here to stay, the issue
becomes: Once a decision to incorporate economic criteria has been made which
adversely impacts a provider's ability to practice medicine, will the decision
withstand legal challenges? Although no court has directly addressed this
question, a vice president of a utilization review and credentialing service
firm noted that to date a court has not ruled against provider exclusion when
based upon legitimate business reasons.  n123

   Whether economic credentialing will withstand judicial scrutiny is likely to
turn on two factors: first, violations of public policy; and second, connections
with quality of care. This new direction is demonstrated by a culmination of
judicial decisions including closed departments and exclusive contracts,
physician overutilization of resources, and a maturing public policy of fiscal
temperance.  n124 With the exception of the Florida District Court in Rosenblum
v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center,  n125 the courts have looked
for some connection to the quality of care when ruling on economic criteria used
in the credentialing process.  n126

   A. Closed Departments and Exclusive Contracts

   Closed departments and exclusive contracts are very similar. A department is
closed when the hospital decides that no other privileges will be granted within
the ambit of the department's services. "When a department is 'closed,' a
contract is usually awarded to a specific medical group to run that department.
Radiology, anesthesiology, pathology and emergency services are often provided
by 'hospital-based physicians' who  [*447]  hold an exclusive contract . . . ."
n127 Courts upholding closed departments appear to emphasize that a hospital has
the right to exercise reasonable administrative control over its departments,
including economic considerations that relate in some way to quality of care.
n128

   In Dattilo v. Tucson General Hospital, the court stated that exclusive
contracts enhance the quality of care by improving patient scheduling.  n129 The
court in Redding v. St. Francis Medical Center, stated that the "hospital's
interest in improving patient care . . . outweighed the potential adverse
economic impact on a group of doctors."  n130 Because the judiciary will uphold
closed departments and exclusive contracts if the facility can show an
improvement in patient care, some medical societies are seeking protection from
state legislatures.  n131 This has been met with mixed success since many states
also recognize the need for cost containment as a matter of public policy.  n132
In fact, many jurisdictions are broadening their acceptance of economic criteria
to include the physicians' utilization of hospital resources.

    [*448]  B. Physician Overutilization

   While physician utilization of resources is not economic credentialing per
se, overutilization does have financial ramifications. A number of state courts
have addressed the issue of hospitals denying, revoking, or limiting physician
privileges because of the physician's utilization practices. "In this group of
cases, the hospital's conduct rested, at least in part, on the physician's
exceeding utilization review guidelines that have strong financial implications,
and, as such, have relevance to economic credentialing."  n133

   In Knapp v. Palos Community Hospital, a group of physicians was denied
reappointment of privileges because the physicians overutilized hospital
resources.  n134 The quality review process revealed that some of the
physicians' practices were well below "accepted standards of medical care."
n135 Some of these practices included the excessive use of diagnostic tests and
the inappropriate use of lung scans and medications.  n136 These practices
resulted in overutilization exemplified by "hospitalizations that were 50%
longer and costs that were 31% greater than those of the other staff members."
n137 The physicians' practice patterns were determined to affect the quality of
care. However, the record also points to overutilization costs as a physician
practice problem. Although overutilization costs are not directly cited as a
reason for the denial of reappointments, Knapp implies that cost considerations
will not be judicially disallowed in credentialing decisions if they also affect
the quality of care.  n138

   In the later case of Friedman v. Delaware County Memorial Hospital, the court
upheld the hospital's reappointment denial of the plaintiff because of his
overutilization of bronchoscopic procedures and a refusal to heed
recommendations from the utilization review committee.  n139 An important fact
in that case was that Blue Cross of Greater Philadelphia noted the
overutilization and informed the hospital.  n140 The involvement of Blue Cross
is important from an economic credentialing standpoint because it  [*449]
under-scores an economic concern of the hospital -- that Blue Cross, as an
insurer and third-party payor, will not reimburse for unnecessary procedures.
n141 Again, while overutilization of bronchoscopes embodies quality of care
concerns, it also embodies economic concerns.

   The case of Edelman v. JFK Hospital, while still addressing quality of care,
is closer to economic credentialing than most cases.  n142 In Edelman, the
physician's admissions exceeded acceptable lengths of stay, and he performed
unnecessary diagnostic tests.  n143 As a result of these practices, the hospital
lost an estimated $ 250,000.  n144 It is undisputed that costs were a factor in
the denial of Dr. Edelman's reappointment. However, the decision also rested
upon the effect these practices have on the quality of care.  n145

   C. Furthering Public Policy

   One of the more significant lines of cases touching on economic credentialing
is that addressing public policy. While these cases also involve closed
departments or overutilization, the courts take judicial notice of public policy
concerns. In keeping pace with the demands of society and often with mandates
set forth by state and federal legislation,  n146 the judiciary has developed a
powerful rationalization for allowing hospitals and health care delivery systems
to pursue economic interests that protect the public good.  n147

   In Backlund v. Board of County Commissioners of King County Hospital, the
Supreme Court of Washington upheld the Board's decision to withdraw a
physician's privileges after he refused to purchase medical malpractice
coverage.  n148 The court expressly declared that "hospital [boards] have the
right to take reasonable measures to protect their assets and the patients they
serve. The Board also owes a duty to the hospital's patients . . . regardless of
[*450]  the details of the doctor-hospital relationship."  n149 The court noted
that physicians enter the practice of medicine by choice and must therefore
"face regulation as to their own conduct and their voluntarily imposed personal
limitations cannot override the regulatory schemes which bind others in that
activity."  n150

   Some fundamental concepts from the Backlund decision are analogous and useful
to the issue of economic criteria. First, a hospital board has the authority to
protect hospital assets in ways that are not arbitrary or capricious. Second, a
public hospital's first priority is to its patients. Third, a physician who
loses privileges for failing to correct patterns of overutilization may have a
difficult time overcoming the fact that it was his own conduct that triggered
the hospital's action.

   The decision in Desai v. St. Barnabas Medical Center involves a hospital with
a closed-staff policy that was implemented because of "overcrowding and
over-utilization."  n151 In reviewing this policy, the court immediately
embarked on an analysis of public policy.  n152 The Desai court declared that
[*451]  the:


     State has manifested its pervasive concern . . . over virtually all
     aspects of institutional health care. Strongly supported by
     considerations of current public policy, the Court has come to the
     definitive position that while hospitals have broad discretionary
     powers in managing their affairs, including the selection of medical
     staff, their health-care powers are deeply impressed with a public
     interest and are fiduciary in nature . . . . If a hospital policy
     decision reasonably serves an evident public-health purpose, it will
     be sustained, even though it may have a discriminatory effect . . . .
     [Likewise], when a closed staff-admissions policy is adopted by a
     hospital, it will be upheld if the public-health objective is
     rationally advanced by the hospital's staff admissions policy.  n153


   Some may argue that public good means assuring access to quality health care
with no relationship to cost. However, public good also embraces the new
statutory mandates requiring affordable access to quality health care.  n154
Thus, when reviewing public policy cases, courts must consider statutory
mandates of affordability in determining what is espoused by the concept of the
public good.

   D. Economic Motivation

   While some cases show that quality of care is a matter of public policy, at
least one case upholds a hospital's denial of privileges based solely upon
economic criteria.  n155 In Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical
Center ("TMRMC"), Dr. Rosenblum contracted with Tallahassee Community Hospital
("TCH") to direct its open-heart surgery program.  n156 While still under
contract with TCH, he applied to TMRMC, a competing hospital, for staff
privileges.  n157 The issue regarding Rosenblum's application for privileges
involved his directorship at TCH, rather than his credentials regarding quality
of care. Thus, Dr. Rosenblum bypassed the  [*452]  credentialing committee and
made his request directly to the governing board.  n158 The board was concerned
that Dr. Rosenblum, as director of TCH's open-heart surgery program, would refer
low-risk patients to TCH and high-risk patients to other facilities, including
TMRMC.  n159 The board recognized that in a managed care environment, employers
and third-party payors will move the patient to those facilities with both
quality of care and lower costs. In upholding the decision of TMRMC to deny
medical privileges to Dr. Rosenblum, Judge Hall stated: "Competition between
hospitals, not only in Tallahassee, but apparently on a national scale, is
intense. It is real. It is not imaginary and not pretextual."  n160

   Legal experts differ in their analysis of Rosenblum. Some argue the case was
determined on narrow facts, such as Rosenblum applying for appointment rather
than reappointment, and a Florida statute that allowed the governing board to
consider "such other factors as the hospital deems necessary."  n161 However,
Rosenblum can also be interpreted as demonstrating judicial tolerance of
economic credentialing, even to the detriment of the provider, if the court
believes the action is reasonable and serves a public-service objective.

   Access to affordable quality medicine is a public service objective that can
be tailored pursuant to state statutes.  n162 Declarations and legislation of
both the states and the federal government show that reducing health care costs
is an undisputable public policy.  n163 The courts are to administer this
policy, and they are doing so by recognizing that health care institutions have
broad discretion in managing their affairs. A synthesis of these cases reveals
that the proprietary interests of physicians may be preempted by reasonable
institutional efforts to further a public service objective. Under this line of
reasoning, overutilizing resources impacts an institution's ability to offer
affordable health care, and thus violates public policy.  n164

    [*453]  V. STATUTORY AND COMMON LAW ISSUES OF ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING

   Economic credentialing triggers legal issues under both statutory and common
law. Statutory implications include antitrust, fraud, abuse, and peer review
immunity. Common law implications include the corporate medicine doctrine,  n165
tortious interference with the doctor-patient relationship, due process, and any
willing provider statutes.

   A. Statutory Challenges

   1. Antitrust Statutes

   Restrictions on physicians' privileges based upon criteria other than quality
of care are carefully scrutinized for anti-competitive behavior. The threat of
an antitrust action is always present when a physician or any provider feels he
or she is restrained from competing. Thus, while an indepth analysis of
antitrust issues is beyond the scope of this comment, the issues presented
should at least be cursorily addressed. Antitrust is first reviewed in the
context of granting privileges and then within the scope of immunity under the
Health Care Quality Improvement Act.

   a. The Rule of Reason

   Antitrust activity is governed primarily under the Sherman Antitrust Act,
n166 the Clayton Act,  n167 and by the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC").  n168
The Sherman Act prohibits any conspiracy or restraint of trade.  n169 Antitrust
claims fall under two separate standards of review: the per se rule which
presumes certain trade restraints violate antitrust law, and  [*454]  the rule
of reason analysis.  n170 The rule of reason analysis asks whether the alleged
restraint is a reasonable practice. Restraints are unreasonable if they
adversely affect the competition with no redeeming value to the alleged
conspirator.  n171 Factors to be considered include the existence of a
conspiracy based upon a non-legitimate motive and an adverse impact through an
improper trade restraint that affects a particularized market.  n172

   Most medical staff antitrust allegations fall under the rule of reason
analysis because they lack the statutory elements of a per se violation.  n173
Credentialing decisions can fall prey to antitrust under the rule of reason
analysis if a physician is excluded from a panel without a rational reason.
n174 Therefore, to insulate credentialing, the "decision should be based on the
application of standards which have a rational relationship to the venture's
business, on quality of care decisions, and on a reasonable business purpose."
n175

   When economic credentialing is properly administered, there are no inherent
violations of antitrust.  n176 Implementing economic credentialing as a part of
the overall credentialing process is very difficult to defeat in terms of
antitrust challenges. First, the plaintiff would have to rebut the rule of
reason, and second, "legitimate business reasons are valid grounds for [the]
defense of practices that may result in economic injury to certain individuals."
n177 Conserving resources, arguably through economic credentialing, is a
legitimate business reason because it enhances the institution's overall quality
of care by not overallocating resources to some  [*455]  patients, and thus
underallocating resources to other patients.

   Hospitals frequently assert that their credentialing decisions were made
pursuant to a state mandate, and thus are exempt from federal antitrust laws
under the state action doctrine.  n178 In 1980, the United States Supreme Court
responded with a two-part test that a hospital must meet to successfully assert
this defense: one, the conduct was required by a clear state policy; and two,
the state must supervise its policy.  n179 In 1982, the Supreme Court stated
that antitrust laws would be applied less stringently to HMOs and "functionally
integrated group[s] of doctors" if they shared in the risk.  n180 The rationale
for this is that "persons who would otherwise be competitors, pool their capital
and share the risks of loss as well as the opportunities for profit. In such
joint ventures, the partnership is regarded as a single firm competing with
other sellers in the market."  n181 However, antitrust concerns continued to
stymie physician involvement in peer review credentialing decisions, and a few
years later Congress devised its own response.

   b. The Health Care Quality Improvement Act

   In 1986, Congress passed the Health Care Quality Improvement Act ("HCQIA") to
alleviate physicians' antitrust concerns regarding participation in peer review
decisions.  n182 However, to trigger immunity under the HCQIA, the action must
meet the standards set forth in 42 U.S.C. § 11112, including "the reasonable
belief that the action was in the furtherance of quality health care."  n183
There is a presumption of compliance with this standard that can be rebutted
only by a preponderance of the evidence.  n184 In Austin v. McNamara, the court
upheld peer review immunity when a physician's privileges were suspended.  n185

   Hybrid forms of economic credentialing connected with quality of care issues
will receive federal immunity under the HCQIA. Conversely, to the extent the
decision is removed from quality of care, it will probably lose HCQIA immunity.
Pure economic credentialing is such an example. However, it is arguable that
even pure economic credentialing decisions may  [*456]  trigger immunity if the
court believes the decision was made to further a state mandate of affordable
access to care. In this context, one can argue that the decision is indeed tied
to the furtherance of quality health care.  n186 It is also noteworthy that some
states, such as Illinois, trigger their own immunity when peer review actions
fail to trigger federal protection under the HCQIA.  n187

   2. Fraud and Abuse Statutes

   Fraud and abuse statutes, also referred to as anti-kickback statutes,
strictly prohibit a provider from receiving remuneration for referring a patient
under Medicare or Medicaid.  n188 Congress enacted these statutes to restrict
providers from receiving kickbacks (bribes) for referring patients.  n189 Thus,
the issue that could apply in the economic credentialing context is narrow and
applies more to credentialing designed to attract a desired patient mix than for
cost-containment measures. Further, integrated delivery systems that furnish
both the provider and facility for one stop medical care are further protected
from potential violations.  n190 Because credentialing does not focus on
referrals, the likelihood of violating the statutes is remote.

   B. Common Law Challenges

   1. Corporate Medicine Doctrine

   The corporate medicine doctrine prohibits the practice of medicine by anyone
but a licensed physician.  n191 For example, in a purchaser's utilization review
process, an employee often makes the initial determination of the patient's
treatment. One writer described this process as using "non-physician
gatekeepers."  n192 The prevailing concern is that corporations are focused on
the bottom line, which ultimately prevents the patient from receiving care
uninhibited by financial constraints. While the corporate medicine doctrine is
alive and well, it is not universal in its application.

 [*457]  Increasingly, both statutory and common law are beginning to limit its
application in response to the changing health care environment.

   Several states have statutes that prevent the practice of corporate medicine,
n193 some states rely on case law,  n194 and at least two states do not even
recognize the doctrine.  n195 HMOs and similar managed care structures are
largely exempt from the doctrine.  n196 Likewise, the courts also allow
nonprofit organizations to employ physicians.  n197 Most notably, the recent
Health Security Act proposal by the Clinton Administration would have largely
eliminated the doctrine altogether.  n198 Although the Act failed in the House,
it does represent the prevailing view that health care costs are becoming
increasingly important.

   In the context of economic criteria in the credentialing process, decisions
from non-physician (lay) employees of the institution may be deemed the
unlicensed practice of medicine if they restrict or prevent the physician from
rendering patient care. Therefore, to the extent the decision is made by
non-physicians, hospitals may be violating the doctrine by refusing to grant or
reappoint privileges.  n199 Ensuring physician involvement in the process will
mitigate, if not eliminate, the concern. Managed care structures such as PHOs
and independent practice associations ("IPA") consist of physicians, who may act
as corporate representatives because they are licensed, thus circumventing the
doctrine altogether.

   To the extent the corporate medicine doctrine is adhered to, it chills
creative solutions. However, the doctrine has already been significantly muted
by the emergence of managed care systems. Furthermore, to effectuate  [*458]
the recognized need for affordable health care, the corporate medicine doctrine
will continue to decline in application.

   2. Tortious Interference with Doctor-Patient Relationship

   Tortious interference is often confused with the corporate medicine doctrine.
However, the focus of each is quite different. The corporate medicine doctrine
focuses on the physician-patient relationship, whereas tortious interference
focuses on the physician-institution relationship.  n200 Prosser and Keeton
state:


     it may be tortious to interfere with the plaintiff's prospects of
     economic gain . . . [and] liability may be imposed in the case of
     interference with either personal or business relations if the means
     of interference are tortious in themselves, . . . as in the case of
     interference with economic interests through violation of antitrust
     laws, misuse of trade secrets or confidential information and unfair
     competition generally.  n201


Several courts allow tortious interference when a physician is excluded from the
medical staff.  n202 Under this line of cases, even if the institution is simply
following its policies with no intentional interference, liability can be
imposed based simply upon the effect of the institution's action.  n203 However,
there is room for optimism regarding economic credentialing.

   Cases involving tortious interference by the institution generally involve
quality of care issues, not cost.  n204 Furthermore, the interference must be
direct and involve directives that preempt physician authority.  n205 Thus,
policies or treatment guidelines that simply recommend a form of treatment are
not interference.  n206 Economic credentialing, even when in tandem with  [*459]
quality of care, will probably be viewed more as an issue of cost.  n207
Although there is no case on record addressing the issue of economic
credentialing, analogous and related cases show that deference is given to
institutions when the issue centers on cost as a matter of public policy rather
than quality.  n208

   Another line of cases allows institutions to evaluate the treatment
experience of physicians for quality control purposes.  n209 Professor Hall
proposes that this compromise should also apply to institutions evaluating a
physician's utilization for cost control purposes.  n210 Economic credentialing
for initial privileges also seems to escape the scope of interference. While the
tort allows for the expectation of contract, it is difficult for a physician to
prove that he or she was prevented from procuring other agreements or privileges
at other facilities.  n211

   3. Due Process

   a. Constitutional

   The Fourteenth Amendment provides that no state shall "deprive any person of
life, liberty, or property, without due process of law."  n212 A physician has a
property interest in continuing employment and a liberty interest in his or her
professional reputation.  n213 To comply with state and federal due process
provisions, the credentialing process must include the elements of notice,
hearing, and impartial adjudication.  n214 However, the due process challenge is
usually applicable only to public hospitals because of the state action
requirement. Private institutions are not state actors, therefore, they are not
subject to due process claims.  n215 Moreover,  [*460]  credentialing actions of
a private hospital are not subject to judicial review if the decision is within
its bylaws.  n216 While constitutional due process challenges are usually
limited in scope to public facilities, the requirements of due process are
carried over into statutory requirements.  n217

   b. Statutory

   Statutory due process arguably provides greater protection to physicians
because it is not limited to public facilities. For example, the HCQIA requires:
(1) prompt notice of any adverse action against a physician, (2) the reasons for
the action, and (3) the opportunity for a hearing to trigger its peer review
immunity provisions.  n218 The HCQIA applies to both public and private peer
review groups. Thus, credentialing programs should include the procedural
safeguards required under the HCQIA.  n219 A properly designed credentialing
program, complete with adequate notice, hearing, and appeal procedures, will not
only satisfy the HCQIA provisions, but may also shield the institution from
potential antitrust challenges.  n220

   4. Any Willing Provider Laws

   As previously discussed, managed care organizations such as HMOs are usually
not subject to due process violations, unless the adverse action constitutes a
statutory violation. Ironically, these organizations are the front-runners in
using economic criteria in their panel selection (credentialing) process. When
an organization uses criteria to select a limited number of providers, the
result is obvious -- those who do not meet the criteria are excluded. The
disdain for this selective contracting has evoked a powerful  [*461]  response
from the medical community in the form of extensive legislative efforts and
lawsuits.

   a. Legislative Efforts

   The legislative attack centers around "any willing provider" ("AWP") laws.
n221 At the time of this comment's publication, 27 states have enacted AWP laws,
n222 and 10 states successfully defeated AWP laws in 1994.  n223 As denoted by
the title, AWP laws generally ensure that any provider willing to meet the terms
of the contract is entitled to participate as a provider under the plan.  n224
The two competing interests are easily recognized. Providers want to protect
their patient base by not being excluded from the ever-increasing networks, and
the networks want the power to control and supervise costs by independently
selecting their providers. The managed care theory of health care delivery is
centered on physicians as competing economic units.  n225

   Some AWP laws are more far reaching than others. For example, Kentucky passed
legislation, effective July 1995, that allows any provider to participate in the
plan so long as the provider is willing to meet the terms of the contract.  n226
These "AWP laws can have a chilling effect on managed care plans [and]
effectively make managed care entities into indemnity companies."  n227 Other
states, including Nevada and Washington, have  [*462]  passed compromise
legislation that replaces the term any willing provider with the term any
category of provider.  n228 Therefore, the credentialing (selection) process may
not exclude entire categories of providers. However, it may exclude individual
providers who fail to meet the requirements.

   While AWP laws facially appear to adversely impact the use of economic
credentialing, the actual issue is more of a financial challenge than a legal
challenge.  n229 Because AWP laws prohibit selective contracting with providers,
the organization's bargaining position to negotiate lower discounts is reduced
and the additional, sometimes unnecessary, providers increase administrative
expenses.  n230 A 1991 Wyatt Company survey showed that allowing any willing
provider to join a PPO network would increase administrative costs by 34%.  n231

   The legal challenges that AWP laws present to economic credentialing are not
significant, provided the criteria is relevant to the business and connected
with the quality of care. First, the scope of most AWP laws is limited to health
insurers.  n232 Thus, most non-insurers such as hospitals are not affected by
AWP laws, although the line certainly becomes less clear with organizations such
as HMOs that are not de facto insurers. Second, most AWP laws only prevent the
plan from prohibiting the participation of providers who meet the plan's
criteria.  n233 Also, in states that only prohibit the exclusion of categories
of providers, the issue of using economic criteria is mooted even further since
the purpose of credentialing is to select or reject  [*463]  individuals, not
categories. Thus, while properly designed credentialing criteria, applied
equally and consistently, will usually avoid AWP laws, such laws do increase the
cost of health care delivery.

   b. Lawsuits

   Physicians and medical societies are beginning to sue health care purchasers
who deny privileges or selection based upon their utilization history. In one of
the more notable cases, physicians in Washington sued Blue Cross Blue Shield of
the National Capital Area for its use of Pro/File.  n234 In 1994, the Texas
Medical Association sued Prudential for dropping providers in violation of
statutory due process, and the Meridia Euclid Hospital in Ohio sued the
University Hospitals of Cleveland for refusing to refer patients, alleging
interference with an economic relationship.  n235 Because AWP laws vary with
each state, the developing law in this area is best analyzed on a state-by-state
basis.

   VI. STRUCTURE IN PLACE FOR ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING

   A. Hospitals

   A somewhat unusual concept in hospital administration is the separation of
the governing board and the medical staff, due to each having its own bylaws.
Professors Blum and Hall attribute this in large part to the JCAHO guidelines
that many states adopted nearly 40 years ago.  n236 The medical staff provides
physicians with significant institutional power and buttresses their position of
autonomy. This separate physician structure (medical staff) complies with the
doctrine of corporate medicine by placing peer review and credentialing
activities within the medical staff. However, this separation of authority may
also facilitate the implementation of economic criteria into the credentialing
process.

   Two main sources of hospital law are the Health Care Financing Act ("HCFA")
n237 and the JCAHO guidelines (to the extent they are followed by  [*464]  state
statutes).  n238 Under HCFA section 482.12, responsibilities of the governing
board include appointing a chief executive officer to manage the hospital,
implementing an institutional plan and budget, ensuring that services performed
under contract are provided safely and effectively, and supervising and
appointing the medical staff.  n239

   The HCFA requires the medical staff to conduct periodic appraisals of its
members, implement a credentialing process for appointment and reappointment,
make recommendations on such credentialing decisions to the governing board, and
adopt bylaws that meet approval of the governing board.  n240 The JCAHO requires
the same separation of the governing board  [*465]  and the medical staff.  n241
Based upon this separation of hospital powers, there are two approaches to
economic credentialing -- one which implements economic criteria into the
medical staff function of quality health care, and one which implements economic
criteria as part of the governing board function of finance.

   1. Medical Staff

   Economic criteria placed within the medical staff function of quality of care
is a form of hybrid economic credentialing in that it must be related to the
quality of care. However, this requires a solid relationship between the two
boards. Attorneys generally agree that, while the governing board has the
ultimate authority to incorporate economic criteria into the credentialing
process, it is best to reference that fact in the medical staff bylaws by
stating the trustees are responsible for financial oversight.  n242 However, the
governing board cannot unilaterally change the medical staff bylaws to
incorporate economic credentialing. Thus, consent of the medical staff is needed
to amend the bylaws.  n243

   While the medical staff is the best option, it is an unlikely scenario at
least for the immediate future. Of course, it is much easier for new hospitals
to implement economic criteria into the medical staff credentialing process
because the governing board appoints the medical staff. Thus, if economic
credentialing is important to the board, it should candidly discuss and
negotiate its intent to potential medical staff appointees. Incorporating
"hybrid" economic credentialing into the sphere of "quality of care" yields two
significant benefits. First, decisions will receive greater judicial support,
and second, there is a greater likelihood that decisions will receive peer
review immunity under the HCQIA.

    [*466]  2. Governing Board

   Economic criteria placed within the governing board can be totally oriented
towards finance and need not have any relation to quality of care.  n244 It is
easier to implement a separate finance-oriented role of economic credentialing,
independent of the medical staff. "If economic credentialing is seen, not as an
extension of a traditional medical staff quality or utilization review process,
but as a separate, unique analysis, different from medical staff credentialing
review, it may be defended more easily."  n245 This position finds support under
the responsibilities for each board required under both the HCFA and the JCAHO.
The governing board is responsible for the financial and fiduciary obligations
of the hospital, and the medical staff is responsible for ensuring quality of
care.  n246

   Thus, the governing board can utilize economic credentialing as a fiscal tool
of the hospital, instead of as a quality care tool.  n247 Under this approach,
the governing board need only amend its own bylaws and can circumvent the
medical staff entirely. Properly implemented economic criteria under the
governing board is also likely to receive judicial support.  n248 Such support
is even more likely in jurisdictions where the state has legislatively mandated
lowering health costs as a matter of public policy.  n249 While hospitals will
unquestionably implement economic criteria into their credentialing processes,
there are currently few existing programs for review.  n250

    [*467]  B. Managed Care Networks

   Implementation of economic credentialing criteria is easier under various
managed care networks than in hospitals because under managed care networks
physicians do not exercise the amount of control they do in hospitals. First,
the powerful medical staff does not exist in the managed care arena. To
participate in a managed care network, a physician must compete by satisfying
qualifications designed by the institution, not by the medical staff.  n251
Second, managed care networks such as HMOs are usually required to comply with
both hospital licensure laws and state insurance laws.  n252 Insurance laws
focus more on solvency than quality of care.  n253 This allows a greater
departure from the traditional forms of health care that are rooted in physician
control and autonomy. Third, many states are granting statutory relief from
traditional barriers, such as the doctrine of corporate medicine, in order to
promote cost-efficient health care.  n254 In fact, some states are beginning to
adopt integrated systems of health care delivery tailored after the managed care
concept.  n255 The federal government is also promoting managed care through
various tax incentives.  n256 With such wide support, managed care systems are
likely to continue using physician utilization criteria in their provider
selection process.

   VII. QUALITY OF CARE WILL NOT SUFFER FROM ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING

   Opponents of economic credentialing argue that it forces physicians to
practice less medicine, thus adversely impacting the quality of care. One
possible counter to this argument is that less treatment does not necessarily
mean less quality. However, the premise and analysis of such an argument are
beyond the scope of this comment. This comment proposes that the quality of care
will not become substandard because the current health care  [*468]  system has
natural checks and balances that are not supplanted by economic credentialing.
Some of these quality safeguards include JCAHO accreditation, state medical
practice acts and licensing requirements, peer review immunity, negligent
credentialing, and vicarious or entity liability.

   A. The JCAHO and Statutory Guidelines

   The JCAHO is the preeminent regulatory body of hospitals, and many of its
guidelines are incorporated in state statutes and in the HCFA. These guidelines
require a medical staff that is responsible for quality of care.  n257 Hospitals
will not take economic credentialing to the point of credentialing physicians
who could weaken its JCAHO accreditation. Losing accreditation is devastating to
a hospital facility. Because state medical practice acts and licensure laws
require quality of care,  n258 a hospital cannot overlook its quality of care,
and economic credentialing will not change the quality of care mandate to the
medical staff. Another powerful incentive to deter abuse of economic
credentialing is that, to the extent that economic criteria do not apply to
quality of care, immunity for peer review and credentialing decisions is lost
under the HCQIA and most state statutes.  n259

   B. Negligent Supervision and Credentialing

   Vicarious liability for a physician's malpractice is another deterrent that
will prevent economic credentialing from adversely affecting the quality of
care. Under this theory of liability, the "institution is not held liable for
the negligent act that caused harm to the patient, but it is held liable for its
own negligence in permitting the physician to treat the patient."  n260 In the
seminal case of Darling v. Charleston Community Memorial Hospital, the court
clarified that a hospital is vicariously liable for the negligent credentialing
of a physician.  n261 Thus, a hospital is no longer treated independently from
its attending staff; liability extends beyond negligent supervision to the
initial granting of privileges under the credentialing process. This creates a
significant burden on institutions to maintain a thorough credentialing program.
Taking this exposure into consideration,  [*469]  institutions that use economic
credentialing must also be concerned with selecting only quality physicians.

   C. Enterprise Liability

   Enterprise liability is a reactionary response to the increasing popularity
of managed care delivery where the organization takes a more active role in the
practice of medicine.  n262 This theory moves beyond the vicarious liability
standard of Darling  n263 by shifting liability solely to the provider.  n264
Enterprise liability can generally be described as shifting malpractice
liability from the individual provider to the provider organization in health
care structures.  n265 However, liability for intentional acts remains with the
health care provider.  n266

   To the extent enterprise liability materializes, it will certainly chill
potential abuses of economic credentialing. Taking the argument to an extreme,
an organization that goes so far as to select only underutilizers with no regard
to quality of care is exposing itself to massive liability. Because of the deep
pocket theory, the potential liability award of an organization backed by
millions in assets is greater than that of an individual provider who carries
malpractice insurance with limits of $ 1 million to $ 3 million and has limited
assets.

   This increased potential for awards is exemplified in the California case of
Fox v. Health Net.  n267 Health Net denied health insurance coverage for a
breast cancer patient's bone marrow transplant because the procedure was deemed
experimental treatment and was thus excluded under the insurance policy.  n268
The jury returned an $ 89 million verdict for the plaintiff.  n269 The size of
this award demonstrates the increased liability exposure to entities as opposed
to individual practitioners. Therefore, accepting arguendo the  [*470]
criticism that economic credentialing is so fixed on the bottom line that
quality will suffer, the exposure of enterprise liability supports an equally
compelling economic reason for the organization to ensure that the quality of
medicine is maintained.

   For these reasons, economic credentialing will not adversely affect the
quality of care practiced in our health care institutions. Institutions must
comply with quality of care guidelines for accreditation and licensure. Also,
the degree to which economic credentialing affects the quality of medicine is
constrained by liability exposures. Although economic credentialing holds
physicians responsible for their utilization of resources, natural checks in the
system will not allow the quality of care to be detrimentally affected by
economics.

   VIII. A PROPOSAL FOR ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING

   A. Parameters

   In developing an economic credentialing program ("ECP"), it is critical to
evaluate the various computer utilization tracking systems that are available.
n270 The data must be severity sensitive so physicians are not penalized for
treating a patient with severe complications. Tracking systems continue to
improve and are becoming more sophisticated in analyzing different procedures
and taking a multitude of various factors into consideration. Thus, effective
data builds fairness into the ECP by utilizing many factors to effectuate parity
in physician procedures. The ECP may be used to screen prospective physicians
applying for privileges or panel membership. It may also be used to grant,
modify, or deny privileges to physicians seeking reappointment.

   The ECP must address physician behavior as well as cost reduction. While this
comment recognizes the impending need to reduce health care costs, it also
recognizes that many physicians are willing to practice more efficient medicine
and should not be penalized until given a chance to change the undesired
practices. Thus, the ECP should provide physician training and disseminate
information on the plan's expectations. Giving physicians the materials needed
to change undesired practices furthers not only the ECP's goal of utilization
efficiency, but it also adds the element of fairness to physicians.

    [*471]  Finally, the ECP must be aware of the regulations to which it is
subject. The various structures available to health care organizations are
numerous and complex and are subject to potentially different regulations.  n271

   B. Implementation

   1. Hospitals

   An ECP must be implemented for either quality of care or legitimate business
reasons. Courts are willing to acquiesce to an institution's need to improve
such areas as quality, safety, and efficiency.  n272 Ideally, the ECP should be
included in the medical staff credentialing process and should be tied to
quality of care.  n273 This will afford statutory immunity to the credentialing
process. However, the medical staff must agree with the ECP since the governing
board cannot unilaterally amend the medical staff bylaws. Once both sides agree,
both the hospital bylaws and the medical staff bylaws must be amended to ensure
the ECP does not go beyond the scope of authority provided under such bylaws.

   If the medical staff blocks the implementation of an ECP, current law allows
the governing board to circumvent the medical staff by placing the ECP within
the ambit of its own fiduciary responsibilities. Again, the hospital bylaws need
to be amended by the governing board. The main concern with this approach is
that statutory immunity is probably going to fail because the quality of care
element is more difficult to argue when the ECP is not within the medical
staff's obligation to further quality health care. Another concern with the
governing board using an ECP as a fiduciary tool is the alienation of its
medical staff. A major dispute between these two powerful groups can be
devastating to a hospital.

   2. Managed Care Networks

   Implementing an ECP in managed care networks does not create the obstacles
faced by hospitals. First, administration of managed care networks is not
segregated between finance (governing board) and patient care (medical staff),
and a physician wishing to participate in a managed care network must meet the
required criteria or the physician may be excluded. Second, most  [*472]  MCOs
are not faced with statutory or accreditation requirements that restrict
credentialing criteria. In fact, ECPs are at the very heart of managed care
networks. MCOs rely on competitive health care pricing by negotiating price
discounted contracts with providers. The efficiency of MCOs is largely due to
these discounted fees and the efficiency of the providers.

   C. Due Process

   1. Initial Privileges

   Due process (fairness) is always a concern; thus, appropriate safeguards
should be incorporated into the ECP. While private hospitals are usually exempt,
especially when they are within their bylaws, MCOs and public hospitals must be
sensitive to due process issues when integrating an ECP into the credentialing
process for initial privileges. The ECP cannot be arbitrary or capricious in the
way physicians are selected. If it appears that a particular physician is
singled out, there is a due process problem. However, the due process challenge
is nothing new, and the ECP can and should discriminate against undesired
practices. To mitigate due process challenges, the ECP should provide a prompt
explanation of why a particular physician is being denied privileges and
possibly the opportunity for a hearing.  n274

   Because MCOs are currently the predominant users of ECPs, many states have
enacted AWP laws to usurp the MCOs power to select certain physicians to the
exclusion of others.  n275 These AWP laws vary by state, and the ECP must be in
compliance with such laws. For example, Nevada's AWP law disallows
discrimination against the "category of provider," not "a provider."  n276
Therefore, the ECP could not discriminate against a type of provider, such as
certified registered nurse anesthetists. However, individual providers could be
discriminated against based upon undesired practices. An important scope
limitation of AWP laws is that they target insurers, which may include some
health care delivery systems.

   2. Reappointment

   Reappointment raises the due process challenge of continuing employment.
n277 Again, private hospitals find safe harbor within their bylaws. However,
other delivery systems need to ensure that, at a minimum,  [*473]  the ECP
furnishes standard due process protections. The ECP should provide an
administrative process that initially allows the physician to change the
undesired practice. This may involve training programs and private counseling by
those in control of the credentialing process. For those physicians that cannot
or refuse to change the practice, a pre-termination hearing should be granted.

   While a detailed discussion on the various due process procedures that can be
implemented is beyond the scope of this comment, fair notice and a
pre-termination hearing are always important to due process.  n278 Another
factor, similar to antitrust in scope, is the size of the delivery system. If
being denied access to a particular delivery system significantly restricts a
physician's ability to practice medicine, greater due process safeguards
(procedures) must be implemented. However, if a physician's ability to practice
medicine is not significantly restricted, fewer due process safeguards are
necessary.

   D. Monitoring

   To effectively reduce health care costs, the ECP must include an ongoing
process of physician monitoring. The ECP needs to keep pace with medical
practices, advances in technology, consumer demands, and statutory reform
efforts. The ECP must also maintain sufficient data for credentialing decisions
as well as reliable feedback information for continuing education of resource
utilization.

   IX. CONCLUSION

   Economic credentialing is no longer on the horizon. Its potential for
controlling physicians' utilization of resources is well recognized, and it is
here to stay. The fact that physicians utilize up to 80% of health care
resources has not gone undetected, and any attempt to control costs must begin
with the provider. In August 1995, the federal government significantly
broadened the Stark I anti-referral statute in an attempt to further decrease
physician utilization of health care resources.  n279 The private sector has
also responded with a cost-saving tool referred to as economic credentialing.

   Economic credentialing is a means by which to hold providers responsible for
the utilization of resources. Managed care organizations routinely consider
resource utilization in selecting plan providers. Hospitals  [*474]  also
recognize the potential of an ECP to reduce costs.  n280 States recognize the
potential of managed care, and some states have passed legislation that
effectively allows economic criteria to be incorporated into the credentialing
process.  n281 Many states have declared the need for affordable health care a
matter of public policy.  n282 The judiciary is cognizant of these state
mandates in applying the law.  n283 Thus, a well-designed ECP carries with it
the force of public policy. While some statutory and common law impediments to
economic credentialing still exist, they have been largely mooted by the
willingness of both the legislature and the judiciary to examine new and
innovative approaches to controlling health care costs.

   Assertions that economic credentialing will lower the quality of care are
rebuttable by simply analyzing natural safeguards already present in the health
care system. JCAHO accreditation and federal and state statutes are not
supplanted by economic credentialing. Furthermore, legal exposures such as
negligent credentialing and enterprise liability posit a natural barrier to the
misuse of economic credentialing.

   Economic credentialing has a role to play in health care reform and both
purchasers and providers must be aware of its impact on the other party.
Purchasers are struggling to remain economically viable under immense financial
pressure reverberating from reduced government funding, lower third-party
reimbursements, and the continued acceleration of operating costs. Conversely,
providers are facing an overwhelming change in the way they have practiced
medicine throughout this century. Contrary to the Hippocratic Oath,  n284
financial concerns can no longer be disregarded; they must be considered in
conjunction with the quality of care. Standing against economic credentialing is
like standing against gravity.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationAccreditationPublic Health &
Welfare LawHealthcareGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesHospitals

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Don Colburn, Is My Doctor on the List? As Competition Among Health Plans
Intensifies, Some M.D.s are Left Out, WASH. POST, Dec. 14, 1993, at Z10.




n2  Karen A. Butler, R.N., Comment, Health Care Quality Revolution: Legal
Landmines for Hospitals and the Rise of the Critical Pathway, 58 ALB. L. REV.
843, 852 (1995).




n3  OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, U.S. CONGRESS, AN INCONSISTENT PICTURE: A
COMPILATION OF ANALYSES OF ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF COMPETING APPROACHES TO HEALTH
CARE REFORM BY EXPERTS AND STAKEHOLDERS 31 (June 1993) [hereinafter AN
INCONSISTENT PICTURE].




n4  OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, U.S. CONGRESS, UNDERSTANDING ESTIMATES OF
THE IMPACT OF HEALTH CARE REFORM ON THE FEDERAL BUDGET 2 (July 1994)
[hereinafter UNDERSTANDING ESTIMATES].




n5  See AN INCONSISTENT PICTURE, supra note 3, at 31.




n6  See Mark Hall, Institutional Control of Physician Behavior: Legal Barriers
to Health Care Cost Containment, 137 U. PA. L. REV. 431, 434 n.4 (1988) (citing
J. M. Eisenberg, Physician Utilization, 23 MED. CARE 461, 461 (1985) (estimating
control at 90%); J. M. Eisenberg & S. V. Williams, Cost Containment and Changing
Physicians' Practice Behavior, 246 JAMA 2195, 2195 (1981) (estimating control at
50-80%)).




n7  OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, U.S. CONGRESS, IDENTIFYING HEALTH
TECHNOLOGIES THAT WORK: SEARCHING FOR EVIDENCE 107-118 (Sept. 1994) [hereinafter
IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES].




n8  See Butler, supra note 2, at 852.




n9  IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 111 ("Over 3,000 articles
and letters on the topic were published from 1979 through 1990 alone, of which
nearly 2,000 were analyses of particular interventions.").




n10  See discussion infra part III.C.




n11  Deborah S. Kolb & Judith L. Horowitz, Managing Transition to Capitation,
HEALTHCARE FIN. MGMT., Feb. 1, 1995, at 64 (stating that admitted patient volume
is 0.8 to 1.5 beds per 1,000 enrolled population in a managed care program and 4
beds per 1,000 population in a traditional plan); see also discussion infra part
III.C. "Of the new entrants in the local health insurance market, all are
managed care programs." Bert Caldwell, Jacot to Retire as CEO of Medical
Services Corp., SPOKESMAN-REV., July 19, 1995, at A8.




n12  See IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 179.




n13  See, e.g., Donovan Riley, Economic Credentialing Survey of University
Teaching Hospitals, HEALTHCARE FIN. MGMT., Dec. 1 1993, at 42 (noting that
applying economic criteria to appointments or reappointments of physicians to
hospital staffs has become a major issue). A survey in 1989 of 3,400 hospitals
showed 5% passively reviewed physician utilization and cost data; in 1991 a
survey of 500 hospitals showed that 41.7% indicated that in five years hospitals
would use economic indicators in the credentialing process. Id. See also Terese
Hudson, Factoring in the Financials: Court Gives Nod to Economic Credentialing,
HOSP. & HEALTH NETWORKS, Apr. 5, 1993, at 36 (citing a recent Loyola study that
found 60% of chiefs of staff used some form of economic analysis in
credentialing).




n14  R. VEATCH, A THEORY OF MEDICAL ETHICS 158 (1981).




n15  Timothy S. Jost, The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals:
Private Regulation of Health Care and the Public Interest, 24 B.C. L. REV. 835,
847-48 (1983).




n16  John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing: A New Twist in Hospital Appraisal
Processes, 12 J. LEGAL MED. 427, 432 (1991).




n17  Hospital and Medical Facilities Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-443, 78 Stat.
447 (current version at 42 U.S.C. §§ 291-291o (1988)).




n18  See 42 U.S.C. §§ 291-291o (1988).




n19  Blum, supra note 16, at 432. See also DONALD I. SNOOK, JR., HOSPITALS: WHAT
THEY ARE AND HOW THEY WORK 210 (1981) (reporting that nearly 500 state agencies
regulated health care in 1973); Jane C. Taber & Janna P. King, Caught in the
Crossfire: Economic Credentialing in the Health Care War, 1994 DET. C.L. REV.
1179 (1994) (providing a history of physician credentialing).




n20  Blum, supra note 16, at 432 (The Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Hospitals was subsequently renamed the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Health Care Organizations.) [hereinafter JCAHO].




n21  THE JOINT COMMISSION ON ACCREDITATION OF HEALTH CARE ORGANIZATIONS,
ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS (1995) [hereinafter JCAHO MANUAL].




n22  Id. JCAHO accreditation is also a statement to the informed community that
the hospital is serious about quality patient care. SNOOK, supra note 19, at
208-09.




n23  SNOOK, supra note 19, at 208.




n24  Taber & King, supra note 19, at 1184. The "absence of JCAHO accreditation
will result in a hospital's inability to receive Medicare payments. JCAHO
accreditation . . . is . . . oftentimes a necessary prerequisite to the success
and longevity of a hospital in today's competitive and cost-driven health care
environment." Id.

   The Department of Health and Human Services, Health Care Financing
Administration has determined that JCAHO accreditation is proof of compliance
for purposes of Medicare participation. 42 C.F.R. § 482.22 (1993) [hereinafter
HCFA]. See also 42 C.F.R. § 488.5 (1993) (addressing JCAHO accreditation).
Hospitals must go through the accreditation process every three years; however,
failing JCAHO accreditation results in an annual JCAHO audit until accreditation
is received. Id. § 488.20 (placing an enormous burden on hospitals failing
accreditation).




n25  See JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, § 3 (providing guidelines and standards
for the medical staff).




n26  See Hall, supra note 6, at 435-36.




n27 " Gatekeeper" is a generic term for a primary care physician who sees the
patient first. The patient is referred to a specialist only if the primary care
physician deems it is necessary. See generally, Jeffrey Glassheim, M.D., Health
Care Reform Already With Us, FRESNO BEE, May 21, 1995, at B7 (discussing the
continuous onslaught of financial restraints placed on physicians).




n28  Melvin A. Block, Presidential Address at the 96th Annual Meeting of the
Western Surgical Ass'n (Nov. 14-16, 1988).




n29  See discussion infra part II.B.1.




n30  See discussion infra parts II.B.2.-3., IV.




n31  See Butler, supra note 2, at 844.

     We are absolutely convinced that TQM is a fundamentally better way to
     conduct business and is necessary for the economic well-being of
     America. TQM results in higher-quality, lower cost products and
     services that respond faster to the needs of the customer. Quality
     results are continually improved through understanding and perfecting
     the systems by which organizations operate.

Butler, supra note 2, at 844 n.6 (citing a letter written in 1991 by American
Express Company, IBM, Proctor and Gamble, Ford, Motorola, and Xerox, to the
academic leaders of America, reprinted in An Open Letter: TQM on the Campus,
HARV. BUS. REV., Nov.-Dec. 94 (1991)).




n32  JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, at 30 (stating that TQM is a new approach
incorporated into the Manual). See also Joseph V. Truhe, Jr., Quality Assessment
in the '90s: Legal Implications for Hospitals, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 171, 172
(1993) (discussing the effect of TQM on the United State health care industry);
Butler, supra note 2, at 844 (providing a detailed analysis of TQM and its
incorporation into JCAHO guidelines).




n33  JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, at 488.




n34  See Truhe, supra note 32, at 171; Butler, supra note 2, at 844-45.




n35  David Blumenthal, M.D., Total Quality Management and Physicians' Clinical
Decisions, 269 JAMA 2775, 2775 (1993).




n36  JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, at 459; Elizabeth Gardner, Indicator System
Accepting All Test Pilots, MODERN HEALTHCARE, June 21, 1993, at 32 (discussing
the implementation of the estimated 36 indicators no sooner than 1996).




n37  Butler, supra note 2, at 846.




n38  Hall, supra note 6, at 435 ("For decades, medical treatment has been
dominated by the Hippocratic ideal that all care should be provided that is of
any conceivable benefit, regardless of the cost.").




n39  Fred Jacot, CEO of Medical Services Corp., states: "Hospital costs are far
too high . . . and their clients can no longer pay for excessive capacity."
Caldwell, supra note 11, at A8.




n40  See, e.g., WASH. REV. CODE § 43.72.010 (1993) (improving health care while
reducing costs); KAN. STAT. ANN. § 65-5006 (1992) (allowing cost of health care
as a credentialing criteria); ILL. ANN. STAT. ch. 305, P5/5-16 (Smith-Hurd 1993)
(promoting integrated systems similar to managed care's cost efficient
delivery); FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.0191(4) (West 1993) (allowing the governing
board to consider "such other factors [in the credentialing process] as the
hospital deems necessary"); CAL. HEALTH & SAFETY ADMIN. CODE § 70701(a)(1)(F)
(West 1991) (allowing governing board to provide for the control and use of the
physical and financial resources of the hospital); N.C. GEN. STAT. § 131e-85
(1994) (allowing the appropriate utilization of hospital facilities).




n41  1995 Wash. Legis. Serv. 267, S.H.B. 1589 (West). This legislation was
passed under a declaration of emergency in order to preserve the public interest
of affordable health care. Id. at New Section 18 (giving the act immediate
effect).




n42  Id. at New Section 3.




n43  Id. at New Section 4 (3)(a)-(j).




n44  Id. (amending WASH. REV. CODE § 43.72.310). Washington's Basic Health Plan
utilizes managed care systems and requires such systems to report utilization of
services in "order to provide adequate information for evaluation" and to strive
towards minimizing costs. WASH. REV. CODE § 70.47.060(12) (1995).




n45  See WASH. REV. CODE § 70.47.060(12) (1995).




n46  ILL. ANN. STAT. ch. 305, P5/5-16 (Smith-Hurd 1993) (emphasis added).




n47  ILL. ANN. STAT. ch. 210, P85.2(3) (Smith-Hurd 1993).




n48  Id.




n49  FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.0191(4) (West 1993). See also Hudson, supra note 13,
13, at 37.




n50  Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Mem. Reg. Med. Ctr., No. 91-589 (D. Fla. 1992).




n51  Albert E. Trentalance, Economic Credentialing is Here to Stay, PHYSICIAN
EXEC., Sept. 1994, at 38. In an effort to mitigate the potential of this
legislation, the California Medical Association negotiated an agreement with the
California Association of Hospitals and Health Systems that disallows
credentialing criteria not directly related to the quality of care. See
discussion infra part III.C.




n52  Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Pub. L. No. 89-97, tit. I, § 102(a), 79
Stat. 291 (1965) (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395 (1988 & Supp. V 1993)).




n53  Social Security Amendments Act of 1965, Pub. L. No. 89-97, tit. I, §
121(a), 79 Stat. 343 (1965) (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1396 (1988 & Supp. V
1993)).




n54  Social Security Amendments Act of 1983, Pub. L. No. 98-21, § 601, 97 Stat.
65 (1983) (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d) (1988)).




n55  See Hall, supra note 6, at 436.




n56  See Hall, supra note 6, at 440 n.32.




n57  Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1983, Pub. L. No. 99-660, § 402, 100
Stat. 3784 (1986) (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 11101(1) (1988)) (creating new peer
review standards and granting immunity to those making peer review decisions).
The theory is that limiting the number of lawsuits will lower malpractice
insurance costs which are ultimately charged to the health care purchaser.




n58  H.R. 3600, 103d Cong., 1st Sess. (1993).




n59  IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 122-27 (including studies
by the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, National Institute of Health,
and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention).




n60  IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 124-25.




n61 " If you look at most of the health-care reform proposals in Congress, they
do include reliance on managed-care networks in order to contain costs while
assuring quality care." John Lombardo, Doctors May Sue Blues on Ratings, WASH.
BUS. J., June 10, 1994.




n62  60 Fed. Reg. 41923, 41924-25 (1995). See also Andrew B. Wachler et al.,
Stark I Final Regulations: Implications for Health Care Providers and Suppliers,
THE HEALTH LAW. 3 (spec. ed. Aug. 1995) (providing a legal analysis of the new
regulatory amendments to Stark I).




n63  42 U.S.C. § 1395nn (Supp. II 1990). Stark I was initially enacted in
response to a 1989 study conducted by the Office of Inspector General that
showed clinical laboratories in which physicians had an interest performed 45%
more services than other clinical laboratories. Wachler et al., supra note 62,
62, at 3. Overutilization of facilities in which physicians have an interest has
continued in areas not affected by Stark I, thus prompting Stark II legislation
that broadens the scope of the anti-referral statute to include areas such as
physical therapy, occupational therapy services, durable medical equipment and
supplies, and home health services. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395nn(h)(6) (1992 & Supp.
1995); Wachler et al., supra note 62, 62, at 3.




n64  See discussion infra parts III.D., E.




n65  See discussion infra part IV.A.




n66  Pat Beall, Reform kicks up some thorny legal issues, ORLANDO BUS. J., Jan.
21, 1994, at 20.




n67  See W. PAGE KEETON ET AL., PROSSER AND KEETON ON TORTS §§ 70-71 (5th ed.
1984).




n68  Institutional control over physician practices may trigger the doctrine of
corporate medicine. See discussion infra part V.B.1.




n69  42 U.S.C. § 11131 (1988) (requiring reports of medical malpractice
payments); Id. § 11132 (requiring reports of sanctions taken by the board of
medical examiners); Id. § 11133 (requiring reports of certain professional
review actions taken by health care entities).




n70  See, e.g., 1995 Wash. Legis. Serv. 267, S.H.B. 1589 (West) (requiring
hospitals to report data according to set standards designed to improve
administrative efficiency and reduce costs).




n71  See JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, at 459 (requiring every hospital to report
performance indicators for accreditation purposes, no sooner than 1996).




n72  See IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 138. "Entirely new
firms have sprung up as well, capitalizing on the interest in effectiveness
research, cost-effectiveness analysis, and assessments of individual
technologies. An upcoming directory produced by ECRI will list over 200
organizations in the United States and elsewhere that undertake health
technology assessments or related activities." IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES,
supra note 7, at 138.




n73  OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, U.S. CONGRESS, DEFENSIVE MEDICINE AND
MEDICAL MALPRACTICE 3 (July 1994).




n74  See discussion infra part III.B.




n75  See generally IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 145-59
(describing the development of clinical practice guidelines).




n76  IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 139 (The American Medical
Association has also developed its own directory of practice guidelines.).




n77  See generally Hall, supra note 6 (providing a detailed analysis of
physicians' entrenched position of independence and the ability to practice
medicine without institutional procedures promoting cost containment).

   Some medical societies are actively trying to derail the use of economic
credentialing plans. The District of Columbia Medical Society hired a public
relations firm to conduct a campaign against Blue Cross and Blue Shield after
the "Blues" announced a new medical profiling plan to evaluate more than 9,000
local physicians. Lombardo, supra note 61.




n78  See generally Hall, supra note 6 (discussing the evolution and future of
the hospital-physician relationship).




n79  Nearly 700 hospitals closed their doors during the 1980s. John D. Blum,
Hospital-Medical Staff Relations in the Face of Shifting International Business
Strategies: A Legal Analysis, 14 U. PUGET SOUND L. REV. 561, 561 (1991).




n80  See discussion infra parts IV., V.




n81  Employment Retirement Income Security Program ("ERISA") also plays a
complex role in health care law. However, its effect on economic credentialing
is limited to plans that fall under federal preemption, such as employee benefit
plans, and it is beyond the scope of this comment. 29 U.S.C. §§ 1101-1461
(1988).




n82  Blum, supra note 16, at 431.




n83  See generally JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, § 3 (requiring a thorough
credentialing process); see also infra notes 84-87 and accompanying text.




n84  JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, § 3 P MS.1 (emphasis added).




n85  JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, at 465-66.




n86  JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, at 487.




n87  Blum, supra note 16, at 433.




n88  INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE, CLINICAL PRACTICE GUIDELINES, DIRECTIONS FOR A NEW
PROGRAM 8 (1990). See also John D. Ayres, M.D., J.D., The Use and Abuse of
Medical Practice Guidelines, 15 J. LEGAL MED. 421 (1994) (providing a detailed
analysis of clinical practice guidelines and their various uses).




n89  IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 139-40 (citing
applications such as clinical decision-making, education, assessing quality of
care, and allocation of resources).




n90  IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 177-78.




n91  IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 177-79.




n92  IDENTIFYING HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES, supra note 7, at 179.




n93  D.C. Doctor Group Sues Blues Over Acclaimed Pro/File Profiling System,
MANAGED CARE L. OUTLOOK, July 19, 1994. The Blues' program identified 4,700 of
its 8,000 physicians as practicing cost-effective and quality medicine; these
physicians were invited into a new network, while the other 2,300 were not. R.
A. Zaldivar, Cost Can Count Against Doctors: Hospitals Make Profit an Issue For
Credentials, SEATTLE TIMES, July 2, 1993, at A1.




n94  Hospitals are forced to move more cautiously because physician
credentialing has traditionally been left to physicians -- the medical staff.
See discussion infra part VI.A.1.




n95  See surveys cited supra note 13.




n96  John D. Blum, Economic Considerations Enter the Credentialing Process, THE
QUALITY LETTER, Apr. 1991, at 16.




n97  Riley, supra note 13, at 42.




n98  The AMA is opposed to economic credentialing, and thus has an interest in
keeping the term as broad as possible. See generally Hudson, supra note 13, 13
(noting the AMA's position on economic credentialing).

   AMA spokesperson James Stacey said "the thing we would ask is that . . . pure
economic credentialing not be used." Any Willing Provider Laws a Growing Threat
to Networks, HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT, May 13, 1994 [hereinafter AWP Laws].




n99  See Blum, supra note 79, at 584.




n100  CALIFORNIA MEDICAL ASSOCIATION & CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF HOSPITALS AND
HEALTH SYSTEMS, JOINT STATEMENT ON ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING AND EXCLUSIVE
CONTRACTING 2 (Jan. 1992) (on file with the Gonzaga Law Review).




n101  See Blum, supra note 79, at part V.




n102  See Taber & King, supra note 19, at 1206.




n103  Taber & King, supra note 19, at 1206.




n104  See generally, John D. Blum, Hospitals, New Medical Practice Guidelines,
CQI, and Potential Liability Outcomes, 36 ST. LOUIS U. L.J. 913 (1992)
(explaining the bottom line approach to pure economic credentialing).




n105  GROUP LIFE & HEALTH INSURANCE, PART C, 222 (3d ed. HIAA, 1992) (emphasis
added) [hereinafter GROUP HEALTH]. The federal government defines managed care
as:

     [A] purchasing strategy to obtain maximum value for money for
     employers and consumers . . . . Managed competition occurs at the
     level of integrated financing and delivery plans, not at the
     individual provider level. Its goal is to divide providers in each
     community into competing economic units and to use market forces to
     motivate them to develop efficient delivery systems.

AN INCONSISTENT PICTURE, supra note 3, at 12 (emphasis added).




n106  GROUP HEALTH, supra note 105, at 35.




n107  See discussion infra part V.A.1.




n108  GROUP HEALTH, supra note 105, at 17-35.




n109  GROUP HEALTH, supra note 105, at 29.




n110  GROUP HEALTH, supra note 105, at 29; see also Michael Daly, Attacking
Defensive Medicine Through the Utilization of Practice Parameters, 16 J. LEGAL
MED. 101, 116 n.142 (1995) (citing a survey revealing "savings of over $ 28 for
every dollar spent after institution of utilization review" (citation omitted)).




n111  GROUP HEALTH, supra note 105, at 28-30 (allowing exceptions for
emergencies).




n112  GROUP HEALTH, supra note 105, at 28-30 (citing problems such as benefits
only being triggered upon the primary care physician's authorization and only
for care within the network).




n113  Rebecca L. Jackson & Karen W. Levy, Innovations in Managed Care, 700 PRAC.
L. INST. 249, § II.D. (1994).




n114  Id.




n115  See Blum, supra note 79, at 561.




n116  See statistics cited supra note 6.




n117  See the McCarren-Ferguson Act, ch. 20, 59 Stat. 33 (1945) (codified as
amended at 15 U.S.C. §§ 1011-15 (1988)) (delegating insurance regulation to the
individual states).




n118  WASH. REV. CODE §§ 70.41.005 - .900 (1995).




n119  WASH. REV. CODE §§ 48.46.010 - .920 (1995).




n120  WASH. REV. CODE §§ 70.47.010 - .901 (1995). MCOs, to the extent they
participate in Washington's Basic Plan, are exempt from the insurance code. Id.
§ 70.47.130.




n121  See, e.g., Jurisdiction of Ins. Comm'r -- Health Benefits Program, Op.
Att'y Gen. No. 90-030 (June 19, 1990) (explaining that capitation agreements for
health care services place the provider in the business of insurance and thus
subject the provider to insurance regulations).




n122  Jackson & Levy, supra note 113, §§ C.1-7.




n123  Plans Can Use Economic Criteria To Lawfully Exclude Physicians, MANAGED
CARE WK., Oct. 31, 1994.




n124  In the cases discussed in this section, the courts do not rule out quality
of care; they simply recognize economics as a rational element of credentialing.




n125  No. 91-589 (D. Fla. 1992).




N126  See, e.g., Holmes v. Hoemako Hosp., 573 P.2d 477, 478 (Ariz. 1977)
(finding that malpractice requirements, while economic, support the patients'
welfare by allowing doctors to treat seriously ill patients without the fear of
personal liability); Dattilo v. Tuscon Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700, 704 (Ariz.
1975) (stating that exclusive contracts enhance the quality of care by improving
scheduling).




n127  Mark A. Kadzielski et al., Peer Review Potpourri: New Developments in
Credentialing and Priviliging, 15 WHITTIER L. REV. 51, 58-59 (1994). Antitrust
may also be an issue when dealing with closed and exclusive contracts. See
Jefferson Parish Hosp. v. Hyde 466 U.S. 2, 5 (1984) (finding that the hospital's
exclusive anesthesiology contract is not a per se violation of the Sherman
Antitrust Act).




n128  See, e.g., Redding v. St. Francis Med. Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806, 810 (Cal.
Ct. App. 1989) (supporting St. Francis' decision to move from an open system to
a closed system in order to improve its bypass surgery mortality rate);
Radiology Prof. Corp. v. Trinidad Area Health Ass'n, Inc., 577 P.2d 748, 752
(Colo. 1978) (allowing hospital administrators to enter into exclusive contracts
in certain situations); Dattilo, 533 P.2d at 704 ("Such [exclusive] contracts
[are] needed for control and standardization of procedure and effective,
efficient operation of the department.").




n129  533 P.2d at 704.




n130  255 Cal. Rptr. at 810.




n131  See Doctors Sue to Fight Economic Credentialing, MED. & HEALTH, Oct. 3,
1994.

     The American College of Radiology has adopted the position that state
     legislatures should bar economic credentialing and has defined that
     term broadly enough to include such practices as signing contracts
     with a single radiology group . . . . The Florida Medical Association
     last year introduced a bill in the state legislature that would have
     mandated that quality of patient care be the prime objective in
     evaluating any proposal to close a hospital department or to contract
     with an outside service. The bill would have banned any restriction on
     staff privileges made for economic reasons.

Id.




n132  See discussion infra part IV.C. In Maine, the Supreme Judicial Court
upheld the Eastern Maine Medical Center's termination of its emergency medical
contract with a physician group.  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Med. Ctr., 617 A.2d
1020, 1021 (Me. 1992). The court acknowledged that the hospital was attempting
to cut costs as the result of state legislation limiting gross revenues realized
by hospitals.  Id. at 1021 n.2 (citing 22 M.R.S.A. §§ 381, 396 (1992)).




n133  Blum, supra note 79, at 594.




n134  465 N.E.2d 554, 560 (Ill. 1984), cert. denied, 493 U.S. 847 (1989); see
also Rao v. St. Elizabeth's Hosp., 488 N.E.2d 685 (Ill. 1986) (overutilizing
laboratory tests); Friedman v. Delaware County Mem. Hosp., 672 F. Supp. 171
(E.D. Pa. 1987), aff'd, 849 F.2d 600 (3d Cir. 1988) (overutilizing bronchoscopes
and refusing to abide by recommendations made by the utilization review
committee).




n135  Knapp, 465 N.E.2d at 559-60.




n136  Id. at 560.




n137  Id.




n138  See Blum, supra note 79, at 594-95.




n139  672 F. Supp. at 183.




n140  Id.




n141  See Blum, supra note 79, at 595-96.




n142  See Blum, supra note 16, at 449 (citing Edelman v. JFK Hosp., No.
C-2104-80 (N.J. Super. Ct. 1982), cert. denied, 475 A.2d 585 (N.J. 1984)).




n143  See Blum, supra note 16, at 449.




n144  See Blum, supra note 16, at 449.




n145  See Blum, supra note 16, at 449.




n146  See discussion supra parts II.B.2-3 and statutes cited supra note 40.




n147  See, e.g., Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 668 (N.J. 1986)
(stating that hospitals must reasonably use their powers for the public good);
Redding v. St. Francis Med. Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806, 810 (Cal. Ct. App. 1989)
(stating hospitals can further patient care even if detrimental to the
provider); Davidson v. Youngstown Hosp. Ass'n, 250 N.E.2d 892, 895 (Ohio 1969)
(stating that credentialing must also be reasonable and promote the public
good).




n148  106 Wash. 2d 632, 648, 724 P.2d 981, 990 (1986).




n149  Id. at 643, 645, 724 P.2d at 987, 989 (providing that the action taken
against the physician is not arbitrary or capricious).




n150  Id. at 648, 724 P.2d at 990.




n151  510 A.2d 662, 664 (N.J. 1986). The admission criteria for procuring staff
privileges under the closed-staff policy were:

     (1) a need for additional physician coverage in the relevant
     department,
     (2) available hospital facilities,
     (3) the applicant possessed some special expertise or
     (4) engaged in a specialty not represented at the hospital,
     (5) the applicant did not have privileges at any other area hospital
     and
     (6) was joining the medical practice of a current member of the
     hospital medical staff.

 Id. at 664 n.1.

   The court found the practice of making exceptions to the hospital's
closed-staff policy for physicians who had connections with existing staff was
not supported by a public-health objective and thus ruled for the plaintiff.
Id. at 672.




n152  Id. at 665-68.

   Since 1961 the court has declared "matters affecting public health [have]
been recognized as a significant criterion by which to measure the
reasonableness of institutional health-care decisions." Id. at 665 (citing
Falcone v. Middlesex County Med. Soc'y, 170 A.2d 791 (N.J. 1961)).

   In 1963, the court struck down the criterion that a physician graduate from
an A.M.A. approved school belong to the local medical society. The reason for
invalidating the criteria was that it served no public purpose. The "powers
exercised in the selection of the hospital medical staff 'are deeply imbedded in
public aspects, and are rightly viewed . . . as fiduciary powers to be exercised
reasonably and for the public good.'" Id. at 666 (quoting Greisman v. Newcomb
Hosp., 192 A.2d 817 (N.J. 1963)) (emphasis added).

   "'[A] hospital has a right and a duty not only to review the qualifications
of doctors, but also to consider the need for and impact of additional doctors
on the hospital's staff and patients.'" Id. (quoting Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d
533 (N.J. 1984)).

   The Desai court also supported its understanding of public policy with New
Jersey statutory law: "hospital[s] and related health care services of the
highest quality, of demonstrated need, efficiently provided and properly
utilized at a reasonable cost are of vital concern to the public health." Id.
(citation omitted) (emphasis added).




n153  Id. at 668 (emphasis added).




n154  See discussion supra part II.B.2 and statutes cited supra note 40; see
also N.J. STAT. ANN. § 26:2H-1 - 52 (West 1993) (providing efficient, quality
hospitals are of vital concern to the public health).




n155  Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Mem. Reg. Med. Ctr., No. 91-589 (D. Fla. 1992).




n156  Hudson, supra note 13.




n157  Hudson, supra note 13.




n158  Hudson, supra note 13.




n159  Hudson, supra note 13.




n160  Hudson, supra note 13.




n161  See Hudson, supra note 13. See also FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.0191(4) (West
1993).




n162  See statutes supra note 40. See also public policy discussion supra notes
152-54 and accompanying text.




n163  See discussion supra part II.B.3.




n164  The argument can be made that overutilizing resources also affects the
quality of care. Taking into consideration that hospitals have limited
resources, the allocation of such resources becomes critical. Hypothetically,
patients of overutilizing physicians receive a disproportionate share of limited
resources. This unequal allocation of limited resources is to the detriment of
the remaining patients.




n165  The corporate medicine doctrine has origins in both statutory and common
law. See Francis J. Serbaroli, Corporate Practice of Medicine: A Clear and
Present Danger, THE HEALTH LAW., Spring 1994, at 6, 6.




n166  15 U.S.C. §§ 1-7 (1988) [hereinafter Sherman Act].

     Section 1 provides: "Every contract, combination in the form of trust
     or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among
     the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be
     illegal. . . ." Id. § 1. Section 2 deals with monopolies. Id. § 2.






n167  15 U.S.C. § 14 (1988) (prohibiting, among others, exclusive dealing
arrangements and tying agreements that lessen competition).




n168  15 U.S.C. § 45 (1988) (enforcing the prohibition of unfair methods of
competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices).




n169  15 U.S.C. § 1 (1988).




n170  Northwest Wholesale Stationers, Inc., v. Pacific Stationery & Printing
Co., 472 U.S. 284, 289-90 (1985) (citations omitted); Seagood Trading Corp. v.
Jerrico, Inc., 924 F.2d 1555, 1569 (11th Cir. 1991). See also Blum, supra note
16, at 451-56 (providing a detailed discussion of antitrust implications on
economic credentialing); Jackson & Levy, supra note 113, § V (providing a
detailed analysis of antitrust issues under various delivery systems, and the
joint FTC-DOJ 1993 Policy Statement designed to reform antitrust laws pertaining
to the health care arena).




n171  Seagood, 924 F.2d at 1569.




n172  Id. at 1567-70.




n173  See Jefferson Parish Hosp. v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2 (1984) (ruling that
exclusive contracts or closed departments are not per se violations of
antitrust). Cf. Bolt v. Halifax Hosp. Med. Ctr., 891 F.2d 810 (11th Cir. 1990)
(touching on per se violation by stating that an adverse decision regarding
privileges are presumed economically motivated and evidence of an economic
conspiracy); Weiss v. York Hosp., 745 F.2d 786 (3d Cir. 1984) (finding a group
boycott for refusing privileges to a physician, and thus a per se violation).




n174  Virginia Academy of Clinical Psychol. v. Blue Shield of Virginia, 624 F.2d
476 (4th Cir. 1980), cert. denied, 450 U.S. 916 (1981).




n175  Jackson & Levy, supra note 113, at § V.B.8.




n176  See Blum, supra note 16, at 456.




n177  See Blum, supra note 79, at 590 (citing Hassan v. Independent Practice
Assoc., 698 F. Supp. 6679 (E.D. Mich. 1988)).




n178  See Taber & King, supra note 19, at 1196.




n179  California Retail Liquor Dealers Ass'n v. Midcal Aluminum, Inc., 445 U.S.
97, 97 (1980).




n180  Arizona v. Maricopa County Med. Soc'y, 457 U.S. 332, 340 (1982).




n181  Id. at 356.




n182  42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (1988).




n183  Id. § 11112(a)(1) (emphasis added).




n184  Id. § 11112(a)(4).




n185  731 F. Supp. 934, 939 (C.D. Cal. 1990), aff'd, 979 F.2d 728 (9th Cir.
1992).




n186  See Hudson, supra note 13, 13.




n187  See Blum, supra note 79, at 589 (citing ILL. ANN. STAT. ch. 111 1/2 P151.2
(Smith-Hurd 1988)).




n188  42 U.S.C. §§ 1320a-7b(b) (1988) (The Department of Justice may impose
fines of up to $ 25,000 and five years imprisonment for violations.).




n189  Jackson & Levy, supra note 113, § IV.A.




n190  42 C.F.R. § 1001.952 (1994) (establishing safe harbor regulations).




n191  Serbaroli, supra note 165, at 6-7.




n192  Serbaroli, supra note 165, at 7.




n193  See, e.g., KY. REV. STAT. ANN. §§ 311.375, 313.020 (Michie/Bobbs-Merrill
1993); UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 16-11-3, 16-11-4, 58-12-30 (1993).




n194  See, e.g., Standard Optical Co. v. Superior Court, 17 Wash. 2d 323, 334,
135 P.2d 839, 844 (1943) (stating that neither corporations or unlicensed
persons can practice medicine).

   In Washington state "no statute prohibits hospitals from employing
physicians," and the doctrine is based only upon case law. Cynthia F. Strauss,
Physician/Hospital Employment and the Corporate Practice of Medicine, HEALTH L.
NEWS, Jan. 1994, at 1 (providing a status report on the corporate practice of
medicine doctrine in Washington). The judiciary virtually ignores the doctrine
concerning hospital employment of physicians. Id.




n195  See Sager v. Lewin, 106 S.W. 581, 583 (Mo. Ct. App. 1907); State
Electro-Medical Inst. v. State, 103 N.W. 1078, 1079 (Neb. 1905).




n196  Hall, supra note 6, at 509-10.




n197  Hall, supra note 6, at 517.




n198  H.R. 3600, 103d Cong., 1st Sess. § 1407(b) (1993) (providing that "any
state law related to the corporate practice of medicine . . . shall not apply to
arrangements between health plans that are not fee-for-service plans and their
participating providers . . . .").




n199  See discussion infra part VI.A.




n200  See Hall, supra note 6, at 462-66.




n201  KEETON ET AL., supra note 67, § 129, at 978-79.




n202  See, e.g., Posner v. Lankenau Hosp., 645 F. Supp. 1102, 1111-15 (E.D. Pa.
1986); Scheller v. American Med. Int'l, 502 So. 2d 1268, 1271-72 (Fla. Dist. Ct.
App. 1987); Straube v. Larson, 600 P.2d 371, 374 (Or. 1979).




n203  The courts are supportive of a physician's autonomy in practicing
medicine. See generally Hall, supra note 6 (detailing the history of the
physician's autonomy to practice medicine and current threats to such autonomy).




n204  Hall, supra note 6, at 475.




n205  Lawler v. Eugene Wuesthoff Mem. Hosp. Ass'n, 497 So. 2d 1261, 1263 (Fla.
Dist. Ct. App. 1986).




n206  See Butler, supra note 2, at 864-65 (describing the applicability of
critical pathways); see also Benell v. City of Virginia, 104 N.W.2d 633, 637
(Minn. 1960) (sustaining a hospital resolution requiring a radiology
consultation because it left the ultimate decision with the physician).




n207  Hall, supra note 6, at 472-74.




n208  See Redding, 255 Cal. Rptr. at 809 (finding that courts often rule for
hospitals where the hospital is acting for "less personally directed reasons
[public interest]").




n209  Hall, supra note 6, at 474.




n210  Hall, supra note 6, at 474.




n211  Similar to antitrust actions, the main issue here is the size of the
institution and the respective impact the denial of privileges has on the
physician's practice. See discussion supra part V.A.1.




n212  U.S. CONST. amend. XIV, § 1.




n213  Christhilf v. Annapolis Emergency Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 552 F.2d 1070, 1073
(4th Cir. 1977) (holding the lack of a hearing violated plaintiff's due process
rights).




n214  See Taber & King, supra note 19, at 1195.




n215  See Taber & King, supra note 19, at 1195-96. Federal funds, such as
Medicare and Medicaid, that are accepted by private institutions may arguably
create government involvement sufficient for state action. However, "courts are
extremely reticent to find state action based solely upon . . . receipt of
government funds." Taber & King, supra note 19, at 1196.




n216  See, e.g., Knapp v. Palos Community Hosp., 465 N.E.2d 554, 557 (Ill.
1984), cert. denied, 493 U.S. 847 (1989) (finding that a decision not to
reappoint physicians did not violate the hospital's bylaws and thus is not
subject to judicial review).




n217 " Notice and opportunity to be heard are fundamental to due process of
law." Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U.S. 123, 178 (1951).




n218  See 42 U.S.C. §§ 111101-111152 (1988).




n219  See Milton L. Cruz, The Duty of Fair Procedure and the Hospital Medical
Staff: Possible Extension in Order to Protect Private Sector Employees, 16 CAP.
U. L. REV. 59, 79-85 (1986).




n220  Most successful antitrust challenges to adverse credentialing decisions
involving economic considerations result from arbitrary or retaliatory
decisions. See Andrew K. Dolan & Richard S. Ralston, Hospital Admitting
Privileges and the Sherman Act, 18 HOUS. L. REV. 707, 734 (1981).




n221  Ways Exist to Overcome Pesky State AWP Laws, MANAGED CARE WK., Mar. 20,
1995 [hereinafter Pesky AWP Laws]. See also AWP Laws, supra note 98.

   "The legal language the Florida Medical Association . . . and doctors across
the country . . . are looking for is 'any willing provider.' . . . It's the
toughest political language we have tried to get, but its significance is
absolutely enormous." Beall, supra note 66, at 21-22 (citation omitted).




n222  See Pesky AWP Laws, supra note 221.




n223  Christina Kent, Any Willing Provider Battles Heat Up in States, MEDICINE &
HEALTH (PERSPECTIVES), May 2, 1994.




n224  See, e.g., OKLA. STAT. ANN. tit., 36 § 6055(c)(2)(a-c) (West 1994)
(granting compliance with the patient's freedom of choice requirement under § 36
6055(A)). The statute provides: "Any statewide provider network which . . .
allows any hospital or practitioner . . . to become a network provider if said
hospital or practitioner is willing to comply with the terms and conditions of a
standard network provider contract." Id.




n225  See definition of managed care supra note 105.




n226  See, e.g., KY. REV. STAT. ANN. § 304.17A-110(3) (Michie/Bobbs-Merrill
1994) (effective July 1995). The statute provides: "Health care benefit plans
shall not discriminate against any provider who is located within the geographic
coverage area of the health benefit plan and is willing to meet the terms and
conditions for participation established by the health benefit plan." Id.




n227  See Pesky AWP Laws, supra note 221 (quoting Robert Quirk, president of the
HMO Association of Kentucky).




n228  See, e.g., NEV. REV. STAT. § 616.2212 (1995). The statute provides in
part:

     Organizations for managed care: Required provisions in contract and
     plan for provision of services. The manager shall not enter into a
     contract with an organization for managed care unless:
     . . .
     The organization's proposed plan for providing medical and health care
     services:
     . . .
     Does not exclude from participation in the proposed plan any category
     of providers of health care who are required to be licensed or
     certified to practice in this state and willing to comply with the
     terms and conditions required by the organization to participate in
     the proposed plan . . . .

Id. (emphasis added).




n229  Pesky AWP Laws, supra note 221 (asserting that proper economic criteria
still effectively exclude certain providers). "The easiest way to avoid the
impact of any willing provider is to have good and clear credentialing criteria
for provider contracts." Pesky AWP Laws, supra note 221.




n230  Any Willing Provider Battles Heat Up in States, MEDICINE & HEALTH, May 2,
1994 (citing Florida's Governor Chiles as declaring he would veto AWP laws
because they would sabotage efforts to reduce health care costs).




n231  Id.




n232  See Pesky AWP Laws, supra note 221.




n233  See discussion supra notes 227-29 and accompanying text.




n234  Medical Soc'y of D.C. v. Blue Cross Blue Shield of the Nat'l Capital Area,
No. 1:94CV01426 (D.D.C. June 28, 1994). Pro/File is a computer data system that
tracks a physician's utilization history; the system may drop overutilizers from
the plan. Under Pro/File, more than 100 doctors lost their contracts by the end
of 1991. MANAGED CARE L. OUTLOOK, supra note 93.




n235  See Kent, supra note 223.




n236  See Blum, supra note 16, at 431-32.




n237  42 C.F.R. § 482.12 (1994) (stating requirements that must be met in order
to qualify for Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement).




n238  See JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21.




n239  42 C.F.R. § 482.12 (1994) provides in part:

     The hospital must have an effective governing body legally responsible
     for the conduct of the hospital as an institution.
     . . .
     (a) Standard: Medical Staff. The governing body must:
     (1) Determine, in accordance with State law, which categories of
     practitioners are eligible candidates for appointment to the medical
     staff;
     (2) Appoint members of the medical staff after considering the
     recommendations of the existing members of the medical staff;
     (3) Assure that the medical staff has bylaws;
     (4) Approve medical staff bylaws and other medical staff rules and
     regulations;
     (5) Ensure that the medical staff is accountable to the governing body
     for the quality of care provided to patients;
     (6) Ensure the criteria for selection are individual character,
     competence, training, experience, and judgment;
     . . .
     (b) Standard: Chief executive officer. The governing body must appoint
     a chief executive officer who is responsible for managing the
     hospital.
     . . .
     (d) Standard: Institutional plan and budget. The institution must have
     an overall institutional plan . . . .
     . . .
     (e) Standard: Contracted services.
     . . .
     (1) The governing body must ensure that the services performed under a
     contract are provided in a safe and effective manner.

Id. (emphasis added).




n240  Id. § 482.22 provides in part:

     Condition of Participation: Medical Staff.
     The hospital must have an organized medical staff that operates under
     bylaws approved by the governing body and is responsible for the
     quality of medical care provided to patients by the hospital.
     . . .
     (a)(1) The medical staff must periodically conduct appraisals of its
     members.
     (a)(2) The medical staff must examine credentials of candidates for
     medical staff membership and make recommendations to the governing
     body on the appointment of the candidates.
     . . .
     (c)(4) Describe the qualifications to be met by a candidate in order
     for the medical staff to recommend that the candidate be appointed by
     the governing body.
     . . .
     (c)(6) Include criteria for determining the privileges to be granted
     to individual practitioners and a procedure for applying the criteria
     to individuals requesting privileges.

Id. (emphasis added).




n241  See JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, § 3.




n242  See generally Hudson, supra note 13 (discussing economic credentialing
under Florida law after recent judicial decisions).




n243  JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, § 3.1.




n244  See, e.g., JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, § 3 (Governing Board); 42 C.F.R. §
482.12 (1994) provided in part, supra note 239. See also Blum, supra note 79, at
588-89.




n245  See Blum, supra note 79, at 588.




n246  See JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, § 3; 42 C.F.R. § 482.12 provided in part,
supra note 239.




n247  One problem with this approach is that credentialing decisions not
connected with furthering the quality of care will not receive immunity under
most statutes.




n248  Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hosp., 301 N.W.2d 156, 174 (Wis. 1981)
(stating that while credentialing is a function of the medical staff, it is also
a corporate responsibility of the hospital).




n249  See statutes cited supra note 40.




n250  One well known program, known as the Harford Hospital experiment,
evaluates physician efficiency on length of stay, charges, malpractice
experience, and utilization. Leonard E. Cantrell, Jr. et al., Physician
Efficiency and Reimbursement: A Case Study, HOSP. & HEALTH SERV. ADMIN. 43
(1986). Evaluations are compared to objective data compiled by the Maryland
Health Services Cost Review Commission. Id. at 45. Physicians falling outside of
the expected standards are given counseling as an opportunity to change their
undesired practices. Id. at 46-47. Privileges are denied or reduced only after a
series of due process type procedures fail to correct the deficiency. Id. at
45-48.




n251  See discussion supra part III.D.




n252  Jackson & Levy, supra note 113, § II.C.




n253  See, e.g., WASH. REV. CODE §§ 48.05.010 - .410 (1995) (Insurers - General
Requirements).




n254  Jackson & Levy, supra note 113, § II.C.4; see discussion supra, part
V.B.1.




n255  See, e.g., WASH. REV. CODE §§ 70.47.005-.901 (1995) (providing basic
health coverage to an otherwise medically indigent population through a state
administered managed care network).




n256  See generally AN INCONSISTENT PICTURE, supra note 3 (identifying numerous
federal activities and programs designed after managed care in order to reduce
costs); Lombardo, supra note 61.




n257  See discussion supra part VI.A.




n258  State medical practice and licensure statutes are similar to JCAHO
requirements. See discussion supra part II.B. and accompanying footnotes.




n259  See 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (1988); see, e.g., WASH. REV. CODE §
43.70.510 (1995).




n260  See SNOOK, supra note 19, at 204.




n261  211 N.E.2d 253, 257-58 (Ill. 1965), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966).




n262  See generally William M. Sage & James M. Jorling, A World that Won't Stand
Still: Enterprise Liability By Private Contract, 43 DEPAUL L. REV. 1007 (1994)
(analyzing the advantages and disadvantages of the impending enterprise
liability theory). The incorporation of organizational practice guidelines that
providers must follow is one example of institutional involvement in the
practice of medicine. Id.




n263  Darling, 211 N.E.2d 253.




n264  See Health Care Reform Update, MANAGED CARE L. OUTLOOK, June 22, 1993
(Enterprise liability requires health plans to accept full responsibility for
affiliated physicians' actions.).




n265  Sage & Jorling, supra note 262, at 1008 n.4.




n266  Sage & Jorling, supra note 262, at 1008 n.5.




n267  Sage & Jorling, supra note 262, at 1039 (citing Fox v. Health Net, No.
219692 (Cal. Sup. Ct., Dec. 28, 1993)).




n268  Sage & Jorling, supra note 262, at 1009-10.




n269  Sage & Jorling, supra note 262, at 1010.




n270  See discussion supra part II.D.




n271  See discussion supra parts III.D.-F.




n272  These are responsibilities for which the governing board is statutorily
responsible under HCFA, and also under JCAHO guidelines. See also 42 C.F.R. §
482.12 (1995); JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, § 3.




n273  Economic credentialing is arguably tied to the quality of care through
efficient and effective allocation of resources.




n274  JCAHO MANUAL, supra note 21, § 3.3.2 (requiring fair-hearing and appellate
review mechanisms).




n275  See discussion supra part V.B.4 (reviewing any willing provider laws).




n276  NEV. REV. STAT. § 616.2212 (1995).




n277  See discussion supra part V.B.3.a.




n278  See discussion supra part V.B.3.




n279  See discussion supra part II.B.3.




n280  See surveys cited supra note 13.




n281  See discussion supra part II.B.2.




n282  See statutes cited supra note 40.




n283  See discussion supra part IV.C. and accompanying footnotes.




n284  See VEATCH, supra note 14, at 158.


                              428 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Philadelphia Daily News

                             June 27, 2006 Tuesday

No 'sidelines' in Medicaid debate

BYLINE: ANDREW B. WIGGLESWORTH

SECTION: EDITORIAL OPINION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 672 words


NOT A DAY goes by without a news story about people and businesses struggling to
maintain affordable, stable health coverage for themselves, their families or
their employees.

Ironically, while this daily struggle continues, the commonwealth is debating
big cuts to the Medicaid program. These cuts will make this struggle harder,
cost jobs and give money back to the federal government - while shifting the
cost of $128 million in services for some of our area's most vulnerable citizens
onto hospitals, businesses, employees and others in the region.

For next year's state budget beginning on July 1, the governor has proposed to
eliminate or cut in half funding for three major programs that help hospitals
meet the needs of Medicaid beneficiaries and the uninsured.

The proposed budget would cut $171 million in payments to hospitals all across
the state, with about 75 percent, $128 million, cut from hospitals in our
region. It gets worse for Philadelphia, the largest city in the United States
without a public hospital. Cuts like this will hurt the ability of many
hospitals to provide care for all of us, not just Medicaid beneficiaries or the
uninsured.

Let's be clear about what Medicaid is. It pays for health care provided to our
most vulnerable citizens: children, the elderly, the disabled and the
chronically ill.

But Medicaid is not just for the desperately poor. It is also there for
middle-class people who can no longer afford to pay for nursing-home care for
their elderly parents. It is there for the teenage child tragically injured in
an auto accident and whose parents' health insurance will no longer pay for
catastrophic coverage.

There are nearly 600,000 children and adults in the Delaware Valley who rely on
Medicaid. That's more people than the total population of Pittsburgh, Harrisburg
and Allentown. There is a very good chance that someone you know, even someone
you love, is or will be covered by Medicaid.

What's more, the proposals don't make economic sense for the state. They
especially don't make sense for our region. The Rendell administration has every
reason to be proud of its economic development record, but these cuts undermine
our effort to promote economic growth and jobs in several key ways.

First, the commonwealth would lose more in federal funds than it saves in state
funds. By cutting $78 million in state Medicaid funds, we lose more than $90
million in matching federal money. Do we really want to give the federal
government a break, so that all of us locally can pay more?

SECOND, MEDICAID payments generate a lot of local economic activity and jobs.

If enacted, these cuts will result in an overall economic hit to our regional
economy of more than $250 million and cost jobs. Every dollar spent in a
hospital turns over two to three times in the local economy. Every hospital job
created or lost results in another job created or lost elsewhere in the
community.

Third, many believe our region's future depends on growing the "life sciences"
sector of our economy. The Medicaid cuts are like a dagger pointed at key assets
that support the whole sector - our hospitals, particularly our academic medical
centers.

So, does it make sense to cut the Medicaid funding that supports a critical
segment of our economy, provides health care for some of our most vulnerable
citizens - and brings millions of federal tax dollars back home to Philadelphia?

We don't think so. If you agree, please go to www.patientaccess.

org or call the governor and state lawmakers to let them know that you oppose
these counterproductive Medicaid cuts to hospitals.

Let them know that arbitrary cuts to Medicaid that merely shift costs to others
are not the way to address the state's budget issues. Tell them that one of the
few things we all have in common is that all of us will depend on the
health-care system at various times in our lives.

In short, there are no "sidelines" in this debate. We all have a stake in its
outcome.

Andrew B. Wigglesworth is president of the Delaware Valley Healthcare Council.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                           January 9, 2013 Wednesday

Expert highlights health care ills

BYLINE: SANJAY MANDAL

LENGTH: 461  words


The cardiothoracic department of Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital
has a surgeon but no operation can be performed because of the absence of an
anaesthetist.

Basanti Rural Hospital and Gosaba Rural Hospital in South 24-Parganas cannot
perform any ultrasound scan or an X-ray as one has equipment but no technician
and the other the opposite.

The mismatch between human resources and equipment has crippled the state-run
health care in Bengal, a study by an expert panel has revealed.

The panel, set up by the Mamata Banerjee government last April to suggest a
health policy, has recommended a rational transfer regime to end the disparity.

"We have detected several instances of such mismatch at hospitals across the
state. If a proper transfer policy is followed, services at government hospitals
will improve by at least 20-30 per cent," panel chairman Subrata Maitra, a
critical care expert, said while delivering a lecture at the second workshop on
economic growth in Bengal at the Indian Statistical Institute on Tuesday.

"There should be the right person at the right place," Maitra pointed out.

The survey revealed that Amta Rural Hospital in Howrah district has no
anaesthetist. As a result, no gynaecological procedure, the most common of all
surgical procedures at a rural hospital, can be performed. The operating theatre
at the rural hospital in Karimpur, Nadia, has been lying unused in the absence
of an anaesthetist.

"It has been observed that the anaesthetists are stationed at hospitals where
there are no surgeons. So in both cases, the surgeons and anaesthetists are not
utilised at all," said Maitra.

Since surgeons don't get to perform operations at most rural hospitals, they end
up performing the role of a general practitioner - examining patients at the
outpatients' department. A waste of critical resource when those in need of an
urgent surgery or Caesarian section have to travel long distances to district
hospitals or overcrowded medical colleges.

"There is a problem. We are trying to solve this," said Satish Tiwari, the
principal secretary in the health and family welfare department.

A separate study - Health Policy in West Bengal: At The Crossroads, conducted by
a team led by Arijita Dutta of the economics department of Calcutta University -
also indicated under-utilisation of resources at state-run health care units.
The study blamed faulty planning for under-utilisation of 25.52 per cent of
doctors and 25.82 per cent of Group D staff at government hospitals.

Dutta, who spoke at Monday's session of the workshop, highlighted lack of
planning in the drug policy, too. "Around 70 per cent of the drug budget is
allocated for tertiary hospitals, while secondary and primary health care units
are left with little," said Dutta.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2013 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              430 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            December 12, 2008 Friday

Samitivej to cut room rates

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 284 words


Samitivej's Sukhumvit branch plans to cut hospital room rates by 30 per cent
during the first half of next year to attract clients amid the global economic
slowdown, and to maintain business growth.

Hospital director Somsiri Sakolsatayadorn said yesterday that Samitivej had to
prepare itself to cope with the tough conditions in 2009 as the global financial
crisis had hit the economies of several countries.

"Samitivej next year will celebrate its 30th anniversary. So we decided to cut
room prices by 30 per cent from the average room rate of Bt4,000," she said.

Samitivej has not seen a decline in the number of patients in the second half of
this year despite the global recession. But that could be because most of the
hospital's patients were expatriates and local people, unlike other hospitals,
which aim to attract both expatriates and fly-in clients, she added.

Most of Samitivej's foreign patients are Japanese, American, English and French.
Foreigners account for 38 per cent of total patients, increasing from 35 per
cent last year.

"Although there are no signs of decline in patients this year, we have launched
measures to cope with the situation next year. We foresee a decline in the
number of patients, both foreigners and local people, mainly due to the economic
slowdown," she said.

Somsiri said Samitivej this year announced for the first time that it would not
increase its medical services fee because it wanted to send the message that it
was not a hospital where common people could not come for medical services. The
hospital's revenue in the first 11 months of this year grew 12.8 per cent from
last year.

Somsiri expects total revenue to increase roughly 12 per cent.

Nalin Viboonchart

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              431 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       October 5, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM EST

The Center for Studying Health System Change: Regional Health Care Market
Studies Identify Emerging California Trends

LENGTH: 717  words


New Delhi, Oct. 5 -- Increased pressure on hospitals to contain costs, growing
concerns about physician shortages and strained safety nets are among the trends
identified in new market studies of the Sacramento and Riverside/San Bernardino
regions conducted by the Center for Studying Health System Change (HSC).



Funded by the California HealthCare Foundation (CHCF) and based on interviews
with local health care leaders in 2011-12, the regional market studies assess
how the organization, financing and delivery of health care are changing across
the state. A previous round of California site studies funded by CHCF was
conducted by HSC researchers in 2008.

Sacramento: Health Providers Collaborate and Weather Economic Downturn

While hospitals and physicians in the Sacramento region weathered the economic
downturn fairly well, a number of market trends have posed challenges for the
area. Key findings of the market report include:

* Increased pressures on hospitals to contain costs. Hospitals reported
deteriorating payer mixes because of declining commercial coverage; an uptick in
public coverage; smaller commercial payment rate increases; and rising rates of
uninsured patients. Despite these pressures, most hospitals continued to have
strong financial performances.

* Increased use of narrow-network arrangements. The market is developing new
health plan-provider collaborations, including accountable care organizations
and narrow networks of providers that accept lower payment rates in exchange for
exclusivity.

* Growing concerns about an inadequate supply of physicians-especially primary
care physicians. In the words of one respondent, the coverage expansions under
health reform will result in a "tsunami of unmet need" among both privately and
publicly insured people.

* Increased dominance of Kaiser. Kaiser is viewed as an even more formidable
competitor now, especially given the perception of Kaiser Permanente Health Plan
as a lower-cost option

* Increased pressure on outpatient capacity at safety net providers. With the
economic downturn driving up the proportion of uninsured people, the fragmented
safety net's outpatient capacity is insufficient to keep pace with demand, in
spite of considerable growth in community health centers.

The Sacramento report is available at
http://www.chcf.org/publications/2012/09/regional-market-sacramento.

Riverside/San Bernardino: Vast Region, Market Fragmentation Add to Access Woes

The vast Riverside/San Bernardino region is recovering slowly from the economic
downturn, and access to care continues to be a challenge. Key findings of the
market report include:

* Improved overall hospital financial performance. Many hospitals maintain
bargaining clout on payment rates because health plans must ensure access in
each of the region's many submarkets, some of which are underserved. This has
helped maintain and even improve financial performance at the same time that
hospitals have struggled with a declining payer mix as people lost private
health coverage.

* Increased presence of Kaiser. Kaiser Permanente's presence has expanded, with
other providers-both hospitals and physicians-viewing the integrated delivery
system as their biggest competitive threat.

* Growing concerns about physician supply. The per capita physician supply in
the region is low compared with other California markets, and some observers
reported that demand for physicians continues to outpace supply.

* Growing efforts by hospitals to align with physicians. Physicians remain
largely independent in solo or small practices, although some are joining larger
physician-owned organizations. Hospitals are seeking to align more closely with
physicians-both to gain patient referrals and inpatient admissions and to
prepare for new payment arrangements under national health reform.

* Increased pressures on safety nets. County-run safety net organizations face
capacity and financial pressures to care for growing numbers of Medi-Cal and
uninsured patients. Both counties are trying to work more with federally
qualified health centers (FQHCs) and other private community clinics and health
centers, especially as they prepare for reform.

The San Bernardino/Riverside report is available at
http://www.chcf.org/publications/2012/09/regional-market-riverside-san-bernardin
o.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              432 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 Agencia de Informacao de Mocambique (English)

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday

Maputo Provincial Hospital Ready Next Year

LENGTH: 273  words

DATELINE: Maputo


Work on building the Maputo Provincial Hospital, in the southern Mozambican city
of Matola, is well advanced, and should be concluded in 2011.

Health Minister, Ivo Garrido, speaking to reporters in Matola on Saturday said
that the original deadline for completing the hospital was April 2011. He
admitted that the construction was running behind schedule, but was confident
that the hospital would be completed in 2011.

Matola is the only one of the provincial capitals that does not already possess
a provincial hospital. The result is increased pressure on hospitals in Maputo
city, notably the Maputo Central Hospital and the Jose Macamo Hospital.

The Maputo Provincial Directorate of Health is now working to recruit staff for
the new hospital. According to Health Director Cremilde Anli, public tenders
have been launched to recruit 250 ancillary staff. Doctors and nurses, however,
will be allocated to the hospital by the Ministry of Health.

When complete, the hospital will have 400 beds, three operating theatres, a
laboratory, and a morgue. It will offer the full range of medical services to
patients.

The hospital has a budget of 9.5 million US dollars - seven million for
construction, and 2.5 million for acquiring and assembling equipment.

The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) has financed the
hospital with a loan of four million dollars, the OPEC fund has provided five
million dollars, and the Mozambique state itself is providing 500,000 dollars.

Anli said the new hospital will relieve the pressure on the Maputo City
hospitals and will offer better care to the 1.2 million people living in Maputo
province.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Union Daily Times, S.C.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 6, 2014 Friday

Tribble has experience in government, economic development

BYLINE: Charles Warner, The Union Daily Times, S.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 803 words


June 06--UNION COUNTY -- His experience in local and state government including
his role in successful efforts to promote economic development and address
related issues are what David Tribble Jr. brings to his bid for the SC House
District 42 seat.

The Democratic and Republican parties will hold their primaries on Tuesday, June
10. Voters must choose which primary they vote in before casting their ballots.

In the Republican primary the only local race is for the GOP nomination for the
SC House District 42 seat.

Former Clinton mayor David Tribble Jr. and Buffalo farmer and businessman Mark
Cathcart are running for the GOP nomination. The winner of the primary will face
incumbent SC House 42 Rep. Mike Anthony, a Democrat, in the November general
election.

In addition to serving six years as mayor of Clinton, Tribble also served six
years on Laurens County Council. He also served on the Laurens Hospital
Association Board, and represented S.C. House District 15 in the state
legislature before it was redistricted out of the area.

Among the issues Tribble dealt with during his years in office was economic
development.

"We located during my time as mayor of Clinton five new industries," Tribble
said. "Avery Dennison was in the print packaging business; the second-largest as
Mueller Valve which made valves for municipal systems; the third was McCrory
Stores which located their distribution center in Clinton; the Morris Bean
Company, an aluminum foundry that made inpellers for diesel engines; and Gold
Bond Products, a manufacturing facility which made products for Lowe's and Home
Depot."

Tribble pointed out that these industries came to the City of Clinton because it
had the means to facilitate their location. He said the city could offer them
sewer which he described as "the prime mover" in industrial development. Another
factor in the decision of those companies to locate there was the ability of the
city to offer them not only property for their initial facility, but enough
space for future expansion and their businesses grew.

While most would not expect it, Tribble said his years as a member of Laurens
Hospital Board Association and the decisions taken during that time also helped
promote economic development.

"We had two hospitals -- Bailey Memorial in Clinton and Laurens Memorial in
Laurens -- and we decided to create a new hospital between the two towns to
achieve economies of scale and we set off an economic explosion," Tribble said.

Tribble the new hospital, named Laurens County Hospital System, became the
center of a "dynamic, growing medical community" that soon included an
orthodontic services and dental services offices. In addition to the medical and
related entities that located there, Tribble said the Laurens County Chamber of
Commerce, the Vocational Rehabilitation Center, and the Social Security offices
also moved there.

His involvement in economic development gave Tribble an understanding of what is
involved, an understanding he said he will bring to the SC House District 42
seat.

"Economic development is a team sport," Tribble said. "Everybody needs to know
the roles they are to play. I've played multiple roles within that team sport.
I've seen how a community can come together to make that succeed.

"The state representation plays a leadership role similar to what I played in
the past," he said. "If the final piece to putting the deal together is effected
by DHEC, if it involves getting roads widened and turn lanes added, if there is
money in Columbia for the deal closing, this is where the representation comes
in."

Tribble added that such representation has to be experience and professional in
nature and with a strong understanding of the economic development process, not
only at the local level but at the state level.

"It is not uncommon for it to start in the (State) Department of Commerce,"
Tribble said. "That is why it is so important to have professional
representation."

Another issue that Tribble said will be the focus of his attention if elected is
unfunded mandates. He said he is opposed to unfunded mandates that can effect
local government, local school districts, and local health care systems and will
be on the lookout for them in Columbia.

Tribble said that during his previous term in the state legislature he worked to
maintain a close relationship with the local governments, school district,
health care system, and other local institutions in his district. He said that
before he would vote on an issue affecting them he would request to meet with
those officials to discuss any and all proposed legislation and he will do that
again if elected to the SC House District 42 seat.

___ (c)2014 The Union Daily Times (Union, S.C.) Visit The Union Daily Times
(Union, S.C.) at uniondailytimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140606-UH-Tribble-has-experience-in-government-economic
-development-0606-20140606

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UH


                                 Copyright 2014


                              434 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                              June 2, 2014 Monday

Health sector achievements of the government unprecedented: NC

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, June 2 -- Ruling National Conference (NC) claimed that the Omar
Abdullah led government has achieved historical success in developing core
health infrastructure in the state during the last five and a half years.

In a statement issued here, a party spokesman said that health and education
sectors have received historic impetus in the last five years.

"Omar Abdullah led government established 200 health institutions of various
categories throughout the state whereas 15 major hospital projects were
completed and commissioned which includes the super-specialty hospital at Jammu,
the 200-bed paedriatric unit at SMGS, the 200-bed OPD additional block at Lal
Ded Hospital, Srinagar besides various new District and Sub-District Hospitals,"
the statement quoting the spokesman said.

He said that District Hospitals were upgraded with modern, state-of-the-art
facilities and infrastructure in Langate, Khansahib, Pulwama, Yaripora,
Zainapora, Pampore, Kokernag, Tral, Beerwah, Kishtwar, Rajouri and Baramulla
besides various ancillary hospitals are being operationalized and upgraded in
various areas.

The spokesman said that 11 mobile medical units were deployed in 11 districts in
the State and 15 new modern, state-of-the-art x-ray plants, numerous new
anesthesia machines and 31 dental units were provided to various government
hospitals in the last five years as part of the State Government's focus on
revamping our health sector.

Stating that 48 Primary Health Centers were completed and 94 sub-centeres were
established in the last five years, the spokesman said that the State Government
took a step towards eradicating corruption by established the J&K Medical
Supplies Corporation.

"Around seven new, latest CT Scan machines were installed at various hospitals
throughout the State to make trauma care and response swift and effective," he
claimed.

The spokesman said that SMHS Hospital, SKIMS Soura, JLNM Hospital Rainawari and
Bone & Joint Hospital in Srinagar were upgraded with unprecedented
infrastructure addition and creation- both in terms of machinery as well as new
buildings.

He said the focus on the Health Sector had resulted in the creation of 2279
posts of specialists, 4124 posts of super-specialists, 1480 posts of specialist
doctors, 1210 staff nurses and about 1500 allied medical staff - appointments
that were made to both make the health-care sector more streamlined and provided
scope for professional growth in the State.

The spokesman claimed that while PDP relies on propagating lies and myths, NC
believes in development and growth.

"Despite economic slowdown in the country due to high inflationary conditions
and a general global economic slowdown, the State registered significant
economic landmarks of growth in the last five and half years. The Gross State
Domestic Product (GSDP) in J&K has continuously increased over the last five and
a half years. GSDP at constant prices has increased from Rs. 34664 crores in
2008-09 to Rs. 42878 crore (QE) in 2012-13 representing a growth of 23.70%.
Similarly the Per-capita income of the State has increased from Rs. 24641 in
2008-09 to Rs. 30222 (QE) in 2012-13 thereby registering an increase of 17.86%,"
the spokesman added.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Images. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                           October 26, 2000, Thursday

QUEENS HOSPITAL LAND PLAN HIT

BYLINE: BY CELESTE KATZ DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SUBURBAN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 513 words

The city plan for long-term leasing or sale of property that will be left over
after the redevelopment of Queens Hospital Center may be woefully shortsighted,
the local community board charges.

But the city Economic Development Corp. says such protests are premature.

Members of Community Board 8 say the development corporation should slow the
process and avoid relinquishing its hold on land surrounding the new
$147-million hospital center that the city might need later.

Some board members and neighbors of the hospital met with Borough President
Claire Shulman last week.

"They're just concerned that once the city engages in a commitment of that sort,
they're sort of locked into something that may not be as appropriate then as it
is now," said Paola Micheli, director of health and senior services for Shulman.

"What Claire basically said to them was there will be clauses and ways of
getting around that legally, that can prevent having dinosaurs sitting on a
property that we don't need."

Shulman also is talking about medical-related uses for the excess property,
Micheli said, adding, "That has been the focus of this all along. We're not
talking about selling the property off to Home Depot."

The three sites up for redevelopment include the hospital site, the former
Triboro Hospital for Tuberculosis and the parking area between the two
locations.

Possible uses, Economic Development Corp. President Michael Carey said, include
health- or child-care centers, biomedical research facilities and staff housing.

Bernie Diamond, treasurer of Community Board 8 and one of the leaders in its
fight against long-term leases, said, "We're not opposed to those concepts, but
we don't think it should go into private hands for someone's profit."

Diamond and Seymour Schwartz, a member of Board 8 and co-chairman of its
hospital land use committee, testified against the long-term plans at an Oct. 12
public meeting of the city Health and Hospitals Corp.

"In this age of rapidly increasing biomedical changes," Schwartz testified, the
need for new health-care spaces "cannot be predicted even 10 years ahead, let
alone 99 years."

Yesterday, Health and Hospitals Corp. deferred comment on the issue to the
Economic Development Corp.

The community board, which wants more input in the proposal process and final
outcome of the redevelopment, also has passed a resolution urging the city to
hang onto the public property.

Neighboring Community Board 7 supports the resolution.

Diamond said residents fear that if private developers take over, important
services will cost the local elderly population more than they can afford.

But Economic Development Corp. spokesman Bruce Brodoff said proposals aren't due
back until Oct. 31, and he called the protests premature.

"We're ecstatic that we're getting a state-of-the-art hospital here," said Board
8 Chairman Alvin Warshaviak, crediting Shulman with helping drive the
construction.

"But [that] doesn't mean that they can have carte blanche to do whatever they
want with the remaining property."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEIL SCHNEIDER HASTY PLANNING?   Members of Community Board 8 say the
city Economic Development Corp. is acting too hastily regarding plans for land
that will be left over after redevelopment of Queens Hospital Center. Board
nembers and neighbors of the hospital met with Borough President Claire Shulman
last week about it.

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                              436 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 16, 2003 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Bad doctors deserve to be exposed

BYLINE: NICHOLAS GRUEN

SECTION: INSIGHT; Opinion; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 798 words


We have the right to know a lot more about deaths in our hospitals.

Wouldn't it be great if hospitals, surgeons, government and economic reformers
resolved to cut heart surgery mortality rates by 40 per cent in the next three
years. Well, it can be done. All we need is some guts - like politicians have
shown with economic reform generally - and some high-quality information.

Public information about the quality of health care is critical to driving
improvements. That's why the publication in The Age this week of information
about hospital accidents is at least a promising step forward.

Alas, it was in a format that prevented identification. We were told this was to
protect patients' privacy. To use the immortal words of Lord Wellington, if you
believe that, you'll believe anything. The reason there was a lack of specific
information was to protect everyone other than the patients - and particularly
to protect bad doctors and bad hospitals.

Something similar happened in New York state more than a decade ago, but the
outcome was quite different. Newsday got hold of information from a major study
of heart bypass surgery within the state. The information identified patients
and surgeons.

There was a fearful outcry from surgeons - one presumes the worst surgeons were
the most keen to protect their patients' privacy. They feared that a hospital
and surgeon "league ladder" would see a massive swing of patient demand away
from the worst hospitals and surgeons towards the best. Heaven forbid.

But system administrators held the line and insisted on maintaining the data -
and publishing it - in a form that would identify hospitals and patients.

The recently released Victorian hospital data is useless in this regard. Not
only can we not identify the particular incidents, but even if we could we
wouldn't know what they showed, because we have nothing to compare current
performance with.

In the New York study each medical episode was carefully "risk rated" - that is,
the system predicted a likely mortality rate before an operation. So a surgeon
losing 5 per cent of her patients might look bad on their raw score, but not if
they were specialising in high-risk operations with a predicted mortality rate
of 10 per cent. Risk rating was also carefully audited, so there was minimal
incentive to turn the riskier cases away to protect mortality ratings.

The results were remarkable.

It turned out that the dramatic consumer reaction to the publication of clinical
data - what the economists might have hoped and the worse surgeons and hospitals
feared - never materialised. In the absence of more vigorous consumer education,
consumers continued to rely on their local networks to choose health care
providers.

The second lesson from the New York episode is that even if consumer choice
cannot be induced to play the role economists assign it in driving improvements,
information is a remarkably benign commodity. Although in this case the
information did little to change the demand for services, it revolutionised
their supply.

The information the program generated drove reforms within hospitals in myriad
ways. The data demonstrated the benefits of specialisation. "Low-volume"
surgeons had much higher mortality rates than "high-volume" ones. In the first
three years of the program 27 low-volume surgeons stopped performing bypass
surgery. Their risk-adjusted mortality rates were nearly 12 per cent, compared
with a state average of 3 per cent.

The data was also used to identify new areas of specialisation as some surgeons
and hospitals found they excelled at some procedures and lagged in others. The
upshot of all such changes was a 41 per cent decline in risk-adjusted
post-operative mortality in the state over the first three years of the program,
although some of this is attributable to other factors such as general
improvements in technique.

The Age's revelations from freedom of information documents have helped Victoria
take the first step towards reform. Sadly, we're also intent on taking a step
backward. The State Government says it does not want to create a "league table"
of hospitals. As Keynes once said: "Worldly wisdom teaches that it is better for
the reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed unconventionally."

The great virtue of economic reform was that (at least at its outset) it was
unconventional - and history has shown it was an unconventional success.

At a time of widespread reform fatigue, what better way for reformers to get
back on the front foot than with an agenda that emphasises what economic reform
is supposed to be about - tangibly improving our lives?

Nicholas Gruen is principal of the Melbourne-based consultancy Lateral Economics
and is writing a book titled Re-imagining economic reform: Making policy meet
human needs.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2003 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              437 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           February 11, 2010 Thursday
                                 SOUTH EDITION

CASINO DOLLARS ARRIVE IN WASHINGTON COUNTY;
$9.8 MILLION WILL GO TO 30 PROJECTS OK'D BY BOARD

BYLINE: Janice Crompton, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. S-1

LENGTH: 774 words


Municipalities, nonprofit organizations and economic development initiatives in
Washington County will soon get a $9.8 million shot in the arm, thanks to the
success last year of The Meadows Racetrack & Casino.

The county's Local Share Account Review Committee recently recommended 30
projects to receive funding from the county's share of casino profits.

County commissioners approved the list, ranging from $20,000 for a community
park in Centerville to $1.5 million toward public sewerage in Donora, and
forwarded it to the state Department of Community and Economic Development for
final approval.

Every year since the casino opened in 2007, the county and host municipality,
North Strabane, have received a portion of the gross terminal revenue generated
by slot machines at The Meadows.

The revenue, expected to total about $12 million based on 2009 profits, is used
for economic development and community projects.

But, there are big changes this year.

In response to complaints from municipal officials that they were being
overlooked for economic development pursuits during the past two years, the
funding formula was changed and representatives from municipal governments were
appointed to the review committee, which is normally comprised of government
officials and economic development experts.

Changes in the state gaming law also now call for direct revenue sharing with
municipalities, 65 of which will receive $25,000, plus $10 for each resident.
North Strabane isn't included because it will continue receiving a separate
revenue stream. That new formula will knock the county's local share down by a
little more than $2 million.

Last year, the review committee began setting aside a portion of the funds for
water and sewage plans and for municipal projects. However, still getting the
largest slice of the pie is economic development initiatives, which this year
include 10 projects totaling $4.4 million.

Among them are $1 million for expansion of the Starpointe Business Park in
Hanover, $540,000 for safety improvements to the county airport, and $340,000
for the Washington/Greene County Job Training Agency Inc.

The priciest undertaking this year is a $15.7 million project for an electronic
medical record and information technology project being sponsored by the
county's three hospitals, Washington, Canonsburg and Monongahela Valley.

The joint project will receive $1 million a year for three years, with the
hospitals splitting the revenue equally.

The Washington Hospital Executive Vice President Gary Weinstein said the switch
to electronic records is now being mandated by the federal government.

Hospitals that don't begin phasing in electronic records by 2011 face cutbacks
in federal Medicare and Medicaid funding and the cost, estimated at a minimum of
$20 million per hospital, is going to be a challenge for most, he said.

"For many hospitals, it's going to be difficult to get where they need to be,"
he said.

Mr. Weinstein said The Washington Hospital began converting its paper records in
1982, and has kept pace over the years, with a $14 million upgrade in 2006.

Financial systems, registrations and clinical records are already electronic, he
said, and the hospital --along with the other county hospitals -- are now
pushing for electronic medical records, physician's notes, prescriptions and
more.

The project, which is expected to be completed in five years, received more
funding because of the cooperation between hospitals, said Jeff Kotula, chairman
of the review committee and executive director of the Washington County Chamber
of Commerce.

"We felt that rather than competing with each other, it was better to combine
resources," Mr. Weinstein said.

"It's the first one we funded, but not the first one we received," Mr. Kotula
said of the joint project.

Other funding highlights include $3.8 million for eight water and sewage
projects, including $876,000 for a sorely needed flood control project in the
city of Washington.

Twelve municipal projects totaling $1.5 million also were approved, including
$216,000 for a Pony League field restoration project, $220,000 for a park in
North Franklin and $75,000 toward a renovation of the Washington Area Humane
Society.

None of this year's funding includes revenue from table games, which aren't
expected to be online until this summer.

But, beginning next year, the county and North Strabane will each receive 1
percent of a 16 percent tax of gross revenue from games such as poker, blackjack
and craps.

Though it's impossible to say how much revenue will be generated from table
games, they account for about 30 percent of Atlantic City casinos' gambling
proceeds.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Janice Crompton: jcrompton@post-gazette.com or 724-223-0156./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              438 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              May 8, 2001 Tuesday

New hospital spurs economic development in area

BYLINE: Ray Carter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 817 words


Just as a dramatic increase in the Yukon and Mustang populations supported the
construction of a new Integris Health hospital in that area, so does that
hospital support further economic development in the region, officials said
Monday.

"If you look back over the last 20 years, there's been a continuous growth in
this area, and of course it's really growing now," said George Dashner, hospital
administrator of the Integris Canadian Valley Regional Hospital, now under
construction. "It may be the largest population in Oklahoma without a hospital."

Dashner noted the three zip codes representing the Yukon and Mustang area
contain 60,000 people who could be served at the new hospital, located at the
intersection of U.S. Interstate 40 and Garth Brooks Boulevard in Yukon.

According to 1999 city population estimates provided by the Oklahoma Department
of Commerce, Mustang had a population of 12,890 -- up 23.5 percent since 1990.
Yukon's population totaled 22,760, an 8.7 percent increase. Based on the '99
estimates, Yukon is now the 17th-largest city in the state, while Mustang ranks
34th. Canadian County now ranks fifth out of 77 counties in terms of population.

Those increases red-flagged the two suburban communities as a growing market in
need of additional medical services. As a result, Integris officials approved
construction of the Canadian Valley Regional Hospital in April 2000.
Construction began the following June.

The $30 million, 40-bed acute care facility incorporates two stories and 128,000
square feet, including emergency rooms, three surgery suites and a women's
center. The 21-acre campus will also include a new medical office building and
ambulatory care center.

Stanley Hupfeld, Integris Health president and chief executive, said the
hospital could attract other businesses to the area.

"If you came here a few years ago, you would not see any of the development that
we see right here all around us," Hupfeld said.

Noting that Staples and Lowe's have since built and opened stores in the area
adjacent to the hospital, he said, "there's no question that part of their
decision was made because there's going to be this nice (hospital) facility."

A Corning plant is also scheduled to open in the area in 2002, bringing another
1,000 jobs to the local economy.

That business growth may be just the beginning. Hupfeld predicted the Canadian
Valley Regional Hospital would draw other companies to Yukon and Mustang.

"It seems to be an economic truth that when a hospital gets developed, there's a
lot of economic development that seems to follow," he said.

Construction should be completed by the end of September, allowing the facility
to open in November, Dashner said.

He said outpatient care would be a major focus of the hospital, due to the
changing world of medical care.

"If you go back 25, 30 years ago, there was hardly any outpatient services, and
everything was focused just on the inpatient," he said. "Now you can see a lot
of room is provided for the day surgery, emergency department, (and) ambulatory
care."

As medical advances have made overnight stays unnecessary in many cases, the
demand for outpatient care has increased.

"I think the main emphasis has been allowing for more space for outpatient
(care), because the numbers are so much greater," Dashner said.

The hospital will contain three surgery suites and a six-bed recovery area.

Overall, 30 of the hospital beds will be available for inpatient care, while 10
beds will be reserved for the women's center, Dashner said. Six of the beds in
the women's center will for labor and delivery service. One surgery suite will
be dedicated to Caesarean section deliveries.

The campus will also contain 12,500 square feet of office space for lease to
local physicians, which should increase the range of practitioners available to
the community.

"We anticipate having several different types of medical specialists located up
on this floor," Dashner said.

Several office spaces have been reserved for physicians now in the Integris
Yukon Clinic.

Integris officials believe the population flow into Canadian County will
continue during the next decade, and anticipate building another floor and
adding 30 more beds to the hospital.

"We think that with the growth -- economic growth -- in Yukon and Mustang, that
within a few years we're going to be faced with a decision to expand this
facility, and that would please us very much," Hupfeld said.

"We will see continued growth and need for hospital beds, in my opinion,"
Dashner said. "We're constructed so we can build another floor on top of our
inpatient unit. So we could add another 30 beds without having to do anything --
in other words, the foundation will support that. And we can add another floor
on our medical office building. And being 21 acres, we obviously have room for
horizontal growth."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: General news

                      Copyright 2001 Dolan Media Newswires
                                All Rights Reserved


                              439 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    The Sedalia Democrat (Sedalia, Missouri)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              March 6, 2009 Friday

Economy anxiety has more seeking mental health services

BYLINE: Allison Elyse Gualtieri, The Sedalia Democrat, Sedalia, Mo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 687 words


Mar. 6--Fear. Depression. Anxiety. Economic woes are leading more people to the
therapist's couch.

Demand for mental health services in the area has risen sharply following the
economic downturn, providers said, mirroring national trends.

"Any time we experience some local economic downturn, we experience an increase
in calls and requests for services, but this kind of dwarfs anything we've seen
in the past few years," said Mel Fetter, president and chief executive officer
of Pathways Community Behavioral Healthcare Inc.

Pathways operates 32 offices across Missouri, including one in Sedalia.

Fetter said the offices have seen a 40 percent increase in calls over the past
three or four months.

"We're all afraid it's kind of the tip of the iceberg as things get worse," he
said.

Fetter said many callers seeking services have been affected by the economic
downturn.

"Overall, we're experiencing quite a few additional calls daily for help. We
know from those calls that a good deal of it is people struggling with the
economy, whether it's job loss or another factor," he said.

Job loss or other economic stress can trigger substance use and abuse, lead to
domestic violence or just create tension in the home.

Calls to Royal Oaks Hospital in Windsor, a sister organization, are up about the
same amount.

"Their census has been very high and continues to be very high. They don't have
a lot of excess capacity," he said.

The 40-bed hospital, like many, is limited in how many people it can serve.

"There's a lack of psychiatric beds throughout the state, it's a statewide
problem. We do the best we can as far as helping folks through programs that can
keep them out of hospital," Fetter said.

Dr. Gary Kitto, a psychologist who has practiced in Sedalia since 1990, said he
has a patient in crisis right now who can't get a bed in a hospital. Instead, he
sees the patient three times per week.

Kitto's office has been busy for the past year, even during typically slow
times.

"We have slow seasons. We haven't had slow seasons in over a year," he said, not
even during summer or near Christmas.

His practice now has two licensed interns who see patients based on a sliding
scale, something the office has never had before.

Kitto said calls to his office are up, with many callers experiencing depression
and "incredible amounts of anxiety" about their financial situation.

Agencies that normally operate on a sliding scale are referring patients to
private counselors because of the demand, he said.

There is an increase in demand from people with insurance, too. Kitto said he
gets referrals daily, and people are willing to wait. Kitto's schedule is booked
for the next few months.

Kitto also traced the demand for mental health services to a decline in the
stigma about getting mental health care.

There is hope for patients whose lose their jobs or insurance. Kitto said his
office works with patients on an individual basis to work out payment
arrangements.

Whether or not Pettis County is getting hit as badly as other parts of the
country, local residents are feeling the recession.

"I think the economy, whether it's going to get worse or better, that's an
anxiety we're all dealing with," Kitto said. "I find myself watching the stock
market every day myself, and I never used to do that, and if I'm doing that,
then other people must be doing that."

RESOURCES

For more information on mental health resources, visit the following Web sites:

--Missouri Department of Mental Health Web site, www.dmh.missouri.gov

--Pathways Community Behavioral Healthcare Inc., www.pathwaysonline.org.
Pathways has a 24-hour hotline for people in crisis. Call (800) 833-3915.

--National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org

To see more of The Sedalia Democrat or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.sedaliademocrat.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Sedalia Democrat,
Sedalia, Mo. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090306-SX-Economy-anxiety-has-more-seeking-mental-health-services-0306

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SX


                      Copyright 2009 The Sedalia Democrat


                              440 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                August 30, 2010

OPINION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0006

LENGTH: 454 words


Hospital collaboration would help the region

Last week, advocates for health care cost containment released a new report
predicting that $1.3 billion in capital spending among Detroit-area hospital
systems would result in short-term economic gains but long-term cost increases.

The silver lining: If hospitals pulled more patients from outside the region,
that equation could change for the better.

And that's the opportunity. If hospitals collaborated to market best-in-class
programs, the region could draw patients from around the U.S. and the globe. But
a couple of economic development groups that explored such a collaboration in
recent years found little appetite among the competing hospital systems for
collaboration.

Maybe the current economic conditions could change that outlook. We hope so.

The health care cost report by the National Institute for Health Care Reform and
the Center for Studying Health System Change echoed the fears of institute
founders - the Detroit 3 automakers and the United Auto Workers union.

The auto groups, which opposed much of the new capital spending on the books,
have long held that health care costs can be controlled primarily through
Michigan's strict adherence to its certificate-of-need approval process. In
recent years, hospital systems have gotten around the CON rules by getting laws
passed to approve specific, multimillion-dollar projects.

Surprisingly, the report omitted Washtenaw County and the growing University of
Michigan Health System. Authors apparently didn't consider UM hospitals as part
of the regional equation. That must be a surprise to UM, which saturates the
broadcast airwaves with commercials aimed at attracting potential patients
throughout the region.

EMU union's demand unrealistic

Recession? What recession?

The union representing faculty at Eastern Michigan University wants a 12.75
percent wage increase over three years.

EMU has proposed 1 percent a year over that same period, with veteran professors
getting an extra $5,000 raise and additional 1 percent bonuses tied to
enrollment and state funding.

Hefty salary increases and no-cost-to-employee health care are vestiges of times
gone by. Most private sector workers long ago began sharing the cost of health
care and have had wages frozen - or reduced.

EMU faculty went on strike in 2006. Another strike would jeopardize the
university's efforts to overcome controversy from during the administrations of
two predecessors to current President Susan Martin.

EMU's offer to extend annual bonuses based on increased enrollment and state
funding would help give faculty a stake in the university's success financially
as well as academically.

Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cd


                      Copyright 2010 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              441 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday

Afghan daily says private clinics act against government's policy

LENGTH: 576 words


Text of article by Warak in Pashto, "Why do private hospitals work in their own
way?", published by Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on
25 December

People were not offered necessary health services as expected following the
establishment of the interim government in Afghanistan. Some doctors failed to
fulfil their duties on time in hospitals, patients were not given medicines in
hospitals as before and some people tried to sell the medicines donated to
patients in market. Moreover, many doctors were made redundant and removed from
their jobs. This left a negative impact on the spirit of other doctors. As a
result of lack of attention by the government, particularly the Health Ministry,
hospitals were slowly privatized. Those who had experience in running private
hospitals abroad rolled up their sleeves to establish private hospitals in the
capital and provinces.

They created documents described as licences from the government, particularly
the Health Ministry and established a countless number of clinics and hospitals
in Kabul and other provinces. A large number of doctors and medical personnel
have been recruited at these clinics and hospitals. They receive high salaries
from the owners of these clinics and hospitals. This has reduced doctors'
interest in working in government hospitals and they are now in pursuit of their
personal benefits. There are a number of doctors and medical personnel who work
from morning till 1200 hours [local time] and leave the government hospitals at
1300 or 1400 hours [local time] and go to private hospitals to earn much money
and attend patients in return for high fees.

Patients, too, refer to private hospitals because they are not properly treated
in government hospitals. Government hospitals do not offer medicines free of
charge to patients like before. These [private] hospitals do not work in line
with the Health Ministry's policy that is compatible to the economic conditions
of wandering people of Afghanistan. Laboratories and X-Ray branches take high
fees and medicines are very expensive. Moreover, doctors receive high fees and
there are many other such problems. Moreover, a number of foreign doctors have
also established hospitals and clinics under different names in Afghanistan and
earn high fees in dollars or an equivalent amount in afghanis. This has further
harmed people's economic conditions. People are very concerned about this
situation.

They ask the government, particularly the Health Ministry to focus much of its
attention on government hospitals, so that compatriots are properly treated
there just as before. Also, they should strictly control clinics and hospitals,
so that compatriots can receive treatment and buy medicines in return for low
fees. Foreign doctors, too, should receive reasonable fees in afghanis instead
of dollars regardless of any discrimination in hospitals where they work. People
want to receive treatment in government hospitals and not in private clinics and
hospitals where they cannot receive treatment due to poverty. Given these needs,
the Health Ministry's officials should review their strategy and administer most
of those private and foreign clinics and hospitals which irresponsibly work in
their own way. They should be administered in line with people's demands and
should not be allowed to work in their own way under the name of free market.
[Ends]

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari and Pashto 25 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              442 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           February 28, 2009 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

Hospital plans $35 million site;
Forget recession: To remain viable, 'we have to do this,' Morgan Memorial's CEO
says of building a new facility.

BYLINE: ANDY MILLER; Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 247 words


A Madison hospital plans to build a $35 million facility, countering the
recession trends that have stalled similar medical projects.

Morgan Memorial Hospital said Friday that it will file for state permission to
replace its current structure, built in 1959.

The new hospital would feature all private patient rooms and expand outpatient
services. It will have 25 beds and connect to a 21-bed rehabilitation unit that
was built in 1998.

"Health care has changed dramatically since 1959, but this facility has not,"
said Brandon Jolley, CEO of the nonprofit hospital. "Health care has turned more
to an outpatient setting. Our staff does a good job taking care of patients
despite the limitations of our facility."

The economic downturn has halted many hospitals' capital spending. A recent
Georgia Hospital Association survey found that almost three of four hospitals
are postponing or reconsidering capital expenditures. The GHA survey results
echo those of national hospital surveys.

Jolley said he and other hospital leaders are aware of the economy's challenges.
"But if we're going to continue to be a viable option for health care in Morgan
County, we have to do this," he said.

Morgan Memorial, the only hospital in Morgan County, is located an hour east of
Atlanta. It is governed by a hospital authority. Jolley said financing for the
new facility has not yet been worked out. A hospital must get a ''certificate of
need'' from the state for major construction and expansion projects.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2009 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              443 of 994 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 2010 Board of Trustees of the University of
                                    Arkansas
                University of Arkansas at Little Rock Law Review

                                  Spring, 2010

                University of Arkansas at Little Rock Law Review

                       32 U. Ark. Little Rock L. Rev. 315

LENGTH: 7423 words

ARTICLE: DON'T BANK ON BIG MEDICINE: THE VIRTUE OF SPECIALTY HOSPITALS

NAME: Robert Steinbuch*

BIO:



   * Associate Professor of Law, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, William
H. Bowen School of Law. J.D. from, and John M. Olin Law & Economics Fellow at,
Columbia Law School. B.A. and M.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Commissioner on the Arkansas Commission for Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank
Initiative. Professor Steinbuch's research focuses on the intersection of health
and corporate law. The author wishes to thank Professors Pearl Steinbuch,
Frances Fendler, Nicholas Kahn-Fogel, Richard Peltz, and Diane Mackey, as well
as Rabbi Ben Pape, for their guidance, input, and/or contributions.

 TEXT:
 [*315]

    I. Introduction

    In Placing Profits Above Hippocrates: The Hypocrisy of General Service
Hospitals, I discussed some of the inappropriate means that general service
hospitals (GSHs) have used against specialty hospitals to preserve the former's
market dominance. n1 In response to Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, the Chief
Executive Officer of the St. Vincent Medical Center (Peter Banko) wrote to
me--as well as to the head of the University for whom I work (Chancellor Joel
Anderson)--to say why he, Peter Banko, believed that Placing Profits Above
Hippocrates was, well, wrong. In this article, I respond to Mr. Banko's primary
concerns. n2

    Specialty hospitals, frequently physician owned, focus on a specific medical
field n3 --often high dollar fields, such as orthopedics, cardiology, surgery,
and women's care. n4 General service hospitals, in contrast, are full service
entities and generally are "nonprofit" n5 institutions. n6 GSHs typically
[*316]  make their highest profit from cardiac, orthopedic, and general surgical
services. n7 As a consequence of their desire to hold onto their most profitable
cases, GSHs often attempt to undermine the development of competing specialty
hospitals. n8

    GSHs typically criticize specialty hospitals by arguing that (1) the
specialty hospitals threaten the viability of GSHs by competing for
revenue-generating cases, which GSHs often use to finance "unprofitable"
services such as emergency rooms, and (2) the existence of specialty hospitals
fosters conflicts of interest for physicians who refer patients to their own
hospitals. n9

    II. Undermining Specialty Hospitals

    In Little Rock, Arkansas, the three most notable GSHs are University of
Arkansas for Medical Sciences Hospital, Saint Vincent Infirmary Medical Center,
and Baptist Medical Center. There are also two specialty hospitals: the Arkansas
Heart Hospital and the Arkansas Surgical Hospital. These specialty hospitals
actively compete on the claim that they generally provide better care than that
provided at GSHs. n10

    In Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, I discussed how some GSHs have adopted
economic credentialing policies, i.e., rules based on "economic criteria
unrelated to quality of care or professional competence in determining a
physician's qualifications for initial or continuing hospital medical staff
membership or privileges." n11 This stands in contrast to what occurred  [*317]
"historically, where hospital credentialing decisions had been based almost
exclusively on qualitative criteria and a physician's clinical competence." n12
GSHs typically argue that in order to be able to offer essential but
"unprofitable" services, such as an emergency room, obstetrics, pediatrics, and
critical care, they need to "protect" their market in highly lucrative practice
areas, such as orthopedics and cardiology. n13 As such, GSHs have been known to:

    refuse to grant initial or continuing staff privileges to physicians who own
or have other financial interests in competing healthcare entities, refer
patients to competing entities, have staff privileges at any other area
hospitals, or fail to admit some specified percentage of their patients to the
hospital. Alternatively, the hospital might require a physician seeking
privileges to sign a loyalty oath or pledge to perform a certain percentage of
medical services at the hospital. n14


    The AMA opposes the consideration of economic criteria unrelated to patient
care in deciding whether to grant privileges to physicians: n15

    The AMA believes that the practice of conditioning a physician's medical
staff privileges on an agreement to refer patients only to that hospital is a
violation of the anti-kickback law . . . . Whether called loyalty oaths or
conflict of interest policies, the effect is the same. These practices . . .
negatively impact a physician's prerogative regarding patient care as well as
patient choice. n16


    In Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, doctors challenged in court the policy of
economic credentialing in South Dakota. n17 In that case, a hospital refused to
credential doctors because they apparently had a competing financial inter
[*318]  est. n18 The South Dakota Supreme Court ruled that the hospital could
base its decision to grant or deny credentials for economic reasons rather than
quality of care. n19

    The court . . . recognized that the hospital relied on 'the profitable
neurosurgical services' in order to be able to continue offering 'other
unprofitable services' in the . . . area. The court's decision seemed informed
by the unique economics of hospital financing that require cost-spreading to
fund[] treatment for uninsured and underinsured patients. n20


    In Little Rock, the situation of Janet Cathey, a gynecologist, presents a
conspicuous example of economic credentialing. n21 For twenty years her medical
practice was centered at the Baptist Medical Center. n22 Baptist is the largest
health care system in Arkansas and is the preferred provider for Arkansas Blue
Cross and Blue Shield, the state's biggest health insurer. n23 Indeed, Baptist
is Blue Cross's only acute care hospital in Little Rock. n24 Cathey's husband
joined a group of Baptist doctors who were opening the Arkansas Surgical
Hospital. n25 In anticipation of competition from the new Arkansas Surgical
Hospital, Baptist established an economic credentialing policy, n26 prohibiting
doctors "with a direct or indirect financial interest in a competing hospital"
from having privileges at Baptist's hospitals. n27 Indeed, "the new policy
applies not only to physician investors in such facilities, but also to their
immediate family members--with no right to a hearing or appellate review." n28

    Cathey was informed by Baptist that under the terms of the new
conflict-of-interest policy, once Arkansas Surgical Hospital opened, her
appointment and clinical privileges at Baptist would end. n29 Thus, as a result
of her husband's involvement in Arkansas Surgical Hospital, Cathey was no longer
entitled to admit patients or perform procedures at Baptist. n30 Because  [*319]
most of her patients were insured by Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue Shield,
Cathey's loss of privileges at Baptist would destroy her practice and deny her
patients the choice of care they once had. n31 That is, the largest insurer in
Arkansas (like most insurance companies) directs its customers to certain
hospitals--usually GSHs. n32 So, even if Cathey wanted to perform surgical
services at a specialty hospital, her patients' insurance company would not have
paid for a significant portion of the expenses that would have been covered had
the patients gone to Baptist. Thus, economic credentialing--coupled with the
oligopolistic arrangements that GSHs have with major insurance
companies--effectively squelches significant competition from specialty
hospitals.

    Similarly, Baptist stripped privileges from six cardiologists who are
part-owners of Little Rock's Arkansas Heart Hospital. n33 Cathey and the
cardiologists sued separately. n34 The cardiologists were granted a preliminary
injunction, but, on appeal, the Arkansas Supreme Court remanded the case back to
circuit court (trial court) for further findings. n35 On remand, the circuit
court again granted a preliminary injunction on behalf of the cardiologists, and
that injunction was also appealed. The Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed that
injunction. n36 And, after trial, the circuit court issued a permanent
injunction against Baptist in February 2009, enjoining the application of its
economic credentialing policy. n37

    Much has been written on whether economic credentialing is anti-competitive.
n38 Some courts have found it not so, n39 and GSHs have suc  [*320]  cessfully
argued that they should not be required to hire employees who are at the same
time actively competing with them. n40

    In addition to the use of economic-credentialing policies, GSHs have sought
to legislatively and regulatorily eliminate specialty hospitals. GSHs often
argue that (1) the specialty hospitals threaten the viability of GSHs by
skimming off revenue-generating cases that finance unprofitable basic services
and (2) the specialty hospitals create conflicts of interest when physicians
refer patients to their own hospitals for financial reasons. n41 Through the
first argument, GSHs seek to subsidize unprofitable areas within their hospitals
by reducing consumer choice. Through the second argument, GSHs seek to impose
non-market-based (i.e., ethical) restrictions only on the actions of doctors
with financial stakes in specialty hospitals.

    There is no doubt that society needs both the profitable and currently
"unprofitable" groups within GSHs. The question is how to ensure continued
viability of GSHs or other entities providing the services not available at
specialty hospitals. GSHs often attempt to do so by running specialty hospitals
out of business through competitive and noncompetitive devices. The cost of such
a proposal is that the often better care provided at specialty hospitals--for
the areas that they cover--will be lost in an effort to subsidize the
unprofitable centers at GSHs. In Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, I stated
that such an approach is not good for public health.

    III. St. Vincent's Response

    In response to Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, Peter Banko, Chief
Executive Officer of St. Vincent Health System, wrote to dispute my conclusions.
He agreed that economic credentialing is not the answer to address the existence
of physician-owned specialty hospitals, but he took issue with the various other
points raised in Placing Profits Above Hippocrates. As Mr. Banko stated:  [*321]

    I am not an economist or an attorney, but I live in the practical world of
health care each and every day. I would like to take this opportunity to present
to you a deeper rationale why physician owned specialty hospitals are not in the
best interest of our medical community and our community as a whole. n42


    Mr. Banko states his general thesis as:

    Limited service physician owned specialty hospitals are not in the best
interest of our society. They are truly competitive agents entering an
irrational health care market where pricing is controlled and information is
limited. They drive up utilization of expensive health care services that
increases costs for the employers and, consequently, every consumer. They skim
profitable health care services and profitable patients that are used to
subsidize unprofitable yet essential services (emergency, obstetrical, and
psychiatric care as well as care for the Medicare population) and care for the
poor and underserved. The quality of their care is good for those without
complication or co-morbidities, but truly disastrous for those that need extra
attention and support. n43


    I address Mr. Banko's main concerns below.

    A. Competitive Forces in Health Care

    As Mr. Banko states: "True competition does not exist in the health care
market. Therefore, you cannot use competitive market argument to support the
existence of physician owned specialty hospitals." n44

    My argument in Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, however, was not that the
health care environment reflects a purely competitive market. It surely does
not. But market competition does exist, and should be considered, in the health
care field. Hospitals routinely put on television and print advertisements
promoting quality, services, and physicians. In fact, St. Vincent advertises in
various forms, including with large billboards proclaiming, inter alia, that it
is the first Accredited Chest Pain Center in Little Rock. (Arkansas Heart
Hospital is the second.) This is a direct appeal to consumers--using competitive
market forces to attract business. Moreover, few dispute that "competition in
health care markets benefits consumers because it helps contain costs, improve
quality, and encourage  [*322]  innovation," n45 although, as Mr. Banko's
position makes clear, not all support this notion. n46

    Mr. Banko continues that "health care is not a rational market (in the
truest sense of definition) for the following reasons." n47 Mr. Banko states
that "consumers of health care suffer from a lack of adequate information about
what services they need to buy and which providers offer the best value
proposition." n48 This is true. But, again, it does not serve as a basis to
eschew market forces in health care. n49 Consumers often access comparative data
and quality grading on hospital quality. n50 Further, insurance companies often
post comparative hospital data on their websites; n51 Medicare provides
comparative data between medical facilities; n52 and legislation has promoted
better informed health-care consumers. n53

    Moreover, informational disadvantages are always a reality in any market
system. n54 The goal with such circumstances is to increase consumer  [*323]
knowledge and prevent misrepresentation in the market place, n55 not to
eliminate market forces and patient choice. The fact that GSHs themselves
advertise with the goal of creating informed consumers demonstrates at least a
recognition of market forces and consumer choice in health care.

    B.Doctors' Profit Motives

    Mr. Banko continues that because

    patients don't know a great deal about medicine, they rely on the opinion of
physicians for decision-making. Consequently, the physician becomes the agent of
the patient. Since physicians are paid on a fee-for-service basis, if they don't
have enough work or income, they can increase the amount of services for their
patients (with a simple stroke of a pen on a prescription pad). n56


    While some of what Mr. Banko asserts may be true, it is not clear (1) how
this differs between GSHs and specialty hospitals, (2) how this situation
differs from other service industries, and (3) how this argues in favor of
eliminating specialty hospitals.

    Mr. Banko seems to suggest that physicians, or at least those at specialty
hospitals, are not ethical or cannot serve as trusted advisors to their
patients. This criticism seems misplaced. Notwithstanding attempts at economic
credentialing by many GSHs and, in part, as a result of court decisions striking
down such policies, many of the physician investors in specialty hospitals are
still on staff at GSHs. n57 While they do not have ownership stakes in the GSHs,
they--no less the doctors who are full-time employees of the GSHs--have an
interest in the GSHs making profits, as well as the unit in which they work.
[*324]

    Further, the then Secretary of the Health and Human Services Administration
disagrees with the assertion that physician owners of specialty hospitals
excessively refer patients to their own institutions relative to their peers at
GSHs:

    We examined the extent to which physician-owners refer Medicare patients to
other facilities, given the financial incentive to refer patients to their own
facility. In two cardiac hospitals visited, owners had a clear preference for
referring inpatient cases to their owned hospital, with 65% and 75% of all their
cases admitted to their hospital. In the third specialty cardiac hospital
visited, owners referred almost the same percentage of cases to their facilities
as to competitor hospitals in the area. Physician-owners in all
orthopedic/surgery specialty hospitals visited, except for one, referred most of
their orthopedic or surgery inpatient cases to their competitor hospitals. This
is not surprising, given the very small inpatient census at these hospitals.
Consequently, we did not see clear, consistent patterns of preference for
referring to specialty hospitals among physician owners relative to their peers.
n58


    Moreover, in the cardiac hospitals in the HHS study, the average ownership
share per physician in heart hospitals was only 0.9% and 2.2% for
orthopedic/surgery hospitals. n59 The implication being that such a small
ownership is hardly likely to incentivize doctors to act unethically.

    In fact, at St. Vincent, at least some doctors also provide work on an
incentive basis--where they are compensated based in part on the quantity and
complexity of the procedures they perform. St. Vincent outsourced its emergency
room to an excellent service provider (EmCare), which routinely has a blended
pay structure, providing for greater compensation when the amount of services is
increased. n60 This is the type of incentive scheme that Mr. Banko appears to
criticize. I disagree with the wholesale critique of productivity-based
compensation that Mr. Banko seems to be now suggesting. Such a system recognizes
that while doctors might be tempted to overtreat, they are bound by ethical and
scientific principles to do otherwise. Moreover, checks and balances, such as
case managers, claim adjustors, utilization review managers, peer review
processes, and CMS mean  [*325]  deviation databases that could result in a CMS
audit if treatment patterns appear unjustified, serve to deter improper
behavior.

    Indeed, Mr. Banko admits that "private insurers and government payers use a
variety of controls on service availability to rein in physician inducement and
practice variations to control demand similarly to how physicians can control
supply." n61 Thus, the concern that doctors in specialty hospitals will somehow
uniquely abuse patients' trust and ethical principles seems further misplaced.

    In addition, the concern that service providers may overstate customers'
needs--where customers may not be well-informed on their own--exists throughout
any service industry. n62 This is not typically a basis to dismiss customer
choice. Rather, it is a basis for effective regulation and consumer education.
n63

    C.Transfer Protocols as a Measure of Quality--A Dangerous Comparison for
GSHs

    Mr. Banko states that:

    I believe you could make the argument that competition can be based on
quality and service and you did just that with your statement that 'generally
better care is provided at specialty hospitals.' There are studies both
supporting and refuting that premise, so I will speak from personal experience.
St. Vincent has never transferred a patient to a physician owned specialty
hospital for 'generally better care.' However, we do receive multiple transfers
from those specialties when patients get into trouble. If you have an infection
and need an infectious disease physician or you have lung issues and need a
pulmonary specialist or your kidneys start to malfunction and you need a
nephrologist (the list goes on),

     [*326]

    you are out of luck at that physician owned specialty hospital because those
physicians aren't available to help you. In those unfortunate situations, the
physician owned specialty hospital transfers you to a general service hospital
(like St. Vincent) to bail you, your family, and that invested physician out of
a mess. n64


    However, the Secretary of Health and Human Services stated:

    Based on the population of all specialty hospitals, the proportion of
patients transferred from cardiac hospitals to competitor hospitals is about the
same as the proportion of patients transferred between competitor hospitals. The
proportion of patients transferred from cardiac hospitals to competitor
hospitals who were severely ill was similar to that of patients in the same
Diagnostic Related Group (DRGs) who were transferred between competitor
hospitals. Consequently, the notion that specialty cardiac hospitals are
transferring more severely ill patients to general hospitals was not supported
by our study. Patients transferred into cardiac hospitals have slightly lower
severity levels on average than patients transferred into competitor hospitals
for cardiac services. Due to the small number of cases, no conclusions could be
drawn about the severity levels of transfer patients in the physician-owned
orthopedic/surgery hospitals. n65


    It bears repeating that I believe St. Vincent is a very good institution and
one that I would choose over various others depending on the circumstances.
However, the notion that specialty hospitals are a recipe for disastrous
outcomes--or that GSHs such as St. Vincent do not ever transfer patients for
higher-level care--is inaccurate.

    St. Vincent--as a GSH--offers a wider array of services to its patients.
Thus, as Mr. Banko asserts, if a patient needs multiple services, he may be
better off going to St. Vincent versus a specialty hospital. But St. Vincent
itself will transfer patients to other facilities when those patients need a
level of care that St. Vincent aptly decides it cannot provide. That is not a
basis for denying the value of St. Vincent--or, by analogy, specialty hospitals.
It is unclear why an intermediate-level care provider should argue against
specialty hospitals because of transfer protocols without subjecting itself to
the same criticism.   [*327]

    And while St. Vincent may not have transferred any patients to specialty
hospitals, other GSHs, to their credit, have. n66 This interest-of-the-patient
approach should be lauded, not discouraged.

    In addition, a true story of one patient serves as at least some anecdotal
evidence as to the usefulness of specialty hospitals. Recently, a patient with
chest pain went to St. Vincent one evening because he was concerned about the
risk of heart attack. n67 He was asked his age (under 30) and whether he was on
any drugs (no). Upon receiving answers to these questions, he was told that the
emergency room was busy and he would have to wait. After receiving the same
instruction to wait fifteen minutes later, the patient left St. Vincent and went
to Arkansas Heart Hospital. He was seen immediately in the emergency room.
Because the patient had an irregular electrocardiogram and raised nonspecific
blood enzymes, the emergency-room doctor admitted him to rule out a heart
attack. n68 This strikes me as a positive outcome for the patient. I know that
he was greatly relieved to have the option of going to Arkansas Heart Hospital.

    D.Health Care Ownership

    In discussing the lack of pure competition in the health care market, Mr.
Banko aptly suggests that there are different financial obligations on health
care institutions depending on their status: "Entities providing health care
services can range from for-profit to not-for-profit to public entities. These
ownership difference interject taxes, mandates for charity care to support
501(c)(3) status, and/or public subsidies that create imbalances in the health
care market." n69

    Mr. Banko is correct that there are different types of hospital ownership,
including for-profit, nonprofit, and government owned. For-profit sta  [*328]
tus, however, is not indicative of just physician-owned specialty hospitals.
Quorum, HCA, and other health care corporations that run GSHs are for-profit
facilities, as well.

    Moreover, for-profit hospitals have the same obligation to contribute to the
care of the uninsured and under insured, but they also pay a significant amount
of taxes that nonprofits such as St. Vincent avoid. As a consequence, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services concluded:

    The specialty hospitals in the study provided financial information that
allowed us to compute their taxes paid and their uncompensated care as a
proportion of net revenues. Because the specialty hospitals are much smaller
than their competitors, their share of the total uncompensated care in the
community was very small. On the other hand, the specialty hospitals paid real
estate and property taxes, as well as income and sales taxes, whereas non-profit
community hospitals did not. As a result, the total proportion of net revenue
that specialty hospitals devoted to uncompensated care and taxes combined
exceeded the proportion of net revenues that community hospitals devoted to
uncompensated care. n70


    E.Treatment for All

    Mr. Banko suggests that specialty hospitals do not treat all patients:
"Federal mandates for emergency care (and subsequent stabilizing care)
regardless of ability to pay bind hospitals to provide treatment for all. Our
mission at St. Vincent Health System calls us to provide treatment for all, but
physician owned specialty hospitals have managed to avoid these mandates." n71
Mr. Banko continues, stating, "Roughly, 85% of the hospitals in the United
States lose money on Medicare patients." n72  [*329]

    However, specialty hospitals routinely treat a diverse patient base,
including a very large Medicare component.

    All of the cardiac hospitals (16 were operational in 2003 for more than a
year) were built exclusively for cardiac care. They treated about 38,000
Medicare cases, which represent 80% of the cases treated in 2003 by all
physician-owned specialty hospitals. Medicare patients account for a very high
proportion of inpatient days, averaging 67% nationwide. n73


    Moreover, specialty hospitals are subject to the same EMTALA regulations
applied to all hospitals, and in Arkansas all licensed acute care hospitals must
have emergency rooms. n74 With that said, GSHs--being much larger institutions
than specialty hospitals--typically have much larger emergency rooms than
specialty hospitals. The size of the emergency room is a direct function of the
overall size that the institution itself (GSH or specialty hospital) voluntarily
has chosen to become.

    IV. Conclusion

    Mr. Banko and I have different philosophies. Mr. Banko wants patients to be
directed to GSHs like his, so that they may spread the wealth of profitable
centers in the hospital to the "unprofitable" ones. Mr. Banko describes his
position as follows:

    Stroke care, diabetes care, trauma care, emergency care, obstetrical care,
and psychiatric services are just a few of the highlights of the other
unprofitable services at general service hospitals. Dealing with a car accident
or a stroke with a parent or your new baby or the stigma of mental health
services is certainly where general service hospitals benefit you and our
community each and every day (relying on more profitable services to pay for
those that can't). n75


    Of course, the "unprofitable" centers provide useful services.
Profitability, however, is an issue of finance, not medicine. As a patient
advocate, a patient relative, and a patient myself, I want the best care
available--especially for critical health issues, such as cardiac care. After
all, heart disease remains the number one killer of Americans. n76 And the
Secretary of  [*330]  Health and Human Services seems to think that I might at
times be better off at a specialty hospital:

    Based on an analysis of the claims from the population of specialty
hospitals, the cardiac hospitals delivered a high quality of care that was as
good as or better than their competitor hospitals. Because of the small number
of discharges, a statistically valid assessment could not be made for
orthopedic/surgery hospitals. Patient satisfaction was very high in both cardiac
and orthopedic/surgery hospitals, as Medicare beneficiaries enjoyed large
private rooms, quiet surroundings, adjacent sleeping rooms for their family
members if needed, easy parking and good food. n77


    So, the inquiry becomes how do we pay for the services that Mr. Banko
describes as "unprofitable." He wants to do so by eliminating for patients the
option of going to hospitals that--according to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services--potentially provide better care for what Mr. Banko undoubtedly
views as the greater good of redistributing profits to spread income to
subsidize "unprofitable" areas within his hospital.

    I would seek an alternative approach. I am not comfortable with big medicine
deciding where I and other patients can go for treatment and what quality of
care I and other patients can get. I prefer an approach that leaves greater, not
less, control and choice of health care in the hands of not-so-uninformed
patients, their families, and their personal doctors. That freedom of choice, I
believe, is essential for quality health care and best reflects the American
spirit.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationHospital
PrivilegesRestrictionsPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesHospitalsPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesPhysicians

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Robert Steinbuch, Placing Profits Above Hippocrates: The Hypocrisy of
General Service Hospitals, 31 U. ARK. LITTLE ROCK L. REV. 505 (2009).




n2  This article repeats portions of Placing Profits Above Hippocrates to
introduce new readers to the discussion. For the convenience of the readers, the
citations will be to the original sources rather than Placing Profits Above
Hippocrates.




n3  Battle Lines Drawn over Specialty Hospitals, AAMC REPORTER (May 2006),
available at http://www.aamc.org/newsroom/reporter/may06/specialty.htm
[hereinafter AAMC REPORTER].




n4  John K. Iglehart, The Emergence of Physician-Owned Specialty Hospitals, 352
NEW ENG. J. MED. 78, 78 (2005), available at
http://content.nejm.org/cgi/reprint/352/1/78.pdf.




n5  A nonprofit seeks to make profits, but they are not distributed to owners.
Rather, they are reinvested into the entity after all expenses, including
salaries of the Board and executives are paid. See GARY M. GROBMAN, THE
NONPROFIT HANDBOOK: EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW TO START AND RUN YOUR NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION 25 (4th ed. 2005).




n6  Iglehart, supra note 4, at 79. ("The GAO also reported that more than ninety
percent of the specialty hospitals that have opened since 1990 are for-profit
entities, as compared with twenty percent of all general hospitals. Specialty
hospitals are much less likely than general hospitals to have emergency
departments (forty-five percent vs. ninety-two percent) or to treat Medicaid or
uninsured patients. In 2001, specialty hospitals accounted for an estimated $
871 million, or one percent, of Medicare's spending on inpatient services,
nearly two-thirds of which went to facilities that treat patients with cardiac
disorders.").




n7  Id. at 78.




n8  Id. at 83.




n9  AAMC REPORTER, supra note 3. ("'The AAMC is concerned that specialty
hospitals treat disproportionately low shares of very sick and uninsured and
under-insured patients, create conflicts of interest, and negatively impact the
revenue centers of teaching hospitals,' said Richard Knapp, executive vice
president of the AAMC and head of the office of government relations."); Sujit
Choudhry, Niteesh K. Choudhry & Troyen A. Brennan, Specialty Versus Community
Hospitals: What Role for the Law?: A Paradox Exists in the Mixed
Market/Regulatory Posture of U.S. Health Care, HEALTH AFFAIRS: THE POLICY
JOURNAL OF THE HEALTH SPHERE (Aug. 9, 2005), available at
http://content.healthaffairs.org/cgi/content/full/hlthaff.w5.361/DC1
[hereinafter Choudhry et al.] ("General hospitals warn that specialty hospitals
threaten their financial viability and quality of care by reducing the volume of
procedures performed in full-service settings.").




n10  See, e.g., AAMC REPORTER, supra note 3 ("Officials at Houston's Texas
Orthopedic Hospital said specialty hospitals can perform routine orthopedic
procedures three times faster than the average general hospital, with an
infection rate of less than one percent and high patient satisfaction.").




n11  American Medical Association, 2003 Legal Issues: Economic
Credentialing--Issues and Answers (2003),
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/legal-topics/current-legal-t
opics/2003.shtml (last visited Feb. 12, 2009) [hereinafter AMA, Economic
Credentialing]. See James W. Marks and Jayme R. Matchinski, Conflicts
Credentialing: Hospitals and the Use of Financial Considerations to Make Medical
Staffing Decisions, 31 WM. MITCHELL L. REV. 1009, 1015 (2005). See also Beverly
Cohen, An Examination of the Right of Hospitals to Engage in Economic
Credentialing, 77 TEMP. L. REV. 705, 708 (2004); Judith E. Orie, Economic
Credentialing: Bottom-Line Medical Care, 36 DUQ. L. REV. 437, 441 (1998).




n12  John W. Jones, Legal Implications of Economic Credentialing, PHYSICIAN'S
NEWS DIGEST (April 2006), available at
http://physiciansnews.com/law/406jones.html.




n13  Elizabeth A. Weeks, The New Economic Credentialing: Protecting Hospitals
from Competition by Medical Staff Members, 36 J. HEALTH L. 247, 248 (2003),
available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstractid=959196#.




n14  Id.




n15  AMA, Economic Credentialing, supra note 11.




n16  Id.




n17  621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001); Choudhry et al., supra note 9. But see Jones,
supra note 12.




n18  Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 153.




n19  Id. at 156-59; Choudhry et al., supra note 9.




n20  Weeks, supra note 13, at 251-52 (footnote omitted).




n21  Berkely Rice, Economic Credentialing: When Hospitals Play Hardball, MEDICAL
ECONOMICS (Sept. 15, 2006), available at
http://medicaleconomics.modernmedicine.com/memag/article/articleDetail.jsp?id=37
0384.




n22  Id.




n23  Id.




n24  Id.




n25  Id.




n26  Id.




n27  Rice, supra note 21 (emphasis added).




n28  Id.




n29  Id.




n30  Id.




n31  Id.




n32  As Mr. Banko stated in his letter to me, "Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield
represents 75% of the insured market in Arkansas, so there is little to no
negotiation based on price in that segment of the population." Letter from Peter
D. Banko, President and Chief Executive Officer, St. Vincent Health Ctr. to
author, at 1 (Aug. 14, 2009) (on file with author).




n33  Rice, supra note 21.




n34  Cathey obtained an injunction against Baptist and settled shortly
thereafter. Cathey v. Baptist Health, No. CV-2005-5701 (Cir. Ct. Ark. Apr. 18,
2005).




n35  Baptist Health v. Murphy, 362 Ark. 506, 511, 209 S.W.3d 360, 364 (2005).




n36  Baptist Health v. Murphy, 365 Ark. 115, 132, 226 S.W.3d 800, 813 (2006).




n37  Baptist Health v. Murphy, No. CV-2004-2002 (Cir. Ct. Ark. Feb. 27, 2009).




n38  See Anne S. Kimbol, The Debate Over Specialty Hospitals: How Physician-
Hospital Relationships Have Reached a New Fault Line Over These "Focused
Factories", 38 J. HEALTH L. 633, 663 (2005) (arguing that specialty hospitals
are helpful entities and that there should be limits on economic credentialing);
Tracy A. Powell, The Permissibility of Conflicts Credentialing (A/K/A Economic
Credentialing) by Traditional Hospitals as a Response to the Growth of Specialty
Hospitals, 20 HEALTH LAW. 17 (2007) (concluding that laws governing economic
credentialing are not settled but that economic credentialing may be legal in
some cases); Weeks, supra note 13 (concluding that many of the new forms of
economic credentialing violate state and federal antitrust statutes). See
generally William E. Berlin, Antitrust Implications of Competition Between
Physician-Owned Facilities and General Hospitals: Competition or Exclusion?, 20
HEALTH LAW. 1 (2008) (detailing recent developments in case law, antitrust
legislation, and potential defenses to litigation against economic
credentialing); Beverly Cohen, An Examination of the Right of Hospitals to
Engage in Economic Credentialing, 77 TEMP. L. REV. 705 (2004) (surveying case
law, state law and federal law and concluding that there are few instances in
which economic credentialing is foreclosed).




n39  See, e.g., Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160 (S.D. 2001)
(citing Imperial v. Suburban Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 862 F. Supp. 1390, 1401 (D. Md.
1993)); Hutton v. Mem'l Hosp., 824 P.2d 61, 63 (Colo. App. 1991); Sarin v.
Samaritan Health Ctr., 440 N.W.2d 80, 82 (Mich. Ct. App. 1989); Lewin v. St.
Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 906-07 (Cal. Ct. App. 1978).




n40  Cohen, supra note 38, at 729 (citing Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Reg'l Med.
Ctr., No. 91-589, slip op. at 3 (Fla. Cir. Ct. June 18, 1992)).




n41  AAMC REPORTER, supra note 3.




n42  See Letter from Peter D. Banko, President and Chief Executive Officer, St.
Vincent Health Ctr., to author, supra note 32.




n43  Id. at 3.




n44  Id. at 1.




n45  FTC Bureau of Competition, Competition in the Health Care Marketplace,
http://www.ftc.gov/bc/healthcare/ (last visited Mar. 7, 2010).




n46  Harvard Business School, Porter and Teisberg on Redefining Health Care,
http://www.hbs.edu/rhc (last visited Mar. 7, 2010) ("Health care is on a
collision course with patient needs and economic reality. In today's
dysfunctional health care competition, players strive not to create value for
patients but to capture more revenue, shift costs, and restrict services. To
reform health care, we must reform the nature of competition itself.").




n47  Each of Mr. Banko's primary rationales will be addressed in seriatim.




n48  Banko, supra note 32, at 1.




n49  See Barrett S. Moore, Comment, Trust Me, I Do This All the Time:
Comparative Provider Statistics and Informed Consent in Arkansas, 31 U. ARK.
LITTLE ROCK L. REV. 609, 610 (2009) ("In 1990, the New York State Department of
Health undertook a state-wide study of open-heart surgeries, controlling--for
the first time in any study of that scale--the independent variables of
physician and hospital choice. After controlling for twenty additional
components that could account for variation in the surgical risk factor, the New
York Department of Health found a marked difference between the success rates of
New York's individual hospitals and heart surgeons. This study allowed patients,
for the first time, to evaluate a doctor or hospital as an independent risk
factor.").




n50  See, e.g., HealthGrades, Research Hospitals, Doctors, and Nursing Homes,
http://www.healthgrades.com (last visited Mar. 7, 2010).




n51  See, e.g., Blue Access for Members, Blue Cross Blue Shield,
http://bcbsil.sqctool.com/ (log-in required) (last visited Mar. 31, 2010).




n52  See, e.g., U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Medicare Hospital
Compare, http://www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov/ (last visited Mar. 31, 2010).




n53  See, e.g., SUSAN S. LAUDICINA ET AL., BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD ASS'N, STATE
LEGISLATIVE HEALTH CARE AND INSURANCE ISSUES: 2007 SURVEY OF PLANS 6 (2007),
available at http://www.cahc.net/documents/Acr17.pdf ("Arkansas lawmakers
enacted two laws to promote greater provider transparency. Under HB 1513, the
Arkansas Hospital Association will make price and quality information about its
member hospitals available to the public. Hospital-acquired infection rates will
also be publicly disclosed (HB 2735).").




n54  Nobelprize.org, The Prize in Economics 2001--Press Release,
http://nobelprize.org/nobelprizes/economics/laureates/2001/press.html ("Many
markets are characterized by asymmetric information: actors on one side of the
market have much better information than those on the other. Borrowers know more
than lenders about their repayment prospects, managers and boards know more than
shareholders about the firm's profitability, and prospective clients know more
than insurance companies about their accident risk.").




n55  Robert Steinbuch, Preventing Under-Equipped Medical Facilities from Killing
Heart-Attack Patients: Correcting Inefficiencies in the Current Regulatory
Paradigm for Providing Critical Health-Care Services to Patients with Acute
Coronary Syndrome, 17 HEALTH MATRIX 17, 46-50 (2007).




n56  Banko, supra note 32, at 1.




n57  See, e.g., MICHAEL O. LEAVITT, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
STUDY OF PHYSICIAN-OWNED SPECIALTY HOSPITALS REQUIRED IN SECTION 507(C)(2) OF
THE MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG, IMPROVEMENT, AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2003, at
34 (2005) [hereinafter HHS REPORT] ("We found that a significant number of
specialty hospital owners 'took emergency call' at competitor hospitals, which
was to the benefit of both the specialty hospital owners and the competitor
hospitals. Local acute general competitors needed the expertise of specialty
hospital physician owners to treat (and share the burden of) its ED patients.").




n58  Id. at ii (emphasis added).




n59  Id.




n60  See Kelly A. Carter, Brian C. Dawson, Kori Brewer & Luan Lawson, RVU Ready?
Preparing Emergency Medicine Resident Physicians in Documentation for an
Incentive-Based Work Environment, 16 ACAD. EMERGENCY MED. 423, 423-28 (2009);
John Proctor, Gauging Emergency Physician Productivity: Are RVUs the Answer?,
AM. C. EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS, PRAC. RESOURCES,
http://acep.org/practres.aspx?id=30306 (last visited Mar. 31, 2010).




n61  Banko, supra note 32, at 2.




n62  See, e.g., Federal Trade Commission, Taking the Scare Out of Auto Repair,
http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/edu/pubs/consumer/autos/aut13.shtm (last visited Mar. 31,
2010) ("The best way to avoid auto repair rip-offs is to be prepared. Knowing
how your vehicle works and how to identify common car problems is a good
beginning. It's also important to know how to select a good technician, the
kinds of questions to ask, and your consumer rights.") (emphasis added).




n63  See Texas Attorney General, Consumer Protection, Car Repairs,
http://www.oag.state.tx.us/consumer/carrepair.shtml ("The Deceptive Trade
Practices-Consumer Protection Act includes some sections that deal with auto
repairs. Under this law, it is illegal to: 1. Knowingly make a false or
misleading statement about the need for parts, replacement or repair services.
2. State that work has been done or parts were replaced when that is not true.
3. Represent that goods are original or new, when in fact they are second-hand
or refurbished. 4. Advertise goods or services with intent not to sell them as
advertised.").




n64  Banko, supra note 32, at 2.




n65  HHS REPORT, supra note 57, at iii (emphasis added).




n66  Interview with Carrie Helm, Chief Executive Officer, Arkansas Surgical
Hospital, North Little Rock, Ark.




n67  For a discussion of related issues, see Robert Steinbuch, Regulatory
Changes for the Treatment of Patients with Heart Attacks, 99 AMER. J. CARD. 1166
(2007).




n68  D.R. O'Neill, Low-Risk Classified Chest Pain Patients: Do They Need Cardiac
Monitoring in the Emergency Department and Can They Be Cared for in
Non-Monitored Beds?, 10 AUSTRALASIAN EMERGENCY NURSING J. 58, 58 (May 2007)
("All chest pain patients are triaged to monitored beds within the emergency
department where they are observed awaiting test results."); Associated Press,
'Super X-Ray' Rules out Heart Attacks Faster (Nov. 18, 2009), available at
http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/34019246/ns/health-hearthealth/ ("About 6 million
people each year go to hospitals with chest pain, but only a small fraction are
truly having a heart attack . . . . [There are many] people who did not have
clear signs of a heart attack from those blood tests or EKGs, but doctors are
afraid to send them home without more tests because between 4 percent and 13
percent of such patients will have a missed diagnosis of a heart attack, and up
to one quarter of that group will die . . . .").




n69  Banko, supra note 32, at 2.




n70  HHS REPORT, supra note 57, at iii-iv (emphasis added) ("Considering only
the hospitals in the six study sites, the specialty hospitals provide a greater
level of net community benefits, as we defined it, than competitor hospitals.
Even if costs in excess of Medicaid payments are considered as uncompensated
care, both cardiac and orthopedic/surgery specialty hospitals in the study still
contributed a higher level of net community benefits than competitor hospitals.
Only if Medicare DSH payments are not offset against uncompensated care in the
NFP hospitals, is the net community benefit of competitor hospitals similar to
the cardiac hospitals, but it would still be less than the orthopedic hospitals.
The cardiac hospitals in this study provided a not insubstantial level of
uncompensated care that exceeded the levels provided by competitor hospitals,
after offsetting DSH payments."). Id. at 59.




n71  Banko, supra note 32, at 2.




n72  Id. at 3.




n73  HHS REPORT, supra note 57, at ii.




n74  42 U.S.C.  § 1395dd (2006).




n75  Banko, supra note 32, at 3.




n76  See Steinbuch, supra note 55, at 17.




n77  HHS REPORT, supra note 57, at iii (emphasis added).


                              444 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                   January 30, 2003 Thursday Marshall Edition

Former hospital CEO runs for LaPorte mayor

BYLINE: By STAN MADDUX; Tribune Correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 387 words


LAPORTE -- Leigh Morris, the former president and chief executive officer at
LaPorte Hospital, announced Wednesday he's seeking the Republican nomination for
mayor of LaPorte.

Morris, 68, disclosed his political aspirations after filing his candidacy with
the LaPorte County Clerk's Office.

Like the two other LaPorte mayoral candidates who previously filed, Morris
places economic development in a city that has lost several hundred
manufacturing jobs high on his list of priorities.

"I have studied LaPorte's economic conditions and outlook, and I am convinced
that we need more effective leadership if we are going to create new jobs and
work successfully to retain existing jobs," Morris said.

To lead LaPorte to economic recovery, Morris said the first task is to develop a
strategic plan outlining the kind of jobs desired and methods required from both
the public and private sectors to bring in those type of employers.

Over the past two years, a number of mechanisms has been put in place to vastly
improve the city's approach to economic development.

Without a strategic plan, though, Morris said "many of the things that are
happening don't get well-knit together.

"That has undermined the effectiveness of nearly everything we've done in the
past," Morris said.

Enthusiasm and aggressive leadership, he feels, are now lacking in the mayor's
office and are among the other ingredients needed to create more jobs, he said.

Morris was chief executive officer at a hospital in Huntington, Ind., for seven
years prior to his arrival at LaPorte Hospital, where he was president and CEO
for 21 years before stepping down in 1999.

He went on to become a CEO at a hospital in Columbus, Wis., for six months
before retiring.

Morris said such experience has given him unique skills in strategic planning
and other areas to become an effective mayor.

"The fact that I have 30 years experience at the CEO level in numerous
multimillion-dollar corporations helps me prepare for that role in city
government, which is also a multimillion-dollar operation," said Morris.

Currently, Morris and Fran

Milo are the only declared candidates seeking the Republican nomination for
mayor.

Kathy Chroback, who's seeking a second term, is the only Democratic candidate
for mayor to have filed campaign papers.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2003 South Bend Tribune Corporation


                              445 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                 June 28, 2010
                              Correction Appended

McLaren wants hospital move;
Pontiac facility would reopen in Clarkston

BYLINE: JAY GREENE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0001

LENGTH: 813 words


Flint-based McLaren Health Care Corp. has been intensifying its ongoing lobbying
campaign in recent weeks to convince state legislators to approve a special bill
in the lame duck session this fall that would allow it to bypass the
certificate-of-need process and move 328-bed POH Regional Medical Center in
Pontiac to a 79-acre medical park it owns in Clarkston.

McLaren officials, who declined to talk to Crain's about details of the plan,
would confirm only that they are talking with Pontiac city officials about ways
to bring jobs and spur economic development in the city.

We are working with the city of Pontiac on an economic revitalization plan, said
Kevin Tompkins, McLaren's vice president of marketing. There is a ton of moving
parts in this deal and a lot of key decisions have not yet been made.

Tompkins said preliminary decisions could be made in two or three weeks. We are
working with the city to bring lots of good things to downtown Pontiac, said
Tompkins.

George Williams, a Pontiac councilman in District 2, said he has attended
community meetings in which McLaren has presented health care and economic
development plans.

I have heard bits and pieces of the plan, but nothing is complete and I cannot
comment at this time, Williams said.

Tompkins declined to address questions about McLaren's long-term plans to build
a 200-bed hospital in Clarkston, changes at POH Regional, or its minority
investment in Doctors Hospital of Michigan in Pontiac.

Clarence Sevillian, CEO of Doctors Hospital, said there are no significant
changes planned at the for-profit, physician-owned hospital.

In 2008, a group of 42 doctors and McLaren purchased the shuttered hospital
formerly known as North Oakland Medical Center.

At a recent meeting at Chrysler headquarters in Auburn Hills with executives of
most of the major health care systems, labor unions and employers in Southeast
Michigan, Jack Weiner, CEO of St. Joseph Mercy Oakland in Pontiac, said concerns
were raised that McLaren is lobbying state legislators to allow it to move POH
Regional to Clarkston.

McLaren is rehashing plans it brought up two years ago, Weiner said. When
McLaren bought POH, the plan was always to move POH out of Pontiac to Clarkston.
Why? Because Clarkston has a better payer mix than Pontiac.

Weiner said putting another hospital in Oakland County makes no sense from a
patient care or economic standpoint.


We are already overbedded in Oakland County, Weiner said. There aren't enough
patients in Clarkston to support a 200-bed hospital. It would force a majority
of patients to travel longer distances.

Larry Horwitz, president of the Economic Alliance for Michigan, said Republican
Senate Majority Leader Mike Bishop was the subject of the meeting that was
convened by the alliance and the Friends of Certificate-of-Need, a coalition of
115 hospitals, unions and employers.

We don't need additional hospitals, Horwitz said. Excess duplicative capacity is
one of the various drivers of health care costs.

With population growth and demand for health care services flat, Horwitz said a
new hospital in Clarkston, which would not be allowed under current CON
regulations, would only take away patients from other hospitals, driving up
their per-case costs.

While Tompkins declined to be specific, Walter Kraft, vice president for
communications and public affairs with Ypsilanti-based Eastern Michigan
University, confirmed talks have begun with McLaren to bring several academic
programs to POH Regional.

We are involved with (McLaren's) planning process to bring nursing programs,
health sciences, culinary art, hospitality and other business programs to POH,
Kraft said. The talks are very preliminary. We understand there is a component
in McLaren's plan that would include us at POH hospital.

Philip Incarnati, McLaren's CEO, has been a member of the EMU board of regents
since 1992. His term expires Dec. 31.

Kraft said he is not familiar with McLaren's larger strategic plans.

POH provides 1,200 jobs in Pontiac, Weiner said. Even if EMU moved its entire
nursing program there, it would (create) only 200 jobs. It would be a
significant tax base loss for Pontiac.

During a legislative lame duck session in 2002, Henry Ford Health System and St.
John Providence Health System won special state legislative approval to transfer
beds from existing hospitals to new hospitals in Oakland County.

Last year, 300-bed Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital in West Bloomfield
Township and 200-bed Providence Park Hospital in Novi opened.

Since 2005, McLaren has been considering plans to build a hospital in Clarkston
as part of the McLaren Health Care Village of Clarkston, which opened last year
and is located at Sashabaw Road and Bow Pointe Drive.

McLaren officials have said phase two of the project, with the 200-bed hospital,
could start this year.

Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 5, 2010



CORRECTION: - A story and headline on Page 1 of the June 28 edition incorrectly
stated that a medical park owned by Flint-based McLaren Health Care Corp. is in
Clarkston. It is in Independence Township.

Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cd


                      Copyright 2010 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              446 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

[#x200b]Nursing homes dying in Hyderabad

BYLINE: Bushra Baseerat

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 580 words


HYDERABAD: The smaller hospitals and nursing homes, where the average Hyderabadi
used to rush when afflicted by minor ailments, seem to be disappearing from the
city's map. At least 100 of these friendly neighbourhood hospitals have shut
shop in the last five to seven years and several more are in queue, thanks to
escalating infrastructure costs and continuing economic crisis.

"At least 100 nursing homes have shut down and around 300 nursing homes and
smaller hospitals that are struggling to survive are in the process of winding
up and giving their facilities on lease or selling them," Dr Krishna Prasad,
general secretary, AP Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (APNA) told TOI.
Owners of the hospitals that are still operational are being forced to cut costs
by laying off workers, APNA revealed. In some cases, they are even converting
their buildings into hotels, old age homes or hostels to pull through.

One of the main reasons for this is the competition put up by the bigger
multi-specialty hospitals that have mushroomed in the city over the last 10
years. At least 100 such hospitals have come up, providing all kinds of services
from blood tests to routine check-ups. The major challenge came when these
hospitals lowered their rates to survive the global economic slowdown in 2008.

Competition sounds death knell for smaller hospitals

Unable to grapple with the rising costs and increasing competition from their
much bigger counterparts, smaller hospitals started folding up.

For instance, Dr Bal Reddy, who had started the Archana Nursing Home in Ramnagar
with a bed strength of 30 in 1983 and added 15 more beds later due to the huge
demand, shut it down three years ago. The Life Hospital at DD Colony was also
shut down and one of the oldest hospitals in Secunderabad, Uppalapati Nursing
Home, has been converted into a clinic. Mela Nursing Home at Begumpet too has
closed its doors while another 30-year-old clinic in Secunderabad has reduced
its facility to half and converted the rooms into a lodge. Even then, 50% of its
beds lie vacant most of the time.

Another major reason for the predicament faced by the smaller hospitals is the
fact that the government's Aarogyasri scheme, which provides insurance to 84% of
the state's population and covers 938 treatments and procedures, empanels only
those hospitals which have minimum bed strength of 50. Criticizing this trend,
AP Specialty Hospitals Association president Dr Bhaskar Rao said the government
must do something about it. "Smaller nursing homes provide primary care and cost
effective treatment and the government should encourage entrepreneurs. There are
no incentives for the medical industry and unable to cope up, smaller facilities
are shutting down," he said.

Healthcare experts said the trend will affect the poor and the middle class the
most at a time when healthcare costs have gone up enormously.

"It's difficult to sustain nursing homes, both in terms of infrastructure and
staff today," said Dr R S Saluja, state president, APNA. But he added: "For
minor ailments like fever, vomiting and stomach upset, patients are being forced
to rush to big hospitals and coughing up huge sums they cannot afford." He
recalled a case of a woman, with a salary of Rs 6,000 per month, who had got her
mother-in-law admitted at a corporate hospital for a minor stomach ailment. She
ended up spending Rs 60,000 and mortgaging her gold to foot the bill, Saluja
said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              447 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday

OUR OPINION: Oxford hospital to expand services

BYLINE: Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 508 words


Aug. 04--Oxford and Lafayette County's $60 million-plus sale of the facilities
comprising Baptist Memorial Hospital-North Mississippi to the hospital's
Memphis-based corporation will clear the way for Baptist to build a new, $250
million hospital in Oxford -- a major development with strongly positive
expectations.

The Oxford, Lafayette County and regional economies will feel a positive impact
beginning with construction and follow through to the operation of a technically
advanced hospital with additional physicians, employees and services.

Wages and tax revenues will spin off the new Baptist-North Mississippi.

The sale had been under discussion and in negotiation for two years. Oxford and
Lafayette County will split the money, and both have indicated that at least
part will be invested for later public use. A final signing is expected Aug. 18.

Baptist-North Mississippi, as the Oxford hospital is officially known, is part
of a Memphis-based health care system operating 14 hospitals in west Tennessee,
north Mississippi, and northeastern Arkansas.

Health care is not only an essential service, it is an economic engine, and in
small, non-metropolitan cities like Oxford, cycling through of health-care
dollars has major impact.

Substantial research shows that health care provides 10 to 15 percent of the
jobs in many rural counties, and with the secondary benefits of those jobs,
health care can account for 15 to 20 percent of all jobs.

It is commonly understood that businesses consider location, schools and health
services the most important "quality-of-life factors" influencing investment
choices.

In addition, a strong health care system also attracts retirees, a notable and
continuing success in Oxford's fast-growth category.

Baptist has leased the hospital from the city and county since 1989, spent $160
million on expansions, developed the hospital into a regional referral center.

A 2007 economic impact study by the Mississippi Hospital Association found that
Baptist North Mississippi provides more than 1,200 jobs and has a total economic
impact of $165 million a year in Oxford.

In 2011, the Mississippi Nurses Association named the Baptist North Mississippi
the Hospital of the Year (hospitals of 100 licensed beds or more).

The Oxford hospital has 217 beds, a number that would be the minimum sought for
the new hospital, but 250 could be possible.

The hospital's board must follow an official Certificate of Need process with
state health officials before the hospital can be built.

Baptist and North Mississippi Health Services' Tupelo-based system are
competitors, but the region is stronger because it has two high-profile systems
and advanced care.

To see more of the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal or to subscribe to the
newspaper, go to http://www.nems360.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, Northeast
Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110804-TP-OUR-OPINION-Oxford-hospital-to-expand-services-0804-20110804

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TP


               Copyright 2011 Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal


                              448 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    February 20, 1992, Thursday, 1* EDITION

Unilateral pay-equity offer stirs up hospital talks

BYLINE: VALERIE CASSELTON; VANSUN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D11

LENGTH: 460 words


A sudden promise by the health industry to provide an immediate $ 22.1 million
in pay equity payments for hospital employees has touched off a storm of
controversy in the midst of contract talks.

Hospital employees must recognize that they are trying to reach a contract
during tough economic times and there is limited funding for pay equity, Martin
Livingston, spokesman for Health Labor Relations Association said Wednesday.

"I think their expectations are very high and were raised considerably with the
new government," he said of the union's position on pay equity. "(Finance
Minister) Glen Clark's message was quite clear: public sector unions are going
to have to lower their expectations."

But union negotiators quickly responded that the government has not changed its
policy of ending wage discrimination and that hospitals cannot evade their
responsibilities.

"Are you going to continue to ask the woman in the lowest-paid sector of the
public sector to bear the burden of tough economic times?" asked Carmela
Allevato, secretary-business manager of the Hospital Employees' Union. "Pay
equity is a priority. I haven't heard the government say they're no longer
committed to pay equity."

Allevato said the employer has not even set a single common base rate for both
males and females. Starting rates for workers without experience or training now
vary so that women are paid $ 12.30 hourly while men are paid $ 14.22.

Economics have always been cited as justifications for not ending
discrimination, including early-century head taxes or last-century slavery, she
said.

Allevato criticized the HLRA announcement, saying the employer has taken a
unilateral position without regard to the negotiating process now under way.

And she said HLRA's position ignores the fact that almost all HEU members need
pay equity adjustments because its members are predominantly women and so pay in
all job classifications lags behind that in other sectors.

When making the pay equity announcement late Tuesday, HLRA president Gordon
Austin stressed that union and industry negotiators still must agree on a
process for implementation.

"Until a pay equity agreement is reached, HLRA is proposing three years of
interim wage rate adjustments," he said. "The goal is to have a
mutually-acceptable pay equity program in place by April 1993."

The lump sum would result in retroactive pay increases of between 3.5 and four
per cent to 13,000 people in the first year, according to HLRA. The members
would receive $ 900.

The proposal then would provide increases of between 1.74 per cent and 2.24 per
cent to 22,000 people in the second year, for a net payment of $ 540.

In the third year, allocation of the money would be negotiated.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              449 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Picayune Item (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday

Opening of new hospital on top

BYLINE: David A. Farrell, Picayune Item, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1728 words


Dec. 26--PICAYUNE -- The dedication and opening of Highland Community Hospital,
which represents a $60 million investment, was chosen the No. 1 story for 2012
for Picayune and Pearl River County by the editors and reporters of the Picayune
Item and Poplarville Democrat.

The new hospital, which has already produced major changes in the way healthcare
is delivered in Picayune, Pearl River County and southwest Mississippi, has
already had a large economic impact on the area, and is the economic engine that
is currently driving the local economy, say city and county officials.

The hospital ribbon cutting was conducted on July 8, and on July 28, the move
from the old Highland location on Goodyear Boulevard to the new facility was
completed. The move from the old facility to the brand spanking new facility
just off U.S. 11 North in northeast Picayune was complete: All functions,
services and patients were transferred to the new facility.

Highland officials touted the grand opening of the new, state-of-the art
facility as a reason to "now stay home for health care."

"Residents now have a reason to stay home for healthcare," said Mark Stockstill,
Highland Community administrator who spoke to about 1,000 attending the ribbon
cutting and grand tour of the facility on July 8.

He praised the dedication of employees and healthcare officials with Forrest
Health Systems, which also owns Forrest General Hospital in Hattiesburg, for
"catching and holding the vision" that eventually turned into the new facility.
He also praised the Carle Cooper family for donating the land and Roy Anderson
Co., which built the facility, and city and county officials.

The new hospital was credited with not only a tremendous economic boost to the
area, but also changing the very layout and configuration of northern Picayune
with ancillary healthcare facilities coming on-line, the new doctors complex and
a combined residential-commercial section planned by developers along the
four-lane thoroughfare, Highland Commons Parkway, which when completed, will
cause major changes in traffic patterns in North Picayune.

Other stories and their rank, chosen by Item and Democrat editorial staff were:

No. 2, the county budget crisis; No. 3, Hurricane Isaac; No. 4, the addition of
the new annex to the old City Hall and movement of city government back to its
historic original location; No. 5, Pearl River County's drug epidemic; No. 6,
the continued innovations by the Pearl River County Utility Authority and the
resignation of its board president, Steve Lawler; No. 7, the occupation in
February, although 10 months late, of a new office complex at Millard for DHS
and the Justice Court System; No. 8, the completion of the Beech Street project,
which refurbished a large portion of West Picayune; No. 9, the prisoner fee and
emergency dispatching issues between the City of Poplarville and Pearl River
County; and No. 10, the resignation of PRCC Wildcat Head Coach Tim Hatten.

No. 2, the county budget crisis. At its June regular meeting county
administrator Adrain Lumpkin, Jr., told supervisors that if the county remained
on its current spending projection that there was a possibility that the county
would run out of money before reaching the end of its fiscal year on Sept. 31.
Supervisor board President J. Patrick Lee vowed "this county will not go
bankrupt," and the board took drastic actions. It clamped a furlough on county
employees, began cutting back on county appropriations, and froze purchase
orders. Eventually, the crisis eased but some agencies got hurt, especially the
library and the Area Council on Aging, which threatened to cut out senior meals
if its funding was not brought up-to-date. By Sept. 30, supervisors had restored
some funding to the library and caught up on its Senior contribution, but it
faced problems with putting together a 2012-13 budget. It eventually raised
millage rates between 3 and 4 mills to close a budget deficit caused by a
decrease in tax revenue when property values fell, thus producing less revenue.
As the year closed, supervisors were increasing efforts to attract more industry
to shore up a tax base and were trying to watch more closely monthly budget
expenditures. It's worth remembering that during the crisis, car dealer Dub
Herring wrote an $8,750 check to the county to pay for the last quarter
installment of county funding to the Picayune animal shelter, which supervisors
had cut.

No. 3, Hurricane Isaac. The slow moving Isaac stalled when it came ashore
Tuesday, Aug. 28, near Houma, La., and took three days to move out northward
into Arkansas. But during that three days it dumped torrential rains on Pearl
River County, which was in the storm's northeast quadrant. The winds were not
high, but the rains brought extensive flooding throughout the East and West
Hobolochitto creeks, Wolf River and along Pearl River. Over the Aug. 28 to Aug.
30 period, 24 inches of rainfall were recorded on a Picayune rain gauge, a
record. Record flood stages were in some cases exceeded and in others reached
previous record levels along the major streams that drain Northern and Southern
Pearl River County. For the first time I-59 was closed when flood waters from
Wolf River rose over the major interstate. Approximately 100 homes were flooded
in Pearl River County, and by December cleanup operations had come to an end.

No. 4, the new annex to the old City Hall. Picayune sold its current City Hall
on Beech Street to Huey Stockstill and began preparations for moving back into
the historic old City Hall on Goodyear Boulevard, and most of 2012 was spent
adding a 20,000 sq. ft. addition onto the old City Hall. It is just about
complete and ready for dedication and occupation. The addition costs $1.8
million and will be paid for when finished. No additional taxes were levied to
pay for it.

No. 5, Pearl River County's drug epidemic. In an interview with the Item,
Sheriff David Allison described Pearl River County's drug problem as near
epidemic proportions, despite his department's efforts to put a dent in the
problem. However, he said he felt it would be worse if his department had not
been trying to curb it. The problem was then out in the open. He said, in candid
remarks, that the county was not going to arrest its way out of the problem,
that the county needed a concern and effort by all citizens, and maybe even a
religious revival, to come out of the problem. Over 1000 persons marched in a
demonstration, to Jack Read Park, showing their solidarity in wanting to do
something about the drug problem here, which stems mainly from prescription
drugs prescribed by doctors. Then coroner Derek Turnage released information,
showing that 17 persons had died from drug overdoses in PRC since January, and
at year's end, tests on another victim were being run to see if he was the 18th
victim. Hundreds have suffered drug overdoses but did not die, officials said.

No. 6, the continued innovations by the Pearl River County Utility Authority.
Although the PRCUA has received its share of criticism, two things happened
during 2012 that showed the area might owe it some leeway. Steve Lawler, its
president since its inception in 2006, resigned, and PRCUA supporters pointed
out that under his leadership, $80 million in federal funding was spent here
upgrading the county's utility infrastructure. That's $80 million taxpayers
would have had to come up with if PRCUA had not been a conduit for the federal
funding. Also, pointed out was that two new waste disposal plants, valued at a
total cost of $20 million, were dedicated and came on-line during 2012, under
Lawler's leadership. When PRCUA took over, Picayune was under a court order to
revamp its system and Poplarville couldn't build anymore structures because of
problems with its water system. Those problems are now solved.

No. 7, the occupation, in February, although 10 months late, of the new DHS
office building at Millard. The structure, which cost approximately $2.5 million
and was built with FEMA funding, will house most DHS offices, but also has space
for the Justice Court System, allowing the JP offices to move out of trailers it
has occupied since Katrina.

No. 8, the completion of the Beech Street refurbishing project. After almost
half-million dollars in federal funding was pumped into the Beech Street project
in West Picayune, a whole section of the city of Picayune got a brand new look.
One-and-a-half miles of Beech Street was paved and striped and a whole new
sidewalk system was installed and upgraded. The section now not only looks
better but can help relieve traffic pressure on downtown. Motorists can use
Beech Street from Liberty road south to Holcomb's Crossing to avoid downtown
congestion during rush hours.

No. 9, the prisoner housing and dispatching issue between the City of
Poplarville and the county. The City of Poplarville was not paying for housing
city prisoners at the county jail, but that changed when the county forced the
city to pay a per diem charge of $20 to house its prisoners at the Millard
prison. Poplarville at first refused to pay the fee, saying city residents
already paid county taxes, but an AG opinion said the county could charge the
city. But when the sheriff tried to make Poplarville pay $85,000 a year for two
dispatchers, the Poplarville board of aldermen set up their own local dispatch
service, which will take effect at midnight Dec. 31, and maintained that 911
service through the county should continue since residents pay a $1 per month
service fee for 911 service on their telephone bills. Aldermen said this week
that after midnight on Dec. 31, Poplarville residents should call 601-795-4447
for nonemergency situations and still dial 911 for emergencies. The cost of
setting up the new service: $17,000 a year.

No. 10, in sports, PRCC head coach Tim Hatten resigned at the end of the season.
On Dec. 14, the PRCC board named Coach William Jones, defensive coordinator for
East Mississippi Community College and a former Wildcat defensive coordinator
under Hatten, as new PRCC head football coach.

Copyright 2012 The Picayune Item. All rights reserved. This material may not be
published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

___ (c)2012 the Picayune Item (Picayune, Miss.) Visit the Picayune Item
(Picayune, Miss.) at picayuneitem.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121226-YP-Opening-of-new-hospital-on-top-1226-20121226

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YP


                          Copyright 2012 Picayune Item


                              450 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Talks on £1.6bn hospital charges;
Annual payment is 13 per cent of budget

BYLINE: JOSEPH WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 433 words


HOSPITAL officials today admitted they face a "significant challenge" to pay
almost £1.6 billion over the next three decades for the building and running of
North Staffordshire's superhospital.

The Government has listed the University Hospital of North Staffordshire among
22 health trusts where "clinical and financial stability" is threatened because
of crippling private finance initiative (PFI) payments. The PFI deal to cover
the cost of constructing and maintaining the University Hospital's new buildings
will see the trust pay £53 million-a-year over nearly three decades in return.

The new hospital is expected to open later this year.

Hospital finance director Chris Calkin said: "The total cost of the PFI-funded
hospital buildings is almost £300 million. "The £53 million-a-year covers not
only the unitary payments but also services such as catering, cleaning and
maintenance. "This is 13 per cent of the trust's budget so represents a
significant challenge. The economic situation has changed since the contract was
signed, with lower tariffs, qualitydriven cost increases and a global economic
downturn."

Mr Calkin added: "Our board is committed to patient care and patient safety and
because we recognise the financial challenge we are facing we are already
discussing the situation with our commissioners."

The Department of Health is expected to release more detailed plans outlining
how it will help ease the financial pressure on the trust within months after
meeting with executives. Proposals could include renegotiating PFI contracts and
cost-cutting.

But Health Secretary Andrew Lansley blamed the problem on the last Labour
Government, saying: "Some hospitals have been landed with PFI deals they simply
cannot afford."

But Stoke-on-Trent's Labour MPs have accused the Government of playing the blame
game.

Stoke-on-Trent North MP Joan Walley said: "PFI in general was created by a Tory
government and whatever its faults it was a way of levering investment into the
health service. "Hospital buildings were crumbling and a huge amount of
investment was needed because things had been left for so long. It's all very
well ministers now simply blaming people in the past, but they have to take
responsibility for finding a way forward."

Stoke-on-Trent Central MP Tristram Hunt added: "It would appear that this is an
ongoing concern for future financial stability rather than an immediate crisis.
But there is a very strong case for playing hardball with companies and trying
to renegotiate some of the contracts."

Will the PFI deals hit patient care? Email us at letters@thesentinel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COST: The University Hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2011 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Observer (La Grande, Oregon)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 4, 2008 Friday

EDITORIAL: Recruiting doctors helps area in many ways

BYLINE: The Observer, La Grande, Ore.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 458 words


Apr. 4--Economic development wears many hats. The term has become a catch-all
phrase for bringing more jobs and economic growth to an area. Rural communities
throughout the country are all competing for the same thing, though their
playing fields can be very different.

Union and Wallowa counties are no exception. Most folks realize that for our
region to ensure its future success, we must stimulate more economic growth. But
being able to do so while competing against all other rural communities requires
some essential ingredients -- good infrastructure, quality schools and
accessible health care.

We have all three, though in recent years our schools have been  challenged by
declining enrollments and crumbling infrastructure and doctors have been hard to
find -- and to keep once they get here.

Enter Grande Ronde Hospital. Over the past several years the hospital -- and the
region's health care system in general -- has been beset by the retirement or
departure of numerous physicians. The ability to recruit, and keep, doctors
isn't just a local phenomenon. Every small community, every rural area, is
struggling with the same thing.

What GRH and most rural hospitals have discovered is that few doctors these days
are willing to risk their future on setting up private practices. The economic
risk is simply too great. So more and more hospitals are getting into the clinic
business, just as GRH has done with its children's clinic and the significant
expansion of its Internal Medicine Clinic on Fourth Street.

And the effort is paying off. GRH will be bringing six physicians to the area
this year, including a pediatric specialist, a family practice doctor, a
surgeon, a couple of internists and a radiologist.

The long drought in doctors might not be over, but the hospital's efforts should
go a long way to helping fill a health care void that has seemed to be growing
for many years.

That effort, combined with the opening of a VA clinic in La Grande (which we
hope GRH will work closely with), will provide an enhanced health care delivery
system for those of us who love to call this area home. It will also help
enhance our area's ability to draw new business and new residents.

In these days of mostly bad economic news, word from GRH that it is bringing in
several new doctors is refreshing -- and very, very welcome.

To see more of The Observer or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.lagrandeobserver.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Observer, La Grande,
Ore. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080404-YL-EDITORIAL-Recruiting-doctors-helps-area-in-many-ways-0404

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YL


                                 Copyright 2008


                              452 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Children's Hospital to gain $2.5M in state aid

BYLINE: by MELISSA DANIELS

LENGTH: 544 words


The latest award from one of the state's largest grant programs will funnel a
$2.5 million taxpayer-subsidized grant to one of the region's wealthiest
conglomerates, in support of an expansion project at Children's Hospital of
Pittsburgh of UPMC.

Gov. Tom Corbett announced the grant Wednesday at a news conference held in the
six-floor, four-story atrium at the hospital in Lawrenceville. Though UPMC
reported $190 million in operating income, and $567.7 million in net income in
the financial year ending June 30, Corbett said the taxpayer-funded investment
will come back to the commonwealth in the form of income tax revenue from jobs
and construction.

"This is considered to be start-up money," he said. "We will see this eventually
come back with taxes."

The Economic Growth Initiative grant will support a plan to expand Children's in
some of its fastest-growing patient care areas. Hospital officials said the
subsidy will allow them to begin renovating units that handle cardiac care, bone
marrow transplants and neonatal treatment.

The money will support a new 10-bed observation unit adjacent to the emergency
department, where patients could be treated by a nurse practitioner instead of
being admitted to a floor.

A 40 percent increase in the number of patients in the neonatal intensive care
unit in the past five years has driven demand for more space, said Diane Hupp,
chief nursing officer.

"Five years ago we had 31 neonatal beds," Hupp said. "Today we have over 60 in
the hospital, and we are busting at the seams."

Chris Gessner, president of Children's Hospital, said the hospital added more
than 800 jobs since opening its $625 million Penn Avenue campus in 2009. At
times it fills to capacity, he said, including during the busy flu season.

Gessner said he hopes to see the expansion plans, which pre-date the award,
complete in 18 to 24 months. The state money, he said, speeds that process
along.

"Over time, we would've found a way," he said. "We would've raised money through
our foundation or something, but it wouldn't have happened as fast if they
didn't jump-start the program."

Corbett, a first term Republican, is running for re-election Nov. 4 against
Democrat Tom Wolf. Wednesday's announcement was one of many monetary awards
Corbett has made in Western Pennsylvania this fall as part of the Economic
Growth Initiative, a restructured version of the state's Redevelopment
Assistance Capital Program.

The program awards up to $5 million to applicants on a reimbursement basis. The
state received more than $1 billion in applications this year, with about $130
million available to support projects statewide. Projects focus on job creation,
economic impact, viability and construction readiness.

The last time Corbett visited Children's was not in his role as politician but
as a grandfather. Recently, one of his newborn grandsons was admitted with a low
body temperature, Corbett said, and he thanked the hospital staff for taking
care of patients, parents and their families.

"Any investment, in my mind, that can improve the lives and the prognosis of
Pennsylvania's children is always one that's worth making," he said.

Melissa Daniels is a Trib Total Media staff writer. Reach her at
mdaniels@tribweb.com or 412-380-8511.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              453 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              April 2, 2012 Monday

Taxing hospitals wrong prescription for economy

SECTION: BIZ LEDGER; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 697 words


Hospitals across Illinois are working to transform the state's health care
system to make it more cost effective and efficient, improve coverage and access
to needed services, assure good outcomes for patients and stimulate the economy.

But taxing Illinois' nonprofit hospitals is not the prescription for
strengthening our health care system or supporting our economy.

Such a move would undermine patient access to health care, drive up health care
costs for families, workers and employers, devastate our hospitals, and hurt our
economy.

Illinois hospitals directly or indirectly employ nearly 425,000 workers and play
a key role in keeping our communities healthy and strong. In nearly half of the
state's counties, hospitals are among the top three employers.

Hospitals also drive economic activity through the purchase of local goods and
services and investments in needed equipment, technology and facility upgrades.
On the state level, hospitals pump more than $78 billion into our economy each
year -- making the health care sector the 6th highest contributor to Illinois'
GDP.

By eliminating tax exemptions for hospitals, we would forgo many of these
economic benefits and undermine the health of our communities in a much more
literal sense -- jeopardizing patients' access to the quality care they need.

Hospitals provide Illinois residents with outstanding medical care. In fact, 12
of the top 100 hospitals in the country are in Illinois -- the highest
percentage of any state. At the same time, hospitals also serve as safety nets
for our state's most vulnerable citizens, providing health care to every
community member, regardless of his or her ability to pay. Hospitals are the
principal provider of health care services to residents with low incomes, and
fund much of this care themselves.

In part, because of the hundreds of millions of dollars in unsubsidized care
they provide every year, one in three hospitals in Illinois is losing money.
Taxing these hospitals would have an immediate and devastating effect on an
already fragile health care system. Many hospitals would be forced to lay off
employees and severely reduce or eliminate vital services, while some hospitals
might even have to close their doors. With hospital services being eliminated,
we could see health care "deserts" in rural and inner city areas.

The Illinois Hospital Association's goals are in line with the nonpartisan Civic
Federation, which recommends that the legislature set clear standards on
hospital tax exemption. We agree that it is imperative we reach a legislative
resolution that includes this basic framework: to receive a property tax
exemption, hospitals must provide charitable care and certain other benefits
equal to or greater than their estimated property tax bills.

As part of that framework, hospitals should be recognized for the many ways that
they help relieve the burden of government, including treating Medicaid patients
at less than cost and underwriting preventive and other health care services in
their communities.

No other state applies such a narrow view of what entitles hospitals to a tax
exemption as Illinois. Ohio, which has similar criteria to Illinois for hospital
tax exemption, recently approved 100 hospital and health care facility
applications in the fourth quarter of 2011.

We're grateful for the support we've received from governmental and business
leaders who agree with our tax-exemption framework, including the Illinois
Chamber of Commerce, Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce, 18 members of the Illinois
Congressional Delegation, and county boards in DuPage, Kane, McHenry and Will.

The Illinois Hospital Association is continuing its work with the governor, the
Attorney General's office, the General Assembly and the Department of Revenue
and other key stakeholders, including Cook County and the Fair Care Coalition,
to achieve a fair and workable legislative solution in the spring legislative
session that will ensure hospitals can continue to provide high-quality health
care to the people and communities of Illinois today and well into the future.

* Maryjane Wurth is president & CEO of the Illinois Hospital Association, based
in Naperville.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              454 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            December 1, 2006, Friday
                             Black Country Edition

Black Country News: Hospital new site;
SMETHWICK: Grove Lane earmarked

BYLINE: Alison Dayani

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 284 words


THE site for a new general hospital for Sandwell was revealed today.

Sandwell and West Birmingham Trust bosses have earmarked industrial land in
Grove Lane, Smethwick - bringing pounds 366 million worth of investment for the
area and 1,000 jobs.

A public consultation is currently under way into plans to close City Hospital,
in Dudley Road, Winson Green, Birmingham, and Sandwell Hospital, in Lyndon, West
Bromwich, and replace them with a state-of-the-art new building.

Health chiefs said today that the old sites would be sold off and redeveloped,
mainly as housing.

A trust spokeswoman said: "The hospital would be one of Sandwell's most
significant development projects, and would bring forward under-used, brownfield
land for redevelopment.

"Grove Lane is the preferred location because of its central location on the
Birmingham and Sandwell border, its accessibility for patients and emergency
vehicles and because of the regeneration and economic development benefits.

"This site would provide a significant boost to regeneration and economic
development in the area, creating investment of up to pounds 366 million in the
development of a new hospital.

"Indirect and induced employment could result in approximately 1,000 jobs."

Under the Towards 2010 programme, the new hospital would feature more individual
rooms to help combat MRSA. It would be supported by five community hospitals so
patients can have day surgery and treatment closer to home.

A public consultation ends in February, and if the scheme receives public
support, trust bosses hope to submit an outline business case to the Department
of Health at the end of 2007.

Construction is scheduled to start in 2010, and wards would open in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              455 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   Mississippi Business Journal (Jackson, MS)

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday

Commentary: Healthcare from an economic developer's viewpoint

BYLINE: Phil Hardwick

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 972  words


From an economic developer's perspective, healthcare in a community is a
positive, highly desirable activity.  It creates jobs, provides a better quality
of life and usually grows the local economy.

One need only consider the impact of two of the most highly-regarded medical
institutes in the world.  First is the Mayo Clinic, headquartered in Rochester,
Minn., with other locations in Phoenix/Scottsdale, Ariz., and Jacksonville, Fla.

 According to a study conducted by the Battelle Memorial Institute, the Mayo
Clinic is responsible for $22 billion in healthcare spending nationwide.  About
$9.6 billion of that figure is tied to the Mayo Clinic's home base in Rochester,
Minn., where it employs roughly 1,900 doctors and scientists and operates three
hospitals.  The clinic in Jacksonville employs 370 physicians and scientists,
while 400 physicians and scientists work in the clinic in Arizona.  The Mayo
Clinic is considered the largest integrated, not-for-profit group practice in
the world.  Overall, it treats more than 50,000 people a year.   Mayo employs
more than 57,000 people, including 37,000 in Minnesota, and creates an
additional 94,000 full-time jobs through its business expenditures and the
employment multiplier effect of these.

And then there is the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.  The
economic impact on Houston and the surrounding area are almost staggering.
According to a 2009 study by The Perryman Group, a Texas-based economic and
financial analysis firm, the Center has an impact of $7.3 billion in annual
spending, $3.8 billion in annual output and 51,960 permanent jobs.
Additionally, M.D. Anderson provides $181.1 million in annual state revenue and
$108.2 million in annual resources for various local governments.

In case you are wondering how to gauge the economic impact of a hospital on your
community, there is online help available.  The University of Wisconsin Center
for Economic and Community Development offers an online tool for measuring the
economic impact of a hospital on a community.  Users will be requested to
download software from the site after which they will be instructed to enter the
following four values:

* Total Revenue - Total operating revenue for the hospital.

* Total Jobs - Total jobs is the sum of the full-time and part-time employment
at your hospital.

* Total Labor Income - Total payroll expenses for the hospital, not including
employee benefits.

* Total Income - Total income is the sum of the labor income and net income.

But there is more than the economic impact when considering the influence on a
community of a hospital and healthcare providers in general.  First, healthcare
jobs offer a local workforce a wide range of opportunities in terms of pay and
skill levels.  Entry-level jobs such as housekeeping, pharmacy aides and home
healthcare aides abound.  For such workers who want to move up the employment
ladder, there is hardly a better place to begin a career than a hospital.  Many
healthcare providers provide in-house education as well offering tuition
benefits to workers who want to attend college.  Workers in such facilities are
regularly exposed to workers in higher-paying jobs, and can thus be more
motivated to improve themselves by workers in other occupations who are not able
to witness the outcome of their improved education and skills.

A community with a healthcare focus leads to a better, healthier workforce.
Citizens of the community are more often provided with positive healthcare
messages.  Also, they are more likely to know and be influenced by someone in
the healthcare field.  A workforce that is better able to manage its healthcare
issues is obviously preferred.  The issue of healthcare costs and the management
thereof affects every business.  Half of people filing for bankruptcy in a
recent year cited healthcare costs.  Business leaders know that financial
problems faced by their workers leads to all kinds of business problems, such as
depression, theft from company and lower morale.

For economic developers, recruiting new industry and other businesses to a
community superior healthcare is a "competitive advantage. "  Essentially,
competitive advantage occurs when a community (or business) outperforms its
competitors because of attributes not possessed by its competitors.  These may
be location, natural resources, weather, educated workforce or, for example, the
presence of superior healthcare facilities.

Rural economic developers in particular are affected by lack of healthcare
facilities.  Nevertheless, progress is being made in the rural healthcare field.

 Telemedicine, which is generally defined as the ability to provide interactive
healthcare utilizing modern technology and telecommunications, is becoming more
widely used in rural areas.  One impediment is lack of high-speed Internet
access, but that issue is getting a lot of attention.  Efforts are also underway
by large economic development organizations and some state governments to
recruit physicians to rural areas.  For example, the Delta Regional Authority
had implemented the Delta Doctors program, which allows foreign physicians who
are trained in this country to work in medically underserved areas for three
years. Most choose to stay far longer once they develop a patient base.
According to the agency, those in the Delta Doctors program do not take jobs
away from U.S.-born physicians. Instead, they provide services in areas where
otherwise there would be a shortage of physicians.

As healthcare becomes even more of a priority in the U.S., look for the economic
development community to place more of an emphasis on it as a key ingredient in
their efforts.

Phil Hardwick is coordinator of capacity development at the John C. Stennis
Institute of Government. Contact him at phil@philhardwick.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              456 of 994 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              July 12, 2015 Sunday

Hospitals have Hoke County poised for economic growth

BYLINE: Paige Rentz, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1989 words


July 12--RAEFORD -- In less than two years, Hoke County residents have gone from
having no local hospital to having a choice of two.

Now, as a result of the competition between two health systems for the patients
in a fast-growing community, Hoke County could be poised for accelerated
economic growth.

In March, the second hospital in the county, Fayetteville-based Cape Fear
Valley's Hoke Hospital, opened about three miles down U.S. 401 from FirstHealth
of the Carolinas' Hoke Campus of Moore Regional Hospital. The FirstHealth
hospital opened in October 2013.

The two systems fought for years to stake a claim on the eastern end of Hoke,
which has been among the fastest-growing counties in the state for more than a
decade. Between the 2000 and 2010 censuses, the county's population spiked by
about 40 percent and has grown another 10 percent in the past four years.

The population growth has been fueled at least in part by Fort Bragg, the
country's largest military post. Eastern Hoke County gives soldiers easy access
to Fort Bragg. And as Fayetteville has annexed its way into western Cumberland
County, there has been some suburban creep across the line in Hoke.

The thousands of homes that have popped up during Hoke's boom have made the
county increasingly appealing to retail and other commercial developers.

But for all the growth, the county lacked a basic service: a hospital. Most
residents drove to Moore and Cumberland counties to receive care. The nearest
emergency departments were more than 20 miles from Raeford.

But with two hospitals now in operation along this major artery of the county,
some locals expect a boom, including Donald Porter, Hoke County's director of
economic development.

"I think in about five years," he said, "that corridor is going to grow beyond
anything you can imagine."

In 2009, the two health systems proposed hospitals along U.S. 401. Cape Fear
Valley's initial proposal was planned for just inside the Cumberland County line
near Hoke Loop Road, but eventually shifted to the Hoke side of the line at
Johnson Mill Road.

By 2010, the discussion had shifted from which system's proposed hospital should
be built to creating competition in the booming corridor.

Charles Morris, a Fayetteville resident who served on FirstHealth's advisory
board, spoke in favor of building both at a state hearing in June 2010.

"I want to see the competition back," he said then. "There needs to be two
hospitals. Build 'em and let the people decide."

That's just what the state did a few months later.

In the intervening years, the health systems proceeded with planning and
construction of the hospitals while continuing to compete through the court
system.

Cape Fear Valley opened its Health Pavilion-Hoke in March 2013, with an express
care, pharmacy, and some specialty practices,

FirstHealth of the Carolinas opened its 8-bed hospital, a campus of Moore
Regional Hospital, in October 2013.

Not long after, Cape Fear Valley broke ground on its 41-bed hospital behind its
existing facility.

The court battle was decided late last year, when FirstHealth was granted the
ability to add 28 beds to its Hoke County hospital.

The health system is awaiting a certificate of need from the state before moving
forward with any planning for those beds, said Susan Beaty, president of Hoke's
FirstHealth hospital.

The hospitals, each sitting just inside of each end of Johnson Mill Road,
bookend a short stretch of U.S 401 primed for growth.

The spacious hospital campuses are so close, a patient could walk the 2.5 miles
from one to the other in the time it takes to drive to FirstHealth's parent in
Moore County.

Between the two, clusters of businesses have cropped up along U.S. 401, though
much of the land remains undeveloped as farmland or woods.

Signs advertising property for sale and places to live dot the landscape. Retail
locations? Professional office space? Move-in ready apartments? Newly built
single-family homes? All have their niches along the stretch.

Near Cape Fear Valley, Paraclete XP, an indoor skydiving business, is a major
draw. Heading toward FirstHealth, a number of businesses are clustered along the
northern side of the highway: an ammunition company, self-storage businesses,
and a FedEx distribution center.

There are three day care centers along the way, including ABC Learning Center,
owned by Marsha Lum.

She's glad the hospitals have moved in on either side of her and hopes they
bring in more businesses and people.

"It's been so barren out here for so long," she said, "and to have somebody next
door to us is great."

Jonathan Pounders, who works at Billie's, a thrift store on the southern side of
the highway, said he worries the growth is happening too fast and that the
houses may not get filled as quickly as they are getting built.

But, he said, he feels like the development "brings in more upper class to the
lower-class areas, makes it more evened out."

And it has been good for the business. The store has seen more customers as new
residents move in, he said, "because we deal in furniture."

Down the street, Heather Sapp, one of the owners of Something's Brewing Coffee
Shop, said she's also seen a bump in business since the two health systems
opened.

But it does have its downsides.

"Traffic is insane out here now," she said.

But she hopes the traffic brings more businesses, particularly some restaurants.

At each end of the corridor, the two hospitals are working to ramp up their own
business.

Last year, FirstHealth saw about 25,000 patients at the Hoke hospital, Beaty
said, with an average census of about 86 people a day.

That's more than FirstHealth expected, and the system has already begun
expanding services.

Two nursing shifts have been added, Beaty said. The hospital expanded from one
day of MRI service to two, and the use of the operating room has increased,
including the addition of orthopedic, cataract and ear, nose and throat
surgeries.

"We continually look to how we're expanding services," Beaty said.

At Cape Fear Valley, the number of patients has been ramping up over recent
months, with an average of about 55-60 emergency patients and 8 inpatients a
day.

Dr. Roxie Wells, president of Cape Fear Valley's Hoke Health Care, said the
focus now is on the emergency and the medical/surgical departments.

"We're growing by leaps and bounds in all of those," she said, "and we want to
make sure we continue to provide excellent care in those areas, and we will
branch out over time."

The hospital has a labor and delivery unit that has not yet opened because of
difficulties staffing it, she said.

The competition between the FirstHealth and Cape Fear Valley is good for the
county, said Porter, who served for seven years on Cape Fear Valley's board of
trustees, including a stint as chairman.

As an economic developer, Porter said he believes in customer choice.

"I never espouse to the philosophy of 'build it and they will come,'" Porter
said, "but in this case, that's exactly what's going to happen."

Having the two hospitals now in operation will make Porter's job just a little
bit easier.

"When clients look at coming to an area, people think quality of life is the top
priority," he said. "No way."

For those with children, schools are tops, then crime rates and public safety.
And number number three is health care.

For some businesses, safety is a high priority, and they want to make sure they
are near a hospital in case of an emergency, he said.

"Now that both of the hospitals are up and running, five or six years down the
road we're going to wonder what the heck happened," Porter said, "because it's
going to happen just that fast."

When businesses make decisions about where to build, Porter said, they conduct
circle studies, which factor in median family income, population density and
other data within a given radius of a potential site.

The continued residential growth along those corridors will bump the population
growth, and the economic impact, particularly salaries, of the hospitals will
help as well.

Porter said the hospitals, "are not only creating jobs," they're creating good
jobs."

Cape Fear Valley employs nearly 200 people in Hoke, Wells said.

When the hospital expands operations to its current capacity, it is expected to
employ about 350 people.

And First Health, said Beaty, is at 141 and growing.

Both systems continue to hire.

Beaty said the direct economic impact of the hospital in the community is $11.4
million, meaning that's how much money would leave the county if the hospital
weren't there. The direct economic impact of its employees' salaries is $6.5
million, she said.

For every dollar of health care revenue in Hoke County, another 66.5 cents is
generated in the county's economy, according to a 2006 state study provided by
the North Carolina Hospital Association.

Each dollar of compensation paid to an employee in the health industry produces
an additional 33.6 cents in other wages or benefits throughout the county.

And for every 10 people employed in the health care industry, an additional four
jobs are created in the county.

Julie Henry, spokeswoman for the hospital association, said these figures, based
on analysis of 2003 data, would likely be a minimum for the effect of the new
Hoke hospitals, since the county has seen such growth.

Porter praised county officials for having the vision to install a $1.5million
sewer line along the U.S. 401 corridor more than a decade ago.

When FedEx began looking at the area for a distribution center, Porter said,
county officials decided to plan for the future, laying the infrastructure that
could support commercial uses and higher-density residential development.

"We knew that one corridor would become one of the fastest-growing corridors in
North Carolina," Porter said.

Soon, the county will be opening its own wastewater treatment plant.

When FirstHealth approached the Williams family about putting its hospital on
their land, the siblings looked at the bigger picture.

"We bit the bullet and paid for extension of sewer and water to the hospital,"
said Charles Williams, one of the owners of the property.

They also went through a rezoning with the county, creating a master plan for
the property surrounding the hospital, which runs from the eastern end of
Johnson Mill Road to a retail cluster near Hobson Road. The plan allows
mixed-used development for restaurants, retail, professional offices, and
multiple family housing.

The work was a long play, Williams said. His family doesn't expect it to be
built out in five years.

"We thought with the hospital, if we were one of the first ones out of the gate,
it would give us that opportunity to kind of open up that corridor," he said.

The hope, Williams said, is that it will become a kind of medical corridor with
affiliated practices, dental offices, and other related services.

County planner Robert Farrell said he expects to see ancillary medical services
such a chiropractors, physical therapists, and other medical-related businesses.

Farell said The Crossings at Wayside, an assisted living facility between the
hospitals, is a prime example of such predicted ancillary services.

"It's a domino effect," Farell said.

Farrell and others have identified hotels and restaurants as a great need along
the corridor.

Now that the economy is improving, Williams said, he's beginning to "get some
feelers" from national restaurants and retailers, but he declined to say which
because nothing is final.

Initially there were a lot of people who doubted the county could support two
hospitals, Porter said.

And now both are looking forward to future growth.

"From my vantage point," he said, "these two hospitals in Hoke County have been
and will continue to be nothing but success."

Staff writer Paige Rentz can be reached at rentzp@fayobserver.com or 486-2728.

___ (c)2015 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150712-FY-Hospitals-have-Hoke-County-poised-for-economic
-growth-0712-20150712

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2015 The Fayetteville Observer


                              457 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                              May 8, 2011, Sunday

Covering community health care;
W.Va. hopsitals shoulder bad debt, offer charity care during hard times

BYLINE: Veronica Nett, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1B

LENGTH: 631 words


West Virginia hospitals spent more than $721 million on charity care and bad
debt in 2009 - more than double the cost in non-reimbursed care from a decade
ago, according to a report by the West Virginia Hospital Association.

In 1999, state hospitals spent about $286.8 million in uncompensated care for
residents without insurance or who were underinsured, according to the report
"West Virginia Hospitals: Covering Community Healthcare."

"Hospitals are responsible and required to treat patients regardless of their
ability to pay," said Tony Gregory, vice president of legislative affairs for
the West Virginia Hospital Association.

"More folks are becoming uninsured or underinsured as the result of layoffs and
other economic conditions," Gregory said. "They, for example, can't or are
having difficulty paying higher premiums and insurance rates, and therefore
choose not to have insurance."

In September, Charleston Area Medical Center, Saint Francis Hospital and Thomas
Memorial Hospital announced salary and budget cuts. All cited the need to
compensate for an increase in charity care and bad debt, as well as low Medicare
and state Public Employee Insurance Agency reimbursement rates.

CAMC officials said the hospital wrote off $18 million in charity care and $20
million in bad debt in 2009.

Officials at Thomas Memorial and Saint Francis Hospital, both part of the Thomas
Health System, said they paid out about $9 million in charity care in 2009, an
increase from about $6 million from the pervious year.

"From 1999 up to our current year, the number for total uncompensated care has
increased steadily," Gregory said. "No one really knows what health reform will
bring, but the belief is by 2014 the level of uncompensated care will stabilize,
in terms of more people being covered by some form of insurance."

West Virginia hospitals admitted more than 250,000 patients, delivered about
21,500 babies, and reported more than 1 million emergency room visits in 2009,
according to the report.

Medicare covered about half of the patients treated in state hospitals,
according to the report. About 400,000 West Virginians - or 21 percent of the
state's population - is covered by Medicare.

Hospitals also lost about $377 million from federal Medicare payments, and $324
million in low Medicaid and PEIA reimbursement rates in 2009, according to the
report.

Medicare currently reimburses state hospitals about 84 percent of the cost to
care for a patient, and Medicaid and PEIA reimburse about 73 percent of the
cost.

"For every dollar West Virginia spends on Medicaid, the federal government
contributes three," the report states.

"When West Virginia receives Medicaid payments, new rounds of spending are
promoted, generating new spending and tax revenue for the state. Therefore,
cutting Medicaid during an economic downturn, for example, would actually worsen
the state economy, as well as reduce access to needed healthcare services for
the state's most vulnerable population."

Hospital care is the largest component of the health-care sector, and a growing
segment of West Virginia's economy, according to the report.

State hospitals employ about 39,000 people, spend about $2.3 billion in payroll
and benefits, and purchase more than $4.7 billion in goods and services in 2009,
according to the report - which estimates the economic impact of state hospital
at about $8.4 billion.

"The report illustrates the heart of hospitals and how they care for their
communities, but it also shows the tug and pull of hospitals operating as
businesses while concurrently keeping compassion for people - regardless of
ability to pay - as their priority," said Joe Letnaunchyn, the Hospital
Association's president, in a prepared statement.

Reach Veronica Nett at veronican@wvgazette.com or

304-348-5113.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Charleston Newspapers


                              458 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLOSING UPMC BRADDOCK IT WAS UNDERUSED; UPMC REMAINS COMMITTED TO THE COMMUNITY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 536 words


In recent weeks, media have reported on community and political reactions to the
announced closure of UPMC Braddock, and some editorials and columns criticizing
the decision have used selective and inaccurate data and distorted facts. Going
forward, we want to ensure that the central facts stay in focus.

UPMC is preserving the jobs from UPMC Braddock. In the current recession, job
cuts are a devastating reality that touch every sector, but rather than cutting
the 650 jobs at UPMC Braddock, UPMC will offer willing and qualified employees
opportunities elsewhere within UPMC. This at a time when 17.5 percent of the
nation's workforce is unemployed or underemployed. UPMC did not cut jobs to save
costs or reduce losses.

UPMC is maintaining and strengthening health care in the Braddock area, not
abandoning it. The false belief is that a hospital is equivalent to health care.
The reality is that only about 12 percent of the population uses a hospital as
their usual source of care. Almost 70 percent use outpatient and physician
services, making access to outpatient services a much more important factor in
delivering quality health care to a community.

There are currently about 60 sites where outpatient/physician care is available
within the UPMC Braddock market and these services are being maintained. In
fact, UPMC is committed to expanding open-access care available in the evenings
and on weekends.

UPMC will support economic development in the Braddock area. The concern
expressed is that by closing its underutilized hospital UPMC is impairing
economic development in the region. On the contrary, UPMC is prepared to work
with regional governments and community economic development groups and to
donate the facility to such purposes as will advance the community's economic
future.

Since 1996, UPMC has invested more than $60 million in efforts and initiatives
aimed at making Braddock thrive. But we have not been successful. Ultimately,
underutilized hospitals are a wasted expense when health-care costs have become
the most significant threat to the national economy. Hospitals that lack the
volume to keep the skills of its staff well-honed are not optimal care
environments.

At UPMC Braddock, where the average daily census of medical surgical patients is
in the 40s, the volume is insufficient to assure the type of excellent care that
UPMC should provide. This, combined with the outmigration of patients from this
region to other hospitals by a 4-to-1 margin, are the reasons for closing the
inpatient facility.

These essential facts need to be kept in focus as we continue the discussion on
this issue:

* UPMC is preserving the jobs of UPMC Braddock employees -- not eliminating or
outsourcing them.

* UPMC is working to maintain and strengthen health care in the Braddock area --
not abandoning it.

* UPMC is on record with specific offers to continue to assist the community
with economic development.

If the closure of UPMC Braddock was about anything other than the facility's
underutilization, UPMC would not have taken the steps it has to preserve jobs.
We remain committed to working with community and government leaders to achieve
the best possible resolution to this challenging situation.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Paul C. Wood is vice president for public relations at UPMC./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              459 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                    The Land

                            June 21, 2017 Wednesday
                                Internet Edition

NSW Budget 2017: Big infrastructure spend leads regional cash splurge

BYLINE: JOHN ELLICOTT and JESSIE DAVIES

LENGTH: 501 words


â-º RELATED:

A $1.3 billion regional fund to turbocharge the regions leads a large
infrastructure spend on roads, water, schools and hospitals in the NSW budget.

In what many may term as a 'nurses and teachers budget', the NSW Government says
it is leading the other states in job creation and economic growth - with almost
40 per cent of new jobs created in regional NSW in the last two years.

In a bid to turbocharge regional economies the Government, as revealed last
month by The Land, has set up a $1.3b regional growth economic activation fund.

It includes record investment in water, roads and community facilities including
a $100m cultural program investment. The Government will pour money into
regional water and gas pipeline infrastructure projects.

Regional NSW will also get some of the 27 new schools promised in a $2.2 billion
schools budget, with a promise to reduce class sizes with 1000 new teachers. The
government has announced $46m to improve bush schools' internet connectivity.
All children involved in sport will get a $100 contribution towards sport
regsitration fees from January next year.

A feature will be investment in regional hospitals, starting with a new $534m
hospital at Tweed Heads, $43 million for Dubbo hospital, $8m for a new hospital
at Mudgee, an extra $30m for the redevelpoment of Armidale and Inverell
hospitals and $23m extra for Macksville hospital and $10m for redevelopment of
Goulburn hospital.

The government as part of a $100m palliative care package, will provide 300
scholarships in regional areas to support palliative services.

The government is backing the TAFE system with a $1.7b investment, which
includes $15m for the Agskills strategy, working with Cotton Australia and the
Grains Research and Development Corporation.

The government is spending $182m on Local Land Services (LLS), a boost of $23m
on last year partly to help support farmers through new vegetation and
biosecurity laws. Although staff numbers have fallen by 20 overall from last
year, the Government says it plans to employ up to 100 new LLS staff in the next
two years. It explains the fall in staff numbers due to a "time anomaly" when
department chiefs must declare staff numbers to Treasury.

Some other key points of the $965m primary industries expenditure includes $78m
for "Sustaining the Basin" to support efficiency for irrigators; $75m for
concessional loans under the Farm Innovation Fund; $64m to destroy Imported Red
Fire Ants; $18m to continue developing the Murray Darling Basin plan; $12m to
remove stamp duty on crop and stock insurance, $2.3 m to build a new offshore
patrol vessel to protect fisheries and $2m to research secure facilities for
growing medicinal cannabis.

Primary Industries Minister Niall Blair said the government "wanted to make sure
any investment in this sector looks after our farmers and primary producers not
just now, but well into the future".

The Government's aim is to achieve a 30 per cent growth in the value of primary
production by 2020.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              460 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

Private hospitals to miss revenue targets

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 477 words


Bangkok Dusit Medical Services (BDMS) executive vice president John Lee Koh-shun
recently said his company had lowered its revenue-growth target from 10 per cent
to 5 per cent. The revision came after the company's first-quarter operating
results declined year on year.

BDMS operates the Bangkok Hospital Group, BNH Hospital, the Samitivej hospitals
and Royal International Hospital. It generated revenue of Bt21.83 billion last
year.

Koh-shun said that despite an increase in patient numbers in the first quarter
revenue had dropped, due mainly to the "Thai Help Thai" promotion providing
discounts on room rates and several medical services.

Some BDMS patients have shifted to lower-priced hospitals in this harsh economic
climate, but not a significant number, he said.

The "Thai Help Thai" promotion runs until the end of next month, but the company
plans to extend it in order to help Thais with their healthcare expenses.

"Although BDMS is a listed firm on the Stock Exchange of Thailand, we never put
profit ahead of helping Thais. We will extend the discount promotion even though
our net profit will be lower than last year," Koh-shun said.

He said another reason for extending the promotion was to build up consumers'
perceptions that hospitals in the BDMS network were sincere about wanting to
help out, which would be good for the hospitals in the long term.

"After the financial crisis in 1997, some of our general patients faded away,
fearing possible bad news if they came in for a health check-up. We don't want
that to happen again during this crisis, so we've done many things to keep them
with us. These include e-mails informing them of our promotional packages and
educating them so they'll realise their health should be the first priority,
even before thinking about coping with the economic crisis," Koh-shun said.

Bumrungrad Hospital CEO Mack Banner yesterday said this year's revenue would
definitely not grow 15 per cent as targeted, due mainly to the economic
uncertainty.

"I have not set a new target, because I don't know the future situation. Our
business consultant told me if hospitals could maintain their revenue at the
same level as last year it would mean business was still good in this tough
year. I just hope Bumrungrad experiences single-digit growth like last year," he
said.

Banner said patient numbers had declined 3 per cent year on year in the first
five months but revenue had increased 7 per cent, due to a large intensive-care
caseload.

BDMS's first-quarter revenue fell 2 per cent year on year to Bt5.385 billion.
However, its net profit dropped 34.86 per cent to Bt454 million, from Bt697
million in the same period last year.

Bumrungrad Hospital generated first-quarter revenue of Bt2.33 billion, up 4.48
per cent from Bt2.23 billion in the same period last year. Its net profit rose 8
per cent year on year to Bt338 million.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              461 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday

[ed] For-profit hospitals '

LENGTH: 493 words


One of the long-cherished wishes of growth-oriented bureaucrats and big
businesses here has been the introduction of for-profit hospitals. In a
bypassing tactic not to provoke public sentiment, they took the first step 10
years ago by permitting foreign entities to set up for-profit medical
institutions in the nation's eight free economic zones, including Incheon and
Jeju Island.

The second such step was taken Friday when the government allowed hospitals to
set up profit-making subsidiaries engaged in such incidental businesses as
hotels, medical equipment, and medicinal products.

Deputy Prime Minister Hyon Oh-seok said the government would 'never' consider
commercializing medical corporations and that the public nature of the health
care service would remain unchanged. A question might have arisen in most
Koreans' minds: Until when?

Already, Koreans have complained about overtreatment and overbilling even by
non-profit hospitals. When these hospitals set up subsidiaries in part with
money from investors at home and abroad, patients may likely be forced to
undergo unnecessary diagnostic procedures, and, in a worst-case scenario, be
turned into human guinea pigs for clinical tests of newly-developed medicines
amid sharp rise in medical costs.

Proponents of for-profit hospitals cite better medical services and attraction
of foreign medical tourists as major reasons. However, the experience of the
United States where up to 15 percent of medical institutions are for-profit
hospitals shows otherwise: there were no for-profit hospitals among the top-17
institutions in the quality of medical services, as surveyed by the U.S. News
and World Report last year. Drawing of medical tourists also has more to do with
service quality than commercialization.

Korea's health care and insurance system is one of the few relatively superior
social security systems it has. The full-scale introduction of for-profit
hospitals and resultant medical divide is unthinkable in a country like Korea
notorious for its narrow and loose social safety nets. Large enterprises will
make more money and the nation's GDP will also expand a little, but the cost in
terms of public health will be intolerable.

As a candidate, President Park Geun-hye promised voters to treat four major
ailments, including cancer and heart disease, almost free of charge. It took
less than a year for Park to eat her words on health care, as she did in so many
other areas. Park was the only major candidate who did not oppose the
introduction of for-profit hospitals. After election, she did nothing to keep a
provincial governor from her own party closing down the nation's oldest public
hospital.

It is not easy to deny the need for advancing and internationalizing the medical
industry, but public health is one of the areas that cannot be sacrificed for or
exchanged with economic growth. Before the government stealthily proceeds any
further, it should put the issue to an open debate.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              462 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday

[ed] For-profit hospitals '

LENGTH: 493 words


One of the long-cherished wishes of growth-oriented bureaucrats and big
businesses here has been the introduction of for-profit hospitals. In a
bypassing tactic not to provoke public sentiment, they took the first step 10
years ago by permitting foreign entities to set up for-profit medical
institutions in the nation's eight free economic zones, including Incheon and
Jeju Island.

The second such step was taken Friday when the government allowed hospitals to
set up profit-making subsidiaries engaged in such incidental businesses as
hotels, medical equipment, and medicinal products.

Deputy Prime Minister Hyon Oh-seok said the government would 'never' consider
commercializing medical corporations and that the public nature of the health
care service would remain unchanged. A question might have arisen in most
Koreans' minds: Until when?

Already, Koreans have complained about overtreatment and overbilling even by
non-profit hospitals. When these hospitals set up subsidiaries in part with
money from investors at home and abroad, patients may likely be forced to
undergo unnecessary diagnostic procedures, and, in a worst-case scenario, be
turned into human guinea pigs for clinical tests of newly-developed medicines
amid sharp rise in medical costs.

Proponents of for-profit hospitals cite better medical services and attraction
of foreign medical tourists as major reasons. However, the experience of the
United States where up to 15 percent of medical institutions are for-profit
hospitals shows otherwise: there were no for-profit hospitals among the top-17
institutions in the quality of medical services, as surveyed by the U.S. News
and World Report last year. Drawing of medical tourists also has more to do with
service quality than commercialization.

Korea's health care and insurance system is one of the few relatively superior
social security systems it has. The full-scale introduction of for-profit
hospitals and resultant medical divide is unthinkable in a country like Korea
notorious for its narrow and loose social safety nets. Large enterprises will
make more money and the nation's GDP will also expand a little, but the cost in
terms of public health will be intolerable.

As a candidate, President Park Geun-hye promised voters to treat four major
ailments, including cancer and heart disease, almost free of charge. It took
less than a year for Park to eat her words on health care, as she did in so many
other areas. Park was the only major candidate who did not oppose the
introduction of for-profit hospitals. After election, she did nothing to keep a
provincial governor from her own party closing down the nation's oldest public
hospital.

It is not easy to deny the need for advancing and internationalizing the medical
industry, but public health is one of the areas that cannot be sacrificed for or
exchanged with economic growth. Before the government stealthily proceeds any
further, it should put the issue to an open debate.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              463 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Frome and Somerset Standard

                                 July 16, 2009

Old hospital remembered in booklet

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 246 words


A book encapsulating memories of the old Frome Victoria Hospital in Park Road is
now on sale.

The booklet has been produced by a team of volunteers and hospital staff and
will raise funds for the new community hospital.

The work is not a history book as such, but an easy to browse collection of
memories of a much-loved hospital between 1901 and its replacement in 2008.
There are contributions from staff, Frome residents and volunteers past and
present.

Jan Curtis, who compiled and edited the booklet, said: "It has taken quite a
long time from the original idea since  two  printers folded due to the economic
downturn and new negotiations had to begin each time.

"The booklet was only possible due to the team's perseverance and I am so
grateful for their continued interest, especially Molly Butler and Dilys Griffin
who made sure I didn't give up on the project."

Other team members Alison Sykes, Hilary Myers and  Chris Wilson  researched the
history of the hospital and its staff. The internal and external photographs of
the Park Road hospital were taken by Peter Swietlik.

Malcolm Rice and Roger Breward shared their printing and computer knowledge to
compile the document ready for the printing process.

All profit from the sales of the booklet will be used by the Friends of Frome
Hospital for the benefit of the new hospital.

The booklet, costing £3.99, is on sale at Frome Community Hospital reception,
the Hunting Raven, Frome Museum and Frome Tourist Information Centre.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 185


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              464 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Frome and Somerset Standard

                                 July 16, 2009

Old hospital remembered in booklet

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 246 words


A book encapsulating memories of the old Frome Victoria Hospital in Park Road is
now on sale.

The booklet has been produced by a team of volunteers and hospital staff and
will raise funds for the new community hospital.

The work is not a history book as such, but an easy to browse collection of
memories of a much-loved hospital between 1901 and its replacement in 2008.
There are contributions from staff, Frome residents and volunteers past and
present.

Jan Curtis, who compiled and edited the booklet, said: "It has taken quite a
long time from the original idea since  two  printers folded due to the economic
downturn and new negotiations had to begin each time.

"The booklet was only possible due to the team's perseverance and I am so
grateful for their continued interest, especially Molly Butler and Dilys Griffin
who made sure I didn't give up on the project."

Other team members Alison Sykes, Hilary Myers and  Chris Wilson  researched the
history of the hospital and its staff. The internal and external photographs of
the Park Road hospital were taken by Peter Swietlik.

Malcolm Rice and Roger Breward shared their printing and computer knowledge to
compile the document ready for the printing process.

All profit from the sales of the booklet will be used by the Friends of Frome
Hospital for the benefit of the new hospital.

The booklet, costing £3.99, is on sale at Frome Community Hospital reception,
the Hunting Raven, Frome Museum and Frome Tourist Information Centre.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 185


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              465 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           November 20, 2004 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Why elective surgery waiting lists are a design feature of Medicare

BYLINE: Ross Gittins

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 766 words


THE waiting lists for elective surgery in public hospitals aren't an unfortunate
stuff-up that we're working to fix, they are a design feature of Medicare.

Some people are shocked that I should say that, but to anyone who's studied a
little economics, it's a statement of the obvious.

State politicians always seek to give us the impression that waiting lists - or
waiting times - are an evil they're struggling to overcome (especially around
election time). And if the government is incapable of fixing the problem, the
opposition is sure it can do the trick.

The doctors' lobby groups give us the impression that waiting lists could be
quickly eliminated if only the pollies would spend just a few million more on
our hard-pressed public hospitals.

Because many doctors are surprisingly weak on economics, they explain waiting
lists in terms of too few operating theatres or surgeons (just so long as the
latter can be portrayed as the product of tight-fisted governments, not the
college of surgeons seeking to bolster surgeons' fees by restricting supply).

But while these factors may play a part, they don't go to the heart of the
problem, which is an economic one.

As you learn on day one of an economics course, "the economic problem" is that
our wants are infinite, but our means of satisfying them - our resources - are
finite. That's true for the individual, and also for society.

The whole point of economics is to help the community deal with this "problem of
scarcity" - there just isn't enough land, labour or capital in the world to do
all the things we'd like to do.

It's this comparative scarcity that gives resources their price. Only if
something is infinitely available (such as air to breathe, as we used to
imagine) does it come without price. And the price of something, no matter how
high, is the right price when it accurately reflects that item's "scarcity
value".

Because resources are scarce relative to all the uses we'd like to put them to,
we have the bedrock concept of economics - "opportunity cost". Everything we do
has an opportunity cost because the resources we use to do it are no longer
available to do anything else.

So the opportunity cost of that one thing is the value of the next most
desirable thing you could have done with the resources used.

Economists' primary contribution to society is to help it in its eternal battle
with the problem of scarcity - that is, help it find ways to satisfy as many
wants as possible from the limited resources available. Help it get more bang
for its buck.

Economists' obsession with scarcity explains their obsession with prices
(because prices are meant to reflect relative scarcity) and their obsession with
productivity (finding ways to extract more output from unchanged inputs of
resources) and efficiency (eliminating waste in the use of resources).

OK, back to hospital waiting lists. The thing that makes economists uneasy about
Medicare is its promise of "free" public hospital treatment to all-comers. If
something's free, it's bound to be used to excess, or wastefully. By charging a
price, you avoid waste by rationing the availability of the resources. By using
price to ration access, you ensure that only people who really value something
will find the money to buy it. (If they really want it but can't afford it,
economic efficiency's answer is: tough luck.)

The point is that, because resources are scarce, they have to be rationed one
way or another. And if you don't ration by price, you ration by queue.

If access to public hospitals really was free, state governments would be
writing an open cheque for each of their hospitals. Spending on hospitals would
grow even more rapidly than it does.

To cover this ever-expanding cost, governments would have either to keep cutting
spending in other areas or keep raising taxes. Because they're most reluctant to
do either, they set a limit on how much they're prepared to spend on public
hospitals each year and make everyone wait their turn for elective (non-urgent)
surgery.

This gives priority to people with life-threatening conditions who need
operations. And it doesn't just delay everyone's elective surgery. It probably
also causes less surgery, because some people look at the queue and don't
bother, while some people in the last months of their life die before they get
to the head of the queue.

So waiting lists are deliberate strategy to limit the growth in government
spending on health care. They exist in almost every other country and it's
impossible to imagine a time when governments will stop using them as a crude
way to limit public spending.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              466 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Jamestown Sun (North Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday

USDA key player in economic development

BYLINE: Toni Pirkl, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 723 words


Dec. 12--The USDA Rural Development began raising awareness of its ability to
help grow communities with its $46 million in loans for construction of a new
facility for Jamestown Hospital.

The unprecedented amount of U.S. Department of Agriculture funding has made it
possible to build a state-of-the-art regional medical center in Jamestown. The
$46 million was split into $31 million in a direct USDA loan and $15 million in
a guaranteed loan, with low interest rates. It was the largest amount of funding
USDA Rural Development has ever provided for a project in North Dakota.

"Without stimulus dollars this project wouldn't have happened," said Jasper
Schneider, state director for USDA Rural Development. "This was also one of the
larger projects across the country. It fits in what I think USDA Rural
Development should be."

Schneider believes North Dakota communities need up-to-date health care
facilities if economic development is going to work in the state. As a graduate
of Jamestown College, he said he was aware of just how outdated the present
Jamestown Hospital is. And much of his background centers around health care.

"This project is exciting for me as this is an issue I care so much about," he
said. "We're working with about a half-dozen clinics, hospitals and long-term
care facilities in the state."

As it turned out, USDA made it possible to fund construction of the Jamestown
Regional Medical Center, which begins in the spring. However, it's not where
hospital officials originally thought to look.

"Our decision to look for funding at USDA started with the collapse of the
credit markets and on the advice of our consultant," said Alan O'Neill,
Jamestown Hospital vice president of finance. "There were no other options for
us. And we couldn't have found rates like this anywhere."

The USDA financing option started with a meager $3 million and O'Neill said they
were told it would be a stretch to ask for $8 million. Then stimulus money
became available and the number climbed to $46 million.

"The USDA folks were such great advocates for this project and so helpful,"
O'Neill said.

The application process is complicated and extensive, he said. Just the
pre-application filled a 5-inch binder. The final application included a
feasibility study with historic and future budgets to determine whether it was
an affordable project.

"It's a very rigorous process. The requirements are very explicit," O'Neill
said. "But the USDA folks helped us comprehend them. They were so passionate
about this project."

Schneider said a project such as this would have raised red flags for a bank.

"This is not a good investment for a bank," he said. "That's where USDA Rural
Development steps in. We have a lot of options in our arsenal. No project is too
big or too small that we can't be involved in it."

Begun as the Farmers Home Administration, it transitioned to USDA Rural
Development in 1994-95.

"They kept a pretty low profile. Now we're raising the profile on our services,"
Schneider said. "We have grants and loans available for all kinds of projects.
It's pretty remarkable what we can do in our office."

With the many programs and options available, Schneider joked they could build a
town from scratch. And as only one-third of the stimulus funds have been
distributed, he said "it's a great time to contact us."

Deb Kantrud, executive director of the South Central Dakota Regional Council,
said her agency has worked hand in hand with USDA Rural Development on a number
of projects. For example, USDA provides low-interest loans and grants on
infrastructure projects such as construction of water and sewer lines. Other
USDA programs include housing, utilities and community facilities.

"We work with many communities who are accessing USDA funds," Kantrud said.
"They're a key player in keeping a community thriving."

Sun reporter Toni Pirkl can be reached at (701) 952-8453 or by e-mail at
tonip@jamestownsun.com

To see more of The Jamestown Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.jamestownsun.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091212-QJ-USDA-key-player-in-economic-development-1212

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QJ


                                 Copyright 2009


                              467 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 13, 2013 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MEDICAID EXPANSION HELPS ALL;
GOV. CORBETT SHOULD TAKE A STEP BENEFICIAL TO THE STATE

BYLINE: A. J. Harper

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 754 words


Intertwined within the state budget negotiations is an issue that has been
simmering in the Legislature: that of expanding Pennsylvania's Medical
Assistance program. This is an option for each state under the new health reform
law, the Affordable Care Act.

To date, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Corbett has taken the stance that Pennsylvania
will not expand Medical Assistance. With the state budget deadline of June 30
looming, the question of Medicaid expansion is bubbling to the surface. Senate
Democrats, led by Sen. Jay Costa, included expansion of Medicaid in their budget
proposal, placing their position directly opposite of Mr. Corbett's.

Currently, the state's Medicaid program provides health-care coverage to
approximately 2.2 million low-income Pennsylvanians who earn about half of the
poverty level. This equates to approximately $11,777 annually for a family of
four. The program also covers pregnant women, the disabled and the elderly.

If Pennsylvania chose to expand Medicaid, the commonwealth would receive
significant funding, which in turn leads to more citizens receiving health-care
coverage. Under the Affordable Care Act, the federal government will fund 100
percent of the costs of those who are newly eligible for Medicaid for 2014-2016.
After 2016, the federal government match declines to 90 percent by 2020 and is
expected to stay at that level for subsequent years.

There have been four economic impact studies conducted all reaching the same
conclusion -- Pennsylvania would benefit economically from expanding Medicaid.
The studies, conducted by RAND Corp., the Pennsylvania Economy League,
Pennsylvania's own Independent Fiscal Office and Families USA conclude
Pennsylvania would receive an influx of $2 billion minimally in federal funds
each year, creating additional economic growth. Three of the studies found that
at least 35,000 new jobs would be created. Job growth equates to people
investing in the state economy and employees contributing to the state revenue
through payroll taxes.

All four studies confirm several hundred thousand Pennsylvanians would receive
insurance who are otherwise not covered. For Western Pennsylvania hospitals and
the communities they serve, this would be a boost.

Hospitals and health-care systems are typically among the largest employers
throughout the region. These hospitals, whether they are part of a system or
stand-alone community hospitals, employ hundreds, thousands or tens of thousands
of people.

They provide charity care to those who can't afford to pay. The Hospital Council
of Western Pennsylvania's most recent Flash Survey shows that Western
Pennsylvania hospitals provided more than $243 million in charity care. The
Flash Survey also reported the region's hospitals lost more than $100 million
from operations over the same period last year. This is an alarming loss that
does not include Medicare payment cuts from sequestration.

The hospital council's data shows that Western Pennsylvania hospitals serve a
large percentage of Medicare and Medicaid patients. These patients represent
more than 50 percent of patients treated on average by the region's hospitals.
Western Pennsylvania also has one of the oldest populations in the country. Age
is a critical variable: the more severe the illness, the greater the resources
required to care for the patient.

If expanding coverage to our most vulnerable citizens and the continued cost
burden on hospitals are not reason enough to expand Medicaid in Pennsylvania,
then consider the benefit to the region's business community. Employers who
provide health insurance to their employees often pay higher premiums to
compensate for the financial losses hospitals absorb in treating patients
without insurance. If more uninsured people are covered by Medicaid, hospitals
will assume less charity care, thus keeping costs lower for commercial insurers,
and in turn, down for employers.

Finally, consider the impact on patients: With the expansion of Medicaid,
patients would receive care in the right setting at the right time. Those who
obtain coverage will not have to delay treatment and turn to hospital emergency
rooms -- one of the most costly settings to receive care. And, because these
patients are covered, their treatment will be ongoing, rather than at a crisis
point requiring more intense medical interventions.

For the sake of patients, the public, businesses and hospitals in Western
Pennsylvania we urge the governor and state lawmakers to expand Medicaid as part
of next year's state budget.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: A. J. Harper is president of the Hospital Council of Western Pennsylvania
(harpera@hcwp.org)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              468 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      July 3, 1987, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Downtown hotel blaze kills senior in Vancouver

BYLINE: (CP)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia


   VANCOUVER (CP) - One woman is dead and another in critical condition in
hospital after a fire yesterday in the basement of a 14-storey downtown hotel.

The women, whose names were not released, were believed to be in their 70s.
Thirteen other hotel guests were treated for smoke inhalation.

The fire in the Tropicana Hotel, believed to have started in the hotel's sauna
area, forced the evacuation of about 140 guests.

Firefighters stop blaze

heading for B.C. towns

PENTICTON, B.C. (CP) - About 150 firefighters and seven helicopters were
fighting a forest blaze yesterday that on Canada Day had threatened to engulf
two small populated areas near here. The 1,800-hectare (4,448-acre) fire was
pushed back and is "close to being contained," a provincial forest spokesman
said.

Alberta business group

saved from collapse

EDMONTON (CP) - The Alberta Chamber of Commerce has prevented its possible
financial collapse by raising $120,000, spokesman Reuben Hamm says. The Calgary
chamber has committed $40,000 toward an emergency bailout of the provincial
business organization, he said. The organization's deficit jumped last year to
$187,000, due mostly to the economic downturn in the province and poor financial
control, officials said.

Former TTC worker

sailing across Atlantic

SYDNEY, N.S. (CP) - A former Toronto Transit Commssion worker has begun a solo
voyage across the Atlantic in an 8-metre (26-foot) sailing vessel. Doug Hurst,
33, left Sydney harbor under breezy, blue skies Wednesday for the Azores Island
off Portugal. The 12-year TTC administration worker figures the crossing will
take three weeks.

Hospital to shut down

night emergency room

WINNIPEG (CP) - Starting tomorrow, Grace Hospital will close its emergency room
during the busy night time hours after four of its 10 emergency department
physicians resigned, a hospital spokesman says. Dave Perry said that until the
hospital finds replacements, the emergency room will be closed from 6 p.m. to 8
a.m.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              469 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 31, 2010 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Shriners Hospital project delayed Construction on acute care center for children
isn't due to start until 2012.

BYLINE: by TIM BRYANT o tbryant@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8206

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 206 words

DATELINE: 0


The still-shaky economy is pushing back to 2012 the construction of the $145
million Shriners Hospital for Children planned for a site near the Washington
University medical complex.

Hospital officials said in April that they were going ahead with the project in
2010 after postponing it in 2009 because the economic downturn had hurt the
Shriners' endowment fund.

But the hospital's administrator, John Gloss, said Thursday that the fraternal
organization will not fund the project until next November, with construction to
begin the following year.

Gloss said funding the project next year is a Shriners priority.

Planned for a 3.75-acre site at 4400 Clayton Avenue is a seven-story, 40-bed
acute care children's hospital. Included in the plan are four operating rooms
and 30 examination rooms.

The hospital in the Central West End will replace the current Shriners Hospital
on Lindbergh Boulevard in Frontenac. Once the hospital moves, the Shriners
organization will put up the Frontenac property for sale.

The Missouri Health Facilities Review Committee is likely to consider in April
the Shriners' fourth extension of the state's approval to build the hospital.
The committee issued its first "certificate of need" for the project in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              470 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 15, 2005 Thursday

Site chosen for hospital in Cedar Park;
Plano-based company expects to break ground in March on city's first facility

BYLINE: Jennifer Barrios, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: WILLIAMSON COUNTY THIS WEEK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words


Officials with Triad Hospitals Inc. reached a deal last week on a site for a new
hospital in Cedar Park.

Gerald Stevens, a consultant with the Plano-based company, said Triad officials
signed papers that would allow them to acquire about 60 acres at the
intersection of the new U.S. 183-A and RM 1431.

The move brings Cedar Park one step closer to having a hospital within its city
limits. Currently, Cedar Park residents must go to neighboring Round Rock or
Austin for inpatient hospital services.

"It's a quality of life issue," Mayor Bob Lemon said. "You want a good hospital
near where you live."

The company announced its intention to build a hospital in Cedar Park last year.
Stevens expects the company to break ground in March.

The $90 million hospital will have 151 beds, although Triad will start with 75.
The hospital will cover 260,000 square feet, including an adjacent
60,000-square-foot medical building. Stevens said company officials plan to open
the hospital by 2008.

The company is asking for a $4 million reimbursement package from the city. That
money, which Triad proposes to get in $1 million installments over several
years, would help pay for the roads and infrastructure that will be built as
part of the project.

The $4 million would come from a half-cent sales tax that is channeled into an
economic-development fund. Voters approved the tax in 1999.

Shaune Haas, president of the 4A Economic Development Corporation, which
oversees the fund, said her board expects to have a recommendation on the
package next week.

But Haas said she did not think the incentives package would affect the deal.

"This is not a deal-breaker," she said. "This is a deal- enhancer."

City officials appeared jubilant over the hospital, which Triad estimates will
add about 150 jobs to Cedar Park.

"I am ecstatic," Council Member Christie Goodman said. "There's nothing bad
about bringing in a hospital."

Economic Development Director Phil Brewer said the addition of a hospital marks
a significant step in the 32-year-old city's growth.

"If you look around, most communities our size have their own hospitals," Brewer
said. "It's one of those pieces that is going to move us forward in terms of the
development and future growth of the community."

jbarrios@statesman.com; 246-1150

(box)

Triad Hospitals Inc.

Based in: Plano

Operates: 52 hospitals and 9 surgery centers in Texas and 14 other states

Proposes: A 75-bed hospital, expandable to 151 beds, in Cedar Park.

Timeline: Land deals reached. Triad expects to reach agreement with city on
hospital plans and incentives package by November. Groundbreaking in March;
hospital to be running by 2008.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                              471 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 5, 2013 Friday

Pickering to study viability of hospitals

BYLINE: Bobby Harrison, Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 625 words


July 05--JACKSON --State Auditor Stacey Pickering said he is concerned about
accessibility to health care that will be lost if the state's community-owned
hospitals do not remain viable.

Pickering, speaking recently to the Mississippi State University Stennis
Institute of Government/capitol press corps luncheon group, said his office will
be conducting a study of the issues surrounding the hospitals.

"I am very concerned about the community-owned hospitals and the accessibility
to health care and the viability they have," said Pickering. He noted that the
county-owed hospital in Laurel being open probably saved his father's life last
year and ensured a complete recovery when he suffered a stroke.

Pickering said he is concerned about how provisions of the Federal Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act and other factors would affect the hospitals.
Throughout the year, the Mississippi Hospital Association and many hospital
administrators have expressed concerns that if the state does not expand
Medicaid to cover those earning up to 138 percent of the federal poverty level
as is allowed by the Affordable Care Act, many local hospitals would be
negatively impacted.

Part of the reason for the projected negative impact on hospitals is that the
Affordable Care Act changes the way hospitals are reimbursed for uncompensated
care. The ACA presumes that with more people receiving Medicaid, fewer people
will need uncompensated care. Thus, part of the funds to pay for the ACA are
derived from greatly reducing over a period of time the federal payments for
uncompensated care to the hospitals.

The Legislature just finished a special session where efforts to expand Medicaid
were blocked by Gov. Phil Bryant and the Republican leadership of the
Legislature.

Pickering said the issues he wants to study cover more than the Medicaid
expansion. He said the issues cover the changing economics in health care and
how the governments that own the hospitals should determine when the health care
facilities should be sold.

In recent months, there have been discussions about what would happen to many of
the state's hospitals. Some have said that unless the state expands Medicaid,
hospitals would be forced to reduce services, lay off employees and, in some
cases, might be forced to close.

"The first people I want to talk about work in your community hospitals as
nurses, janitors, managers, medical coders, and cafeteria workers," Sam Cameron,
chief executive of the Mississippi Hospital Association, said in March.

"Many of them work in small, rural hospitals that are struggling to keep their
doors open already, and they face potential layoffs if we don't expand Medicaid
eligibility."

Pickering said he wanted to determine which hospitals are facing economic
difficulties and why.

Not only are the community-owed hospitals important for the health care they
provide, but they are economic engines in the local communities," Pickering
said. He said if the hospitals close, they will have dire economic consequences
in the communities they serve.

Pickering hopes to have the report finished by early next year.

He said he will focus on the community-owned hospitals, but the results of the
report will be applicable to for-profit and not-for-profit hospitals in the
state as well.

According to a report by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 41 hospitals in the state
are owned by local governments or the state, 27 are not-for-profit and 28 are
for-profit. North Mississippi Medical Center in Tupelo is a not-for-profit
health care provider.

bobby.harrison@journalinc.com

___ (c)2013 the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) Visit the
Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) at www.nems360.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130705-TP-HLT-Pickering-to-study-viability-of-hospitals-0705-20130705

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TP


               Copyright 2013 Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal


                              472 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Glanbrook / Sachem Gazette

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

State of hospitals underreported

BYLINE: Jim Knisley, Eye on the County

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 785  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


A couple of weeks ago the Ontario Health Coalition released a devastating report
on the state of rural and northern hospitals and health care in Ontario.

To say the report was underreported would be an understatement of Olympic
proportions.

Perhaps this was because it didn't have anything to say about Toronto. Perhaps
it was because the results were based on a combination of research and public
hearings and were therefore somewhat predictable.

Anyone who has spent any time listening to what people are saying in areas
affected by the grinding down of smaller hospitals in various parts of the
province had a real good idea of what would be said. But does that make the
concerns and observations any less valid? In my opinion it makes them more valid
because the Ontario Health Coalition dared to go where the provincial government
wouldn't.

The coalition set up its own process of non-partisan public hearings after the
Health Minister refused to have the government's rural and northern panel
conduct a province-wide public consultation.

The coalition's panel got an earful about the government, the Local Hospital
Integration Networks, amalgamated hospital boards (like Niagara's) and
widespread deterioration in hospital care and services in smaller communities.

Thankfully, Haldimand's two hospitals have been spared from much of what others
are seeing. The uproar in Niagara may have even slowed whatever changes were
contemplated here and therefore benefited the local hospitals and communities.

The report says: "Smaller communities have tremendous pride in their hospitals.
The long history of the development of local hospitals and the priority the
public places on their continuation cannot and should not be ignored."

"Local hospitals are vital to community social and economic development. For
decades, community development, social practices, systems and infrastructure
have been built around these hospitals. The location of hospitals has been a
priority factor in planning travel and settlement patterns including municipal
transit where it exists, ambulance systems, and seniors' retirement choices."

"Every mayor and community economic development committee member will testify
that access to a hospital is among the foremost priorities for industries when
considering their location."

The panel also identified the scope of local support. "Hospitals benefit
tremendously from local donations of money, equipment and services. There is
natural self-policing: local communities want well-run, efficient and
compassionate hospitals. They want money to go to care and not waste."

The panel said that where hospital services are cut - especially emergency
services - there is an impact on economic development and local support,
donations and involvement.

It said the "short-sighted cuts" could "reverse decades of improvements in
access to care to the detriment of both rural communities and the larger
communities in the region."

The panel also despaired over the treatment of local representatives. It
condemned the "the culture of disrespect for advocates (including municipal
leaders)." It said "arrogance" on the part of an increasing number of
bureaucrats, ministerial staff and LHINs "has led to poor decision-making."

What should deeply concern the provincial government as well as everyone in the
province is that the panel came to believe that decisions affecting rural
hospitals are not part of some well thought out, long term plan.

"It is also evident that planning for hospital services has deteriorated and is
now ad hoc, erratic and inequitable. Access to care varies greatly from locality
to locality. It is not guided by principles and policy and there are few basic
standards or expectations. If the provincial government is supposed to "steer"
the system by providing policy and standards and the human, financial and
material resources to meet policy goals, it has failed in its role."

The panel is even harsher in its assessment of the LHINs and says they should be
scrapped.

"The LHINs' mandate is unsupported by the public and irredeemably flawed. The
size of the regions is too big for meaningful health care planning and service
coordination. LHIN decision-making processes are confused and erratic."

"It is this panel's opinion that the Local Health Integration Networks should be
disbanded."

In Niagara much of the focus has been on creating centre's of excellence. This
is likely a very good thing. But should they come at the cost of reduced
services in smaller hospitals. One Niagara physician asked: "What good is a
Centre of Excellence if a patient is DOA?"

It might be a question Haldimand residents keep in mind if the provincial
government or the regional LHIN comes knocking.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              473 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            March 20, 1993 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

TAMPERING WITH MEDICARE A POLITICAL HEALTH HAZARD;
GITTINS ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: ROSS GITTINS Economics Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1302 words


While the Liberals are asking themselves why they lost an unlosable election,
they should have a long, hard look at their policy on Medicare.

Their plans to change Medicare were probably their biggest vote-loser after the
GST. And not for the first time. The Liberals always promise to change Medicare
and it always costs them votes. (The exception was in 1990 when, just before the
election, Peter Shack abandoned his attempt to produce a policy. That cost
votes, too.)

Market research shows that voters are quite happy with Medicare. They like its
simplicity and its stability. It hasn't been changed significantly since Labor
introduced it in 1984 and voters like it that way.

They don't like the sound of waiting lists for elective surgery, of course, but
few voters are affected by them. The alleged queue of 100,000 patients
represents only about 3.5 per cent of annual hospital admissions.

If voters don't like changes to health care arrangements, they certainly don't
like changes that would make health care more expensive. And, though Labor's
scare campaign was over the top, there's no doubt the Liberals'changes would
have made health care more costly for everyone except pensioners and other
health-card holders.

True, the proposed rebates would have delivered a windfall to those people on
incomes of less than average weekly earnings who already have hospital
insurance.

But, for people under 65, singles on more than $35,000 a year and families with
combined income of more than $45,000 a year would have faced a surcharge if they
don't already have hospital insurance. And everyone apart from card-holders
would have been hit by other changes: the abolition of bulk billing for those
without cards, the reduction of the Medicare benefit from 85 per cent of the
schedule fee to 75 per cent, and the introduction of "gap"insurance to cover the
difference between the Medicare benefit and up to 85 per cent of the AMA's
recommended fee.

So, obviously, the Liberals' changes weren't motivated by political pragmatism.
What then was the motivation? More hair-shirt economic rationalism?

That's the strange thing. From a rationalist's point of view the changes were a
dog's breakfast. They'd have done nothing to reduce the manifest inefficiencies
of the health system.

In his efforts to sell the changes, the one benefit John Hewson claimed was that
they'd reduce hospital waiting lists.

As he explained in his TV launch: "Public hospitals are overcrowded. Private
hospitals have plenty of beds. So the Liberal Government will help pay for
people's health insurance so that they can use private hospitals. Public
hospital queues will be dramatically reduced." The trouble with this argument is
that Dr Hewson's carrots and sticks were aimed at encouraging people to take out
basic hospital insurance, at a cost of $800 a year for families ($400or for
singles).

Basic hospital insurance covers the cost of being a private patient in a public
hospital. To meet the cost of admission to a private hospital you need"top
table" cover, which costs a lot more.

So his policy would not have shifted many people out of public hospitals into
private hospitals.

In any case, Dr Hewson's argument assumed that the queues are caused by a
shortage of beds in public hospitals. In fact, there are many causes. In the
areas where waiting times are longest, orthopaedics and ophthalmology, the main
problem isn't a shortage of beds it's a shortage of specialists.

The economic rationalists' solution to that would be to oblige the specialist
colleges to ease their artificial restrictions on the supply of specialists.

You may imagine that a primary goal of the Liberals' Medicare changes would have
been to reduce the cost of health care to the taxpayer. Many economic
rationalists would like to see that.

But no. On Fightback's own figures, the saving to the taxpayer would have been
minor. What the Budget saved from reducing the size of Medicare benefits and
from cutting grants to public hospitals by $1.3 billion a year, would have been
used almost completely to cover the cost of the rebates for hospital insurance
and an increase in the Government's contribution to the health funds'
"reinsurance pool".

Many economic rationalists disapprove of bulk billing because they believe that,
when a service appears to be "free", it will be overused. They like to see the
patient make a "co-payment" to discourage overuse by patients and overservicing
by doctors.

So many economic rationalists would support Dr Hewson's plans to end bulk
billing for everyone except card-holders and to reduce Medicare benefits to 75
per cent of the schedule fee. They'd expect this to reduce the national cost of
health care without any diminution in the quality of that care.

Fine. But then Dr Hewson went off in the opposite direction by planning to lift
the ban on health funds offering gap insurance.

I don't know of any economist who approves of gap insurance. It completely
undercuts the economic logic behind patient co-payments. Once a person has
insured against the gap, it ceases to influence his or her decisions about
whether to visit the doctor. And it's easier for doctors to get away with
overservicing.

At present, bulk billing and the Medicare benefit of 85 per cent of the schedule
fee act to limit what doctors can charge. But if you end bulk billing and allow
gap insurance you increase the scope for doctors to raise their fees towards the
AMA's recommended fees, which are about 30 per cent higher than the schedule
fee.

Dr Hewson argued that competition between the oversupply of doctors would limit
their ability to raise their fees. But the oversupply is mainly of GPs, not
specialists. And even in the case of GPs, competition would not prevent a rise
in fees if many of their patients had gap insurance.

In any case, Dr Hewson criticised Labor for failing to reduce the flow of new
doctors and promised to maintain controls over the number of places in medical
schools and monitor the controls on the immigration of doctors.

From an economic rationalist viewpoint, Dr Hewson's Medicare changes didn't add
up. Nor did they add up from other perspectives. They would have cost patients
more, they wouldn't have saved the taxpayer a bean and they would have raised
the national cost of health care.

There's only one way to make sense of those changes: they would have greatly
benefited the private health funds and doctors.

The health funds would have benefited from the carrots and sticks to get more
people into hospital insurance and from the Government contribution to their
reinsurance pool.

Gap insurance, combined with the plan to allow the funds to pay out Medicare
benefits on behalf of Medicare itself, would have allowed them to get back into
medical insurance, from which they've been excluded since 1984. Doctors,
particularly the specialists who dominate the AMA, would have benefited from the
extra people with hospital insurance (since they get more for treating private
patients), from the removal of bulk billing and introduction of gap insurance.

The lesson for the Liberals is clear: if they want to start winning elections,
they should stop trying to change Medicare to benefit doctors and health funds
at the expense of voters.

HSC economics students: yours truly will be in Wagga on Saturday April 3 at Mt
Austin High School to give a day of lectures on macro-economic management. Cost:
$20. Ask your teacher for details or ring Greg Jackson on (063) 82 4371(after
hours).

A symposium on business careers will be held at Sydney Town Hall on Monday March
29, organised by the University of Technology, Sydney's AIESEC group. Experts
will speak on career opportunities in banking and finance, marketing, accounting
and computing. A well-dressed economics editor will say a few opening words. See
your teacher for details.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1993 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              474 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Financial Post (Toronto, Canada)

                    December 6, 1988, Tuesday, DAILY EDITION

The Doctors Hospital

SECTION: SECTION 2, INVESTMENT AND FINANCE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 137 words


  Mr. Gilbert Morris, Chairman, is pleased to announce the appointment of Avie
Bennett to Honorary Director of the Board of Directors of The Doctors Hospital.

Mr. Bennett is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of McClelland and Stewart
Ltd., Chairman of First Plazas Inc., and sits on the boards of several other
community agencies and corpo-rations.

The Doctors Hospital's three-phased redevelopment project includes building
Canada's first Multicultural Community Health Campus on its present site.

Doctors Hospital stands at the centre of a network of co-ordinated and
integrated health and social services, delivered to Toronto's multicultural
community; this is the Community Health Campus.

Phase I, the Clinical and Social Services Building is under construction on
College Street.




LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Table: Released last week: Economic growth (3rd quarter), Indicators
(September), Labor market (November), Trade (3rd quarter), Auto sales
(November), Profits (3rd quarter), Prices (October)

For release this week (Online)

TYPE: APPOINTMENT NOTICE

                       Copyright 1988 Financial Post Ltd.


                              475 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Glanbrook / Sachem Gazette

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

State of hospitals underreported

BYLINE: Jim Knisley, Eye on the County

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 788  words


A couple of weeks ago the Ontario Health Coalition released a devastating report
on the state of rural and northern hospitals and health care in Ontario. To say
the report was underreported would be an understatement of Olympic proportions.
Perhaps this was because it didn't have anything to say about Toronto. Perhaps
it was because the results were based on a combination of research and public
hearings and were therefore somewhat predictable.

Anyone who has spent any time listening to what people are saying in areas
affected by the grinding down of smaller hospitals in various parts of the
province had a real good idea of what would be said. But does that make the
concerns and observations any less valid? In my opinion it makes them more valid
because the Ontario Health Coalition dared to go where the provincial government
wouldn't. The coalition set up its own process of non-partisan public hearings
after the Health Minister refused to have the government's rural and northern
panel conduct a province-wide public consultation. The coalition's panel got an
earful about the government, the Local Hospital Integration Networks,
amalgamated hospital boards (like Niagara's) and widespread deterioration in
hospital care and services in smaller communities. Thankfully, Haldimand's two
hospitals have been spared from much of what others are seeing. The uproar in
Niagara may have even slowed whatever changes were contemplated here and
therefore benefited the local hospitals and communities. The report says:
"Smaller communities have tremendous pride in their hospitals. The long history
of the development of local hospitals and the priority the public places on
their continuation cannot and should not be ignored." "Local hospitals are vital
to community social and economic development. For decades, community
development, social practices, systems and infrastructure have been built around
these hospitals. The location of hospitals has been a priority factor in
planning travel and settlement patterns including municipal transit where it
exists, ambulance systems, and seniors' retirement choices." "Every mayor and
community economic development committee member will testify that access to a
hospital is among the foremost priorities for industries when considering their
location." The panel also identified the scope of local support. "Hospitals
benefit tremendously from local donations of money, equipment and services.
There is natural self-policing: local communities want well-run, efficient and
compassionate hospitals. They want money to go to care and not waste." The panel
said that where hospital services are cut - especially emergency services -
there is an impact on economic development and local support, donations and
involvement. It said the "short-sighted cuts" could "reverse decades of
improvements in access to care to the detriment of both rural communities and
the larger communities in the region." The panel also despaired over the
treatment of local representatives. It condemned the "the culture of disrespect
for advocates (including municipal leaders)." It said "arrogance" on the part of
an increasing number of bureaucrats, ministerial staff and LHINs "has led to
poor decision-making." What should deeply concern the provincial government as
well as everyone in the province is that the panel came to believe that
decisions affecting rural hospitals are not part of some well thought out, long
term plan. "It is also evident that planning for hospital services has
deteriorated and is now ad hoc, erratic and inequitable. Access to care varies
greatly from locality to locality. It is not guided by principles and policy and
there are few basic standards or expectations. If the provincial government is
supposed to "steer" the system by providing policy and standards and the human,
financial and material resources to meet policy goals, it has failed in its
role." The panel is even harsher in its assessment of the LHINs and says they
should be scrapped. "The LHINs' mandate is unsupported by the public and
irredeemably flawed. The size of the regions is too big for meaningful health
care planning and service coordination. LHIN decision-making processes are
confused and erratic." "It is this panel's opinion that the Local Health
Integration Networks should be disbanded." In Niagara much of the focus has been
on creating centre's of excellence. This is likely a very good thing. But should
they come at the cost of reduced services in smaller hospitals. One Niagara
physician asked: "What good is a Centre of Excellence if a patient is DOA?" It
might be a question Haldimand residents keep in mind if the provincial
government or the regional LHIN comes knocking.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              476 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Glanbrook / Sachem Gazette

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

State of hospitals underreported

BYLINE: Jim Knisley, Eye on the County

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 788  words


A couple of weeks ago the Ontario Health Coalition released a devastating report
on the state of rural and northern hospitals and health care in Ontario. To say
the report was underreported would be an understatement of Olympic proportions.
Perhaps this was because it didn't have anything to say about Toronto. Perhaps
it was because the results were based on a combination of research and public
hearings and were therefore somewhat predictable.

Anyone who has spent any time listening to what people are saying in areas
affected by the grinding down of smaller hospitals in various parts of the
province had a real good idea of what would be said. But does that make the
concerns and observations any less valid? In my opinion it makes them more valid
because the Ontario Health Coalition dared to go where the provincial government
wouldn't. The coalition set up its own process of non-partisan public hearings
after the Health Minister refused to have the government's rural and northern
panel conduct a province-wide public consultation. The coalition's panel got an
earful about the government, the Local Hospital Integration Networks,
amalgamated hospital boards (like Niagara's) and widespread deterioration in
hospital care and services in smaller communities. Thankfully, Haldimand's two
hospitals have been spared from much of what others are seeing. The uproar in
Niagara may have even slowed whatever changes were contemplated here and
therefore benefited the local hospitals and communities. The report says:
"Smaller communities have tremendous pride in their hospitals. The long history
of the development of local hospitals and the priority the public places on
their continuation cannot and should not be ignored." "Local hospitals are vital
to community social and economic development. For decades, community
development, social practices, systems and infrastructure have been built around
these hospitals. The location of hospitals has been a priority factor in
planning travel and settlement patterns including municipal transit where it
exists, ambulance systems, and seniors' retirement choices." "Every mayor and
community economic development committee member will testify that access to a
hospital is among the foremost priorities for industries when considering their
location." The panel also identified the scope of local support. "Hospitals
benefit tremendously from local donations of money, equipment and services.
There is natural self-policing: local communities want well-run, efficient and
compassionate hospitals. They want money to go to care and not waste." The panel
said that where hospital services are cut - especially emergency services -
there is an impact on economic development and local support, donations and
involvement. It said the "short-sighted cuts" could "reverse decades of
improvements in access to care to the detriment of both rural communities and
the larger communities in the region." The panel also despaired over the
treatment of local representatives. It condemned the "the culture of disrespect
for advocates (including municipal leaders)." It said "arrogance" on the part of
an increasing number of bureaucrats, ministerial staff and LHINs "has led to
poor decision-making." What should deeply concern the provincial government as
well as everyone in the province is that the panel came to believe that
decisions affecting rural hospitals are not part of some well thought out, long
term plan. "It is also evident that planning for hospital services has
deteriorated and is now ad hoc, erratic and inequitable. Access to care varies
greatly from locality to locality. It is not guided by principles and policy and
there are few basic standards or expectations. If the provincial government is
supposed to "steer" the system by providing policy and standards and the human,
financial and material resources to meet policy goals, it has failed in its
role." The panel is even harsher in its assessment of the LHINs and says they
should be scrapped. "The LHINs' mandate is unsupported by the public and
irredeemably flawed. The size of the regions is too big for meaningful health
care planning and service coordination. LHIN decision-making processes are
confused and erratic." "It is this panel's opinion that the Local Health
Integration Networks should be disbanded." In Niagara much of the focus has been
on creating centre's of excellence. This is likely a very good thing. But should
they come at the cost of reduced services in smaller hospitals. One Niagara
physician asked: "What good is a Centre of Excellence if a patient is DOA?" It
might be a question Haldimand residents keep in mind if the provincial
government or the regional LHIN comes knocking.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              477 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                            December 26, 2011 Monday

Of Economic Life and Rural Areas [analysis]

BYLINE: Albert Nhamoyebonde

LENGTH: 877 words


It never ceases to amaze me each time I leave Harare and its unbelievably
congested traffic, that the economic life in rural centres becomes a major
subject of my concern.

Whether travelling to Gutu or this time to Mudzi District near the border with
Mozambique, my interest is to see whether the rural folk are happy with their
way of life.

There is no denying the fact that the main roads out of Harare are the best
roads in the country. The roads around Harare suburbs and city centre are
terrible. It is terrifying to drive into Harare from the rural areas where the
main roads are meant for the high performance cars not pushcarts or ox drawn
carts.

The perfect roads give a wrong picture as to the economic life of the rural
areas. Mudzi District centre was built after independence and has modern
buildings with a tarred road, a good district hospital but without a resident
doctor although there is excellent accommodation for hospital staff.

Why is there no doctor at this district hospital? The local church pastor says
the doctor left to further his studies but there has not been a replacement.
There cannot be any economic life without the health of the people being catered
for. Only mission hospitals away from the area have resident doctors.

The district has excellent conference facilities which include the Pumpkin Hotel
and the District Centre. Many workshops and seminars have been held but there
are no tangible economic activities that have emanated from these endless
meetings.

I visited the suburbs where houses are being built but was told that some of the
building materials and the builders themselves are not local but imported all
the way from Harare. Except for bricks, the roofing materials come from Harare.
With the excellent state of the roads, the transporters from Harare are happy to
use such good roads.

What other economic activity was evident? Yes, the roads were lined up with
mainly women selling mazhanje, tomatoes, mangoes etc. But what was missing were
small enterprises like hair salons, shoe repair or carpentry shops. Surely,
district centres should get priority for such simple shops to be set up by the
Ministry of Small Enterprises.

If economic empowerment is just preached in the city centres on radio and
television, without venturing into the rural centres, then the whole exercise
loses its meaning.

As I drove through Mutoko, Mrewa and other centres, what was missing was a
bustling economic activity. I saw many young people spending their time
aimlessly with a few girls trudging and pushing wheelbarrows with sacks of maize
to the grinding meals.

No wonder why Harare is so congested. The rural to urban migration has reached
such a level that, in a few years, only the elderly will be residing in the
rural areas. Cabbages sold in Gutu, I was told that they came from Harare. At
least, Mudzi, Mtoko, Mrewa, Goromonzi districts are self sufficient in
vegetables. These areas actually feed Harare.

But there is room for setting small manufacturing and maintenance economic
activities to provide jobs for the rural young people. Why should school
furniture and uniforms be made and repaired in Harare?

How difficult is it to set up barber shops, hair salons or any repair shops?
Should the bottle stores and small retail shops define the economic activity of
the rural centres? Of course not.

Are politicians serious about improving the lives of the rural areas? The
majority of the voters are in these areas. One thing upper most on their minds
is that they play a major role in deciding who shall form the Government.

It is not asking too much to see that more tractors should serve the rural
communities so that they can do away with ox drawn ploughs I saw everywhere.
Many countries have moved away from back breaking activities into the use of
modern scientific ways of servicing the rural areas. Vietnam is one country that
has emerged from a devastating war to spearhead economic activities in the rural
areas with much success.

For example, university and technical college graduates spend a year on
attachment in rural centres visiting communities and advising the rural folk on
economic matters.

Economic students as well as engineering students are sent to the rural areas.
Those from technical colleges such as carpenters, brick layers, water engineers
are also sent to the rural areas. Seminars should be on such economic
activities, such as, how to rear pigs, chickens etc.

The Medical School must be commended for sending their medical students and
lecturers to the rural district hospitals on attachment. But the major problem
becomes that there is no follow up by the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare
to complement the work of the Medical School by employing qualified doctors to
man the hospitals. There can never be any meaningful economic activities unless
the rural people get better services.

Another area that impressed me was the work of Zesa which is providing
electricity to these centres. I met with their officers who are proud of their
role in providing electricity to schools as well as public centres and homes.

There is no doubt that more resources should go to revamping economic activity
for the rural areas especially at growth points which should become the magnet
for rural economic life.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              478 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            July 22, 1993, Thursday

Hospital will end reliance on Tri-Cities

BYLINE: By Barbara Ann Moore STAFF WRITER

SECTION: EXTRA; Section K; Page 1

LENGTH: 719 words


South Fulton Medical Center is drafting a financial declaration of independence.

After 30 years of using facilities owned by the Tri-Cities Hospital Authority,
South Fulton is preparing to buy its Cleveland Avenue complex and to assume all
liability for its outstanding debts, which total about $ 18 million.

"Now it will be its own person," said Hapeville Mayor Barbara Couch. "I think
it's wonderful because [that] was the goal upfront, that it be a separate
entity.

South Fulton's move toward financial autonomy is the second and final phase of a
corporate restructuring that has been going on since 1989. It will take some
financial pressure off the cities of College Park, East Point and Hapeville,
which for three decades have guaranteed payment on South Fulton's debts because
"that was the only way we could get the hospital," College Park Mayor T. Owen
Smith recalled.

"What the cities have done is co-sign on a loan, and that can be dangerous,
[although] South Fulton is not a speculative venture like others have been,"
College Park controller Jerry Anderson said in a pointed reference to the
Buggyworks office complex. After the Buggyworks filed for bankruptcy, East
Point, which had co-signed on the project, was forced to raise taxes to make the
bond payments.

"I am proud of the fact that in 30 years, we've never had to call on the
cities," said Neil Copelan, chief executive officer of the South Fulton Medical
Center.

He described the bond refinancing as "a rare case of win, win, win," both for
the cities, which are being relieved of a potential tax burden, and for the
hospital, which is getting a chance to restructure its debt.

The economic climate, with its low interest rates, will make it possible for the
hospital to save about $ 9 million over the next decade, according to Mr.
Copelan. "That just makes financial good sense," he said.

Mr. Copelan said it probably will be late summer before he knows what price tag
the hospital authority wll put on South Fulton's facilities. "It's a real
hodgepodge of many, many factors," he said. "The bottom line is that it's not
come down to a hard number yet."

Mr. Copelan said that although ownership of the hospital will change, patients
should notice no difference.

"The prices won't change, the services won't change," he said. "We'll still be
non-profit." Mr. Copelan described the changes as a "positioning strategy" for
the future.

Over the past few years, South Fulton has not only changed its name - from
hospital to medical center - but also its outlook, as it expanded facilities,
added a cancer-care center and concentated on serving a region instead of just
the Tri-Cities of College Park, East Point and Hapeville.

That's because since the hospital opened its doors in May 1963, South Fulton has
grown from 153 beds to 424 and has developed a patient base that stretches all
the way south to Coweta and Henry counties, according to Mr. Copelan. In fact,
about 75 percent of South Fulton's patients come from areas outside the
Tri-Cities.

So when the corporate restructuring began four years ago, "It was very important
just to move the mentality away from a single hospital and a single hospital
authority to something much bigger," Mr. Copelan explained.

The first phase of the restructuring plan created the Georgia International
Health Alliance, which became the holding company for five South Fulton
subsidiaries, including the South Fulton Medical Center Inc., which took over
direct control of hospital operations.

It did not do away with the hospital authority and neither will the second
phase, according to Mr. Copelan. "The hospital authority, of course, will remain
as an entitiy. It won't go away," he said.

But once the sale of the hospital facilities is complete, Mr. Copelan said he
will look forward to marshaling a more representative board of directors to
advise the hospital.

By law, the hospital authority must be made up of three members each, from
College Park, East Point and Hapeville. When South Fulton set up its own board
of directors four years ago, it decided to pull four of its nine members from
the hospital authority.

"We need to be governed by a board representative of all of the area we serve
[so] the next change is to be more representative," Mr. Copelan said.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH932110054

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              479 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 17, 2009 Tuesday

JOB-CUT JOLT AT HOSPITAL

BYLINE: John Doyle

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 133 words


More than 200 people were laid off by Brooklyn's Brookdale Hospital yesterday, a
surprising move that sparked fears the facility is on life support.

Doctors, nurses and other hospital staffers arrived at work to find pink slips
informing them that their jobs had been cut.

George Gresham, president of SEIU 1199, the hospital-workers union, called the
layoffs "abrupt," and said he will work to try to reduce the job cuts.

"The dire situation at Brookdale is very real evidence of what we've been
working to educate New Yorkers about - hospitals are hanging on by a thread," he
said.

Hospital officials put the number of layoffs at 240. Workers rallied to protest
the cuts.

A statement from the hospital blamed the layoffs on the economic downturn and
state budget cuts.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              480 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           September 19, 2006 Tuesday
                                  SAC EDITION

HOSPITAL REPORT SHOWS HOW IT BOOSTS ECONOMY

BYLINE: BY PATRICIA FARRELL AIDEM Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. SC1

LENGTH: 323 words


SANTA CLARITA -- Heading for tonight's showdown in its disputed plan to expand,
Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital issued a report Monday that shows that it
generates millions of dollars for the city and the state and also provides
hundreds of local jobs.

The report by the nonprofit Los Angeles County Economic Development Corp. says
the Valencia hospital paid some 2,400 employees -- including contract workers
and other related jobs -- $133 million in wages. The figures are from 2005.

The study was released in time for tonight's meeting before the Santa Clarita
Planning Commission at which Newhall Memorial will present revised plans for its
proposed 916,611-square-foot expansion.

``We are an extensive part of the economic health of the community and wanted to
give the commission the benefit of the information in the study,'' hospital
spokeswoman Andy Bogdan wrote in a press release.

The hospital spent $30.9 million in 2005 on services, supplies and equipment,
according to its study, and generated a total of $9.8 million in taxes.

Neighbors objected when the hospital announced plans for a four-story office
building and a five-level parking structure within 50 feet of its property line
with homes. Modifications call for buffers of up to 96 to 138 feet between
neighbors and the new buildings. In addition, two three-story buildings are
planned and the parking structure has been downsized and moved back on the
hospital property.

Newhall Memorial's planned $64 million construction project would pump $136
million into the regional economy and create 920 jobs with wages totalling $37
million. About $3.9 million in state income and sales taxes would be realized.

City planners recommend that the five-member Planning Commission review the
revisions, take public comments and continue the hearing to Oct. 17.

pat.aidem@dailynews.com

(661) 257-5251

IF YOU GO:

Meeting tonight at 7 in the City Hall council chambers, 23920 Valencia Blvd.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: box
 Box:  IF YOU GO (see text)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              481 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Norman Transcript (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday

BRIEF: Hospital cuts 70 jobs

BYLINE: The Norman Transcript, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 202 words


Feb. 25--Norman Regional Health System will reduce its workforce by 70
positions, hospital officials announced Tuesday.

The announcement came after the health system's leadership team, in a scheduled
meeting, finalized the actions of their economic recovery plan.

This plan is in response to current economic conditions that are affecting
healthcare and other businesses both in the state and nation.

Also implemented will be a reduction in workweek hours resulting in additional
salary savings requiring no further reductions in force.

They have also identified an additional $5 million in non-salary savings for the
remainder of the fiscal year, ending June 30, 2009. Hospital officials earlier
this week cited lower patient revenue and higher accounts receivables affecting
their budget.

To see more of The Norman Transcript or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.normantranscript.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Norman Transcript,
Okla. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090225-NQ-BRF-Hospital-cuts-70-jobs-0225

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NQ


                                 Copyright 2009


                              482 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 12, 1991, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NEVADA, MO., PROTESTS HUNDREDS OF LAYOFFS

BYLINE: Virginia Young Post-Dispatch Jefferson City Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 517 words


JEFFERSON CITY - Nevada, Mo., the town that is slated to take the hardest hit in
the latest round of state budget cuts, sent emissaries to the capital Thursday
to ask why.  ''What have we done to deserve such a blow from the Department of
Mental Health, that we have served so well and so long?'' asked Mary Ireland, a
utility official representing the Nevada Area Economic Development Commission.
Ireland was part of a delegation questioning 300 layoffs planned for the Nevada
State Hospital and Nevada Habilitation Center, the biggest employers in Vernon
County.  The Department of Mental Health announced the layoffs last month as
part of a plan to cope with $31 million in budget cuts. In all, Gov. John
Ashcroft ordered $200 million in cuts to offset lagging tax revenue.  The Nevada
delegation addressed its questions to the state Mental Health Commission, which
oversees mental health facilities. But commissioners deftly handed the questions
to a trio of legislators complaining about the budget cuts.  Commissioners noted
that the Legislature defeated a tax increase that would have boosted mental
health and social services funding. Instead, only education and economic
development projects will benefit if voters approve the $385 million tax package
on the November statewide ballot.  ''When you make that decision, you inherit
the consequences of that decision,'' said Keith Schafer, director of the
Department of Mental Health.  Given the budget constraints, ''we have given it
the best shot we can.'' The plan calls for changing the role of Nevada State
Hospital to a community mental health center. Hospital patients will be shifted
to other programs. Specifically: 33 forensic patients will be moved to other
state hospitals, in Fulton and southeast Missouri.  25 patients needing acute
care will be shifted to Springfield private hospitals while six will stay in
hospitals in the Nevada area. The care will be provided under contracts.  33
long-term patients will be housed in the community in Nevada.  Nevada officials
said the layoffs will devastate the area's agricultural economy. Said Rep. Bubs
Hohulin, R-Lamar: ''These folks with ties to agriculture cannot withstand a
layoff and a poor crop year. We cannot withstand a slam-dunk like this.'' Bryan
Breckenridge of the Nevada Area Economic Development Commission suggested as an
alternative that all mental health workers' salaries could be cut across the
board. ''They would rather have a job with a percentage cut in their salary than
no job at all,'' Breckenridge said.  Only Ruth Brandon, representing the
Missouri Mental Health Consumer Network, supported the cuts. Brandon, of
Columbia, Mo., said the state needed to move toward community care instead of
institutionalization.  Commissioner C. Robert Cloninger, of the Washington
University Medical Center in St. Louis, asked the legislators whether they would
help get more tax money for mental health.  Hohulin's answer was pessimistic:
''The public wants to see greater responsibility in spending their money before
we ask for authorization to spend more.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              483 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                  ROP Edition

REGIONAL ROUNDUP

BYLINE:

Patriot Ledger staff

SECTION: Business; pg. 22

LENGTH: 857 words


Caritas Christi switch to for-profit gets final OK

BOSTON - A Supreme Judicial Court justice has given the final blessing to a deal
that would convert Caritas Christi Health Care from a nonprofit organization to
a for-profit hospital system. Justice Francis Spina approved the change on
Friday. With endorsements from the attorney general's office, the state Public
Health Council and the Boston archdiocese, Spina's decision wraps up the
regulatory review of the transaction.

Cerberus Capital Management, a private equity firm in New York, has established
an affiliate, Steward Health Care, to run Caritas. Cerberus plans to spend $495
million to acquire the Boston-based Caritas system. That figure includes money
to pay off the system's debts and to fully fund its pension plan. Cerberus also
has committed to spending another $400 million on capital improvements over a
four-year period. The transaction is expected to be completed by the end of the
year.

No major job cuts are planned for Caritas Christi's 12,000-person work force.
The six Caritas hospitals are Norwood Hospital, Carney Hospital in Dorchester,
Good Samaritan Medical Center in Brockton, St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in
Brighton, St. Anne's Hospital in Fall River and Holy Family Hospital in Methuen.

Meanwhile, the Massachusetts Nurses Association said it has reached a master
agreement that involves 1,700 registered nurses at four Caritas hospitals -
Carney, Good Samaritan, Norwood and St. Elizabeth's. The five-year agreement
includes pay raises, an expansion of the nurses' paid time-off benefits, and the
creation of a new pension fund for the nurses that will augment the hospitals'
existing 401(3)b defined contribution plan.

State's economic growth outpaces the nation's

BOSTON - The state's economy grew at an estimated annualized rate of 3.7 percent
in the July-September period, nearly doubling the pace of the nation's economic
growth, according to a new MassBenchmarks report released by the UMass Donahue
Institute.

The state's economy has slowed somewhat from the first and second quarters of
2010, when the state's economy grew at an estimated rate of 6 percent and 4.7
percent, respectively. Meanwhile, the federal government reported on Friday that
the national economy expanded at an estimated annual rate of 2 percent during
the third quarter.

The UMass report predicts even slower growth ahead for Massachusetts: The
state's gross product is expected to grow at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter and 3 percent in the first quarter of next year. Much of the
slowdown is due to the sluggish economic growth worldwide, as demand for the
high-tech products and services that are exported from Massachusetts decreases.

Weathervane chain closes Plymouth restaurant

PLYMOUTH - The Weathervane restaurant on the Plymouth waterfront closed Monday,
leaving the Maine-based chain with only one Massachusetts location, in
Leominster. Weathervane Chief Operating Officer Jeremy Gagner, whose family owns
the chain, told the Old Colony Memorial that the decision was difficult. "With
the economics being where they're at, the restaurant wasn't viable any longer,"
he said. The Plymouth Weathervane opened in 1998 and was the southernmost site
in the 16-restaurant chain. Most of the restaurants are in Maine and New
Hampshire.

Brookline Bancorp to acquire Ipswich Bancorp

BROOKLINE - Brookline Bancorp Inc. has reached a deal to buy First Ipswich
Bancorp for $19.7 million in a move that will help the Brookline-based company
expand on the North Shore. The transaction is expected to be completed in the
first quarter of 2011. After the deal closes, First National Bank of Ipswich
will remain a subsidiary of Brookline Bancorp separate from its flagship
Brookline Bank, and First National Bank of Ipswich CEO Russell Cole will
continue to be president and chief executive officer. All six of First National
Bank of Ipswich's branches will remain open, along with Brookline Bank's 20
branches.

Boston Scientific selling neurovascular business

NATICK - Boston Scientific has reached an agreement to sell its neurovascular
business to Stryker Corp. in a deal valued at $1.5 billion. Natick-based Boston
Scientific plans to use half of the proceeds for acquisitions and half to retire
some of the company's debt. Boston Scientific established the neurovascular
business with the 1997 acquisition of Target Therapeutics, a Fremont,
Calif.-based company that made devices used to treat brain aneurysms. The
business currently employs about 1,150 people and reported 2009 revenues of $348
million.

Parking garage at Logan set to partially open

BOSTON - The Massachusetts Port Authority will make available on Monday the
first 1,000 spaces of a new 3,000-space economy parking garage under
construction at Logan Airport. Massport is consolidating its "economy" parking
in one location, partly to make it easier for travelers to find a spot when
they're in a rush. The parking will be priced at $18 a day, or $108 a week.
Construction began in July. Massport said another 1,000 spaces will be ready in
December and all 3,000 will be available to travelers in early 2011.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Weathervane in Plymouth has closed., GateHouse News Service

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Patriot Ledger


                              484 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 therecord.com

                           November 15, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Hospitals feeling pinch of economic slowdown; Longer wait times, cuts to
services may be necessary

BYLINE: Karen Kawawada, RECORD STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 587  words

DATELINE: WATERLOO REGION


Longer waits for health care and cuts in hospital services might be the future
as hard economic times ripple over to the region's three hospitals.

Grand River Hospital expects a $1.8 million deficit this fiscal year,
spokesperson Mark Karjaluoto said. Next year, the hospital will have to find
$4.5 million in cuts to reach a balanced budget.

For the current fiscal year, the original projected deficit was $3.3 million, so
"efficiencies" have already trimmed that down, Karjaluoto said.

For example, $1 million was saved by moving patients who need a less intensive
level of care after their acute care is finished from the main Grand River site
to the Freeport site, he said.

St. Mary's Hospital has a $1-million deficit this year and is projecting a
deficit of $3.2 million next year, said spokesperson Victoria Raab.

"Certainly that means there's going to be some difficult decisions to make over
the coming weeks and months, but at this point we haven't made any specific
decisions about what that means for St. Mary's," she said.

Julia Dumanian, the chief executive at Cambridge Memorial Hospital, said it will
have to make about $5 million in cuts by the end of next year. The hospital is
still working on its financial plan, so she said she didn't know where those
cuts would be made.

The hospital's fixed costs -- areas such as salaries, heat and hydro -- are
expected to go up between five and 5.5 per cent, Dumanian said.

But funding from the province is expected to go up less than two per cent.
That's a problem because hospitals have to present balanced budgets.

"The economy hits all industries, including health care, and we have to be
realistic about what the impact the current economic environment . . . has on
our ability to deliver care," Dumanian said.

"Quality will never be compromised. However, access to certain services might be
a challenge."

No jobs have been cut so far at any of the local hospitals. In fact, all have
job postings up now.

But before vacancies are posted, they are thoroughly reviewed to ensure they
need to be filled, said Raab, at St. Mary's.

Also, new positions are not being created, she added.

Dumanian and Karjaluoto said it hasn't yet been determined if there will be
future job cuts.

"It's not our desired approach," Dumanian said.

Both Dumanian and Raab said wait times might go up, though it's not clear how
much or in which areas. Karjaluoto said it was too early to say, but "we know
there is a challenge."

All three hospitals said they will look at services available elsewhere in the
community and try to eliminate duplications.

Some provincial cuts already announced, such as delays in hiring 9,000 more
nurses and the setting up of 50 family health teams, will have an impact
locally, the hospitals said.

Primary care, such as family health teams, "keeps people out of our emergency
departments and it keeps people in their homes longer," Raab said. "So without
investment in that, I'm certain that the acute sector, i.e. hospitals, will see
the impact."

Andrew Morrison, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Health, said funding for
hospitals this fiscal year, which ends in March, will continue to come through
as promised. However, funding levels for next fiscal year are still under
discussion.

Cambridge Memorial has been working on an expansion, and its $3-million first
phase is almost complete, Dumanian said.

The hospital is waiting for authorization to start the next phase, which is
"imminent."

There's no reason to believe it won't come, Dumanian says.

kkawawada@therecord.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Metroland Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              485 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday

United Kingdom: European backing for two new Scottish hospitals confirmed

LENGTH: 359  words

DATELINE: Luxembourg


The European Investment Bank (EIB) has agreed to provide GBP 109 million for the
construction of a new District and General Hospital in Dumfries that will ensure
modern health-care for people living in the south-west of Scotland. The 26 year
loan from Europe's long-term lending institution represents around half of the
project cost and represents the second new hospital in Scotland to be supported
by the EIB this year following confirmation of GBP 83 million support for the
new Royal Hospital for Sick Children agreed in February. "The European
Investment Bank recognises that investment in new hospitals is essential to
reflect Europe's ageing population and ensure the highest-quality of medical
care.

Patients using these two new Scottish hospitals will benefit for years to come,
hospital staff will use the latest techniques and local smaller companies will
play a key role during construction. Europe's long-term lending institution is
fully committed to supporting long-term investment that improves the quality of
life of people living in Scotland and strengthens economic activity in the
country. Support for the new Dumfries and Galloway hospital and the Royal
Hospital for Sick Children follows recent EIB backing of new transport,
education energy, water and telecoms infrastructure across Scotland." said
Jonathan Taylor, European Investment Bank Vice President. "Reaching financial
close represents a pivotal moment for the delivery of the new hospital. The deal
struck with High Wood Health represents excellent value for money for the Board
over the duration of the entire contract that exceeds prior expectations.  It
incorporates an ambitious, innovative high quality design that is energy
efficient, sustainable and adaptable and will enable the delivery of the Board's
new model of care.  The deal will also bring with it numerous community benefits
that include 150 new jobs entrants, 36 modern apprenticeships and a range of
opportunities for small and medium businesses, boosting the local economy and
contributing to economic regeneration."  said Dennis O'Keeffe, NHS Dumfries and
Galloway Project Director for the new hospital.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              486 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 6, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

TEXAS MEDICAL CENTER GIVES LIFE TO HOUSTON, BUT THE OUTLOOK IS UNCERTAIN

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1195 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 3


These may be tough times in Houston, but there is still one boom town here: the
sprawling, 525-acre complex off Main Street south of downtown that is home to
what officials call the largest medical complex in the world.

It is the Texas Medical Center, a collection of 37 medical institutions that is
the most conspicuous sign of this city's aspirations to maintain its vigor no
matter what happens to the price of oil. Despite the city's economic slump, some
$1.5 billion in construction will be started at the medical center before the
end of the decade, including a new facility for Methodist Hospital that will be
the world's largest private hospital.

There are some questions whether the medical center's remarkable growth can
continue and whether it can provide as muchf f a lift for the local economy as
some here hope.

But for now the medical center, which is made up of 37 institutions with a total
budget of $1.5 billion and 52,000 employees, remains the brightest spot in
Houston's economic picture and perhaps the most obvious sign of the way Houston
is trying to change gears, both economically and psychologically, after the
collapse in the price of oil. #40 Years of Progress ''It's a nice little city
isn't it?'' said Harold Hicks, the center's vice president of operations, as he
toured the dozen or so major construction projects in the works.

When the medical center was dedicated in 1946, it had two medical schools, a
cancer hospital and three general hospitals. Now it has 12 hospitals or patient
care facilities and nine academic institutions among the 37 entities housed in
more than 50 permanent buildings.

It provides outpatient care for more than two million patients a year and has
6,013 hospital beds used by about 182,000 inpatients.

In the last five years alone, the center has added 1.2 million square feet of
facilities valued at $735 million, which almost doubled the total physical plant
investment at the complex. A recent study indicates the center provides $2.2
billion directly to the economy.

The center's dramatic growth has been a source of enormous local pride as proof
that Houston was more than just an oil boom town. Heart surgeons like Dr. Denton
Cooley and Dr. Michael E. DeBakey have made Houston the world's center for heart
transplant surgery.

Among the Best in the Nation

Several of the institutions are of national importance. The University of Texas
system's M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute ranks near New York's
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center at the top of the nation's cancer
facilities. The Baylor College of Medicine is regarded as one of the nation's
top 10 medical schools.

But until recently the center was regarded as more of a local resource and a
source of prestige than a major economic factor in the city. The collapse in oil
prices and the city's subsequent rush toward economic diversification have
changed that, and the medical center is now being touted by local boosters as an
economic force in a way it has never been viewed before.

''The medical center grew out of local philanthropy and it has succeeded beyond
everyone's wildest dreams,'' said Harry Holmes, assistant to the president of M.
D. Anderson Hospital. ''In the past it was viewed as something passive,
something that money from oil and gas and other industries have provided for the
people of Houston. Only recently have people begun to look at it as something
that can turn and become an aggressive source of growth for the local economy.''

Local economic development groups such as the Houston Economic Development
Council view the medical center, along with space-related businesses that could
develop as a secondary benefit from the Johnson Space Center, as among the
city's best resources for diversification. But the pace of that development will
be affected by both economic and cultural factors.

Doubts Over Future Funds

Medical center officials say there has been no major fallout from the region's
economic problems, but they acknowledge that the outlook is far less rosy than
it was in the boom years.

''It's gives some sense of pause, of concern, but I can't say we've felt much
impact so far,'' said Dr. Richard Wineirdi, president of the medical center.
''The concern is over maintaining our momentum, our trajectory of growth, and so
far we've been able to do that.''

But he said the center depended on Federal grants, state funds and philanthropic
donations, particularly from the Houston area. All those sources are under new
pressures. In the state capital in Austin, for example, financing for medical
education and research, which has always been sacrosanct, is under increasing
scrutiny as the state tries to deal with its budget morass.

At the Baylor College of Medicine, state financing has declined more than $5
million over the last three fiscal years, from $30.5 million in the fiscal year
1985 to $25 million in the fiscal year 1987. #3% Cut in Hospital Budget At M. D.
Anderson Hospital, this year's budget will be 3 percent below last year's, and
about 200 jobs, most of them not involved with patient care, have been
eliminated.

Also in question is the level of future economic spinoffs from the medical
center. Like many other cities, Houston is touting the prospects for biomedical
businesses that are expected to be developed because of the center.

An example of what Houston hopes to see is the Positron Corporation, one of
three companies in the nation making positron emission tomography cameras that
provide three-dimesional photographs of the body's internal organs.

''You will never find anyplace else the concentration of medical technology that
you find here,'' said Nizar Mullani, the company's founder, who is an associate
professor of medicine at the University of Texas Health Science Center at
Houston.

Lag in Biotechnology Spinoffs

But Bob Whittemore, director of the office of technology administration at the
Baylor College of Medicine, said Houston remained far behind medical centers on
the East and West Coasts in the interconnections between medical research and
industry. The medical and scientific expertise is there, but that does not mean
the entrepreneurial spinoffs will happen soon, he said.

''You look at somewhere like Stanford University, there are very sophisticated
linkages between industry and whole departments,'' he said. ''That hasn't
happened here. The growth will come, but it's not going to come as fast as any
of us would like.''

Such officials as Don Moyer, president of the Houston Economic Development
Council, concede that Houston businessemen and capital sources are going through
a painful transition from the more tangible, quick-hit world of oil or real
estate to the slower pace of technological change.

''You're talking about patient capital, and that may yet be a cultural challenge
we have to win,'' he said. ''The willingness to come up the learning curve is
there, but you might ask that if the enormous returns that were available in oil
and gas were to return, will there still be capital interested in moving into
areas of diversification? The jury is still out on that one.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: map of Houston highlighting Texas Medical Center

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              487 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                           October 21, 2003, Tuesday

Health insurance to be accepted at foreign hospitals

LENGTH: 418 words



The planning committee on free economic zones hinted yesterday that the
government may allow Koreans to use their national health insurance at the
foreign-invested hospitals that are scheduled to be built in Incheon, Busan and
Gwanyang.

The committee said the move may be unavoidable considering the foreign hospitals
will need local clients but the service will be too expensive for the average
population.

"The foreign-invested hospitals will be very costly because they will have fewer
patients than the domestic health facilities, and because they will be staffed
with high-paid professionals," an official within the committee said.

"Accordingly, we are considering permitting the use of Korea's national health
insurance, though those Koreans using foreign hospitals would probably be
subject to different coverage and support by the National Health Insurance
Corp.," he added.

As a part of its plans to develop Korea into a hub of Asia, the government said
it would develop the three cited regions as free economic zones that boast both
excellent business opportunities and living environments, including education
and health care.

For the health care part, the government is working on attracting investments
from world-class institutions, such as Johns Hopkins Hospital, Harvard Medical
School and Boston General Hospital.

"These hospitals will first and foremost be for the foreign residents, but it is
a reality that we cannot block local citizens from using their services," the
official explained. "But it is equally important that we guarantee the hospitals
real profits."

However, many predict that there will be controversy over this, given that
domestic hospitals will most likely not be keen on having to compete with the
foreign institutions. If the government tries to deal with this by allowing the
local hospitals to match terms and prices with the foreign ones, it would result
in an overall price hike of medical services.

The preparatory committee for the economic zones said that these were among the
several issues that they would work to resolve before the actual opening of the
zones in 2008.

"We still have a good five years to sort out the difficult problems, and in this
case, we will cooperate closely with the Ministry of Health and Welfare to come
up with solutions that will minimize the negative side effects on the industry
while at the same time encouraging outside investment into the three economic
zones," the official said.

(mihui@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2003 The Korea Herald


                              488 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                         TendersInfo - Project Notices

                              June 2, 2017 Friday

Yalobusha General Hospital Expansion

LENGTH: 177  words


Location - Water Valley
Yalobusha General Hospital is investing $3.8 million in the health care of the
people of Yalobusha County by expanding in Water Valley creating 32 jobs.


This expansion demonstrates Yalobusha General Hospitals commitment to the
community and its patients and ensures they continue receiving quality health
care in Water Valley
The expansion includes interior and exterior renovations, as well as the
addition of a second floor to house a geropsychology unit.
Access to quality health care is a key factor in community development that
drives private capital investment for economic growth.  Yalobusha General
Hospitals renovation strengthens the countys health care infrastructure, which
will enhance economic development for the people of Water Valley and the
Yalobusha County area
Construction is scheduled to be completed by July 2018.
Project completion date : 2018-07-30 12:00:00
Major organization : YALOBUSHA GENERAL HOSPITAL

Address : 630 S Main St,
Water Valley, MS 38965

Country :United States
Url : https://www.yalobushageneral.com /

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 811


                          Copyright 2017 Tenders Info
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              489 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 March 22, 2005

New flats built at historic hospital

SECTION: News; Business; Construction; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 175 words


A Historic Aberdeen property is set to come to life again after years of disuse.
The 150-year-old Elmhill House, part of the B-listed Royal Cornhill Hospital
designed by William Ramage and Archibald Simpson, has been transformed from its
bomb-damaged state.

And later this month new apartments will be released for sale in the
conservation area development.

Many of its original features have been retained and incorporated into
contemporary accommodation.

The development is a joint venture between the Premier Property Group - an arm
of Murray International Holdings controlled by David Murray - and The Burrell
Company, specialists in urban regeneration.

It is the second hospital development in Aberdeen for the pairing, Premier
Burrell, which has also turned the former City Hospital site into houses and
flats.

Thirty-one two and three-bedroom apartments have been created at Elmhill House
and will go on sale on March 31.

Selling agents Hutcheon Rattray and Co have no price list available for the
properties.


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Evening Express


                              490 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 10, 2017 Tuesday

Hospitals are less likely to admit publicly insured children, but outcomes
aren't affected

LENGTH: 697  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Hospitals are less likely to admit children covered by public insurance such as
Medicaid than privately insured children with similar symptoms, especially when
hospitals beds are scarce. But the disparity doesn't appear to affect health
outcomes, according to Princeton University researchers who analyzed information
on tens of thousands of children who came to New Jersey emergency rooms between
2006 and 2012.





 "In the end, I think we came to kind of a surprising conclusion that maybe the
problem isn't that too few publicly insured children are being hospitalized,"
said Princeton health economist Janet Currie . "Maybe the problem is that too
many privately insured children are being hospitalized when they don't really
need it."



 The research was conducted by Currie, the Henry Putnam Professor of Economics
and Public Affairs, chair of the Department of Economics, and co-director of the
Center for Health and Wellbeing, and Diane Alexander, an economist at the
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago who earned her Ph.D. at Princeton.



 Their article, titled "Are Publicly Insured Children Less Likely to Be Admitted
to Hospital Than the Privately Insured (and Does it Matter)?", was published
Dec. 9, 2016, by the journal Economics and Human Biology. A PDF is available on
request.



 Currie, who has done extensive research on patients covered by Medicaid, said
she was drawn to the project by the challenge of understanding whether hospitals
treat people insured by Medicaid and SCHIP (State Children's Health Insurance
Program) differently than people with private insurance. On average, hospitals
receive lower payments for treating publicly insured children than privately
insured ones.



 To answer the question, Currie and Alexander examined records on all children
between the ages of 3 months and 13 years who came to a New Jersey emergency
room over seven years. The researchers recorded whether the child was admitted
to the hospital and whether hospital beds were in high demand at the time
because of local influenza outbreaks.



 They found that publicly insured children were less likely to be admitted to
the hospital overall, even when controlled for factors such as their diagnosis
and characteristics of the hospitals. The disparity widened when hospital beds
were scarce.



 "That sounds kind of sinister, but we see absolutely no evidence it results in
any increased return trips to the emergency room or that those who return are
sicker," Currie said. "As far as we can see, yes, people are being turned away
because they have public health insurance, but there's no health consequence."



 Why does the disparity in admission rates matter?



 Unnecessary hospital admissions have important consequences, Currie said,
including the risk of hospital-acquired infections and other complications, the
cost of hospitalization, and the time children are away from school.



 Anna Aizer, an associate professor of economics and public policy at Brown
University who studies health outcomes for the poor, pointed to the finding that
privately insured children may be over-treated as especially significant.



 "This is an important finding that is likely to spur more research examining
whether similar patterns are evident in other contexts," Aizer said. "The
results will likely have important implications for policymakers interested in
understanding and addressing both rising health care costs and disparities in
health."



 Currie said the research is part of a larger project that is examining how
health care is allocated in a range of situations, including heart attacks and
cesarean sections.



 "There are people who are getting things they don't need and then there are
people who do need treatments but aren't getting them," Currie said. "So, in
some sense, the procedures aren't being matched properly to the patients. If you
kept the same amount of care and allocated it better, you could have better
health outcomes for the same overall cost."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              491 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 10, 2017 Tuesday

Hospitals are less likely to admit publicly insured children, but outcomes
aren't affected

LENGTH: 697  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Hospitals are less likely to admit children covered by public insurance such as
Medicaid than privately insured children with similar symptoms, especially when
hospitals beds are scarce. But the disparity doesn't appear to affect health
outcomes, according to Princeton University researchers who analyzed information
on tens of thousands of children who came to New Jersey emergency rooms between
2006 and 2012.





 "In the end, I think we came to kind of a surprising conclusion that maybe the
problem isn't that too few publicly insured children are being hospitalized,"
said Princeton health economist Janet Currie . "Maybe the problem is that too
many privately insured children are being hospitalized when they don't really
need it."



 The research was conducted by Currie, the Henry Putnam Professor of Economics
and Public Affairs, chair of the Department of Economics, and co-director of the
Center for Health and Wellbeing, and Diane Alexander, an economist at the
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago who earned her Ph.D. at Princeton.



 Their article, titled "Are Publicly Insured Children Less Likely to Be Admitted
to Hospital Than the Privately Insured (and Does it Matter)?", was published
Dec. 9, 2016, by the journal Economics and Human Biology. A PDF is available on
request.



 Currie, who has done extensive research on patients covered by Medicaid, said
she was drawn to the project by the challenge of understanding whether hospitals
treat people insured by Medicaid and SCHIP (State Children's Health Insurance
Program) differently than people with private insurance. On average, hospitals
receive lower payments for treating publicly insured children than privately
insured ones.



 To answer the question, Currie and Alexander examined records on all children
between the ages of 3 months and 13 years who came to a New Jersey emergency
room over seven years. The researchers recorded whether the child was admitted
to the hospital and whether hospital beds were in high demand at the time
because of local influenza outbreaks.



 They found that publicly insured children were less likely to be admitted to
the hospital overall, even when controlled for factors such as their diagnosis
and characteristics of the hospitals. The disparity widened when hospital beds
were scarce.



 "That sounds kind of sinister, but we see absolutely no evidence it results in
any increased return trips to the emergency room or that those who return are
sicker," Currie said. "As far as we can see, yes, people are being turned away
because they have public health insurance, but there's no health consequence."



 Why does the disparity in admission rates matter?



 Unnecessary hospital admissions have important consequences, Currie said,
including the risk of hospital-acquired infections and other complications, the
cost of hospitalization, and the time children are away from school.



 Anna Aizer, an associate professor of economics and public policy at Brown
University who studies health outcomes for the poor, pointed to the finding that
privately insured children may be over-treated as especially significant.



 "This is an important finding that is likely to spur more research examining
whether similar patterns are evident in other contexts," Aizer said. "The
results will likely have important implications for policymakers interested in
understanding and addressing both rising health care costs and disparities in
health."



 Currie said the research is part of a larger project that is examining how
health care is allocated in a range of situations, including heart attacks and
cesarean sections.



 "There are people who are getting things they don't need and then there are
people who do need treatments but aren't getting them," Currie said. "So, in
some sense, the procedures aren't being matched properly to the patients. If you
kept the same amount of care and allocated it better, you could have better
health outcomes for the same overall cost."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              492 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              August 30, 2001 Thursday Illinois Five Star Edition

NURSES OK NOTICE OF ACTION AT ST. JOHN'S

BYLINE: Judith VandeWater Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 227 words


After 22 months of negotiations, registered nurses at St. John's Mercy Medical
Center in Creve Coeur authorized their union Wednesday night to give notice of
an economic action against the hospital.

That action could mean a call for a community boycott of the hospital, a work
slowdown, a work stoppage, a refusal to work overtime or other actions.

In a series of three meetings at Queeny Park on Wednesday that were closed to
the news media, nurse negotiators sought the authority to call for an "economic
action" against St. John's, one of the area's largest hospitals. The three
meetings yielded about a 91 percent approval of authorizing the notice of an
economic action, union officials said. About 700 attended the meetings.

In a separate issue, hospital administrators confirmed Wednesday that nurses
opposed to the union were in the early stages of an effort to decertify United
Food and Commercial Workers Local 655 as the collective bargaining agent for the
approximately 1,500 registered nurses at St. John's.

The hospital said in a statement issued Wednesday that both sides have been
working hard and in good faith to reach agreement and negotiations are
continuing.

Hospital spokeswoman Amy Zimmerman said she would not comment on the vote to
authorize the notice until the hospital had been formally notified of the vote
by the union.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              493 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 1, 1998, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Nation

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 696 words



Rise of index points

to growth in 1998

A key measure of future economic activity, released Wednesday, rose for the
fifth straight month and promised further growth in 1998 for an economic
expansion that already is the third longest in U.S. history. The Conference
Board, a private research group, said the Index of Leading Economic Indicators
rose 0.1 percent in November to 104.6, suggesting that the U.S. economy will
continue growing at least through early 1998.

PART OF TELECOM LAW STRUCK DOWN: A federal judge in Wichita Falls, Texas, on
Wednesday struck down a provision of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 that
prevented the so-called Baby Bells from providing long-distance service.
Kendall ruled on a lawsuit that SBC Communications of San Antonio, Texas,  filed
alleging that the law unconstitutionally singled out the companies. SBC  said
the ruling enables it to provide long-distance in the Southwest.

TEAMSTERS HEAD LOSES IN COURT: U.S. District Judge David Edelstein upheld the
disqualification of Teamsters union president Ron Carey from seeking
re-election. On Wednesday, the judge also refused to order a hearing Carey
requested to rebut charges of illegal fund raising. His attorney said Carey
will appeal.

ANOTHER COLUMBIA OFFICIAL QUITS: Another Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.
executive is leaving, the 12th senior executive to exit the troubled company
this year. David Manning, who is leaving to start a health care consulting
business, has for three years served as Columbia's senior vice president in
charge of government relations and issues concerning Medicaid and the
uninsured, the company said this week.

AOL ADDRESSES MAY BE POSTED: The National Organization of Internet Commerce of
Chino, Calif., which represents small Internet businesses, has threatened to
make public the e-mail addresses of 5-million America Online members on Jan. 8
if AOL continues to bar the businesses from pitching products to its
subscribers.

Tampa Bay/State

STORE TO CLOSE: Service Merchandise Co. said Wednesday that it will close its
store at Eastlake Square Mall, 5701 E Hillsborough Ave., Tampa. Normal
operations will end Jan. 15, with a sample sale scheduled for Jan. 16-19. The
move is part of a plan announced in March to close underperforming stores.

PURCHASE COMPLETED: Vision Twenty-One Inc. of Largo, an eye care practice
management company, has completed the acquisitions of LSI Acquisition Inc. and
MEC Health Care Inc. from LaserSight Inc. LSI has a 25-year service agreement
with Northern N.J. Eye Institute, an ophthalmology practice in South Orange,
N.J. MEC, a managed care company in Baltimore, holds 11 managed eye care
contracts, principally in Baltimore, Washington, D.C., and Virginia.

Markets

MORTGAGE RATES UP: Mortgage interest rates rose slightly this week from a
22-month low. The average rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages was 7.03
percent, up from 6.99 percent last week, Freddie Mac, the mortgage company,
said Wednesday. Fifteen-year mortgages, a popular option for refinancing,
averaged 6.61 percent this week, up from 6.57 percent. On one-year
adjustable-rate mortgages, lenders were asking an average initial rate of 5.50
percent, down from 5.53 percent. The rates do not include add-on fees known as
points.

DOW SLIPS: Blue-chip shares faltered as 1997 drew to a close, but most stocks
rose on Wednesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 7.72 to 7,908.25,
trimming 1997's gain to 1,459.98 points, or 22.6 percent.

1997 MARKET REVIEW COMING FRIDAY: Look in Friday's Business section for our
annual review of the stock, mutual fund and bond markets, including year-end
financial listings. The section also includes a glimpse of what market  analysts
are thinking about the prospects for 1998.

DOW              DOLLAR              YIELD

30 INDUSTRIALS  VS. JAPANESE YEN   30-YEAR U.S. BOND

7908.25          130.42               5.92

-7.72            +0.29              -0.04

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              494 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                             July 25, 2008, Friday

Our views;
Wealth solves many problems;
CAMC's proposal illustrates the desperate need for growth

BYLINE: Dmedit

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 370 words


CHARLESTON Area Medical Center is the largest provider of Medicaid services in
the state. It provides 25 percent of the charity care in West Virginia as well.

The hospital's situation brings into sharp focus why West Virginia needs to
remove barriers to economic growth as rapidly as possible. The private and
public sectors are paying a heavy price for the state's failure to do that.

A fifth of the state's population is covered by the Medicaid program. Half the
babies born in the state are born on the taxpayers' dime.

And the truth is, economic failure is an expensive proposition. According to the
Kaiser Family Foundation's statehealthfacts.org, state taxpayers put $315
million into Medicaid in 2006. Because the state's per capita income is so low,
federal taxpayers matched that 3-to-1, putting up $1.5 billion for West
Virginia's Medicaid program.

That is not nearly enough.

Medicaid reimburses hospitals for only about half the cost of treating patients
covered by the program. CAMC lost about $25 million on Medicaid in 2006 and
about $30 million in 2007.

What the hospital loses on Medicaid and other government plans must be paid by
someone.

That someone is West Virginia's anemic private sector - the one that is expected
to create the wealth that relieves the poverty.

Overall, about $100 million in costs are shifted to private-sector payors.
Locally, this hidden tax on business amounts to about $20 million.

The state collects a health care provider tax to generate part of the funds used
to draw down the federal Medicaid money. CAMC proposes that the city collect an
additional provider tax from hospitals and remit the money to the state.

The state would then use the money to draw down additional federal money,
sending it to the hospitals that paid the tax. CAMC contends that it could
reduce the hidden tax on businesses by $15 million.

This proposal for a circular mechanism might not be approved. It's too soon to
tell.

But the fact that hospitals must consider such measures is a clue to how
desperately the state needs to clear away any obstacles to economic growth.

The cure for poverty is the creation of wealth.

West Virginia would find all of its problems much easier to solve if it made
growth easier.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers


                              495 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                              July 17, 2015 Friday
                                 Early Edition

Mega-hospital plans to open door to investors

BYLINE: Derek Spalding, The Windsor Star

SECTION: WINDSOR &; REGION; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 516 words


The newly unveiled proposal for a revamped regional hospital in Windsor is
already attracting potential investment from the private sector, health
officials said Thursday.

Just days after news broke about the locations of the new mega-hospital on
County Road 42 and its three satellite sites, talk has already emerged about
using the opportunity to attract new businesses and jobs from the health sector.

The business community came out with enthusiastic support for the new regional
hospital project. Not only are investors salivating to be part of site
redevelopment at the various locations, there is significant potential to turn
the region into a health sciences hub, said Matt Marchand, head of the
Windsor-Essex Chamber of Commerce.

"This is potentially one of the biggest investments in an (industry) we're not
particularly known for, "he said. "This is an excellent opportunity to develop a
new industry."

Marchand could be right on the money with his prediction. Other regions that
have built similar style megahospitals have experienced widespread economic
spinoffs, particularly in health sciences, according to Windsor Regional
Hospital CEO David Musyj.

"That's the historic pattern that these other mega-hospitals have seen in other
regions," he said, recognizing the obvious economic boost the region could see
when the project unfolds in the next decade. "We had patient needs in the
region, which was our primary goal throughout our planning, but certainly this
is going to be an economic driver."

The new hospital itself won't demand too much in terms of an expanded workforce.
Overall staffing levels at Windsor Regional will remain the same with about
4,000 employees plus 500 physicians.

Hotel-Dieu Grace may need some additional staff, but the figures would be
minimal, said CEO Janice Kaffer.

"We'll probably have to hire some new people. We have six new (dialysis)
stations to serve," she said. "I'm not sure of the numbers right now. We'll get
into the planning stages very soon."

The real economic benefits will come from the spinoffs. And the enthusiasm about
that prospect is already building, just days after news of the locations leaked
to the public.

"We've already had calls from a few companies that want to be part of this,"
Musyj said. "When we get to (Stage 2), there's only going to be more."

Aside from fostering health-related investment in the region, Marchand - like
many others - anticipates new development around the main hospital site on
County Road 42, but also around the other sites within Windsor's urban core.

Investors are sure to flock to the area of University Avenue West surrounding
the site of the former Grace Hospital, which will become a satellite urgent care
centre, according to Marchand.

Attracting new business at this particular location gets even easier with the
city's $5-million plan for an overall rejuvenation of a stretch of University.
The plan calls for boulevards, trees, bike lanes and other transportation
improvements.

dspalding@windsorstar.com twitter.com/Derek_Spalding !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015
Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Windsor Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              496 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                           Crain's Cleveland Business
                                 Print Version

                                October 17, 2016

Study 'reinforces' impact of hospitals to economy

BYLINE: LYDIA COUTRÉ; lcoutre@crain.com

SECTION: Pg. 6 Vol. 37

LENGTH: 802  words


In 2015, hospitals in Northeast Ohio pumped roughly $11.5 billion into the local
economy through both direct and indirect employment, according to a new study
from the Center for Health Affairs.

"It reinforces how important the hospitals are to Northeast Ohio (and) the
financial health of the community," said Laura Gronowski, chief of staff for the
center, an advocacy group for Northeast Ohio hospitals. "The hospitals are major
employers in the area and contribute greatly to the financial strength."

Hospitals in Cuyahoga and surrounding counties employ more than 81,000 people
directly, plus roughly 4,300 through their construction projects. Combined,
these employees earned almost $7 billion in salaries and benefits in 2015.

The 2016 Economic Impact Report, which the center released in September, also
factors in the jobs and income estimated to be created by employees spending
their paychecks in the community. The study calculates that this contributes to
another roughly 81,000 jobs and $4.5 billion in a six-county region: Cuyahoga,
Ashtabula, Geauga, Lake, Lorain and Medina.

The center releases this study about every three years. The total contribution
to direct and indirect income in the region is up from $10 billion in the last
report examining 2010 data.

Heidi Gartland, vice president of government and community relations for
University Hospitals, said UH is keenly aware of its work not only as a health
care provider but also as an economic driver.

"Obviously, we do an amazing job at UH in providing health care for the
community, but I think one of the things that people don't often think about is
the benefit of the economy that presence of amazing health care provides," she
said.

In the past several years, UH has begun focusing on buying and hiring locally.
Prior to that shift, UH "sort of bought things where we bought things."

Of the total $832 million it spent in goods and services in 2015, $199 million
was spent with vendors in Cleveland and $363 million with vendors in Ohio.

"We know that the minute we invest that purchase in the local economy, those
dollars stay locally," Gartland said.

The Cleveland Clinic also conducts internal studies of its economic impact,
generally for stakeholders, board members, community leaders or the media. Mike
Harrington, the Clinic's chief accounting officer and controller, said that
people often ask the Clinic about its impact, especially as a nonprofit.

These studies are a way to "demonstrate what kind of engine we are in terms of
fueling the economy here in Northeast Ohio," he said.

In addition to the workforce it employs, Harrington points out the Clinic's
investments into the expansion of its services across the region also impacts
the economy, including building a brand new cancer center with a budget in the
$300 million range; creating a Health Education Campus in partnership with Case
Western Reserve University, a project around $500 million; and a new hospital in
Avon for about $160 million.

Given its international reputation, Harrington said, the Clinic also brings in a
lot of patients from outside the region, state or country, which further fuels
local spending.

According to the Center for Health Affairs' report, 16.9% of the region's total
hospital revenue was earned from providing care to patients who live outside of
Northeast Ohio.

The report also highlighted the community benefit total from hospitals in
Northeast Ohio, which calculates the free and subsidized care they provided,
community health improvement initiatives, health professions education and
in-kind contributions to community groups.

In total, the region's hospitals offered $1.8 billion in community benefit.

"There's a really big tie in terms of our economic predominance to being able to
really not only do good health care, but also think about the future both in
cures from the research that we do and in making sure that we've got the
workforce that's going to take care of the certainly changing demographic,"
Gartland said. "We know our population is getting older so we have to make sure
that we're training that next generation that's going to be there to take care
of whatever the health diseases are of that future population."

Hospitals included in the study were Ashtabula County Medical Center, Cleveland
Clinic Health System, Lake Health, Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center,
Mercy Allen Hospital, Mercy Regional Medical Center, Southwest General Health
Center, St. Vincent Charity Medical Center, The MetroHealth System, UH St. John
Medical Center and University Hospitals

The report compiles data from The Center for Health Affairs' Volume Statistics
Report, its tax study and an economic impact report it commissioned. The report
was completed by professors of regional economics at Oklahoma State University.

Twitter: @LydiaCoutre

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CL


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              497 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

AREA HOSPITALS TO TRIM LEADERSHIP POSITIONS;

BYLINE: John Stucke Staff writer

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 187 words


Providence Sacred Heart Medical Center and Holy Family Hospital are eliminating
19 management positions this month as broad economic problems reach area
hospitals.

Dr. Andrew Agwunobi, chief executive officer at Providence's operations in
Eastern Washington, said last month that layoffs were likely. The region's
largest private employer is bracing for deep cuts in state-funding - a source of
revenue that pays a big part of the overall bill for patients needing hospital
care.

Staffing accounts for 52 percent of the hospital's overall budget and Agwunobi
said the 19 leadership jobs are the first of "what could be ongoing reductions
necessary to weather the tumultuous economic environment."

Executives are consulting with outside firm Wellspring Partners to review
hospital operations and costs. As the results come in, the hospital has been
making changes to curb costs such as leaving positions dark, freezing top
management salaries and reducing discretionary spending.

Severance pay and career transition aid are being made available. A recall
program has been installed to give hire-back priority to those laid off.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              498 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                             The New Zealand Herald

                           February 21, 2002 Thursday

Budget plea to prevent ill health

BYLINE: By FRANCESCA MOLD

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 367 words


A large chunk of the Government's $2.4 billion boost to health spending should
be used to prevent hospital admissions which swallow up most of the sector's
money, says the Public Health Association.

The Government said in December that it would provide the extra money over the
next three years to pay off ballooning deficits, loosen the financial vice on
hospitals and cut the cost of GP visits.

But in a submission to a parliamentary select committee considering this year's
Budget policy statement, the association urged the Government to give priority
to preventing ill health rather than dedicating large sums to hospitals.

Association director Gay Keating quoted Ministry of Health figures showing that
30 per cent of all hospital admissions were "potentially avoidable".

She said shifting the focus of the health sector and its financing to preventing
ill health would save costs.

"The New Zealand experience clearly demonstrates that hospital services will
expand to consume any funding available," Dr Keating said.

"Unless funding for prevention is clearly identified, the New Zealand history is
that pressure of acute hospital services will override the need for investment."

Dr Keating said the Government had to realise that economic policy could not be
separated from social policy.

It was vital that systematic monitoring and assessment of the health and social
impacts of Macro-economic policy were undertaken, she said.

Dr Keating urged the Government to continue to develop taxation policies
targeted to improving health.

Business NZ told the parliamentary committee that the Budget policy statement
was geared to low growth rather than spurring the economy higher.

It recommended lower taxes and said a reduction in corporate tax to 20 per cent
by 2010 should be a Government priority.

Business NZ also wants Government spending reduced to less than 30 per cent of
GDP by 2005 and to scrap the Super Fund.

It expressed its opposition to linking the superannuation level to the average
wage.

The business group said the Government should prove the need to hold commercial
assets such as for Kiwibank and Air New Zealand and have a plan to quit those
assets.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

          Copyright 2002 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.


                              499 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The Daily Yomiuri

                           September 8, 1996, Sunday

Diagnosis: Japanese health care in good hands

BYLINE: Tom Weverka ; Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 645 words


HEALTH ECONOMICS OF JAPAN

By Aki Yoshikawa, Jayanta

Bhattacharya and William B. Vogt

University of Tokyo Press

322 pp. 5,356 yen

Not only do the Japanese live longer, suffer fewer infant deaths and enjoy
better access to hospitals than Europeans and North Americans, they pay a
cheaper medical bill for these privileges. This country spends about 7 percent
of its gross domestic product on health care, compared with 9 percent in Germany
and 14 percent in the United States, where 40 million people are uninsured.

Much of the credit for this success goes to Japan's universal health insurance
system, which shines above even its European counterparts. In Britain,
socialized medicine has not eliminated the differences in mortality rates
between the social classes. In Japan, by all statistical accounts, the poor are
as healthy as the rich.

Nevertheless, the graying of the population and swelling public hospital bills
are putting pressure on the Health and Welfare Ministry to cut costs. "Health
Economics of Japan" applies economic principles to the study of health care for
analyzing patient behavior and gauging the cost efficiency of medical services
and technology in this country.

This straightforward report by the Comparative Health Care Policy Research
Project at Stanford University will be of interest to industry analysts,
economists or anyone seeking a better understanding of how the ministry, doctors
and hospital administrators interact in Japan. The book represents a pioneering
attempt to introduce market principles into the Japanese health-care industry to
clarify medical standards and improve treatment while alleviating the burden on
taxpayers.

The authors are the first to admit that the principles of economics, a quasi
science at best, do not always apply to the health-care industry. Hospital and
government data can be fuzzy or flawed, making analysis difficult. The customer,
or the patient, may not understand the services purchased--if he or she is
indeed buying them. Japanese patients usually foot only 10 percent of the bill
as out-of-pocket expenses and may not worry much about cost. Or, once sick,
people will pay whatever it takes to get well. On the other hand, it is in the
economic interest of the producer--the doctor or clinic--that the product or
service offered will require ongoing use or will fail, forcing the patient to
return. Doctors and auto mechanics sometimes think alike.

In each chapter the authors pose a question, provide background information on
the topic, establish variables and work them into an equation. After applying
the statistics to the equation, they reach a seemingly objective understanding
of the issue. Trying to fit the day-to-day workings of hospital staff and the
benefits of technology into tidy equations is in some ways futile, but economics
models are useful for understanding the true value of services rendered.

The authors refute some common beliefs about patient behavior and treatment
under a universal health insurance system. Their analysis shows that patients
are more sensitive to cost and nursing quality than was previously thought.
Japanese hospitals employ too many doctors and registered nurses but not enough
private nurses, and the average monthly medical bill for a senior citizen is no
higher than it is for a middle-aged worker.

One of the most interesting chapters compares the incidence of surgery in Japan
and the United States. An American who sees a doctor is twice as likely as a
Japanese to be admitted to a hospital and four times as likely to undergo
surgery. The Japanese patient can afford to practice preventive medicine by
visiting the doctor before the problem gets out of hand. The American worries
more about cost and may put off the visit until surgery is required. Paying now
is more economical than paying later.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1996 The Daily Yomiuri
