                               1 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        Watertown Daily Times (New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 24, 2008 Monday

Hospitals make NNY economy healthier

BYLINE: Alex Jacobs, Watertown Daily Times, N.Y.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 739 words


Mar. 24--In addition to quality health care, the north country's hospitals
provide jobs and revenue for surrounding communities. Recent economic impact
reports by the Healthcare Association of New York State show just how far that
money goes.

Using economic modeling software developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce's
Bureau of Economic Analysis, HANYS estimates each hospital's economic impact
using multipliers to show the ripple effect each dollar a medical center spends
has on its community.

The organization found that New York state's hospitals generate $101.1 billion
for the local and state economies, or about 10 percent of the state gross
product, each year.

According to HANYS's Economic and Community Benefit Report, Samaritan Medical
Center provided 2,090 jobs in 2006, with a payroll of $143,043,000. In addition,
the hospital spent $77,639,000 on goods and services and invested $18,055,000 in
capital spending.

All in all, Samaritan's total estimated economic impact was $238,728,000 in
2006.

"It's the biggest single employer in the city. That says it all. It has
tremendous impact to the extent that Watertown is a regional medical hub," Mayor
Jeffrey E. Graham said. "You've got to have a health care center with a
population center, and we're probably home to the biggest one in the north
country. That's a good thing."

At Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center, employee dollars go a long way in the
Ogdensburg economy -- and the hospital helps the city attract businesses.

The medical center paid its 710 employees $37,982,000 in 2006, according the
report. Dollars earned by hospital employees generated approximately $73,336,000
in economic activity for the Ogdensburg area. The hospital's total estimated
economic impact in 2006 was $133,499,000.

"Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center is extremely important to the greater Ogdensburg
community. It's a first-class facility, and it's extremely important in
recruiting prospective businesses," Ogdensburg Mayor William D. Nelson said.
"It's a very large economic engine in the community. As the community grows, the
hospital does as well."

Mr. Nelson, who works as vice president of support services for the hospital,
added that the physicians and medical staff recruited by the hospital contribute
to the city's character.

"They bring new ideas, and many are involved with community boards. It brings a
whole spectrum to the community," the mayor said.

Canton-Potsdam Hospital, Potsdam, also helps to entice professors and college
students to the north country.

"Many people, when they're choosing a college or job, look to access to health
care as a key part of where they go," said Richard D. Jacobs, the hospital's
vice president for finance. "We clearly provide a service as well as creating a
key part of the infrastructure of the community. As we grow and hire new
employees, they spend dollars that go in local employers' pockets."

The hospital had a payroll of $29,978,000 for its 560 employees in 2006, which
accounted for another 1,010 jobs in the community and generated approximately
$57,882,000 for local businesses. Canton-Potsdam Hospital's overall economic
impact was estimated to be $108,987,000 in 2006.

"For every dollar we spend, we generate $1.93 in the community," Mr. Jacobs
estimated.

Lewis County General Hospital and Residential Health Care Facility, Lowville,
with a payroll of $23,132,000, provided 500 jobs and helped to generate
approximately $44,663,000 in the Lowville area in 2006, according to the report.

The hospital spent $10,567,000 on goods and services and $3,537,000 on buildings
and equipment; its total estimated economic impact was $71,895,000.

Carthage Area Hospital's payroll was $31,090,000 in 2006, and it provided 540
jobs. The hospital spent $15,775,000 on supplies and $3,775,000 for its
buildings and equipment. The hospital's estimated total economic impact was
$50,640,000.

Figures were not available for Massena Memorial Hospital, River Hospital in
Alexandria Bay or E.J. Noble Hospital, Gouverneur.

To see more of the Watertown Daily Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.watertowndailytimes.com. Copyright (c) 2008, Watertown Daily
Times, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080324-WE-HOSPITALS-IMPACT-20080324

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WE


                      Copyright 2008 Watertown Daily Times


