                              96 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 13, 2008 Monday

Region cashes in on health education: UT medical college contributes $1.6B

BYLINE: Julie M. Mckinnon, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 463 words


Oct. 13--The University of Toledo's medical school and its main affiliated
teaching hospitals contributed $1.6 billion to the state's economy last year,
part of $37.2 billion from Ohio's academic health-care industry overall,
according to a recent report.

In addition, UT and all teaching hospitals with which it affiliates in Ohio
accounted for 57,060 full-time positions and $177.6 million in total state tax
revenue last year. Their total economic impact was $5.3 billion last year,
according to the report from the Ohio Council of Medical Deans.

While the economy overall has struggled, the economic impact from Ohio's
academic health-care industry has jumped from $21 billion in 2002 to $37.2
billion last year, said Dr. Jeffrey Gold, dean of UT's college of medicine, who
also is executive vice president and provost for health affairs.

Teaching hospitals such as the University of Toledo Medical Center, formerly the
Medical College of Ohio, not only educate medical students and residents, but
they care for patients, provide employment, do research, and undergo capital
expansion projects, Dr. Gold said.

And funding sources remain available for medical projects, such as a medical
office building UT is considering constructing on its Health Science Campus, he
said.

"In addition to the education mission, they are very, very much an important
part of the economics of the region," Dr. Gold said. "There are very few other
industries ... that have had the same increase in economic impact."

In 2002, the economic impact from the former Medical College of Ohio and its
main affiliated teaching hospitals -- St. Vincent Mercy Medical Center and
Toledo Hospital -- was $1.26 billion. That is more than 20 percent lower than
last year's $1.6 billion, according to the report.

The Ohio Council of Medical Deans first commissioned the impact report in 2002,
and it plans to have one performed every five years, a spokesman said.

The state's academic health-care industry has 425,000 full-time positions, with
one in every 12 working Ohioans directly or indirectly employed by a medical
school or teaching hospital, according to the report.

Ohio has seven medical schools. Ohio State University's medical school and core
teaching hospitals had the largest economic impact statewide at $11.4 billion,
the report said.

Contact Julie M. McKinnon at:

jmckinnon@theblade.com

or 419-724-6087.

To see more of The Blade, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.toledoblade.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20081013-TO-Region-cashes-in-on-health-education-1013

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2008 The Blade


