                              102 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Newton Daily News, Iowa

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

Study: Skiff creates $25 million impact on local economy

BYLINE: Newton Daily News, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 379 words


Feb. 22--Skiff Medical Center generates 361 jobs that contributed more than $25
million to Jasper County's economy, according to the latest study by the Iowa
Hospital Association.  In addition, Skiff employees by themselves spend almost
$7 million on retail sales and contribute about $400,000 in state sales tax
revenue.

"Skiff Medical Center is one of the major employees not only in Newton, but in
all of Jasper County," CEO Steve Long said. "Our vision is to be a 'treasured
community asset' and our many caregivers work hard every day to live up to this
ideal.  It is satisfying to know that we are able to impact the community not
only in the excellent care we provide for our patients but in the significant
direct and indirect investment we make economically, as well."

The IHA study examined the jobs, income, retail sales and sales tax produced by
hospitals and the rest of the state's health care sector. The study was compiled
from hospital-submitted data on the American Hospital Association's Annual
Survey of Hospitals and with software that other industries have used to
determine their economic impact.

The study found that Iowa hospitals directly employ 71,169 people and create
another 62,198 jobs outside the hospital sector.  As an income source, hospitals
provide more than $4 billion in salaries and benefits and generate another $2.2
billion through other jobs that depend on hospitals.

"In most Iowa counties, hospitals are among the three or four largest employers,
but it's more than just providing jobs," IHA president and CEO Kirk Norris said.
"People are often unaware of the broader contribution that hospitals make to
their local economies, the significance of hospital purchases with local
businesses and the impact of their employees' spending for the entire region."

Iowa community hospitals generate more than 133,000 jobs that add nearly $6.2
billion to the state's economy, according to IHA's latest Iowa hospital economic
impact report.  In addition, Iowa hospital employees by themselves spend $1.8
billion on retail sales and contribute nearly $106 million in state sales tax
revenue.

___ (c)2013 the Newton Daily News (Newton, Iowa) Visit the Newton Daily News
(Newton, Iowa) at www.newtondailynews.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130222-1NI-Study-Skiff-creates-25-million-impact-on-local-economy-0222-2013022
2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1NI


                     Copyright 2013 Newton Daily News, Iowa


