                              143 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The Economic Times

                          November 10, 2005, Thursday

Wockhardt to roll out four new hospital projects

LENGTH: 363 words



MUMBAI, India -- Wockhardt Hospitals plans to set up four new hospitals across
the country at a total outlay of Rs 500 crore. The projects will be executed
over the next two years and will involve setting up greenfield projects in New
Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Kolkata.

The first of the new hospitals, which is located at Bangalore, will be
commissioned in the first quarter of next year, Wockhardt Hospitals' chairman,
Habil Khorakiwala said. The new hospital will also be affiliated with the
Harvard Medical International (HMI).

Wockhardt is one of the few private healthcare players to have established
hospitals across the country. It already has three hospitals, located at Mumbai,
Bangalore and Kolkata.

The group's Mumbai hospital has just achieved accreditation from Joint
Commission International (JCI), US, a gold standard in global healthcare. With
this, Wockhardt Hospitals joins a group of 71 hospitals worldwide, which have
passed JCI's stringent clinical quality standards. JCI is the international arm
of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organisations, which
evaluates quality standards of US hospitals. Wockhardt claims to be the first
'superspeciality' hospital in South Asia to receive JCI accreditation.

The JCI accreditation follows a rigorous onsite evaluation of Wockhardt
Hospitals, Mumbai by an international surveyor team of healthcare experts. The
accreditation process requires a hospital to comply with almost 1,300 measurable
standards. According to Vishal Bali, vice president, Wockhardt Hospitals, the
JCI accreditation will create a benchmark for the quality of healthcare services
in India.

"Wockhardt is the only HMI-associate outside the US to win this recognition,"
said Harvey Makadon, director, HMI.



-----

To see more of The Economic Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com Copyright (c) 2005, The Economic Times,
India

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.  532300,

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: ET-HOSPITAL-PROJECTS-20051110

JOURNAL-CODE: ET

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                       Copyright 2005 The Economic Times


