                              144 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                           January 22, 2011 Saturday

S&P: US Healthcare Costs Rise 6.27% Over the 12-Months Ending November 2010

LENGTH: 789  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Jan. 22 -- Data released today by Standard & Poor's for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicates that the average per capita cost
of healthcare services covered by commercial insurance and Medicare programs
rose 6.27% over the 12-months ending November 2010. This is a deceleration from
the +6.68% reported for the 12-months ending in October 2010.

Claim costs associated with hospital and professional services for patients
covered under commercial health plans rose 7.79% over the year ending in
November, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index. Medicare
claim costs for the same services rose at a rate of 3.74% from the previous
year, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index. This is the
lowest annual growth rate for Medicare claims costs since June 2007, when it was
+3.55%. These two measures saw growth deceleration versus their October reports
of +8.19% and +4.18%, respectively.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the monthly
index levels versus the same month of the prior year.

"The slowdown in the annual growth rate of healthcare costs, which started
around May 2010, continued through November," says David M. Blitzer, Chairman of
the Index Committee at Standard & Poor's. "In the 12-months ended in November,
the Composite index rose 6.27%, down about 0.4 percentage points from its
October rate and 2.1 percentage points from May. Both the Commercial and
Medicare Indices witnessed similar deceleration. With the Commercial Index up
7.79% and the Medicare Index up 3.74% through November, both of these are lower
growth rates than witnessed in prior months. As we have noted in the past,
expenditures associated with commercial health insurance plans continue to
significantly outpace expenditures for Medicare.

"We did notice that the growth rates for services provided under Medicare
coverage are approaching or reaching new lows. The Medicare composite posted an
annual growth rate of +3.74% in the 12-months ending in November. The lowest
rate was +3.47% in December 2006. Looking even closer at the sub-indices, we see
that the annual growth rates for Medicare services provided at hospitals has, in
fact, hit the lowest rate in the six-year history for these data, +2.71%.

"We are continuing to see a downward trend in the annual growth rates across all
the indices. Since May 2010, most of the indices annual growth rates have
declined month-to-month. Commercial and Medicare Indices showed annual
deceleration of 0.40% and 0.45%, respectively, compared to October. Likewise,
the Hospital and Professional Services Indices annual rates decelerated by
approximately 0.40% each in November compared to the previous month."

The S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index is a weighted average of the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare
Index. Alternatively, it is a weighted average of the S&P Healthcare Economic
Hospital Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index, as
each of these indices has the analogous Commercial and Medicare component.

The table below summarizes the year-over-year change in the S&P Healthcare
Economic Indices for the 12-month period ending November 2010. With each monthly
release, the index levels, including the 12-month moving averages, are
recalculated for the full history of the indices, whenever there are revisions
to underlying data used in the models. The entire revised history, as well as
full results for the underlying S&P Healthcare Economic Indices, is available
from Standard & Poor's as a subscription service.

S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

(12-Month Moving Average)

Index

1-Year Change (%)

S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index

6.27%

S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index

7.79%

S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index

3.74%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Index

6.26%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Medicare Index

2.71%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Commercial Index

9.04%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index

6.06%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Medicare Index

4.93%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Commercial Index

6.53%

Source: Standard & Poor's

Data through November 2010 Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


