                              157 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Albany Herald, Ga.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday

Phoebe Putney Health System generates $1.2 billion for economy

BYLINE: Jennifer Parks, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words


Sept. 03--ALBANY -- In 2012, Phoebe Putney Health System generated more than
$1.2 billion in revenue for the Albany area and state economy, a recent report
by the Georgia Hospital Association showed.

The report also found that, during the same time period, Phoebe provided
approximately $56.85 million in uncompensated care while sustaining more than
9,484 full-time jobs throughout Southwest Georgia and the rest of the state.

The report revealed that Phoebe had direct expenditures of more than $541.91
million in 2012. When combined with the an economic multiplier developed by the
United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total
economic impact of those expenditures was $1.24 billion.

Georgia hospitals put nearly $40 billion into the state's economy that year, the
GHA said. The report also revealed that hospitals in the state employed more
than 126,000 full- and part-time workers and indirectly created more than
287,000 full-time jobs in Georgia.

Officials say, despite their economic contributions, the state's hospitals,
especially those in rural areas, are facing unprecedented financial challenges.
Since the beginning of 2013, four Georgia hospitals have closed, a fifth
recently announced plans to close and others are struggling. The 2012 Georgia
Department of Community Health Hospital Financial Survey revealed that 60
percent of rural hospitals lost money in 2012, while 42 percent of all hospitals
had negative margins.

A big strain on hospital finances continues to be the growth of uncompensated
care, while Georgia has opted to not expand Medicaid. The GHA study says Georgia
hospitals provided more than $1.6 billion in unpaid care, an increase of about
$60 million from 2011. Forty-five percent of all Georgia hospital patients are
insured through either Medicare or Medicaid. In 2012, Medicare paid 96 percent
of hospital costs, while Medicaid, the state and federal health insurance
program for low-income families, paid Georgia hospitals 87 percent of costs, GHA
said.

While commercial health insurance has traditionally made up for shortfalls in
payments from other sources, GHA officials say changing insurance market
dynamics are making that increasingly difficult. Many Georgians with private
health insurance, including many of those in the Affordable Care Act health
insurance exchanges, have significant annual deductibles that often go unpaid,
leaving hospitals with no payment.

This impact is felt at Phoebe, which serves a region that traditionally has a
higher population of Medicaid patients. Last October, there were 33 management
level positions at Phoebe eliminated followed by a staff reduction of 127
positions -- the latter of which was expected to reduce systemwide operating
costs by $10 million in Fiscal Year 2014.

A few weeks prior to that, merit pay increases and uniform bonuses were cut for
the fiscal year after the Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital failed to meet its
financial goals. In April 2013, officials at Phoebe announced that the hospital
was expected to lose $2 million annually over the course of nine years due to
Medicaid reimbursement reductions. The additional loss of funding caused by the
implementation of ACA resulted in the re-evaluation of management positions and
streamlining of the organization.

The employment multiplier considers the "ripple" effect of direct hospital
expenditures on the economy such as medical supplies, durable medical equipment
and pharmaceuticals.

___ (c)2014 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140903-1AH-Phoebe-Putney-Health-System-generates-1.2-billion-for-economy-0903-
20140903

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                                 Copyright 2014


