                              167 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Fresno Bee (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             January 9, 2009 Friday

Saint Agnes lays off 28 employees

BYLINE: Tim Sheehan, The Fresno Bee, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 382 words


Jan. 9--More than two dozen jobs at Saint Agnes Medical Center are being cut as
the hospital copes with economic turmoil.

Saint Agnes officials announced Thursday that 28 employees were laid off from
the staff of more than 2,900 employees at the 436-bed hospital.

"This was a very difficult decision, but given the current economic environment
it became necessary for us to make these reductions to preserve our ministry,"
Thomas Anderson, the hospital's acting chief executive, said in a statement.
"Every industry nationwide is feeling the impact of the economy, and health care
is no exception."

Kelley Sanchez, director of communications at Saint Agnes, said all of the jobs
were spread throughout the hospital's various departments and that none involve
direct patient care. She said the hospital continues to recruit nurses and other
patient-care positions.

The layoffs were effective Thursday. Sanchez said each worker will receive 45
days of pay, plus a severance package based on years of service. The hospital
also is offering job-placement help for the workers. Anderson blamed rising
unemployment, an increase in the number of uninsured patients, a growing demand
for charity care and decreasing reimbursements by insurers Medi-Cal and
Medicare. He also said the hospital has suffered losses from investments.

Hospitals across California are feeling similar effects from the state's reeling
economy. A report issued Wednesday by the California Hospital Association says
the crisis in the financial markets is accompanied by declining state and
federal reimbursement, bad debts and other factors. C. Duane Dauner, the
association's president, said the economic amalgam "is leading to a decline in
the financial health of California's hospitals at the very time when demand for
health care services is growing."

The reporter can be reached at tsheehan@fresnobee.com or (559) 441-6319.

To see more of The Fresno Bee, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.fresnobee.com Copyright (c) 2009, The Fresno Bee, Calif. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090109-FR-Saint-Agnes-lays-off-28-employees-0109

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FR


                         Copyright 2009 The Fresno Bee


