                              18 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 14, 2010 Sunday

Iowa relies on hospitals' economic impact

BYLINE: Rex L. Troute, The Hawk Eye, Burlington, Iowa

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 572 words


Mar. 14--A study by the Iowa Hospital Association reveals how large of an impact
southeast Iowa's hospitals make on their local economies. The IHA study examined
the jobs, income, retail sales and sales tax produced by hospitals and the rest
of the state's health-care sector in 2008.

Great River Medical Center's footprint in Des Moines County proved to be large
by the numbers. The West Burlington facility generated 2,689 jobs and added
$104,778,689 to Des Moines County's annual economy according to the 2008 study.
Great River Medical Center employees spent $36,817,603 on retail sales and
contributed $2,209,056 in state sales-tax revenue.

Henry County Health Center in Mount Pleasant generated 392 jobs that added
$17,790,537 to Henry County's economy. HCHC employees spent $4,740,563 on retail
sales and contributed $284,434 in state sales tax revenue.

"The health sector is vitally important to Henry County's economy. In addition
to providing Henry County residents with quality and compassionate care, we
contribute to the economy as a community employer that employs a significant
number of area residents," said Robb Gardner, CEO of HCHC. "An increase or
decrease in activity in the health sector will greatly affect the medical and
economic health of the community. In order to attract new business, industry and
residents to our area, it is crucial that we are able to provide high quality
health services."

The numbers have been combined for Lee County by Keokuk Area Hospital and Fort
Madison Community Hospital. The two facilities provided 899 jobs and generated
the creation of another 567 jobs in 2008. The hospitals' total economic impact
on Lee County was $57,638,059. Their employees generated $16,519,811 in taxable
retail sales.

The IHA study revealed that Iowa's hospitals employed 74,027 people and created
another 73,953 jobs outside the hospital sector. The hospitals provided $3.65
billion in salaries and benefits, and generated another $2.5 billion through
other jobs that depend on hospitals.

Between 2004 and 2008, Iowa hospitals added 4,611 employees and more than $747
million to their payrolls.

More than one-fifth of Iowa's employment, 354,907 jobs, came from the
health-care sector. Along with hospitals, the employers include clinicians,
pharmacies, long-term care services, assisted living centers, and other medical
and health services.

"Iowa enjoys the economic security that comes with having one of the finest
health-care systems in the nation," said Kirk Norris, IHA president and CEO.
"Iowa hospitals are at the foundation of Iowa's economy, and remain major
employers and business partners in all parts of the state. Just as no one
provides the services and community benefits found at our hospitals, there is
also no substitute for the jobs hospitals provide and create."

The study was compiled from hospital-submitted information on the American
Hospital Association's annual survey of hospitals, and from software used by
other industries to determine hospitals' economic impact.

To see more of The Hawk Eye or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thehawkeye.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Hawk Eye, Burlington, Iowa
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100314-QW-Iowa-relies-on-hospitals-economic-impact-0314

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QW


                          Copyright 2010 The Hawk Eye


