                              190 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Muskogee Phoenix (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

Stimulus to fund roads to hospital

BYLINE: Liz McMahan, Muskogee Phoenix, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words


Jul. 9--The president's economic stimulus plan will pave a new road to Muskogee
Community Hospital, it was announced Wednesday.

U.S. Rep. Dan Boren, D-Oklahoma, announced an $843,052 Economic Development
Administration grant to the city and county for the project.

District County Commissioner Gene Wallace said the project calls for a new road
to be built on Main Street from Shawnee Bypass north to Harris Road and then
east to Oklahoma 16.

In a media release, Boren said he supported the project for a number of reasons.

"Muskogee is the largest community in the Second Congressional District and its
economic health is essential to eastern Oklahoma," he said. "I supported the
stimulus package because it contained critical infrastructure and economic
development funding for communities like Muskogee and Muskogee County.

"This project will provide jobs in the short term and will boost private
investment in the county by improving the transportation system that is
necessary to support long term business expansion and job creation," Boren said.

In the media release, Wallace said building better roads to the hospital will
greatly expand health care opportunities and patient access to the $65 million
hospital complex.

"Opportunities created by this private investment provide generations of
patients with a better quality of life," Wallace said.

Wallace also expressed his appreciation to Boren and Eastern Oklahoma
Development District for their assistance in obtaining the grant.

"This has been a Herculean effort," Wallace said. "I would especially thank
Congressman Boren for his support and EODD for virtually changing this part of
Oklahoma."

Wallace said the portion of the project that has been funded is labeled as Phase
1. Phase 2, if it is funded, will rebuild Harris Road west of Main Street to
U.S. 69 as well as improvements to North 11th, North 17th and North 24th
streets, Wallace said.

Wallace said he expects Phase 2 to be funded when Phase 1 is complete.

In Phase 1, the complete roadbed is expected to be dug out and replaced. How
soon work will begin depends on whether additional right of way will have to be
acquired and whether utilities have to be moved, he said.

The county will advertise for contractor bids on the work as soon as possible,
he said.

Reach Liz McMahan at 684-2926 or lmcmahan@muskogeephoenix.com

To see more of the Muskogee Phoenix or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.muskogeephoenix.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Muskogee Phoenix, Okla.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090709-XK-Stimulus-to-fund-roads-to-hospital-0709

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XK


                                 Copyright 2009


