                              187 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 2003, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  Spring, 2003

                         Vol. 36, No. 2, HOSPLW Pg. 247

LENGTH: 25843 words

TITLE: Article: The New Economic Credentialing: Protecting Hospitals from
Competition by Medical Staff Members

AUTHOR: Elizabeth A. Weeks *


* Ms. Weeks is an associate at the Houston office of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P, and
a Visiting Assistant Professor at The University of Georgia for the 2003-2004
academic year, where she teaches health law.

 TEXT:

   ABSTRACT: This Article addresses hospitals' use of economic criteria to
determine an individual's qualifications for staff privileges. Hospitals are
resorting to economic conflict-of-interest credentialing policies in an attempt
to ensure physician's loyalty and maintain their own economic viability.
Physicians, however, argue that entrepreneurial activities are necessary for
them to meet the economic challenges posed by declining reimbursements and
rising insurance costs. The Article surveys the numerous legal theories that
physicians (and, in some cases, the federal government) could employ in
attacking these new types of credentialing policies and concludes that, on
balance, hospitals should be able to implement their policies in ways that
minimize liability in most jurisdictions. The Article concludes by discussing
other issues that economic credentialing policies raise, including those
implicating tax-exempt status and nonlegal considerations.

   Physician income is under assault by declining reimbursements and
skyrocketing medical malpractice insurance costs. To compensate for their lost
income, many physicians have turned to various entrepreneurial activities, such
as investing in or becoming part owners of healthcare facilities, pharmacies, or
supply companies; opening specialty clinics and hospitals; entering joint
ventures with other physicians, hospitals, or clinics; or participating in other
healthcare enterprises. n1 These physicians typically have staff privileges or
medical staff membership at hospitals in the same geographic market as the
facilities in which they have ownership or investment interests.



   n1 See Mark Taylor, Doc Investors in For-Profit Hospitals Denied Staff
Privileges: Ohio Not-For-Profit System Fear Loss of Market Share to Specialty
Hospitals Owned By Physicians, MODERN HEALTHCARE, July 15, 2002, at 12. See also
Richard A. Feidstein, Economic Credentialing and Exclusive Contracts, HEALTH LAW
(ABA), Fall 1996, at 1 ("hospitals, integrated delivery systems, physician
groups, and managed care organizations face increasing pressure to cut costs and
increase efficiencies in order to compete in the marketplace").

   For example, a group of orthopedic surgeons may open a specialty hospital or
ambulatory surgical center while maintaining staff privileges at the local,
general, acute-care hospital. Depending on the type of procedure to be performed
or care to be provided, these orthopedic surgeons could choose to refer a
patient for treatment at either the specialty hospital in which they have an
economic investment or the general, community hospital at which they have
admitting privileges. The community hospital's concern is that physician owners
or investors will "cherry pick" the more profitable cases for treatment at their
own specialty hospital and will refer the most expensive and least profitable
cases, such as the difficult-to-treat and uninsured, to the general hospital. n2




   n2 Taylor, supra note 1, at 12.

   Facing their own economic crisis as a result of declining reimbursement and
rising insurance costs, hospitals are taking steps to protect their revenue
streams. General, full-service hospitals are able to offer essential but
unprofitable services, such as an emergency room, labor and delivery services,
pediatrics, and critical care, as well as charity care, by maintaining other,
profitable practice areas, such as orthopedics and cardiology. n3 If profitable
cases are no longer referred to the general hospital, but rather to a
physician-owned specialty clinic, the decrease in revenue threatens not only a
for-profit hospital's ability to make a profit but also any hospital's ability
to remain operational. n4



   n3 See Sarah A. Klein, AMA: Limiting Privileges Hurts Patients, AM. MED.
NEWS, Mar. 6, 2000, at 1, available at
www.ama-assn.org/sci-pubs/amnews/pick_00/gvl10306.htm (last visited Mar. 28,
2003) (discussing arguments in a brief filed by Avera St. Luke's, a nonprofit
hospital in Aberdeen, South Dakota, regarding necessity of decision to deny
staff privileges to orthopedic surgeons who opened a competing for-profit
specialty clinic).


   n4 This "collision course" has long been predicted by scholars. As Paul Starr
observed in 1982:

        Doctors who develop group practices to capture ancillary profits
     represent an economic threat to hospitals . . . . On the other hand,
     hospitals are developing satellite clinics and other outpatient
     facilities to assure themselves of a steady flow of referrals. As a
     result, doctors and hospitals may be on a 'collision course' as
     doctors invade institutional services and hospitals invade ambulatory
     care.

   PAUL STARR, SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION OF AMERICAN MEDICINE 425-26 (1982).

   In response to increasing competition from their physicians, many hospitals
are adopting policies to limit, or effectively prohibit, certain competitive
behavior. For example, hospitals may refuse to grant initial or continuing staff
privileges to physicians who own or have other financial interests in competing
healthcare entities, refer patients to competing entities, have staff privileges
at any other area hospitals, or fail to admit some specified percentage of their
patients to the hospital. n5 Alternatively, the hospital might require a
physician seeking privileges to sign a loyalty oath or pledge to perform a
certain percentage of medical services at the hospital. n6



   n5 See Tanya Albert, South Dakota Hospitals Can Choose Which Physicians Get
Privileges, State Supreme Court Rules, AM. MED. NEWS, Feb. 5, 2001, at 10,
available at www.ama-assn.org/sci-pubs/amnews/pick_01/prsa0205.htm (last visited
Mar. 28, 2003); Taylor, supra note 1, at 12 (describing hospitals' strategies).


   n6 See Klein, supra note 3.

   The overall effect of such policies is to restrict or prohibit physicians who
apply for or hold medical staff privileges at the hospital from owning or
investing in competing facilities. Hospitals maintain that policies limiting or
prohibiting physicians' economic conflicts of interest are necessary to ensure
physician loyalty and maintain economic viability. Physicians, however, contend
that such policies impair their ability to practice medicine and provide quality
care to patients at the best possible, or most convenient, facility. This
Article addresses the legal and operational implications of these economic
conflict of interest credentialing policies.

I. Background

   As a general rule, a hospital has the "unquestioned right to exercise some
control over the identity and number of doctors to whom it accords staff
privileges." n7 Courts have noted that "hospitals are not public utilities,
required to grant staff privileges to anyone with a medical license." n8 It is
well established that a physician has no constitutional right to staff
privileges at a hospital, public or private, merely because he is licensed to
practice medicine. n9 Thus, a hospital may "close its doors to certain
physicians." n10 Traditionally, a hospital's decision to deny or revoke staff
privileges has been based on physician qualifications or quality of care
concerns. n11 For example, medical staff privileges might be conditioned on
certain educational or training requirements, or a physician might be denied or
removed from the medical staff because of a history of malpractice claims or
adverse treatment events.



   n7 Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 30 (1984).


   n8 Blue Cross & Blue Shield United v. Marshfield Clinic, 65 F.3d 1406, 1413
(7th Cir. 1995).


   n9 Sosa v. Bd. of Managers of the Val Verde Mem'l Hosp., 437 F.2d 173, 175
(5th Cir. 1971).


   n10 Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160 (S.D. 2001).


   n11 See John D. Blum, The Evolution of Physician Credentialing Into Managed
Care Selective Contracting, 22 AM. J.L. & MED. 173, 176 (1996) ("From the
hospital's perspective, credentialing is a necessary quality control that is
central to the institutional mission and to the welfare of patients."); Jane C.
Taber & Janna P. King, Caught in the Crossfire: Economic Credentialing in the
Health Care War, 1994 DETROIT C.L. REV. 1179, 1181-82 ("The steadfast premise
behind physician credentialing is that of ensuring the competency of physicians
who are granted staff privileges, which will result in a higher standard of
patient care.").

   In the early 1980s, many hospitals invoked the general right to "close their
doors to certain physicians" n12 and entered into exclusive contracts with
hospital-based specialists. An exclusive contract is an arrangement between a
hospital or healthcare institution and a physician or group of physicians, by
which the hospital grants the contracting physician or physician group the
exclusive right to provide specified medical services at the hospital in
exchange for the services and managerial tasks the physicians provide. n13
Exclusive contract arrangements might also be based on granting a physician or
physician group exclusive access to certain equipment, facilities, or
laboratories, or by granting an exclusive right to perform certain procedures.
Hospitals have relied on exclusive contract arrangements primarily for
specialties such as anesthesiology, pathology, radiology, and other ancillary
services that require extensive coverage and rely on referrals from other
physicians. n14



   n12 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 160.


   n13 Feidstein, supra note 1, at 8.


   n14 Id.

   Hospitals justified these exclusive contract arrangements on the theories
that they enhanced hospital efficiency, increased the hospital's control over
departmental operations, insured full-time availability of services, permitted
better scheduling of facilities, reduced costs through standardization of
procedures and centralized administrations, and improved the quality of
particular services by assuring that physicians perform a sufficient quantity of
procedures to remain proficient. The effect of an exclusive contract arrangement
is to deny staff privileges to new applicants for the particular hospital
department to which the exclusive contract applies. Further, staff privileges
for current members of the affected department who are not parties to the
exclusive contract are revoked or denied. These excluded physicians frequently
challenged hospitals' exclusive contract arrangements, asserting that the
policies were arbitrary or unreasonable, interfered with the rights of
physicians to practice medicine, denied patients the right to select their own
physicians, intruded upon the physician-patient relationship, or operated as
unlawful restraints on trade. Such challenges, however, were almost uniformly
unsuccessful. n15



   n15 See, e.g., Balaklaw v. Lovell, 14 F.3d 793, 795 (2d Cir. 1994); Capital
Imaging Assoc., P.C. v. Mohawk Valley Med. Assoc., Inc., 996 F.2d 537, 539 (2d
Cir. 1993); Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs v. Radiology, Ltd., 924 F.2d 1484,
1486 (9th Cir. 1991); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138, 139 (6th Cir.
1990); Roland Mach. Co. v. Dresser Indus., Inc., 749 F.2d 380, 395 (7th Cir.
1984); Konik v. Champlain Valley Physicians Hosp. Med. Ctr., 733 F.2d 1007, 1009
(2d Cir. 1984); Bellam v. Clayton County Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488, 1493
(N.D. Ga. 1990); Drs. Steuer and Latham, P.A. v. Nat'l Med. Enter., 672 F. Supp.
1489, 1492 (D.S.C. 1987); Gonzalez v. San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d
436, 437 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994).

   In the leading case of Jefferson Parish Hospital District, No. 2 v. Hyde, the
United States Supreme Court held that a hospital's decision to enter into an
exclusive contract with a group of anesthesiologists did not constitute an
illegal tying arrangement because anesthesiology could not be viewed as a
distinct product that was "tied" to other hospital services. n16 Furthermore,
the Court held that the arrangement did not violate the Sherman Act as an
unlawful restraint of trade because the hospital's market share of thirty
percent was not so great that medical services consumers had no choice but to
purchase anesthesiology services from the exclusive contracting group. n17 The
exclusive contract, therefore, would not harm competition in the relevant
market. n18 Since Jefferson Parish, courts generally have upheld exclusive
contract arrangements challenged on antitrust grounds. n19



   n16 Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 31-32 (1984).


   n17 Id. at 7, 25.


   n18 Id. at 29-30.


   n19 See, e.g., Balaklaw, 14 F.3d at 795 (anesthesiologist challenging
exclusive contract); Capital Imaging, 996 F.2d at 539 (radiologists challenging
exclusive contract); Pudlo v. Adamski, No. 92-1854, 1993 WL 306105 (7th Cir.
Aug. 9, 1993) (hospital terminated radiologist's contract); Lie v. St. Joseph
Hosp., 964 F.2d 567, 568 (6th Cir. 1992) (physician's surgical privileges were
suspended); Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs, 924 F.2d at 1486 (radiologists
challenging exclusive contract); Bhan v. NME Hosps., Inc., 929 F.2d 1404, 1407
(9th Cir. 1991) (anesthetist was excluded by policy of allowing only physicians
to perform anesthesia services); Todorov v. DCH Healthcare Auth., 921 F.2d 1438,
1441 (11th Cir. 1991) (physician denied radiology privileges); Nurse Midwifery
Assoc. v. Hibbett, 918 F.2d 605, 607-08 (6th Cir. 1990) (midwives and
obstetrician alleged they were prevented from operating a maternity practice or
offering midwifery services at hospitals); Beard, 912 F.2d at 139 (radiologist
challenging exclusive contract); Goss v. Mem'l Hosp. Sys., 789 F.2d 353, 353-54
(5th Cir. 1986) (physician's privileges terminated); Konik, 733 F.2d at 1011
(anesthesiologist challenging exclusive contract); Dos Santos v.
Columbus-Cuneo-Cabrini Med. Ctr., 684 F.2d 1346, 1347 (7th Cir. 1982) (vacating
preliminary injunction granted to anesthesiologist challenging exclusive
contract); Scara v. Bradley Mem'l. Hosp., No. CIV-1-91-28, 1993 WL 404150, at *1
(E.D. Tenn. Feb. 4, 1993) (anesthesiologist challenging exclusive contract);
Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 814 F. Supp. 1254, 1256 (W.D. Pa. 1992) (physician's
privileges terminated); Jackson v. Radcliffe, 795 F. Supp. 197, 200 (S.D. Tex.
1992) (hospital terminated radiologist's contract); Purgess v. Sharrock, No. 91
Civ. 621 (LFJ), 1992 WL 349683, at *1 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 9, 1992)
(anesthesiologist's privileges terminated); Brown v. Our Lady of Lourdes Med.
Ctr., 767 F. Supp. 618, 620 (D.N.J. 1991) (surgeon denied privileges);
Anesthesia Advantage, Inc. v. Metz Group, 759 F. Supp. 638, 654 (D. Colo. 1991)
(hospital terminated negotiations with anesthetists); Robles v. Humana Hosp.
Cartersville, 785 F. Supp. 989, 992-93 (N.D. Ga. 1992) (hospital terminated
obstetrician's contract); Bellam, 758 F. Supp. at 1495 (preliminary injunction
denied to anesthesiologists challenging exclusive contract); Castelli v.
Meadville Med. Ctr., 702 F. Supp. 1201, 1203 (W.D. Pa. 1988) (radiologist
challenging exclusive contract).

   As an alternative to an exclusive contract, a hospital may adopt a "closed
staff" policy to close certain hospital departments, or the entire hospital
medical staff, to new applicants. A hospital may offer various business
justifications for closing its medical staff, such as assuring the economic
survival of the hospital, producing efficient administration of the department
or service, coping with overcrowding and bed limitations, maintaining particular
skills by ensuring that physicians will perform an adequate number of
specialized procedures, attaining economy and efficiency of operations, lowering
mortality rates, furthering teaching and research, fostering teamwork, and
limiting access to sophisticated and unique equipment. n20 Courts addressing
closed staff policies tend to view such arrangements in the same light as
exclusive contract arrangements. n21



   n20 See, e.g., Redding v. St. Francis Med. Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806, 808 (Ct.
App. 1989); Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 905 (Ct. App. 1978);
Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 669-70 (N.J. 1986); Mahan v.
Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160 (S.D. 2001).


   n21 See, e.g., Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 158. In Mahan, the plaintiff-physicians
attempted to distinguish the closed medical staff model from an exclusive
contract. The court rejected the distinction, however, noting that by closing
its medical staff to new orthopedic surgeons, the hospital had, in essence
"entered into an implied exclusive contract with all current orthopedic spine
surgeons." Id. at 159. See also Feidstein, supra note 1, at 8 (noting that
exclusive contracts often are used to create closed departments).

   A recent decision by the Supreme Court of South Dakota, Mahan v. Avera St.
Luke's, n22 expressly recognized that a closed staff policy could be justified
solely by economic concerns. In Mahan, a physician alleged that a nonprofit
hospital's decision to close its medical staff constituted a breach of contract.
The hospital, Avera St. Luke's, had decided to recruit one or two new
neurosurgeons and two new orthopedic surgeons to the hospital, which is located
in Aberdeen, South Dakota. n23 Avera St. Luke's had difficulty attracting
applicants, given the small size of the community and the fact there were
orthopedic spinal surgeons already practicing in the area. n24 At about the same
time that Avera St. Luke's was engaged in its recruitment effort, several
orthopedic surgeons in Aberdeen were building a new ambulatory orthopedic
surgery center that would compete directly with the hospital. In response to
this direct competition and the hospital's need for neurosurgeons, the hospital
board of directors determined that it was economically necessary to close
medical staff privileges to perform spinal surgery and general orthopedic
surgery to new applicants. n25 This closed staff policy affected only new
applicants; privileges of the physicians already on the medical staff remained
intact.



   n22 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 160.


   n23 Id. at 152.


   n24 Id.


   n25 Id. at 153.

   Dr. Mahan, an orthopedic surgeon who specialized in spinal surgery, was
recruited by the physicians who ran the ambulatory surgery center. Dr. Mahan
applied for privileges at Avera St. Luke's, but the hospital denied his
application based on its new closed staff policy. n26 Dr. Mahan and the
orthopedic surgeons who recruited him sued the hospital, alleging breach of
contract based on the hospital's medical staff bylaws. n27 The Supreme Court of
South Dakota upheld the policy, finding the hospital's closed medical staff
arrangement was soundly within the discretion of the hospital's board of
directors. n28 Specifically, the court noted:

        The Board's decision to close the hospital's facility for certain,
     named procedures was a reasonable administrative decision. It had
     determined that the [staff] closures were necessary to insure the
     continued economic viability of the hospital. The Board must be
     allowed to make such reasonable, independent decisions if it is to
     continue to provide comprehensive medical services to the Aberdeen
     community. n29





   n26 Id.


   n27 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 153.


   n28 Id. at 156.


   n29 Id. at 160 (emphasis added).

   The court expressly recognized that the hospital relied on "the profitable
neurosurgical services" in order to be able to continue offering "other
unprofitable services" in the Aberdeen area. n30 The court's decision seemed
informed by the unique economics of hospital financing that require
cost-spreading as a way of funding treatment for uninsured and underinsured
patients.



   n30 Id. at 156.

   The Mahan decision is consistent with the general tendency of courts to
uphold a hospital's legitimately adopted policy and not to substitute the
court's judgment for that of hospital management. n31 As long as the hospital's
board is acting in good faith, a decision to exclude new physician applicants
may be based upon "any reasonable basis, such as the professional and ethical
qualifications of the physician or the common good of the public and the
Hospital." n32 Although it is generally accepted that hospitals may consider
quality of care issues in staff privileging decisions, it is less well accepted
that hospitals may consider other factors, particularly economic factors, when
denying or revoking a physician's staff privileges. The Mahan decision is one of
the few cases squarely recognizing a hospital's right to base staff privileging
decisions on economic concerns rather than physician qualifications.
Specifically, the Mahan court held that concern about the hospital's "continued
economic viability" justified the hospital board's policy decision to exclude
certain physicians from the medical staff. n33



   n31 See, e.g., Hayman v. City of Galveston, 273 U.S. 414, 417 (1927); Sosa v.
Board of Managers of the Val Verde Mem'l. Hosp., 437 F.2d 173, 177 (5th Cir.
1971); Cobb Co.-Kennestone Hosp. Auth. v. Prince, 249 S.E.2d 581, 585-86 (Ga.
1978) (holding that hospitals' administrative policies are not subject to
judicial intervention and that a court's function is limited to whether the
hospital's decision to adopt the rule was arbitrary and unreasonable); Gonzalez
v. San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d 436, 441 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994)
(exclusive contract for anesthesiology services upheld as reasonable exercise of
board's power to provide proper management of the hospital).


   n32 Foster v. Mobile County Hosp. Bd, 398 F.2d 227, 230 (5th Cir. 1968)
(emphasis added).


   n33 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 160. See also Taber & King, supra note 11 at 1182
(noting that proponents of credentialing policies based on both clinical and
economic criteria assert that such an approach "is crucial to a hospital's
economic survival").

   Courts tend to scrutinize credentialing decisions based on economic factors
more closely than credentialing decisions based on quality of care or
professional competency. "Economic credentialing" involves a hospital
considering factors relating to the efficient management of the organization to
determine medical staff membership or privileges. n34 Economic credentialing may
be based on various factors, including the frequency of a physician's use of the
hospital, bed capacity, n35 the physician's ability to use hospital facilities
in an economically efficient manner, patient profiles, diagnosis-related groups
and average lengths of stay, n36 types and quantity of services and supplies
that the physician orders for patients, n37 payor mix, level of reimbursement
generated by the physician's admissions, n38 or a particular physician's
contribution to the economic success of the organization. n39 Such credentialing
policies that address hospitals' concerns over appropriate resource utilization
and overall efficiency seem justified in today's increasingly cost-conscious
healthcare market. n40



   n34 See Feidstein, supra note 1, at 1 (noting that there is little agreement
on the definition of economic credentialing but offering the "simple definition"
that "it is the use of economic criteria in making credentialing decisions").
The American Medical Association (AMA) defines "economic credentialing" as "the
use of economic criteria unrelated to quality of care or professional competency
in determining an individual's qualifications for initial or continuing hospital
medical staff membership or privileges." AMA POLICY H-230.975, Economic
Credentialing, available at www.ama-assn.org/apps/pf_online/pf_online (last
visited March 30, 2003). See Albert, supra note 5 (observing "nationwide trend
of hospitals' denying privileges based on economic reasons rather than
qualifications"); Taber & King, supra note 11, at 1208 (defining "pure economic
credentialing" as "a review process based on identifiable financial components
of a physician's practice, considered separate and apart from clinical
expertise").


   n35 See Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 905 (Ct. App. 1978);
Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 669-70 (N.J. 1986); Maltz v. N.Y.
Univ. Med. Ctr., 503 N.Y.S.2d 570, 571 (App. Div. 1986) (upholding hospital's
decision to limit number of physicians in certain specialty because of limited
bed capacity).


   n36 See Using Fraud and Abuse Laws to Challenge Purely Economic
Credentialling, 6 Health L. Rep. (BNA), Nov. 13, 2002, at 841 (listing cases in
which courts have upheld hospital decisions to either deny privileges or refuse
to renew privileges because the hospital felt the physicians where overutilizing
services).


   n37 See Knapp v. Palos Cmty. Hosp., 465 N.E.2d 554, 560 (Ill. App. Ct. 1984)
(supporting decision to reduce staff privileges of a physician based on evidence
of overutilization of lung scans and medications, excessive use of certain
diagnoses, and improper testing and treatment, which demonstrated that the
physician's costs were higher than other physicians).


   n38 See generally Blum, supra note 11 (discussing the use of credentialing
and selective contracting by managed care organizations).


   n39 Id. at 182-84 (discussing various data considered by hospitals in
economic credentialing policies).


   n40 See Feidstein, supra note 1, at 5.

   Credentialing based on physicians' economic conflicts of interest, however,
is relatively uncharted territory. These policies, based on ownership,
investment, or affiliation with competing facilities are subject to many
challenges. Specifically, physicians argue that hospitals' economic
conflict-of-interest policies, such as the policy approved in Mahan, that have
the effect of directing or limiting where physicians can refer their patients
for treatment, are inconvenient and could endanger patients. n41 The American
Medical Association (AMA) announced in 2000 that the organization "strongly
opposes the practice of economic credentialing." n42 In particular, the AMA
opposes conditioning staff privileges on physicians' signing loyalty oaths,
requiring physicians to refer a specified percentage of their patients to the
hospital, or requiring physicians to sever all ties with competing institutions,
even if such institutions could offer higher quality patient care than the
hospital. n43



   n41 See Albert, supra note 5 (quoting Randolph D. Smoak Jr., President of the
AMA, as saying, "It's a huge inconvenience for a physician to try to practice in
the community and it may put patients at risk").


   n42 AMA Policy H-230.975, supra note 34.


   n43 See Staff Privileges: AMA Calls 'Exclusive Credentialing' by Hospitals a
Fraud Violation, 9 HEALTH L. REP. (BNA) 344 (Mar. 9, 2000) (listing examples of
economic credentialing that the AMA considers "especially worrisome"); Klein,
supra note 3 (discussing AMA's objections).

   Few legal challenges have been brought against these new economic conflict of
interest policies. The policies, however, are vulnerable to challenges similar
to those brought against "traditional" economic credentialing policies, such as
exclusive contracts and closed staff arrangements. In particular, a hospital
adopting a policy that restricts or prohibits physicians on its medical staff
from engaging in competitive behavior or enterprises could expect to face
antitrust, due process, and breach of contract claims. In addition, a hospital
should consider other factors bearing on the decision to adopt such a policy,
such as the risk of civil or criminal sanctions under federal healthcare
statutes, difficulty in enforcing policies that operate as covenants not to
compete, endangerment of a nonprofit hospital's tax-exempt status, and the
possibility of a public relations backlash.

II. Legal Challenges

   By conditioning staff privileges on a physician's agreement to forego
investments in or associations with other healthcare facilities, a hospital
erects a barrier to competition, a business practice that implicates antitrust
law. Further, when a hospital adopts such a policy, it may effectively terminate
staff privileges of current medical staff members who already own or have
invested in competing specialty clinics, hospitals, or other businesses. Such
termination raises due process issues and may require the hospital to provide
excluded physicians with individual hearings or other procedural rights before
adopting the policy. In addition, some courts view medical staff bylaws as
contracts between hospitals and their medical staff members. Such contracts may
prevent the hospital board or administration from unilaterally amending the
bylaws or adopting new policies, limit the grounds on which a medical staff
member can be terminated, or specify certain procedures that must be followed
before termination. A physician, therefore, might allege breach of contract
based on the hospital's adopting a new economic credentialing policy in
violation of the bylaws.

A. Antitrust Challenges

   Hospital policies or decisions that deny or terminate a physician's medical
staff membership for economic reasons, such as ownership or investment in
competing enterprises, may impair physicians' ability to practice their
profession and operate a business. Accordingly, physicians may challenge such
economic conflict-of-interest policies under federal and state antitrust laws.
n44 The federal antitrust claims can be separated into two groups: (1) those
alleging joint activity under Section 1 of the Sherman Act; and (2) those
alleging unilateral action under Section 2 of the Sherman Act based on
monopolizing or attempting to monopolize the market.



   n44 See, e.g., Balaklaw, 14 F.3d at 795 (anesthesiologist challenging
exclusive contract); Capital Imaging, 996 F.2d at 539 (radiologists challenging
exclusive contract); Pudlo v. Adamski, No. 92-1854, 1993 WL 306105 (7th Cir.
Aug. 9, 1993) (hospital terminated radiologist's contract); Lie v. St. Joseph
Hosp. 964 F.2d 567, 568 (6th Cir. 1992) (physician's surgical privileges were
suspended); Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs, 924 F.2d at 1486 (radiologists
challenging exclusive contract); Bhan v. NME Hosps., Inc., 929 F.2d 1404, 1407
(9th Cir. 1991) (anesthetist was excluded by policy of allowing only physicians
to perform anesthesia services); Todorov v. DCH Healthcare Auth., 921 F.2d 1438,
1441 (11th Cir. 1991) (physician denied radiology privileges); Nurse Midwifery
Assoc. v. Hibbett, 918 F.2d 605, 607-08 (6th Cir. 1990) (midwives and
obstetrician alleged they were prevented from operating a maternity practice or
offering midwifery services at hospitals); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d
138, 139 (6th Cir. 1990) (radiologist challenging exclusive contract); Goss v.
Mem'l Hosp. Sys., 789 F.2d 353, 353-54 (5th Cir. 1986) (physician's privileges
terminated); Konik, 733 F.2d at 1011 (anesthesiologist challenging exclusive
contract); Dos Santos v. Columbus-Cuneo-Cabrini Med. Ctr., 684 F.2d 1346, 1347
(7th Cir. 1982) (vacating preliminary injunction granted to anesthesiologist
challenging exclusive contract); Scara v. Bradley Mem'l. Hosp., No. CIV-1-91-28,
1993 WL 404150, at *1 (E.D. Tenn. Feb. 4, 1993) (anesthesiologist challenging
exclusive contract); Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 814 F. Supp. 1254, 1256 (W.D. Pa.
1992) (physician's privileges terminated); Jackson v. Radcliffe, 795 F. Supp.
197, 200 (S.D. Tex. 1992) (hospital terminated radiologist's contract); Purgess
v. Sharrock, No. 91 Civ. 621 (LFJ), 1992 WL 349683, at *1 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 9,
1992) (anesthesiologist's privileges terminated); Brown v. Our Lady of Lourdes
Med. Ctr., 767 F. Supp. 618, 620 (D.N.J. 1991) (surgeon denied privileges);
Anesthesia Advantage, Inc. v. Metz Group, 759 F. Supp. 638, 654 (D. Colo. 1991)
(hospital terminated negotiations with anesthetists); Robles v. Humana Hosp.
Cartersville, 785 F. Supp. 989, 992-93 (N.D. Ga. 1992) (hospital terminated
obstetrician's contract); Bellam, 758 F. Supp. at 1495 (preliminary injunction
denied to anesthesiologists challenging exclusive contract); Castelli v.
Meadville Med. Ctr., 702 F. Supp. 1201, 1203 (W.D. Pa. 1988) (radiologist
challenging exclusive contract).

1. Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act

   Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act prohibits contracts, combinations, and
conspiracies in restraint of trade. n45 "To prevail on a section one claim,
plaintiffs must show that the defendants (1) engaged in a conspiracy (2) that
produced some anti-competitive effect (3) in the relevant market." n46
Accordingly, the first element of a Section 1 claim is the existence of a
conspiracy or proof of joint activity. n47 Unilateral action is not illegal
under Section 1. Some courts have held that a hospital is legally incapable of
conspiring with its medical staff based on the rule that a corporation cannot
conspire with its officers and directors. n48 Other courts have concluded that a
conspiracy is possible in this situation. n49



   n45 15 U.S.C. § 1 (2003) ("Every contract, combination in the form of trust
or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States, or with foreign nations, is declared to be illegal.").


   n46 Johnson v. Hosp. Corp. of Am., 95 F.3d 383, 392 (5th Cir. 1996).


   n47 See, e.g., Canady v. Providence Hosp., 903 F. Supp. 125, 127 (D.D.C.
1995) (requiring surgeon challenging termination of staff privileges on
antitrust grounds to show "concerted action between at least two legally
distinct persons or entities").


   n48 See, e.g., Potters Med. Ctr. v. City Hosp. Assoc., 800 F.2d 568, 573 (6th
Cir. 1986); Weiss v. York Hosp., 745 F.2d 786, 817 (3d Cir. 1984); Canady, 903
F. Supp. at 125.


   n49 See, e.g., Bolt v. Halifax Hosp. Med. Ctr., 851 F.2d 1273, 1280 (11th
Cir. 1988).

   Assuming that a hospital is legally capable of conspiring with its own
medical staff, the plaintiff must still provide evidence of a conspiracy.
Whether the conspiracy requirement of a Section 1 claim is met will turn on the
facts in each individual case. For example, if an excluded physician could show
that two separate entities conspired to exclude him from the market, a court
could conclude that there is evidence of a conspiracy. When economic
credentialing activities are performed by the hospital alone, without any
physician involvement, the Section 1 conspiracy requirement likely will not be
met, and the antitrust challenge will fail. n50 To avoid a Section 1 challenge,
therefore, hospital boards of directors might consider making economic
credentialing decisions alone, without physician involvement. If the hospital's
board or credentialing committee includes physicians, the board or committee
could recuse those physician members from credentialing decisions based on
economic criteria.



   n50 See Todorov v. DCH Healthcare Auth., 921 F.2d 1438, 1459-62 (11th Cir.
1991) (decision by board of trustees of hospital to deny privileges constituted
unilateral act outside the scope of Section 1, despite the fact decision
followed medical staff's recommendation).

   Even assuming that a court concludes that there is a conspiracy, Section 1
also requires proof of anticompetitive effect. Some types of restraints on trade
are considered per se illegal without any need to analyze the relevant market.
n51 The per se rule is limited to activities that "always or almost always tend
to restrict competition and decrease output." n52 If the activity is not per se
illegal, courts will analyze the anticompetitive effect of a particular policy
under a rule of reason analysis. n53



   n51 See State Oil Co. v. Kahn, 522 U.S. 3, 10 (1997); Jefferson Parish Hosp.
Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 9 (1984) ("A price fixing agreement between
competitors is the classic example of such an arrangement."); Nat'l Soc'y of
Prof'l Eng'rs v. United States, 435 U.S. 679, 692 (1978); Int'l Salt Co. v.
United States, 332 U.S. 392, 396 (1947); United States v. Trans-Mo. Freight
Ass'n, 166 U.S. 290, 328 (1897) (establishing rule that price-fixing is a per se
antitrust violation). Group boycotts, such as when businesses with market power
boycott suppliers or customers to discourage them from dealing with competitors,
are typically analyzed under the per se rule. See, e.g., F.T.C. v. Ind. Fed'n of
Dentists, 476 U.S. 447, 458 (1986); Minn. Ass'n of Nurse Anesthetists v. Unity
Hosp., 208 F.3d 655, 659 (8th Cir. 2000). Because proof of market power is still
required for a group boycott claim, the analysis resembles the rule of reason
analysis. Ind. Fed'n of Dentists, 476 U.S. at 458.


   n52 Broadway Music, Inc. v. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., 441 U.S. 1,
19-20 (1979). See Kahn, 552 U.S. at 10 ("We have expressed reluctance to adopt
per se rules with regard to restraints imposed in the context of business
relationships where the economic impact . . . is not immediately obvious.").


   n53 Bus. Elec. Corp. v. Sharp Elecs. Corp., 485 U.S. 717, 717 (1988)
("Ordinarily, whether particular concerted action violates § 1 [of the Sherman
Act] is determined through case-by-case application of the rule of reason.").

   The per se analysis generally is inappropriate in the medical staffing
context because "there is nothing obviously anticompetitive about a hospital
choosing one staffing pattern over another or in restricting the staff to some
rather than many, or all." n54 Thus, hospital credentialing activities generally
are not considered per se anticompetitive; courts considering medical staff
cases invariably apply a rule of reason analysis. n55 A threshold question under
the rule of reason analysis is whether the defendant possesses "market power" in
the relevant market. n56 The plaintiff must present evidence to define the
geographic market allegedly affected. n57 Absent evidence defining the relevant
market n58 or demonstrating market power, there is no need to examine
competitive justifications or effects because the court presumes that the
activity will have no anticompetitive effect. n59 Accordingly, to challenge a
hospital's economic credentialing policy under Section 1, a physician first
would have to define the relevant market and demonstrate that the hospital has
sufficient market power to unlawfully restrain trade. n60 Otherwise, the Section
1 antitrust challenge will fail at the outset.



   n54 Minn. Ass'n of Nurse Anesthetists, 208 F.3d at 661 (holding that
antitrust challenge to exclusive contract was properly analyzed under rule of
reason); BCB Anesthesia Care, Ltd. v. Passavant Mem'l Area Hosp. Ass'n, 36 F.3d
664, 667 (7th Cir. 1994) (affirming dismissal of antitrust challenge to
anesthesiology exclusive contract). See Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 446 U.S.
at 43-44 (O'Connor, Burger, Powell, & Rehnquist, JJ., concurring); Burnham
Hosp., 101 F.T.C. 991, 993-94 (1993) (Exclusive contracts have numerous
beneficial effects, such as facilitating efficient delivery of services,
increasing control over departmental operations, lowering costs though
standardization, improving staff supervision, improving working relationships,
and increasing quality of care.).


   n55 BCB Anesthesia Care, 36 F.3d at 667; Oksanen v. Page Mem'l Hosp., 945
F.2d 696, 709 (4th Cir. 1991); Hassan v. Indep. Practice Assocs., 698 F. Supp.
679, 690 (E.D. Mich. 1988) (refusing to apply per se analysis because setting
price of laboratory tests was a reasonable and necessary function of the
physician independent practice association).


   n56 Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 466 U.S. at 27 (holding that evidence of
30% market share did not "establish the kind of dominant market position that
obviates the need for further inquiry into actual competitive conditions"); Goss
v. Mem'l Hosp. Sys., 789 F.2d 353, 355 (5th Cir. 1986) (noting that plaintiff is
required to prove that defendant had "market power" as a threshold matter).


   n57 See Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 466 U.S. at 18. See also Surgical Care
Ctr. v. Hosp. Serv. Dist. No. 1, 309 F.3d 836, 841 (5th Cir. 2002) (To prevail
on a § 1 claim, plaintiff was required to prove that the defendant public
hospital (1) has "appreciable economic power" in the market for inpatient care,
and (2) the anticompetitive arrangement "affects a substantial volume of
commerce" in the market for outpatient surgical care) (citing Eastman Kodak Co.
v. Image Technical Servs., Inc. 504 U.S. 451, 462 (1992)).


   n58 Surgical Care Ctr., 309 F.3d at 842 (holding that plaintiff's failure to
define the relevant geographic market was fatal to § 1 illegal tying claim).


   n59 See Desai v. St. Barnabas Med. Ctr., 510 A.2d 662, 672 (N.J. 1986)
(rejecting antitrust claims because plaintiff failed to establish market power
or market area).


   n60 See Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 466 U.S. at 2, 25-27.

   If the court concludes that the hospital possesses market power, the court
then would balance the anticompetitive effects of the economic credentialing
policy against the pro-competitive benefits or justifications for the policy.
n61 The hospital would need to demonstrate a legitimate business purpose for the
challenged policy, such as to maintain the hospital's economic viability or
improve efficiency. n62



   n61 See Bd. of Trade v. United States, 246 U.S. 231, 238 (1918); Doctor's
Hosp. v. Southeast Med. Alliance, Inc., 123 F.3d 301, 307 (5th Cir. 1997).


   n62 See, e.g., Redding v. St. Francis Med. Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806, 808 (Ct.
App. 1989) (justifying hospital's closed staff policy for cardiovascular surgery
as an appropriate way to address the facility's problems including: the
mortality rate for such procedures, failure of cardiac physicians to conduct
peer review, inability to schedule needed surgeries, and unavailability of
surgeons for needed backup); Desai, 510 A.2d at 669-70 (acknowledging hospital's
assertions that its closed staff policy was necessary because of an extremely
high rate of bed occupancy and over-utilization of equipment and facilities).
See also Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist., 466 U.S. at 43 (O'Connor, J., concurring)
("From the viewpoint of hospital management, [the sole provider agreement for
anesthesia] ensures 24-hour anesthesiology coverage, aids in standardization of
procedures and efficient use of equipment, facilitates flexible scheduling of
operations, and permits the hospital more effectively to monitor the quality of
anesthesiological services."); Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160
(S.D. 2001) (noting that hospital board had legitimately determined that closed
medical staff was necessary to insure continued economic viability of hospital).

   Most challenges to medical staff determinations brought under Section 1 of
the Sherman Act have failed. n63 As one court noted:

        The cases involving staffing at a single hospital are legion.
     Hundreds, perhaps thousands of pages in West publications are devoted
     to the issues those circumstances present. . . .

        Those hundreds or thousands of pages almost always come to the same
     conclusion: the staffing decision at a single hospital was not a
     violation of section 1 of the Sherman Act. n64





   n63 See e.g., Balaklaw v. Lovell, 14 F.3d 793, 795 (2d Cir. 1994); Capital
Imaging Assoc., P.C. v. Mohawk Valley Med. Assoc., Inc., 996 F.2d 537, 538 (2d
Cir. 1993); Oksanen v. Page Mem'l Hosp., 945 F.2d 696, 710 (4th Cir. 1991);
Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs v. Radiology, Ltd., 924 F.2d 1484, 1489 (9th
Cir. 1991); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138, 139 (6th Cir. 1990); Konik v.
Champlain Valley Physicians Hosp. Med. Ctr., 733 F.2d 1007, 1018 (2d Cir. 1984).


   n64 BCB Anesthesia Care, Ltd. v. Passavant Mem'l Area Hosp. Ass'n, 36 F.3d
664, 667 (7th Cir. 1994). As a defense to § 1 antitrust challenges to
credentialing policies, hospitals also may assert the "state action" doctrine,
arguing that the decision that ultimately led to the physician's exclusion was
mandated by state laws requiring hospitals to review the qualifications of
applicants for medical staff privileges. See Patrick v. Burget, 486 U.S. 94,
99-100 (1988) (considering state action defense to claim alleging that peer
review process was implemented to reduce competition rather than improve patient
care); Cal. Retail Liquor Dealers Ass'n v. Midcal Aluminum, Inc., 445 U.S. 97,
105 (1980) (describing state action doctrine). This defense seems likely to fail
because state laws requiring hospitals to implement credentialing processes do
not result in the state's "ultimate control" over the policies. See Patrick, 486
U.S. at 101.

   Accordingly, given the difficulty in establishing a conspiracy and in
defining the relevant market in these cases, an economic conflict-of-interest
policy may survive a Section 1 Sherman Act challenge.

2. Section 2 of the Sherman Act

   Physicians also may attempt to challenge economic credentialing policies
under Section 2 of the Sherman Act, which prohibits the willful acquisition or
maintenance of monopoly power in a relevant market. n65 Section 2 also prohibits
the attempt to acquire a monopoly. n66



   n65 15 U.S.C. § 2 (2003) ("Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to
monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or persons, to
monopolize any part of the trade or commerce amount the several States, or with
foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty of a felony . . . ."). See United States
v. Grinnell Corp., 384 U.S. 563, 570-71 (1966).


   n66 15 U.S.C. § 2 (2003). See United States v. American Airlines, Inc., 743
F.2d 1114, 1118 (5th Cir. 1984). An attempted monopolization claim would require
proof that "(1) [the hospital] has engaged in predatory or anticompetitive
conduct with (2) a specific intent to monopolize and (3) [that there is] a
dangerous probability of achieving monopoly power." Spectrum Sports, Inc. v.
McQuillan, 506 U.S. 447, 455-56 (1993).

   To prevail on a monopolization claim, an excluded physician would have to
prove both that the hospital possesses monopoly power in the relevant market and
that it willfully acquired or maintained such power. "Monopoly power is the
power to control prices or exclude competition." n67 Market share is typically
used as a proxy for monopoly power. n68 Market power is usually difficult to
assess and even more difficult to prove in court. n69 Failure to prove market
power will defeat a Section 2 claim, just like a Section 1 claim, from the
outset. n70



   n67 United States v. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., 351 U.S. 377, 391
(1956).


   n68 Grinnell Corp., 384 U.S. at 571. See also Domed Stadium Hotel, Inc. v.
Holiday Inns, Inc., 732 F.2d 480, 490 (5th Cir. 1984) ("market shares between of
seventeen and twenty-five percent are not legally sufficient to uphold a finding
of monopolization") (citing Dimmitt Agri. Indus., Inc. v. CPC Int'l Inc., 679
F.2d 516, 521 (5th Cir. 1982)).


   n69 See Blue Cross & Blue Shield United v. Marshfield Clinic, 65 F.3d 1406,
1411-12 (7th Cir. 1995).


   n70 See Surgical Care Ctr. v. Hosp. Serv. Dist. No. 1, 309 F.3d 836, 840 (5th
Cir. 2002) (concluding that plaintiff failed to present sufficient evidence
defining the geographic market, much less market power, thus both § 1 and § 2
claims failed); Bellam v. Clayton County Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488, 1493
(N.D. Ga. 1990).

   Another element of a Section 2 Sherman Act claim is proof that the hospital
willfully acquired or maintained monopoly power. n71 Business growth or
development that results from "a superior product, business acumen, or historic
accident" does not violate the antitrust laws. n72 Consequently, an economic
credentialing policy that is intended to limit staff physicians from owning or
acquiring an interest in a competing facility could show that a hospital
"willfully maintained" monopoly power. One argument that a hospital could make
against an allegation of willfully maintaining a monopoly is that the economic
credentialing policy excludes physicians from the medical staff, rather than
controls or restricts the physician market. As noted by one court, a hospital
would be more likely to "maximize its revenues by giving staff privileges to
every qualified doctor who applied." n73 By contrast, a policy that is intended
to exclude physicians from the medical staff "is likely to weaken [a hospital's]
monopoly position in the long run, since a potential rival . . . would have an
incentive to provide competing services for the [physicians] excluded." n74 That
argument might support a conclusion that the hospital was not monopolizing the
market vis a vis other full-service, acute-care community hospitals. But
physicians typically do not wish to open full-service hospitals, but rather
specialty hospitals. Therefore, a court could hold that a policy expressly
prohibiting physicians from owning or investing in competing facilities
unlawfully impairs the operation of and erects a barrier to entry for such
specialty hospitals.



   n71 15 U.S.C. § 2.


   n72 Grinnell Corp., 384 U.S. at 571 (1966).


   n73 Weiss v. York Hosp., 745 F.2d 786, 828 n.60 (3d Cir. 1984).


   n74 Id.

   A hospital also could argue that its board adopted an economic
conflict-of-interest policy based on a reasonable business judgment that the
hospital would rather lose potential patient referrals from excluded physicians
than allow such physicians to cherry pick profitable patients. Such a rationale
would not suggest an intent to willfully maintain monopoly power and, therefore,
could defeat a Section 2 antitrust challenge.

3. Decisions Upholding Antitrust Challenges to Economic Conflict-of-Interest
Policies and Practices

   Despite courts' tolerance for certain types of economic credentialing
policies, such as exclusive contract or closed staff arrangements n75 and
policies intended to promote efficiency, n76 courts appear less willing to
uphold policies based on physicians' membership in competing organizations,
admission of patients to competing facilities, or ownership interests in
competing healthcare facilities. One purpose of antitrust law is to maximize
consumer welfare by policing practices that tend to restrict competition.
Accordingly, a policy that protects a hospital's revenue stream by conditioning
medical staff privileges on physicians restricting or refraining from
competition in the relevant healthcare market presents a particular risk of
liability under antitrust law. Hospitals have begun to adopt such policies only
recently; therefore, there are relatively few cases directly addressing the
antitrust and other issues raised by such policies. The following cases
illustrate that courts may be willing to uphold antitrust challenges to such
inherently anticompetitive credentialing policies, even though courts generally
reject antitrust challenges to more benign, or "traditional," forms of economic
credentialing.



   n75 See, e.g. Balaklaw v. Lovell, 14 F.3d 793, 795 (2d Cir. 1994); Capital
Imaging Assoc., P.C. v. Mohawk Valley Med. Assoc., Inc., 996 F.2d 537, 539 (2d
Cir. 1993); Morgan, Strand, Wheeler & Biggs v. Radiology, Ltd., 924 F.2d 1484,
1486 (9th Cir. 1991); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138, 139 (6th Cir.
1990); Konik v. Champlain Valley Physicians Hosp. Med. Ctr., 733 F.2d 1007, 1009
(2d Cir. 1984); Roland Mach. Co. v. Dresser Indus., Inc., 749 F.2d 380, 395 (7th
Cir. 1984); Drs. Steuer & Latham, P.A. v. Nat'l Med. Enter., 672 F. Supp. 1489,
1492 (D.S.C. 1987); Bellam, 758 F. Supp. at 1493 (N.D. Ga. 1990); Gonzalez v.
San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d 436, 437 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994).


   n76 See, e.g., Hassan v. Independent Practice Assocs., 698 F. Supp. 679, 694
(E.D. Mich. 1988); Freidman v. Del. Co. Mem'l Hosp., 672 F. Supp. 171, 195 (E.D.
Pa. 1987); Redding v. St. Francis Med. Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806, 808 (Ct. App.
1989).

   First, in Reazin v. Blue Cross & Blue Shield, n77 the court upheld an
antitrust claim brought by a physician, a hospital, and two insurance companies
owned by the hospital against Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Kansas (Blue Cross
Kansas). The complaint alleged that Blue Cross threatened to terminate the
hospital's contracting provider agreement because of the hospital's affiliation
with competing insurers. The plaintiffs alleged that this threatened termination
had the effect of making other hospitals reluctant to affiliate with Blue Cross
Kansas's competitors, thereby reducing competition in the health insurance
market and preventing healthcare consumers from enjoying the benefits of
competition. The jury agreed with the plaintiffs, and the appeals court upheld
the verdict. n78



   n77 635 F. Supp. 1287 (D. Kan. 1986), aff'd in part, remanded in part, 899
F.2d 951 (10th Cir. 1986).


   n78 Id. at 1293.

   Similarly, in Potters Medical Center v. City Hospital Ass'n, n79 the court
held that restricting a physician's ability to practice at competing facilities
may constitute monopolization. Potters, an acute-care hospital, together with a
diagnostic imaging center and a minor emergency clinic, brought an antitrust
action against City Hospital, the only other acute-care hospital in the
geographic area. The complaint alleged that that City Hospital refused to grant
staff privileges to doctors with Potters' privileges and engaged in various
intimidation and pressuring tactics to discourage physician competition. The
court denied the defendants' request to dismiss the complaint because there was
adequate evidence of anticompetitive intent and other elements of an antitrust
violation. n80



   n79 800 F.2d 568 (6th Cir. 1986).


   n80 Id. at 577.

   Likewise, in Miller v. Indiana Hospital, n81 the court allowed a surgeon's
antitrust claim to reach a jury. The court concluded that there was sufficient
evidence that a hospital unreasonably terminated a surgeon's staff privileges
when the surgeon opened a competing facility and that the termination of
privileges was not due to professional incompetence as alleged by the hospital.
n82 Several years after obtaining staff privileges at the hospital, the surgeon
opened a five-office medical building (including physicians' offices, an on-site
laboratory, and radiology services) two miles away from the hospital. A few
years after the surgeon opened the medical office building, the hospital
terminated his staff privileges, ostensibly because of inadequate care provided
to one patient who died at the hospital. The surgeon alleged that the hospital
actually revoked his staff privileges to stifle competition from his facility.
Based on affidavits of former hospital administrators revealing the hospital's
concern over competition from the surgeon's facility, evidence that the medical
staff encouraged other practitioners to break their contracts with the surgeon's
facility, and evidence that physicians who committed more serious infractions
regarding patient care were not terminated, the court declined to dismiss the
antitrust action. n83



   n81 843 F.2d 139 (3d Cir. 1988).


   n82 Id. at 144-45.


   n83 Id.

   Also, in Blue Cross v. Kitsap Physicians Service, n84 the court granted Blue
Cross of Washington and Alaska's (Blue Cross Washington's) request for a
preliminary injunction to stop Kitsap Physicians Service (KPS), the dominant
health insurer in the area, from enforcing an amendment to its bylaws that would
have denied membership to any physician who contracted with a health maintenance
organization (HMO) that utilized a "closed panel" of physicians. Blue Cross
Washington alleged that KPS adopted the bylaw as a defensive measure to remain
competitive with Blue Cross Washington. The court concluded that KPS enjoyed
substantial market share and that the bylaw amendment had an anticompetitive
effect by obstructing Blue Cross Washington's ability to attract physicians to
its plan. n85



   n84 No. C81-918V, 1981 WL 2198, at *1 (W.D. Wash. Oct. 28, 1981).


   n85 Id. at *4-*5.

   In justifying its bylaw under a rule of reason analysis, KPS argued that the
Blue Cross Washington closed-panel policy itself adversely affected competition
because it created a conflict of interest for physicians who belonged to both
the KPS plan, a fee-for-service arrangement, and the Blue Cross Washington HMO.
KPS asserted that physicians participating in both plans would have an incentive
to steer healthy patients to the Blue Cross Washington plan and more needy
patients to the KPS plan, which would cause KPS's costs (and rates) to rise. The
court determined that if such steering occurred, it would not produce
anticompetitive effects, but rather, "the very type of competitive pressure that
the HMO concept seeks to introduce." n86 In the court's estimation, healthier
patients should be drawn to HMOs, which offer lower prices, instead of
fee-for-service arrangements, under which they subsidize less healthy patients.
Although one could quibble with the court's analysis of the economic incentives
under various medical insurance models, the Kitsap decision is significant
because it considered and rejected a cherry-picking argument analogous to the
one that hospitals may make regarding medical staff members' economic conflicts
of interest.



   n86 Id. at *5.

   These cases demonstrate courts' willingness to strike down credentialing
policies that have the intent or inherent effect of restricting competition in
the relevant healthcare market. Although protection of competition for
competition's sake is not the primary purpose of antitrust laws, a court might
allow an antitrust challenge to a hospital's credentialing policy that
specifically prohibits or restricts medical staff members from competing with
the hospital. Such a policy could harm consumers by limiting the availability,
reducing the quality, or increasing the cost of healthcare services.

4. Decisions Supporting a Hospital's Right to Exclude Physicians Based on
Conflicts of Interest

   The rule of reason analysis calls for courts to weigh the anticompetitive
effects of a particular business practice against the pro-competitive benefits
of the practice. Accordingly, in deciding an antitrust challenge to a hospital's
credentialing policy that excludes physicians who have economic conflicts of
interest, a court could conclude that such a policy does not violate antitrust
law if the hospital offers a legitimate business justification. Cases decided on
antitrust grounds, as well as cases decided in other contexts based on economic
policies and principles of competition, have recognized a hospital's need to
maintain economic viability as a legitimate business justification for economic
credentialing.

   As discussed, the Mahan n87 court held that a hospital's interest in
protecting itself from competition was a sufficient business justification for
restricting staff privileges on a breach of contract challenge to the bylaws.
Such reasoning could be borrowed in the antitrust context. In Mahan, a group of
orthopedic surgeons built an orthopedic surgery center that directly competed
with the hospital. The hospital board responded by adopting a closed staff
policy with respect to three specific spinal procedures and all new applicants
for orthopedic surgery privileges. After being denied staff privileges, Dr.
Mahan sued the hospital claiming the closed staff policy was anticompetitive and
constituted a breach of the medical staff bylaws. n88 The Supreme Court of South
Dakota concluded that the hospital's closed staff policy was necessary to
"insure the continued viability of the hospital." n89 The court upheld the
policy because the hospital board acted in good faith and within its authority
in adopting the policy. n90 Mahan supports the proposition that reducing or
preventing competition that could threaten a hospital's ability to remain
operational may be a valid exercise of the hospital board's management power,
even if such policy has anticompetitive effects. In a footnote, the Supreme
Court of South Dakota recognized the conflict of interest inherent in physicians
owning competing healthcare facilities:

        How can a doctor who is a part owner of the forprofit [orthopedic
     surgery group] be expected to fulfill his or her duties toward his or
     her co-owners and in the same instance fulfill the duties towards the
     [the hospital], who is a not for profit hospital? This does not imply
     ill-will on the part of the doctor, it simply faces fundamental
     medical issues such as at which institution does the doctor place his
     or her patients . . .? We have often stated that an agent cannot serve
     two masters. This rule applies to medical professionals as well. n91





   n87 Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001).


   n88 Id. at 153.


   n89 Id. at 160.


   n90 Id. at 161.


   n91 Id. at 161 n.8.

   Accordingly, Mahan seems to recognize that a hospital policy which restricts
or prohibits physicians' ownership or investment in competing entities could be
viewed as being supported by a valid business justification because there is no
other way to ensure that physicians remain loyal to the hospital and avoid the
temptation to cherry pick patients.

   The Mahan decision is significant for its strong deference to the hospital
board's authority to protect the hospital from competitive market forces. The
court was persuaded that the hospital provided essential medical care to the
Aberdeen community, which services might be unavailable if the hospital were
forced to close. Accordingly, the court concluded that "[the hospital] surely
has the power to attempt to insure [its] economic survival." n92 The court did
not adequately explain, however, why the community demand for such medical
services could not be filled by another, perhaps more efficient, healthcare
provider.



   n92 Id. at 156 (emphasis added).

   Also recognizing a healthcare provider's legitimate interest in maintaining
economic viability, a New York court in NYSARC, Inc. v. Syed, n93 upheld a
noncompete clause in a contract between a nonprofit medical clinic and a
physician. The court noted that the medical clinic alleged "that enforcement of
the covenant is necessary to protect its legitimate interests because it is a
not-for-profit organization operating its clinic at a loss and because the
patient revenue is crucial to its ability to continue providing services. If it
loses patients who have insurance or can otherwise afford to pay for services it
will be unable to continue serving those patients who cannot afford to pay for
services." n94 NYSARC, like Mahan, seems to recognize the quasi-public nature of
healthcare services and the multiple-payor cost-spreading methods by which
hospitals finance their services. In light of these factors, courts may be more
willing to uphold anticompetitive business practices in the healthcare context
than in other markets.



   n93 747 N.Y.S.2d 327 (Sup. Ct. 2002).


   n94 Id. at 328.

   Other cases suggest that courts may be influenced by the unique economics of
healthcare financing and the considerable discretionary power of hospital boards
of directors when ruling on challenges to economic conflict-of-interest
credentialing policies. For example, in an unreported Florida decision,
Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center, n95 the court
squarely addressed a hospital's authority to exclude a physician based solely on
an economic conflict of interest. A nonprofit hospital excluded the physician
because he was head of the cardiology department at a competing hospital. The
physician sued, but the court dismissed his claims, relying in part on language
in a Florida statute listing the criteria that a hospital may consider in
deciding whether to grant staff privileges, including "such other elements as
determined by the governing board." n96 The court determined that "other
elements" could include economic conflicts of interest. n97



   n95 No. 91-589 (Fla. Cir. Ct. 1992). See Judith E. Orie, Economic
Credentialing: Bottom-Line Medical Care, 36 DUQ. L. REV. 437, 450-51 (1998).


   n96 FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.0191 (West 2002).


   n97 Orie, supra note 95, at 450.

   Further, a recent case from Louisiana upheld a hospital's policies that had
the effect of limiting competition from a physician-owned facility because there
was a valid business justification for the policies. n98 In Surgical Care Center
v. Hospital Service District No. 1, the court rejected the surgical center's
antitrust challenge to various practices of the hospital, such as negotiating
exclusive contracts with insurance companies, refusing patient-transfer and
blood-type-and-cross-match agreements with the surgical center, refusing to lend
equipment, and making threats that could have deterred physicians from working
at the competing surgical center. n99 The court concluded that these practices
either had no effect on the surgical center or were justified as pro-competitive
conduct. n100 With respect to other monopoly and tying claims, the court
determined that the plaintiffs failed to prove market power; therefore, the
antitrust claims failed. n101



   n98 Surgical Care Ctr. v. Hosp. Service Dist. No. 1, No. Civ.A. 97-1840, 2001
WL 8586, at *1 (E.D. La. Jan. 3, 2001), aff'd, 309 F.3d 836 (5th Cir. 2002)
(holding that antitrust claims failed because plaintiff failed to present
evidence defining the relevant geographic market).


   n99 Id.


   n100 Id. at *11-*12.


   n101 Id. at *3-*10. See Surgical Care Ctr. v. Hosp. Serv. Dist. No. 1, 309
F.3d 836, 839-42 (5th Cir. 2002).

   Another case has upheld the right of healthcare providers and managed care
insurance providers to negotiate exclusive contracts. In Park Avenue Radiology
Associates v. Methodist Health Systems, Inc., n102 the court held that two
physicians and their outpatient radiology practice lacked standing to bring an
antitrust challenge to the exclusive contract. The court noted that exclusive
contracts between providers and health plans that offer discounts and other
financial incentives to refer patients to the provider are consistent with the
selective nature of managed care insurance plans, are pro-competitive, and have
the desirable effect of reducing healthcare costs. n103



   n102 No. 98-5668, 1999 WL 1045098 (6th Cir. Nov. 10, 1999).


   n103 Id. at *4-*5.

   Also, in Lister v. Methodist Medical Center, n104 the court upheld a
hospital's closed staff policy for anesthesia services, noting: "the by-laws do
not limit the hospital from taking actions which affect the plaintiff's staff
privileges unrelated to competency or conduct. The parties concede that the
hospital decided to terminate plaintiff's clinical privileges solely due to
business considerations, an entitled deference . . . ." n105 Lister and the
other cases discussed above suggest that courts may be willing to accord
considerable discretion to hospitals with economic credentialing policies, even
when such policies have the inherent effect and evident purpose of limiting
competition. n106 Maintaining economic viability and ensuring delivery of needed
healthcare services may justify an otherwise impermissible restraint on trade.



   n104 No. 03A01-9305-CH-186, 1993 WL 481402 (Tenn. Ct. App. Nov. 18, 1993).


   n105 Id. at *2 (emphasis added).


   n106 See United States v. American Tobacco, 221 U.S. 106, 179 (1911) (rule of
reason antitrust violations may include contracts or agreements "which, either
because of their inherent nature or effect or because of the evident purpose of
the acts, etc., injuriously restrained trade").

   Another argument available to defeat a monopolization challenge to an
economic credentialing policy is the long-recognized right of a trader or
manufacturer freely to exercise his own independent discretion as to parties
with whom he will deal, in the absence of any purpose to create a monopoly.
Based on such reasoning, the Fifth Circuit, in Martin v. Memorial Hospital,
rejected a physician's monopoly challenge to a hospital's exclusive agreement
governing staff privileges at the county's only authorized end stage renal
disease (ESRD) units. n107 At the time, Mississippi law prohibited the operation
of an ESRD unit without first obtaining a certificate of need (CON) from the
state department of health. Memorial Hospital at Gulfport (MHG) acquired control
of both CONs issued by the state for ESRD units and entered into an exclusive
contract with a physician under which only that physician, or the physician's
designated representative, could perform chronic outpatient dialysis in MHG's
ESRD units. An excluded nephrologist sued MHG and its board of trustees,
alleging violations of state antitrust laws. n108 The Fifth Circuit held that
the exclusive contract did not violate Mississippi's anti-monopoly law because
to hold otherwise would be inconsistent with the CON statute, which clearly
contemplated anticompetitive conduct. n109



   n107 Martin v. Mem'l Hosp., 130 F.3d 1143 (5th Cir. 1997).


   n108 Id. at 1146.


   n109 Id. at 1151. CONs, like patents, are a form of government-sanctioned
monopoly.

   These cases provide potential arguments that a hospital could use to defeat a
physician's antitrust challenge to an economic conflict-of-interest policy. Even
if the hospital possesses market power, the hospital may be able to demonstrate
that the anticompetitive effects of the economic credentialing policy are
outweighed by pro-competitive benefits or legitimate business justifications for
the policy. In particular, these cases demonstrate that courts tend to defer to
hospital management regarding efficiency and other operational matters.
Specifically, a hospital's need to maintain economic viability and a patient mix
that includes high-reimbursement cases to offset low-reimbursement or indigent
care cases could justify a policy that limits or prohibits competition by
medical staff members. Such policies, however, are inherently anticompetitive
because they force physicians to limit or forego certain entrepreneurial or
investment activities in order to maintain full staff privileges at a general,
acute-care facility, which arguably are essential for most physicians'
practices. n110 Accordingly, courts could deem hospitals' new economic
credentialing policies to constitute illegal methods of maintaining monopoly
power or barring new entry. The incidence of hospitals adopting policies to
limit or prohibit competition by their medical staff members is likely to
increase, as both physicians and hospitals address problems of declining
revenue. Therefore, additional challenges to these policies likely will be
brought, and the antitrust case law regarding such policies will continue to
evolve.



   n110 See, e.g., Koniak v. Champlain Valley Physicians Hosp. Med. Ctr., 561
F.Supp. 700, 705 (N.D.N.Y. 1983), aff'd 733 F.2d 1007 (2d Cir. 1984); see
generally Scott D. Makar, The Essential Facilities Doctrine and the Health Care
Industry, 21 FLA. ST. U. L. REV. 913 (1994). See also Phillip Areeda, Essential
Facilities: An Epithet in Need of Limiting Principles, 58 ANTITRUST L.J. 841
(1989).

B. Due Process Challenges

   The decision to deny or terminate a physician's staff privileges based on an
economic conflict of interest also raises issues regarding the physician's
entitlement to procedural due process. A physician who is effectively prevented
from providing services at a hospital at which he possesses staff privileges
because of the existence of a policy that conditions staff privileges on his
refraining from competition with the hospital may allege that the hospital
failed to provide procedural due process before reducing or revoking his
privileges. In other words, must a hospital give a physician an individual
hearing before enforcing an economic credentialing policy, or may the board
adopt such a policy as an administrative matter, without providing a hearing or
other due process to physicians whose clinical privileges are affected by the
new policy? These due process arguments may arise under the Fourteenth Amendment
of the United States Constitution or under state law.

   Even if a hospital is not required to provide an individual hearing and other
procedural due process rights to a physician affected by an economic
credentialing policy, the hospital should consider giving the physician due
process protection to take advantage of the immunity provisions under the Health
Care Quality Improvement Act (HCQIA). n111 Hospitals and peer review
participants are immune from liability for monetary damages for conducting
professional review activities if certain HCQIA requirements, including adequate
notice and hearing, are met. n112 Thus, despite the time, energy, and expense
potentially required to provide individual hearings for all physicians affected
by an economic credentialing policy, it may be worth the trouble for a hospital
to do so.



   n111 Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (HCQIA), Pub. L. No. 99-660,
100 Stat. 3784 (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (2003)).


   n112 See 42 U.S.C. §§ 11111 (regarding immunity), 11112(b) (regarding
requirements for adequate notice and hearing).

1. Right to a Hearing

   Physicians who lose staff privileges as a result of a hospital implementing
an economic conflict-of-interest policy may argue that the policy violates their
constitutional rights. The acts of public hospitals are considered "state
actions" and, therefore, must comport with the provisions of the United States
Constitution. n113 Specifically, excluded physicians may argue that the hospital
violated the Fourteenth Amendment Due Process clause by terminating their
medical staff privileges without a hearing.



   n113 See Sosa v. Board of Managers of the Val Verde Mem'l Hosp., 437 F.2d
173, 174 (5th Cir. 1971) (noting that because the hospital is a public body "its
acts are thus state acts and must comport with the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment"). See also Greenwood v. N.Y. Office of Mental Health, 163 F.3d 119,
121 (2d Cir. 1998) (considering constitutional claims of psychiatrist on staff
of New York State Office of Mental Health). Private hospitals generally are not
considered state actors merely because they receive federal funding or are
subject to state regulation. See Canady v. Providence Hosp., 903 F. Supp. 125,
126 (D.D.C. 1995) (holding that fact hospital accepts Hill-Burton funds does not
suffice to render the conduct of its staff and administration state action); St.
Mary's Hosp. v. Radiology Prof'l Corp., 421 S.E.2d 731, 736 (Ga. Ct. App. 1992)
(noting that extensive state regulation of private hospital and its status as
business affecting public interest do not establish state action). Thus, there
is generally no issue of constitutional due process for private hospitals.

   It is well established that a physician has no constitutional right to staff
privileges at a hospital, public or private, "merely because he is licensed to
practice medicine." n114 "A hospital is not a mere hostery [sic] providing room
and board and a place for physicians to practice their craft . . . ." n115 Once
a physician has been granted staff privileges, however, those privileges are a
property interest protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. n116 Under the
Fourteenth Amendment Due Process clause, a person's "property or liberty may not
be permanently diminished or abrogated without first being accorded that
procedural protection designed to ensure a principled and even-handed
examination of the basis for any such deprivation." n117 Accordingly, a public
hospital may be required to grant a physician "some kind of hearing" before
terminating his medical staff privileges. n118 In addition, some state statutes
require hospitals to accord certain due process or hearing rights to physicians
before denying or revoking staff privileges. n119 Under such statutes, private
as well as public hospitals may be required to provide some due process
protections before implementing a policy that impairs or terminates a
physician's medical staff privileges. n120



   n114 Sosa, 437 F.2d at 175.


   n115 Tenet Health Ltd. v. Zamora, 13 S.W.3d 464, 471 (Tex. Ct. App. 2000).


   n116 Patel v. Midland Mem'l Hosp. & Med. Ctr., 298 F.3d 333, 339 n.11 (5th
Cir. 2002); Northeast Ga. Radiological Assoc. v. Tidwell, 670 F.2d 507, 510 (5th
Cir. 1982).


   n117 Martin v. Mem'l Hosp., 130 F.3d 1143, 1147 (5th Cir. 1997).


   n118 Caine v. Hardy, 943 F.2d 1406, 1412 (5th Cir. 1991) (quoting Cleveland
Bd. of Educ. v. Loudermill, 470 U.S. 532, 546 (1985), and noting that "this may
consist of no more than a meeting at which the employer states the ground for
dismissal and gives the employee an opportunity for rebuttal"). See Patel, 298
F.3d at 339 n.12; Darlak v. Bobear, 814 F.2d 1055, 1061-62 (5th Cir. 1987);
Northeast Ga. Radiological Assoc. v. Tidwell, 670 F.2d 507, 509 n.3, 511 (5th
Cir. 1982) (concluding that physician was entitled to hearing because agreement
with hospital provided that he could be terminated only for cause); Daly v.
Sprague, 675 F.2d 716, 727 (5th Cir. 1982). Cf. Smith v. Cleburne County Hosp.,
870 F.2d 1375, 1381 (8th Cir. 1989) (clarifying that physicians who are
independent contractors, not just direct salaried employees, of public hospital
have constitutional rights). The Mathews v. Eldridge test for adequate due
process requires consideration of:

        (1) the private interest that will be affected by the official
     action; (2) the risk of erroneous deprivation of such interest through
     the procedures used, and the probable value, if any, of additional or
     substitute procedural safeguards; and (3) the Government's interest,
     including the function involved and the fiscal or administrative
     burdens that the additional or substitute procedural requirement would
     entail.

   424 U.S. 319, 321 (1976).


   n119 See, e.g. CAL. BUS. & PROF. CODE § 809.2 (West 2003) (requiring hearing
before peer review body before final action); FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.0193 (West
2003) (regarding fair hearing requirements for denial of staff privileges); GA.
CODE. ANN. § 31-7-7 to 31-7-8 (2003) (providing that refusal or revocation by
public hospital of staff privileges requires some minimal procedural due
process); IND. CODE § 34-30-15-5(b)(1) (2003) (requiring hearing if any charges
are brought against physician that are required to be reported to state
licensing board or if similar disciplinary action is filed); MASS. GEN. LAWS.
ch. 111 § 203(b) (West 2003) (providing that "provider whose privileges are
suspended shall be entitled to notice and a prompt hearing following
suspension"); TEX. HEALTH & SAFETY CODE ANN. § 241.101(c) (West 2003) (providing
that hospital's "process for considering applications for medical staff
membership and privileges or the renewal, modification, or revocation of medical
staff membership and privileges must afford each physician . . . procedural due
process").


   n120 See, e.g., Lake Hosp. & Clinic, Inc. v. Silversmith, 551 So. 2d 538,
539-40 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1989).

   Nevertheless, a number of courts hold that due process rights are not
triggered by a hospital adopting a generally applicable, nondiscriminatory
administrative policy that has the effect of denying or revoking a physician's
staff privileges. n121 Specifically, courts may hold that exclusive contract
arrangements or other economic credentialing policies do not give rise to the
full panoply of Fourteenth Amendment Due Process rights. Some courts have
concluded that the underlying rationale for holding a hearing is not present
when the hospital's decision was not based on a particular physician's
professional competence or unethical conduct. n122 In other words,
implementation of a hospital policy may be deemed an administrative or
"quasi-legislative" decision for which a judicial-type hearing is not required.
n123 As one court noted: "Neither a private nor public hospital may unreasonably
or arbitrarily exclude a physician otherwise qualified from membership on its
staff. However, it does not necessarily follow that the governing authority of a
hospital may not make a policy decision or adopt a rule of general application .
. . ." n124



   n121 See, e.g., Benell v. City of Virginia, 104 N.W.2d 633, 636 (Minn. 1960)
(right of physician to practice medicine in public hospital not invaded by
hospital's administrative policy requiring attending physicians to consult with
hospital radiologist regarding X-ray administration and dosage); East Tex. Med.
Ctr. Cancer Inst. v. Anderson, 991 S.W.2d 55, 63 (Tex. App. 1998) (holding that
procedural due process requirements "were not intended to cover cases in which a
doctor's staff privileges have been affected by some administrative decision not
directly involving [the doctor]"); Gonzalez v. San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880
S.W.2d 436, 440 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994). Generally, courts that have considered due
process claims brought by physicians whose staff privileges were affected by
exclusive contracts or similar arrangements have not distinguished between
public and private hospitals. See, e.g., Letsch v. Northern San Diego Co. Hosp.
Dist., 246 Cal. App.2d 673, 677 (1967) (closed staff operation of radiology
department was reasonable and, therefore, did not interfere with right of
physician to use public hospital facilities; relying on earlier California Court
of Appeals decision that was substantially identical "except for the fact the
hospital in the instant case is operated by a public agency whereas the hospital
operated in the case cited was operated by a corporation").


   n122 See, e.g., Hutton v. Mem'l Hosp., 824 P.2d 61, 64 (Colo. Ct. App. 1991).


   n123 See, e.g., Major v. Mem'l Hosps. Assoc., 84 Cal. Rptr. 2d 510, 521 (Ct.
App. 1999) ("In a quasi-legislative proceeding there is no constitutional right
to any hearing."). See also Benell, 104 N.W.2d at 636; Adler v. Montefiore Hosp.
Ass'n, 311 A.2d 634, 645 (Pa. 1973).


   n124 Holt v. Good Samaritan Hosp. & Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d 1318, 1321 (Ohio
Ct. App. 1990). Other courts, however, have held that a physician is entitled to
due process regardless of the reason for exclusion. See Bilek v. Tallahassee
Mem'l Reg'l Med. Ctr., No. 91-973 (Fla. Cir. Ct. 1991) (holding that closed
staff policy was de facto revocation of physician's clinical privileges in
therapeutic radiology, which privileges constituted protected property interest
that cannot be revoked without due process); Jeffrey L. Cohen, Court Rulings
Affect Hospital-based Physicians, FLORIDA OBSTETRIC AND GYNECOLOGIC SOCIETY, at
www.flobgyn.org/ln/current.php (last visited March 30, 2003). See also Lewisburg
Community Hosp., Inc. v. Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756, 761 (Tenn. 1991) (holding
hospital breached bylaws by failing to provide radiologist with hearing after
entering exclusive contract arrangement that "significantly reduced"
radiologist's privileges by denying access to hospital equipment and staff),
abrogation by statute recognized in City of Cookeville ex rel. Cookeville Reg'l
Med. Ctr. v. Humphrey, No. M2001-00695-COA-R3-CV, 2002 WL 31558101 (Tenn. Ct.
App. Nov. 20, 2002).

   Recently, the Tennessee Court of Appeals, in City of Cookeville ex rel.
Cookeville Regional Medical Center v. Humphrey, n125 departed from established
precedent of the Supreme Court of Tennessee and held that due process was not
implicated by a hospital credentialing policy. The Humphrey court held that,
under a new state statute, a public hospital was not required to accord due
process rights to radiologists whose staff privileges were affected by the
hospital entering into an exclusive contract for radiological services. In 1996,
the Tennessee General Assembly expressly authorized hospitals to enter into
exclusive contracts "regardless of the competitive consequences thereof." n126
In Humphrey, the trial court ruled in favor of the hospital, but failed to
address the Supreme Court of Tennessee's 1991 decision in Lewisburg Community
Hospital, Inc. v. Alfredson, n127 which held that a physician whose staff
privileges were significantly reduced by a hospital's exclusive contract
arrangement had a contractual right to a hearing pursuant to the hospital's
bylaws. The trial court instead "followed the apparently universal rule applied
in other jurisdictions, which is contra to Alfredson." n128 In affirming the
trial court, the court of appeals discussed and cited various decisions from
other jurisdictions regarding due process rights in relation to exclusive
contract arrangements. n129



   n125 No. M2001-00695-COA-R3CV, 2002 WL 31558101 (Tenn. App. Ct. Nov. 20,
2002).


   n126 TENN. CODE ANN. § 7-57-501(b) (2002).


   n127 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).


   n128 Humphrey, 2002 WL 31558101, at *7.


   n129 Id.

   The court also discussed the legislative history of the new statute, which
recognized that the healthcare market

        is rapidly changing as is the way and manner in which such services
     are purchased and delivered; that the market for hospital and health
     care services is becoming increasingly competitive; and that the
     hospital and other health care providers need flexibility to be able
     to respond to changing conditions by having the power to develop
     efficient and cost-effective methods to provide for hospital, medical
     and health care needs. n130

   In light of the new statute, the weight of authority from other
jurisdictions, and the emerging healthcare market factors, Humphrey concluded
that it was not bound by Alfredson. n131 Accordingly, Humphrey recognized the
reasonableness of the hospital's exclusive contract arrangement and held that
four radiologists whose medical staff privileges were affected by the hospital's
decision to enter into an exclusive contract with a different radiology group
were not entitled to individual hearings. The reasoning in Humphrey, like the
reasoning in the antitrust and other "business justification" cases,
demonstrates judicial recognition of the unique economic factors and increasing
competition faced by hospitals. Accordingly, courts may give hospital management
more leeway to adopt policies intended to shield the hospital from the
vicissitudes of the competitive marketplace than they would give management of a
different type of business entity. The result of this deference in the due
process context is that hospitals may be relieved of the burden of giving
excluded physicians individual hearings or other procedural protections.



   n130 Id. at *10 (referencing TENN. CODE ANN. § 7-57-501(b) (1998)).


   n131 Id. at *9 ("As an intermediate appellate court, we are bound by
Alfredson, and unless the case has been legislatively overruled . . . we are
bound to follow it.")

   Courts have also held that due process is not required when hospitals adopt
economic credentialing policies because such policies did not actually affect
physicians' staff privileges. In Adler v. Montefiore Hospital Ass'n, n132 the
court held that a part-time physician at a public teaching hospital did not have
a constitutional right to a hearing when the hospital adopted a policy allowing
only full-time physicians to use the cardiac catheterization laboratory. The
court concluded that the physician's "rights to admit patients and to prescribe
treatment, and the remainder of the cluster of privileges accorded to all staff
members, have in no way been diminished, but remain in all respects equal to
those of other staff members." n133 Thus, a hearing was not required. The
decision, however, ignores the reality that denying a physician access to
facilities or equipment central to his area of specialty, such as a
catheterization laboratory to a cardiologist, has the practical effect of
denying privileges.



   n132 311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973).


   n133 Id. at 645.

   Similarly, in Faucher v. Rodziewicz, n134 the court concluded that no actual
termination of staff privileges occurred when a public hospital adopted a policy
that made a physician's services less valuable but did not actually terminate
her staff privileges. The physician had been providing anesthesiology services
under an exclusive contract with the hospital for several years. The hospital
decided to hire a clinical director and asked the anesthesiologist to apply for
the new position. She declined, objecting strongly to certain terms of the
contract. The hospital then hired a new clinical director, but not under an
exclusive contract. The original anesthesiologist's staff privileges were not
affected by this staffing change. The clinical director, however, implemented a
policy requiring surgeons to give twenty-four-hours notice if they wished to use
the services of the original anesthesiologist, which made her services less
valuable than before the notice policy was implemented. n135 Under these facts,
the court concluded that no termination of staff privileges had occurred and
that the anesthesiologist's "real claim is that the economic value of her
medical staff privileges decreased" after the new clinical director was hired.
n136 The constitutional right to a hearing was not triggered because the
economic value was not a property interest protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment.



   n134 891 F.2d 864 (11th Cir. 1990).


   n135 Id. at 866-67.


   n136 Id. at 869.

   A hospital might rely on the Adler and Faucher line of reasoning to defend a
due process challenge to an economic conflict-of-interest policy that restricts,
rather than denies, staff privileges of competing medical staff members. The
hospital could argue that the policy does not actually revoke or even reduce a
physician's staff privileges, even though it may have an economic effect on him
by requiring the physician to forego investment or entrepreneurial opportunities
in another, unrelated healthcare facility. Constitutional Due Process is not
implicated when there is no loss of liberty or property.

   By contrast, the court in Northeast Georgia Radiological Associates v.
Tidwell n137 held that a hearing was required for a physician affected by an
exclusive contract arrangement at a public hospital. n138 The hospital had an
exclusive contract with one radiological group, but decided to terminate that
contract and enter into a new exclusive contract with a different group. The
radiologist who wholly owned the excluded group sued, alleging breach of
contract, tortious interference with contract, and deprivation of constitutional
rights. On the Fourteenth Amendment claim, the court concluded that the
radiologist was entitled to a hearing before termination of his staff privileges
because his radiological group's exclusive contract expressly provided that it
could be terminated only "for cause." n139 The Tidwell court did not consider
the argument relied on by Adler and Faucher that the radiologist's staff
privileges were merely affected by an administrative policy decision, as opposed
to a decision bearing on the radiologist's professional competency or ethics.



   n137 670 F.2d 507 (5th Cir. 1982).


   n138 Id. at 511.


   n139 Id. at 509 n.3, 511.

   The different reasoning and result in Tidwell may be explained by the unique
facts of the hospital terminating one exclusive contract, without cause, in
favor of another exclusive contract. A court might be more likely to view a
hospital's decision to implement an exclusive contract arrangement for the first
time as an administrative policy decision, as opposed to a decision to terminate
an established exclusive contract, without cause, in order to enter a new
exclusive contract with a different provider. The latter decision by a hospital
board more directly implicates the individual property rights of the physicians
in the now-excluded group. n140 Although Faucher also involved termination of an
exclusive contract in favor of a new staffing arrangement, the facts are
distinguishable since the anesthesiologist was given the option of applying for
the new position and did not actually lose her staff privileges.



   n140 Cf. Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483, 489 (Md. Ct.Spec.
App. 1981) (no due process rights implicated when exclusive contract with one
group of radiologists came to specified end of term and was not renewed in favor
of contract with a different group).

   Relatively few cases have addressed the due process implications of economic
conflict-of-interest policies. The decisions regarding traditional economic
credentialing policies, however, generally conclude that a physician whose
property interest in medical staff privileges is affected by an administrative
decision of the hospital does not have a right to an individual hearing. n141 As
such, a court is likely to conclude that a new economic credentialing policy
that limits or prohibits medical staff members from owning or investing in
competing facilities does not implicate due process or other constitutional
rights. A court will find either that the policy does not actually deprive a
current medical staff member of privileges or that it was adopted as a
quasi-legislative or administrative decision, rather than as an adjudication of
a particular physician's professional competency or ethics.



   n141 See, e.g., Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 905 (Ct. App.
1978) (quasi-legislative decision to operate renal hemodialysis facility on
closed staff basis did not implicate due process rights); Garibaldi v.
Applebaum, 742 N.E.2d 279, 280 (Ill. 2001) (physician affected by hospital's
exclusive contract for open heart surgical services with different physician
group did not have a right to hearing under bylaws); Dutta v. St. Francis Reg'l
Med. Ctr., 867 P.2d 1057, 1060 (Kan. 1994) (radiologist not entitled to a
hearing with regard to hospital's managerial decision to limit use of radiology
facilities because his staff privileges remained intact); Bartley v. Eastern
Maine Med. Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020, 1021 (Me. 1992) (no right to hearing when staff
privileges were not actually revoked by new contract requiring emergency room
physicians to be employed by different group); Van Valkenburg v. Paracelcus
Healthcare Corp., 606 N.W.2d 908, 918-19 (N.D. 2000) (no right to hearing for
emergency room physicians who declined to join group that was given exclusive
contract because there was no allegation of individual misconduct); Holt v. Good
Samaritan Hosp. & Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d 1318, 1321 (Ohio Ct. App. 1990) (
hospital's decision to enter exclusive contract for emergency room services was
policy decision or rule of general application that did not require due process
for affected physicians; noting that holding otherwise "would be the death knell
of exclusive contracts for medical services").

   Moreover, as the Tennessee Court of Appeals noted in Humphrey, the weight of
authority in jurisdictions across the country holds that hospitals, public or
private, are not required to accord due process hearing rights to physicians
whose staff privileges are affected by generally applicable administrative
policies. n142 The Humphrey decision is noteworthy because it turned, in part,
on recognition of the increasing competitive pressures on hospitals in the
current healthcare market and the need to give hospital administrators the
flexibility to respond to those pressures. Therefore, if a physician challenges
an economic conflict-of-interest policy on due process grounds for deprivation
of property, a court would probably conclude that the affected physician does
not have a constitutional right to a hearing.



   n142 City of Cookeville ex rel. Cookeville Reg'l Med. Ctr. v. Humphrey, No.
M2001-00695-COA-R3CV, 2002 WL 31558101, at *7-*8 (Tenn. App. Ct. Nov. 20, 2002).
See also Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp., 432 A.2d at 489 ("Indeed, in every case
brought to our attention in which a hospital's operation of a facility on a
'closed-staff' basis was challenged, the decision of the governing authority of
the hospital has been upheld.").

2. HCQIA Immunity

   Even if a hospital is not required by the United States Constitution or state
law to provide due process to a medical staff member who is affected by a new
economic credentialing policy, there remains a strong incentive to do so. This
incentive is the result of HCQIA, n143 under which hospitals are immune from
liability for monetary damages for conducting professional review activities.
n144 An economic conflict-of-interest policy that results in loss of staff
privileges by a particular physician could be deemed a professional review
action under HCQIA. A specific exception, however, appears to remove economic
conflict-of-interest credentialing policies from the ambit of the statute.



   n143 Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (HCQIA), Pub. L. No. 99-660,
100 Stat. 3784 (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (2003)).


   n144 Id. § 11111(a)(1). There are, however, limits to immunity. Physicians
may still sue for injunctive or declaratory relief. Also, there is no immunity
from damages for violations of federal or state civil rights laws. Id.

   Congress enacted HCQIA in 1986 to address concerns over increasing incidents
of medical malpractice and an overall nationwide decline in the quality of
healthcare. n145 Congress determined that these problems "warrant greater
efforts than those that can be undertaken by any individual State." n146 HCQIA
requires hospitals and certain other healthcare entities that conduct peer
review activities to report physicians who lose staff privileges or are
otherwise subject to a decision "adversely affecting" n147 their staff
privileges to a national data bank. n148 The National Practitioner Data Bank is
intended to prevent incompetent physicians from moving from state to state. n149
To encourage hospitals to review healthcare professionals' qualifications and to
report to the data bank, HCQIA grants immunity to hospitals for these
activities.



   n145 Id. § 11101(1).


   n146 Id.


   n147 "The term 'adversely affecting' includes reducing, restricting,
suspending, revoking, denying, or failing to renew clinical privileges or
membership in a health care entity." 42 U.S.C. § 11151(1) (2003).


   n148 See National Practitioners Data Bank for Adverse Information on
Physicians and Other Health Care Practitioners, 45 C.F.R. §§ 60.1-60.14 (2003)
(regulations regarding The National Practitioner Data Bank).


   n149 "There is a national need to restrict the ability of incompetent
physicians to move from State to State without disclosure or discovery of the
physician's previous damaging or incompetent performance." 42 U.S.C. § 11101(2)
(2003). See generally Brenda T. Strama & Elizabeth A. Weeks, The National
Practitioner Data Bank: Has it Accomplished its Objectives?, HEALTH LAW. NEWS
(AHLA), Feb. 2002, at 6.

   The HCQIA reporting requirement and immunity provisions apply only to
"professional review actions" taken by hospitals and other specific healthcare
entities:

        The term "professional review action" means an action or
     recommendation of a professional review body which is taken or made in
     the conduct of professional review activity, which is based on the
     competence or professional conduct of an individual physician (which
     conduct affects or could affect adversely the health or welfare of a
     patient or patients), and which affects (or may affect) adversely the
     clinical privileges n150. . . of the physician. Such term includes a
     formal decision of a professional review body not to take an action or
     make a recommendation described in the previous sentence and also
     includes professional review activities relating to a professional
     review action. n151

   Specific exceptions exist under the statute. One exception provides that "an
action is not considered to be based on the competence or professional conduct
of a physician if the action is primarily based on . . . the physician's fees or
the physician's advertising or engaging in other competitive acts intended to
solicit or retain business." n152 Under this definition, HCQIA may not apply
when a physician's staff privileges are affected by a hospital's credentialing
policy that prohibits or limits physician ownership or investment in competing
businesses. This is true because the action would be based on the physician's
engaging in competitive acts, not on his competence or professional conduct.
n153



   n150 "The term 'clinical privileges' includes privileges, membership on the
medical staff, and the other circumstances pertaining to the furnishing of
medical care under which a physician or other licensed health care practitioner
is permitted to furnish such care by a health care entity." 42 U.S.C. § 11151(3)
(2003).


   n151 Id. § 11151(9) (emphasis added).


   n152 Id. § 11151(9)(B) (emphasis added).


   n153 This HCQIA exception from the definition of "professional review action"
for actions based on physicians' competitive acts or business ventures provides
indirect support for the conclusion that a physician who loses staff privileges
as a result of a hospital's new economic conflict of interest policy does not
have a right to an individual hearing or other due process.

   If a hospital's economic credentialing decision is considered a professional
review action, however, the hospital would want to avail itself of HCQIA
immunity. Under HCQIA, immunity is presumed if the hospital meets certain
requirements. Specifically, the professional review action must be taken:

        (1) in the reasonable belief that the action was taken in the
     furtherance of quality health care,

        (2) after a reasonable opportunity to obtain the facts of the
     matter,

        (3) after adequate notice and hearing procedures are afforded to
     the physician involved or after such other procedures as are fair to
     the physician under the circumstances, and

        (4) in the reasonable belief that the action was warranted by the
     facts known after such reasonable effort to obtain facts and after
     meeting the requirements of paragraph (3). n154

   Once the hospital establishes a presumption of immunity by satisfying these
elements, the burden shifts to the physician to overcome the presumption that
the hospital complied with the HCQIA requirements. n155



   n154 42 U.S.C. § 11112(a)(1)-(4) (2003).


   n155 See Sugarbaker v. SSM Health Care, 190 F.3d 905, 912 (8th Cir. 1999).

   The above elements of HCQIA immunity may be met fairly easily by hospitals,
especially considering that the physician bears the burden to show the
hospital's actions were objectively unreasonable. n156 Thus, if the
implementation of an economic credentialing policy is deemed a "professional
review action," a hospital would have a strong incentive to afford affected
physicians with at least minimal procedural protections in order to avail its
peer review committee members of immunity from liability.



   n156 See, e.g., Mathews v. Lancaster Gen. Hosp., 87 F.3d 624, 633 (3d Cir.
1996); Austin v. McNamara, 979 F.2d 728, 734 (9th Cir. 1992).

C. Breach of Contract Challenges

   Physicians who lose their staff privileges as a result of a hospital's
adopting a policy that prohibits or restricts them from engaging in activities
that compete with the hospital also may allege that the new policy constitutes a
breach of contract. A physician may argue that the medical staff bylaws create a
contract between the physician and the hospital and that the physician has a
contractual right to retain his privileges unless those privileges are removed
according to the procedures set forth in the bylaws. For example, if the bylaws
allow termination of a medical staff member only for quality-of-care reasons, a
physician might allege that economic conflicts of interest are not related to
quality of care. Termination of staff privileges on such grounds, therefore,
would constitute a breach of contract.

   If the bylaws specify certain due process or hearing procedures that must be
followed before staff privileges are terminated, a physician might allege that
the new economic credentialing policy effectively terminated his staff
privileges without proper notice and hearing. Adoption of the policy, therefore,
constitutes a breach. A physician might also allege that the board breached the
bylaws by adopting the policy unilaterally without medical staff involvement.
For these breach of contract arguments to succeed, a court first would have to
conclude that the hospital bylaws constitute a contract between the hospital and
physician. Some courts have concluded that bylaws are contracts, n157 while
other courts have concluded that they are not. n158 Even courts in the same
state do not always agree on this issue. n159



   n157 See, e.g., Bartley v. Eastern Maine Med. Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020, 1021-22
(Me. 1992) (noting that bylaws can create contractual rights but concluding that
contract was not breached by hospital's adoption of closed staff policy because
hospital board had authority to manage all affairs of hospital, including
decisions regarding how to operate individual departments); St. John's Hosp.
Med. Staff v. St. John Reg'l Med. Ctr., Inc., 245 N.W.2d 472, 474 (S.D. 1976)
(applying "general rule, [that] the bylaws of a corporation, so long as adopted
in conformity with state law, constitute a binding contract between the
corporation and its shareholders" to medical staff bylaws); Keane v. St. Francis
Hosp., 522 N.W.2d 517, 522 (Wis. Ct. App. 1994) (noting that hospital bylaws can
establish binding contract between a hospital and its staff but not addressing
whether hospital breached contract). See also Pariser v. Christian Health Care
Sys., Inc., 816 F.2d 1248, 1251 (8th Cir. 1987); Lewisburg Cmty. Hosp., Inc. v.
Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756, 759 (Tenn. 1991).


   n158 See, e.g., Monroe v. AMI Hosps., 877 F. Supp. 1022, 1029 n. 5 (S.D. Tex.
1994) ("Under Texas law, a hospital's medical staff bylaws do not constitute a
contract between a hospital and its medical staff members."); Murdoch v.
Knollwood Park Hosp., 585 So. 2d 873, 876 (Ala. 1991) (holding that medical
staff bylaws do not constitute contractual rights); Stein v. Tri-City Hosp.
Auth., 384 S.E.2d 430, 433 (Ga. Ct. App. 1989); Keskin v. Munster Med. Research
Found., 580 N.E.2d 354, 359 (Ind. Ct. App. 1991); Zipper v. Health Midwest, 978
S.W.2d 398, 416-17 (Mo. Ct. App. 1998) (concluding that Missouri law is in
accordance with the "minority approach" that hospital bylaws do not constitute
binding contract between the medical staff and the hospital).


   n159 In Texas, as a general rule, medical staff bylaws do not create
contractual rights. In Weary v. Baylor Univ. Hosp., 360 S.W.2d 895 (Tex. Civ.
App. 1962), the court stated that bylaws created by the organized medical staff
of the hospital, and not the hospital's governing board, cannot limit the power
of the hospital and its board of trustees in any way. Id. at 897. See Ivey v.
Galen Hosps., No. 05-97-00435-CV, 2000 WL 329900, at *9 (Tex. Ct. App. Mar. 30,
2000) (medical staff bylaws did not obligate hospital to two-year, rather than
one-year, reappointments to medical staff). There is authority to the contrary,
however. See East Tex. Med. Ctr. Cancer Inst. v. Anderson, 991 S.W.2d 55, 63
(Tex. Ct. App. 1998) (holding that "procedural rights created in a medical
organization's by-laws may constitute contractual rights in favor of a doctor
with staff privileges"); Gonzalez v. San Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d
436, 439 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994).

   The physician's claim in Mahan n160 was based on breach of contract. The
court concluded that there was no breach because the hospital's implementation
of a closed staff policy was a decision soundly within the discretion of the
hospital board of directors. n161 The physicians alleged that the medical staff
bylaws trumped the decisionmaking power of the board as to all decisions
relating in any way to, or incidentally affecting, medical personnel issues.
Thus, any decision by the board in violation of the medical staff bylaws was
allegedly a breach of contract. n162 The court acknowledged that the medical
staff bylaws gave the medical staff authority to evaluate the professional
competence of applicants for staff privileges. n163 The court, however,
clarified that medical staff bylaws derive from corporate bylaws, much as
statutes derive from a constitution. n164 Therefore, the medical staff has no
authority over any corporate decision unless the corporate bylaws or state law
specifically grant such authority. n165 The court concluded that no such power
had been granted to the Avera St. Luke's medical staff; therefore, the board's
decision to close its orthopedic staff was a "reasonable administrative
decision," within the authority of the board under the corporate bylaws. n166
Thus, there was no breach of contract under the medical staff bylaws, even
though the decision incidentally affected the medical staff.



   n160 Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160 (S.D. 2001).


   n161 Id. at 156.


   n162 Id. at 154-55.


   n163 Id. at 155.


   n164 Id.


   n165 Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 155.


   n166 Id. at 160.

   Some courts, such as a Missouri court in Zipper v. Health Midwest, n167 have
not parsed the distinction between corporate bylaws and medical staff bylaws to
the same extent as Mahan. These courts have concluded on more straightforward
contract law reasoning that medical staff bylaws do not constitute a contract
because there is no consideration and no bargained-for exchange. n168
Accordingly, "the exclusion of a physician or surgeon from practicing in a
private hospital is a matter that rests in the discretion of the managing
authorities." n169 The Zipper court concluded: "The hospital retains authority
to restrict or revoke a staff member's privileges by reasonable and
nondiscriminatory rules and regulations." n170 In another case examining
Missouri law, Madsen v. Audrain Health Care Inc., n171 the Eighth Circuit
rejected a physician's breach of contract claim under the medical staff bylaws
because "the medical staff bylaws were not incorporated into the physician
agreement" and, therefore, were not a part of such contract. n172 The court
concluded that mere reference in the physician agreement to the medical staff
bylaws does not make the entirety of those bylaws part of the contract. In
addition, the court noted that the state's expressed policy is "the assurance of
quality health care, which is unduly impinged by allowing a physician to seek
damages for an alleged failure of a hospital to follow the procedures
established by its bylaws." n173



   n167 978 S.W.2d 398 (Mo. Ct. App. 1998).


   n168 Id. at 415-16 (noting split of authority on question whether bylaws
constitute contract and citing cases for both views).


   n169 Id. at 417.


   n170 Id. See Cobb County-Kennestone Hosp. Auth. v. Prince, 249 S.E.2d 581,
585-86 (Ga. 1978) (holding that hospitals' administrative policies are not
subject to judicial intervention unless new rule was arbitrary and
unreasonable.); Stein v. Tri-City Hosp. Auth., 384 S.E.2d 430, 432 (Ga. Ct. App.
1989).


   n171 297 F.3d 694 (8th Cir. 2002).


   n172 Id. at 699.


   n173 Id. (citing Zipper v. Health Midwest, 978 S.W.2d 398, 417 (Mo. Ct. App.
1998)).

   Other courts, by contrast, have held that the medical staff bylaws do
constitute a contract between the hospital and the medical staff. When a court
concludes that medical staff bylaws constitute a contract between the hospital
and a medical staff member, a physician's breach of contract claim premised on
failure to comply with the due process procedures outlined in the bylaws likely
will be treated in a manner analogous to constitutional or statutory due process
claims. That is, due process will not be required for generally applicable
administrative decisions by a hospital. n174 Breach of contract claims based on
other provisions of the bylaws may be unsuccessful as well, as long as the
hospital can show that the economic conflict of interest policy is a reasonable,
non-arbitrary exercise of hospital management authority, rather than a decision
pertaining to medical staff personnel issues falling within the medical staff's
authority. n175 A more troubling implication of a court's holding that the
medical staff bylaws are a contract is that the hospital board may be unable to
unilaterally amend the bylaws to adopt a new credentialing policy without the
participation and approval of the medical staff. n176 Such a holding presents a
potential impediment to the board's action, because economic
conflict-of-interest credentialing policies are likely to be unpopular with the
medical staff.



   n174 Most cases addressing a breach of the bylaws in the exclusive contract
context have found that an administrative decision by the hospital board of
directors, such as entering into an exclusive contract, does not give an
adversely-affected physician the right to the hearing and appellate procedures
set forth in medical staff bylaws. See, e.g., Bartley v. Eastern Maine Med.
Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020, 1023 (Me. 1992) (holding that physicians were not entitled
to invoke notice and hearing provisions of medical staff bylaws because they
were not facing "major corrective action"); East Tex. Med. Ctr. Cancer Inst. v.
Anderson, 991 S.W.2d 55, 62-63 (Tex. Ct. App. 1998) (holding that cancer center
bylaws gave physician certain contractual rights but that such rights were not
implicated by adoption of exclusive contract arrangement); Gonzalez v. San
Jacinto Methodist Hosp., 880 S.W.2d 436, 440 (Tex. Ct. App. 1994). But see
Northeast Ga. Radiological Assoc. v. Tidwell, 670 F.2d 509 (5th Cir. 1982)
(holding that contract providing physician could be terminated only "for cause"
was breached by change in exclusive contract arrangement).


   n175 See, e.g., Cobb County-Kennestone Hosp., 249 S.E.2d at 586 (noting that
"practical considerations of hospital operation permit hospital administrators
to conclude that specialty services can best be provided by entering into
exclusive medical service contracts").


   n176 See, e.g., St. John's Hosp. Med. Staff v. St. John Reg'l Med. Ctr.,
Inc., 245 N.W.2d 472, 475 (S.D. 1976) (holding that board breached its
contractual relationship with the medical staff by unilaterally amending the
bylaws and that new bylaws were null and void). But see Stein v. Tri-City Hosp.
Auth., 384 S.E.2d 430, 432-33 (Ga. Ct. App. 1989) (holding that hospital may
unilaterally amend its bylaws even if change results in termination of
individual physician's staff privileges as long as new policy is reasonable and
not arbitrary).

D. Summary of Legal Challenges

   Antitrust challenges to hospital credentialing policies, including exclusive
contract or closed staff arrangements, generally have not been successful, even
though such policies are inherently exclusionary. Courts have accepted
hospitals' legitimate business justifications for these policies, such as
increasing efficiency, maintaining control over hospital operations, ensuring
availability of services, and improving quality of care. Recent cases suggest
that courts may be more receptive to antitrust challenges to new economic
credentialing policies that are expressly intended to prevent medical staff
members from competing with hospitals at which they have privileges.

   Other cases, including cases outside the antitrust context that relied on
market factors, suggest that courts might uphold such policies in order to
ensure the continued economic viability of community hospitals and essential
medical care. Such an outcome seems especially likely if the court views the
purpose of antitrust laws as maximizing consumer welfare in the broader social
sense, rather than the narrower economic sense. Similar recognition of the
increasingly competitive nature of healthcare delivery and hospital management's
authority to operate the facility could persuade courts to allow hospitals to
implement economic credentialing policies as a matter of administrative policy,
without imposing the burdens of providing individual due process. Nevertheless,
a hospital should consider providing at least minimal due process when adopting
such a policy in order to gain immunity from liability. Finally, the case law
discussing medical staff bylaws as contracts between hospitals and medical staff
members presents additional challenges to hospitals adopting and enforcing these
new economic credentialing policies.

III. Other Considerations

   In addition to the legal challenges that hospitals may face from physicians
who are affected by credentialing policies that limit or prohibit competition,
these new policies raise novel issues under federal healthcare program statutes,
state laws on covenants not to compete, federal tax law on exempt organizations,
and hospital operations regarding management of medical staff and public
relations.

A. Federal Healthcare Statutes

   Hospitals considering adopting policies to protect themselves from
competition by medical staff should carefully consider the potential risks of
civil or criminal sanctions under the Anti-Kickback Statute n177 and the Stark
Law. n178 If a federal regulator or court determines that hospital staff
privileges constitute "remuneration" from the hospital to the physician or
establish a financial relationship between the hospital and physician, these
statutes could be implicated. Organizations representing physicians, on one
side, and hospitals, on the other, have taken strong opposing views in this
current debate.



   n177 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b (2003).


   n178 Id. § 1395nn.

   In December of 1999, the AMA, in an eleven-page letter, formally requested
that the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of
Inspector General (OIG) issue a fraud alert to warn hospitals and physicians of
the implications of economic credentialing practices, such as hospital-imposed
exclusivity policies and prohibitions on affiliations with competing entities.
The AMA warned that "the potential for damage with exclusive credentialing is
greater than in many other kickback situations." n179 The AMA also adopted a
policy strongly opposing hospitals' basing staff privileging decisions on
economic criteria unrelated to patient care or professional competency. n180
According to the AMA, the OIG has sought additional information from the AMA
regarding various types of economic credentialing practices. In addition, the
OIG has repeatedly expressed a commitment to review the issue and to involve the
AMA in any draft alert that is issued. n181 The OIG has responded to the AMA's
concerns by soliciting public comments regarding the legality of economic
credentialing policies under federal fraud and abuse laws, specifically the
Anti-kickback Statute. n182 Although the OIG has received substantial comments
from groups on both sides of the issue, it remains unclear what its final
position will be.



   n179 See Klein, supra note 3 (quoting letter signed by Dr. E. Ratcliffe
Anderson, Jr., M.D., AMA Executive Vice President).


   n180 See Albert, supra note 5.


   n181 AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, BOARD OF TRUSTEES REPORT 15-A-02, SUBJECT:
APPLYING PRESSURE ON DHHS OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR RESOLUTION OF ECONOMIC
CREDENTIALING ISSUE (2002), available at
www.ama-assn.org/ama1/upload/mm/annual02/BOT15A02.doc (last visited Mar. 28,
2003). The report notes that:

        The AMA continues to receive calls from physicians who are affected
     by economic credentialing policies, loyalty oaths, or other medical
     staff criteria related to economics rather than professional
     competence. The practice of economic credentialing remains an
     important issue for physicians. The AMA believes that publication of a
     properly crafted fraud alert could provide useful guidance for
     physicians, hospitals, and health care organizations.

Id.


   n182 Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special Fraud Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg.
72,894, 72,895 (Dec. 9, 2002).

1. Anti-Kickback Statute

   The federal illegal remuneration statute, commonly referred to as the
Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of
any remuneration, directly or indirectly, covertly or overtly, in cash or in
kind: (1) in return for the referral of patients, or arranging for the referral
of patients, for the provision of items or services for which payment may be
made under any federally funded healthcare program, other than the Federal
Employee Health Benefit Program; or (2) in return for the purchase, lease, or
order, or arranging for the purchase, lease, or order, of any good, facility,
service or item for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs.
n183



   n183 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b(b) (2003). Persons who violate the Anti-Kickback
Statute may be subject to civil monetary penalties. Id. § 1320a-7a(a)(7). In
addition, civil monetary penalties may be imposed against any person who "offers
to or transfers remuneration to any individual eligible for benefits under
[federal health care programs] that such person knows or should know is likely
to influence such individual to order or receive from a particular provider,
practitioner, or supplier any item or service for which payment may be made, in
whole or in part, under [federal health care programs]." 42 U.S.C. §
1320a-7a(a)(5) (2003).

   The OIG has asked, as a threshold matter, whether staff privileges should be
considered "remuneration," given the current managed care climate, in which
access to patients may depend on a physician having privileges at the proper
hospital. n184 In particular, the OIG asked: "Should the determination whether
staff privileges have monetary value turn on the particular factual
circumstances (e.g., in a given market does access to privileges have a
demonstrable monetary value)?" n185 The OIG also requested comments on the
cherry picking problem, or, in the OIG's words, the "implications of a
hospital's denial of privileges to a physician who competes with the hospital."
n186 The OIG noted that "these physicians may be in a position to steer
profitable business or patients to their own competing business through their
control of referrals." n187 Further, the OIG noted that several credentialing
practices of which it is aware appear to "raise substantial risks under the
anti-kickback statute (i.e., privileges are conditioned on a sufficient flow of
referred business)." n188 The OIG also asked: "Can privileges ever be
conditioned on referrals, other than minimums necessary for clinical
proficiency?" n189 Although the OIG's Federal Register issuance is merely a
request for public comments, the nature and slant of the questions suggest that
federal regulators have reason to believe that economic credentialing policies
could violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or other federal laws.



   n184 Solicitation of New Safe Harbors and Special Fraud Alerts, 67 Fed. Reg.
72,894, 72,895 (Dec. 9, 2002).


   n185 Id.


   n186 Id.


   n187 Id.


   n188 Id.


   n189 Id. at 72,896.

   On the OIG's threshold question, credentialing alone should not be viewed as
"remuneration" because of the permissive nature of medical staff privileges,
which allow, but do not require, a physician to use hospital facilities. n190
The fact that a physician is granted privileges at a particular hospital does
not obligate him to direct any patients to or generate any revenue for the
hospital. Staff privileges, therefore, should not be "remuneration" within the
meaning of the Anti-Kickback Statute. Accordingly, an economic
conflict-of-interest policy that conditions medical staff membership on a
physician's agreeing to refrain from owning or investing in a competitive
facility should not be considered remunerative as long as there is no referral
requirement. Such a policy, as a practical matter, could--and may even be
intended to--increase the hospital's revenue by limiting the presence of
competing healthcare facilities. But that effect does not mean that the hospital
is offering remuneration, in the form of staff privileges, in exchange for
patient referrals. By contrast, a hospital policy that conditions privileges on
the physician's agreeing to direct his patients to the hospital rather than a
physician-owned facility, more easily could be viewed as offering or paying the
physician remuneration in the form of staff privileges in exchange for referring
patients to the hospital.



   n190 See Letter from Beth Schermer, Counsel for Arizona Hospital and
Healthcare Association, to Janet Rehnquist, Inspector General, U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services 5 (Feb. 5. 2003) (on file with the author).

2. Stark Law

   The Stark Law provides that if a physician (or a family member of the
physician) has a financial relationship with an entity: (1) the physician may
not make a referral to the entity for the furnishing of designated health
services n191 paid for by Medicare and Medicaid; and (2) the entity may not bill
Medicare or Medicaid for designated health services furnished pursuant to a
prohibited referral. n192 A financial relationship may be an ownership interest
(through debt, equity, or otherwise) or a compensation arrangement, and may be
direct or indirect. n193 The referral and billing restrictions are inapplicable
if the arrangement qualifies for an exception. n194 The statutory sanctions are
applicable to both the referring physicians and the entity billing for the
designated health service. n195 In sum, to establish a violation under the Stark
Law, the following three factors are required: (1) the existence of a financial
relationship between a physician and an entity; (2) a referral of a Medicare or
Medicaid patient by the physician to the entity for a designated health service;
and (3) the absence of an exception.



   n191 The statutory definition of "designated health services" is as follows:


        Designated health services means any of the following services
     (other than those provided as emergency physician services furnished
     outside of the U.S.) ... (1) Clinical laboratory services. (2)
     Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech-language pathology
     services. (3) Radiology and certain other imaging services. (4)
     Radiation therapy services and supplies. (5) Durable medial equipment
     and supplies. (6) Parental and enteral nutrients, equipment, and
     supplies. (7) Prosthetics, orthotics, and prosthetic devices and
     supplies. (8) Home health services. (9) Outpatient prescription drugs.
     (10) Inpatient and outpatient hospital services.

   42 U.S.C. § 1395nn(h)(6) (2003).


   n192 Id. § 1395nn(a)(1).


   n193 Id. § 1395nn(a)(2). Billing in violation of the Stark Law can result in
the application of several sanctions, including the denial of payment, demand
for refund of claims paid, civil money penalties of up to $ 15,000 for each
service, and/or exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. See id. §§
1395nn(g)(1)-(4).


   n194 Id. § 1395nn(b)-(e) (listing various exceptions applicable to in-office
ancillary services, certain investments in publicly traded securities and mutual
funds, rural providers, leases of office space and equipment, bona fide
employment relationships, physician recruitment, and other arrangements or
investments); 42 C.F.R. § 411.357 (2003).


   n195 42 U.S.C. § 1395nn(1)(A), (B) (providing that physicians making
prohibited referrals and entities receiving prohibited referrals may not bill
for the services provided).

   Despite the AMA's intimations, economic conflict of interest credentialing
policies do not appear to implicate the Stark Law. Primarily, the first element
of a Stark Law violation does not seem to be met because the competing
physicians do not have a financial relationship with the hospital, the entity
facing a potential Stark violation. Instead, the physicians have a financial
relationship with their competing specialty facilities or clinics. n196 A
prohibited referral for Stark Law purposes requires the physician to have an
economic interest in the entity to which he is referring. As such, the only way
that the Stark Law would be implicated by an economic credentialing policy is if
staff privileges themselves are deemed to constitute such an economic interest.
Just as hospital privileges should not be viewed as "remuneration" for purposes
of the Anti-Kickback Statute, they should not be considered to create a
financial relationship between a hospital and a physician under the Stark Law.



   n196 The physicians could be in violation of the Stark Law with respect to
their own physician-owned specialty hospitals or clinics if they are referring
patients for designated health services to be provided at those facilities. Id.
§ 1395nn(h)(6) (listing designated health services).

   Employing somewhat unclear reasoning, some interested parties have suggested
that restrictions on competition, such as noncompetition clauses and covenants
not to compete in physician contracts, could be called into question by the
Stark Law. n197 In an earlier rulemaking discussion, the OIG resolved such
concerns and confirmed that covenants not to compete do not necessarily
implicate the Stark Law. The OIG should adopt a similar position in the
analogous context of hospital credentialing policies that prohibit competition
by medical staff members.



   n197 Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Physicians' Referrals to Health Care
Entities With Which They Have Financial Relationships, 66 Fed. Reg. 856, 878-79
(Jan. 4, 2001).

   In the preamble to the Stark regulations, n198 OIG acknowledged the concerns
of some commentators that the way in which the OIG proposed to interpret the
"volume or value" requirement of many of the Stark Law exceptions n199 could
implicate the legality or enforceability of covenants not to compete. One
criterion of certain Stark Law exceptions is that the charges, consideration, or
compensation are not determined in a manner that takes into account the volume
or value of any referrals or other business generated between the physician and
the other party to the contract. The commentators were concerned that the OIG's
proposed interpretation of the "volume or value" standard as including fixed
payments tied to referrals could adversely impact covenants not to compete. The
OIG found the commentators' reasoning for this concern "unclear," but confirmed
that a noncompete clause is distinguishable from a policy requiring a physician
to refer a certain volume or value of patients to a hospital. The latter type of
agreement, however, could raise an issue under the Anti-Kickback Statute:

        A requirement to refer to a specific provider is different from an
     agreement not to establish a competing business. In other words, a
     covenant not to compete might prevent a physician from setting up a
     private practice or offering services that compete with the entity
     that purchased his or her practice. If an agreement also included the
     requirement that the physician refer business to the purchaser, the
     agreement would be suspect under the anti-kickback statute. n200

   Likewise, a physician's agreement to refrain from establishing or owning a
competing business in exchange for a hospital granting him staff privileges
should not raise Stark Law issues.



   n198 Id.


   n199 See, e.g., 42 C.F.R. §§ 411.357(a)(5) (2003) (space rental), (b)(4)
(equipment rental), (c)(2)(ii) (bona fide employment relationship), (d)(1)(v)
(personal services), (e)(3) (physician recruitment), (h)(5) (group practice at
hospital).


   n200 Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Physicians' Referrals to Health Care
Entities With Which They Have Financial Relationships, 66 Fed. Reg. at 879.

   In sum, a hospital's credentialing policy based on physicians' economic
conflicts of interest would not seem to expose the hospital to a risk of
sanctions under the Stark Law, unless staff privileges are viewed as creating a
financial relationship between the physician and hospital. A Stark Law violation
would also require a referral of a federal healthcare program patient for
designated health services and the absence of any exception.

3. Public Comments

   The American Hospital Association (AHA) recently submitted comments in
response to the OIG's solicitation on behalf of its nearly 5,000 member
hospitals and other healthcare entities, opposing the OIG's suggestion that
economic credentialing might be a form of illegal remuneration or should be
regulated under the Stark Law. n201 The AHA urged the OIG not to abandon its
long-held view that staff privileges are not a form of "remuneration" because
granting privileges does not involve the transfer of something of value from
hospitals to physicians. n202 The AHA suggested that effective regulation of
staff privileges as remuneration would require detailed descriptions of the
exact configurations in a particular market, such as number of patients, number
and size of competing hospitals, and role of managed care networks in the area.
n203 Such facts would be required to determine whether granting staff privileges
would confer a monetary benefit on a physician in the specific locale. The AHA
asserted that any less-specific regulations would result in uncertainty and
chilling of legitimate credentialing policies. n204



   n201 Letter from Rick Pollack, Executive Vice President, American Hospital
Association, to Janet Rehnquist, Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health &
Human Services (Feb. 5, 2003), available at
www.hospitalconnect.com/aha/advocacy-grassroots/advocacy/comment/2003/cl030205cr
edential.html.


   n202 Id.


   n203 Id.


   n204 Id.

   The idea of determining whether staff privileges constitute "remuneration"
based on the particular market in which such privileges are sought was suggested
in one of the OIG's questions. This idea is problematic for several reasons.
First, as noted in the antitrust discussion, defining and proving these sorts of
market factors can be very challenging. Moreover, the analysis of market factors
and the effect of anticompetitive business practices falls in the realm of
antitrust, rather than anti-kickback, enforcement. In addition, tying the
definition of "remuneration" to market analysis would create considerable
uncertainty regarding a hospital's ability to adopt not only new conflict of
interest, but also traditional economic credentialing policies. n205



   n205 See Letter from Beth Schermer, supra note 190, at 6-7.

   Regarding the Stark Law, the AHA also cautioned that if staff privileges are
viewed as remuneration, then any referral of a federal healthcare program
patient to a hospital would be prohibited. n206 Under a broad reading of the
Stark Law, the AHA suggested that the statute prohibits any compensation
arrangements between a hospital and a referring physician that involve any
remuneration. n207 If staff privileges constitute remuneration, then a
physician's referral of any federal healthcare program patient to a hospital at
which the physician holds privileges would violate the Stark Law. Such an
interpretation obviously has dramatic implications for the existing healthcare
delivery system. Finally, the AHA suggested that interjecting the OIG into the
relationship between physicians and hospitals would impair hospitals' ability to
operate efficiently and provide quality care. n208 These comments, contrasted
with the AMA urging strict government regulation of economic credentialing,
underscore the debate between hospitals and physicians over this contentious
issue. It is far from clear that regulation of economic credentialing under
federal healthcare statutes is appropriate or will bring any balance to the
competing interests at stake.



   n206 Letter from Rick Pollack, supra note 201.


   n207 Id.


   n208 Id.

B. Covenants Not to Compete

   A hospital that is considering adopting an economic credentialing policy to
limit or prohibit competition by medical staff members should consider not only
the potential for legal liability and damages implicated by such a policy, but
also the possibility that a court will refuse to enforce the policy as a
contractual restraint on trade that violates public policy. As the Stark Law
preamble discussion suggested, an economic credentialing policy that denies or
revokes a physician's staff privileges based on investing, owning, or
affiliating with a competing facility is a restraint of trade similar to a
covenant not to compete in a physician employment contract. Accordingly, state
law on covenants not to compete may shed light on the enforceability of a
hospital's economic credentialing policy.

   State laws on the enforceability of covenants not to compete and other
restraints on trade vary widely and are based on both statutory and common law.
n209 As one example, Texas has statutorily defined the criteria for
enforceability of a covenant not to compete, which requirements are similar to
other states' laws. First, the agreement must be ancillary to a valid contract,
transaction, or relationship. n210 Second, the restriction must contain
reasonable limitations as to time, geographical area, and scope of activity.
n211 Finally, these limitations must "not impose a greater restraint than is
necessary to protect the goodwill or other business interest" of the party
seeking to impose the restraint. n212



   n209 Compare COLO. REV. STAT. § 8-2-113(3) (2003) (prohibiting enforcement of
physician covenants not to compete), and DEL. CODE ANN. tit. 6, § 2707 (2002)
(same), and Falmouth Ob-Gyn Assoc. v. Abisla, 629 N.E.2d 291, 293 (Mass. 1994)
(interpreting Massachusetts statute as prohibiting noncompetition covenants),
with Wall v. Firelands Radiology, Inc., 666 N.E.2d 235, 247 (Ohio 1996)
(upholding restrictive covenant against radiologist as no greater than required
for radiology group's protection) and Rifkinson-Mann v. Kasoff, 226 A.D.2d 517,
517-18 (N.Y. 1996) (enforcing restrictive covenant) and Weber v. Tillman, 913
P.2d 84, 96 (Kan. 1996) (same).


   n210 TEX. BUS. & COM. CODE ANN. § 15.50(a) (Vernon 2003).


   n211 Id.


   n212 Id.

   If a court analyzed a hospital credentialing policy that prohibits physicians
from owning or investing in competing entities as a covenant not to compete
under the Texas statutory criteria, the court might conclude that the policy is
an unreasonable restraint on trade. The credentialing policy would meet the
first criterion because the noncompetition requirement is ancillary to an
otherwise valid medical staff membership or privileges agreement. A medical
staff noncompetition requirement, however, might not meet the second criterion
because it is not limited in terms of geographical area or scope of activity.
Concerning the third requirement, the policy would probably be considered
reasonable as to time if it applies only during, not after, termination of the
employment, contract, or relationship. In other words, if the duration of a
hospital's economic conflict-of-interest policy is coterminous with the
underlying agreement or contract for staff privileges or medical staff
membership, then the time restriction could be considered reasonable. Unless the
hospital's economic conflict of interest policy was limited in terms of the
geographical area and scope of activity, however, a court might refuse to
enforce it.

   In addition, the hospital would have to show that there was no less
restrictive way to protect its goodwill or other business interest than a policy
prohibiting physicians from owning or affiliating with competing businesses.
Traditionally, courts have closely scrutinized covenants not to compete,
especially covenants involving physicians and other professionals, because they
restrict an individual from exercising his chosen profession. The burdens on the
employee or individual, however, must be balanced against the benefits to the
employer or other entity. A hospital could argue that the restriction on
ownership or investment in competing entities is necessary to prevent a
physician from cherry picking the higher paying, more profitable cases to the
specialty facility in which he has an interest, while referring the unprofitable
or uncompensated cases to the community hospital, which justification is similar
to the arguments made by the hospitals in Mahan n213 and NYSARC. n214 Under
Texas law, however, there is no authority that clearly authorizes a restraint on
trade based on this particular business justification.



   n213 Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001).


   n214 NYSARC, Inc. v. Syed, No. K1-2002-000766, 2002 WL 31015545 (N.Y. Sup.
Ct. Sept. 4, 2002).

   The Texas covenant not to compete statute contains special provisions
regarding physicians, n215 which require that the covenant not deny the
physician access to his patient lists and medical records. n216 These
requirements are designed to avoid interference with the physician-patient
relationship and to ensure that patient care is not compromised. n217 The Texas
statutory provisions on physicians contemplate that covenants not to compete
apply for a period of time after the employment or contract has ended. n218 This
policy is consistent with the general purpose of covenants not to compete, which
is to prevent an employee from competing with his former employer after he
leaves such employment. The new economic credentialing policies generally
restrict competition during rather than after termination of employment.
Therefore, this special provision regarding physicians' covenants not to compete
would not seem to govern the enforceability of a hospital policy prohibiting
physicians from competing while on the medical staff. The concerns expressed in
this part of the statute regarding interference with the physician-patient
relationships and promotion of quality care, however, are similarly implicated
by a hospital credentialing policy that limits or restricts medical staff
members from affiliating with competing facilities. A physician or patient might
prefer such specialty facilities because they provide more convenient, higher
quality, or more appropriate care than the general service hospital. State
statutory and common law on covenants not to compete is not directly applicable
to these new economic credentialing policies, but the general criteria for
enforceability of one type of restraint on trade could inform a court's decision
whether to enforce a different type of restraint on trade.



   n215 TEX. BUS. & COM. CODE ANN. § 15.50(b) (Vernon 2003).


   n216 Id. § 15.50(b)(1)(A)-(B) (2003).


   n217 Id. § 15.50(b)(3) (2003).


   n218 See id. § 15.50(b)(1)(A) (2003) (regarding physician's right to access
list of patients "whom he has seen or treated within one year of termination of
the contract or employment").

C. Section 501(c)(3) Tax-Exempt Status

   A nonprofit hospital's decision to adopt a policy to restrict or eliminate
competition by medical staff members may affect the hospital's status as a
charitable organization. For an organization to be tax-exempt under Section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Review Code, it must be both organized and operated
exclusively for charitable purposes. n219 A credentialing policy adopted
expressly to protect a hospital from market competition could suggest that the
hospital is operating for profit-making or other noncharitable purposes and,
thus, could endanger the hospital's tax-exempt status.



   n219 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) (2003). A tax-exempt organization is defined as:


        Corporations, and any community chest, fund, or foundation,
     organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable,
     scientific, testing for public safety, literary, or educational
     purposes, or to foster national or international amateur sports
     competition (but only if no part of its activities involve the
     provision of athletic facilities or equipment), or for the prevention
     of cruelty to children or animals, no part of the net earnings of
     which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual,
     no substantial part of the activities of which is carrying on
     propaganda, or otherwise attempting, to influence legislation... and
     which does not participate in, or intervene in (including the
     publishing or distributing of statements), any political campaign on
     behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office.

Id.

   In Revenue Ruling 69-545, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) identified
various factors relevant to whether a nonprofit hospital claiming exemption
under Section 501(c)(3) is operated to serve public, charitable purposes rather
than private interests. The factors include:

        . A governing board composed of prominent civic leaders rather than
     solely of hospital administrators or physicians;

        . A medical staff open to "all qualified physicians" in the area,
     consistent with the size and nature of its facilities;

        . Operation of a full-time emergency room, open to everyone,
     regardless of ability to pay;

        . Provision of non-emergency care to everyone in the community who
     is able to pay directly or indirectly through private health
     insurance, or with the aid of public programs such as Medicare or
     Medicaid; and

        . Use of net earning to further the charitable purpose and not to
     inure directly or indirectly to the benefit of any private shareholder
     or individual. n220

   Under these factors, adopting a policy that prevents certain physicians,
namely, those with economic conflicts of interest, from holding staff
privileges, could endanger a hospital's tax-exempt status. Such a policy appears
to violate the criterion that the medical staff be open to "all qualified
physicians in the area." Also, an economic conflict-of-interest credentialing
policy has the appearance of placing the financial bottom-line of the hospital
--and, accordingly, the benefit of hospital administrators and
shareholders--above charitable purposes. Both of these factors could cause the
IRS to question whether the hospital is organized and operated exclusively for
charitable purposes.



   n220 Rev. Rul. 69-545, 1969-2 C.B. 117.

   The Revenue Ruling noted, however, that "the absence of particular factors
set forth above or the presence of other factors will not necessarily be
determinative." n221 Rather, "the [IRS] will weigh all of the relevant factors
and circumstances." n222 An economic conflict-of-interest credentialing policy,
therefore, may not in and of itself defeat a hospital's tax-exempt status.
Moreover, as Mahan and other cases suggest, such a policy may be justified for
the very purpose of ensuring that essential medical services and charity care
are available to the community. Nevertheless, if the IRS determines that the
underlying purpose of a hospital's credentialing policy is not to benefit the
community but rather to benefit private interests, such as the interests of
current medical staff members or hospital owners, the hospital could lose its
tax-exempt status.



   n221 Id.


   n222 Id.

D. Public Relations Concerns

   As indicated by the AMA's strong stance against economic credentialing, the
adoption of an economic conflict-of-interest policy would likely be extremely
unpopular with a hospital's medical staff. A hospital, therefore, would be
required to expend considerable resources addressing the concerns of a
disgruntled, disruptive medical staff as well as the political and public
relations issues that surely would arise with the announcement of such a policy.
In addition, economic credentialing policies may invite criticism in the popular
media because such policies could be perceived as placing hospital finances
above concern for quality patient care.

   Moreover, even if a physician's legal challenge to an economic credentialing
policy were unsuccessful, a hospital would still bear the considerable expense,
adverse media exposure, and distractions of defending a lawsuit. Further, even
in the face of weak challenges, a lawsuit always involves the risk of losing and
being held liable to the excluded physician for considerable damages.

   Instead of adopting a policy prohibiting staff physicians from owning or
investing in a competing enterprise, a hospital might consider a less
restrictive policy. For example, a policy that restricts a medical staff
member's ability to hold certain leadership positions at the hospital, such as a
medical director, medical staff officer, or department head, could accomplish
similar objectives of ensuring loyalty and fiduciary commitment to the
hospital's interests. n223 Alternatively, a hospital might adopt a credentialing
policy that requires an applicant for medical staff privileges merely to provide
certain disclosures. Such disclosures would concern whether the physician has an
investment interest in an entity that would cause the physician's interests to
be substantially in conflict with the hospital's or that would provide a
significant economic incentive to refer patients to other facilities. These
less-restrictive alternatives do not appear to rise to the level of actionable
restraints of trade. Moreover, they might be less likely to raise the ire of the
medical staff and seem justifiable on common business principles.



   n223 One way to accomplish this policy would be to amend the medical staff
bylaws to describe conflicts of interest and prohibit appointment or election to
office if the medical staff member owns a competing facility. The board also
could refuse to ratify the appointment or election of an officer who has an
ownership interest in a competing facility.

   In addition to potential liability in a lawsuit brought by a physician who is
affected by a hospital's new economic credentialing policy, such a policy could
expose the hospital to civil or criminal sanctions under evolving
interpretations of certain federal healthcare statutes. Moreover, a
credentialing policy that protects the hospital from competition by medical
staff members might be unenforceable in a state that prohibits contractual
noncompetition clauses for professionals, such as physicians. Also, the adoption
of such a policy by a nonprofit hospital could endanger the hospital's
tax-exempt status. Finally, a hospital considering implementing such a policy
should carefully consider the additional burdens of addressing medical staff and
public relations objections to a policy that appears to give an unfair and
improper competitive edge to the hospital at the expense of patient care.

IV. Conclusion

   The use of economic criteria unrelated to quality of care or professional
competency in determining an individual's qualifications for initial or
continuing hospital medical staff membership or privileges is a recent and
controversial idea. Courts have upheld certain forms of "traditional" economic
credentialing, such as exclusive contract arrangements and closed staff
policies, because they promote efficiency and are recognized as a reasonable
exercise of the board's authority to administer the business of the hospital.
Policies that exclude physicians based on ownership or investment in competing
entities, however, are more difficult to justify on the basis of efficiency or
other legitimate business concerns. Moreover, these new economic credentialing
policies inherently restrict competition and, therefore, may violate antitrust
law and policy.

   Thus far, only a few courts have considered the enforceability and liability
implications of these new economic credentialing policies. The courts that have
done so were persuaded that such self-protective policies were necessary to
maintain the economic viability of the hospital and the availability of
essential community medical services. This justification is questionable under
traditional antitrust policies and reveals a certain discomfort by courts with
treating the healthcare marketplace the same as any other competitive
marketplace. This same bias may influence courts' decisions regarding the due
process implications of a hospital's adoption of a policy that has the effect of
depriving a current medical staff member of protected property interests. Legal
challenges to these new policies also call for new interpretation and
application of state laws on contract formation, breach, and noncompetition
clauses.

   Such policies also raise new questions under federal statutes that regulate
physicians and other providers participating in federal healthcare programs,
which issues are being fiercely debated by physician and hospital administration
interest groups on opposing sides. The outcome of this debate over federal
regulatory policy could significantly impact both new and traditional
credentialing policies and other hospital operations. Economic credentialing
policies based on physician conflicts of interest also present operational
concerns related to hospitals' tax-exempt status and medical staff and community
relations.

   In the current healthcare market of declining reimbursement and rising costs,
economic conflict-of-interest policies are likely to become more commonplace as
physicians enter investment and entrepreneurial activities to supplement their
income and hospitals seek novel strategies to protect their revenue streams. As
more hospitals implement self-protective credentialing policies, there will be
more legal challenges by physicians whose staff privileges are affected, and the
case law will continue to clarify the respective rights and interests of
hospital administrators and medical staff members. In the meantime, a hospital
considering whether to adopt such a policy should carefully consider the risks
of unenforceability, liability, government sanctions, administrative costs, and
adverse public relations that would likely arise.


