                              21 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Albany Herald (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             May 4, 2016 Wednesday

GHA study finds Phoebe Putney Health System generates $1.2 billion economic
revenue

BYLINE: The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 590 words


May 04--ALBANY -- Phoebe Putney Health System generated more than $1.2 billion
in revenue for the local and state economy in 2014, according to a recent report
by the Georgia Hospital Association.

The report by the state's largest hospital trade association determined that the
health system provided nearly $60 million in community benefit while supporting
more than 10,000 full-time jobs in Southwest Georgia and the state that year.

"A hospital is an important part of a community's infrastructure, and this
report shows that Phoebe continues to have an enormous positive impact on
Southwest Georgia's economy by providing steady job growth while improving the
health and wellness of the communities we serve," Joel Wernick, president/CEO of
Phoebe Putney Health System, said.

Phoebe had direct expenditures of more than $531 million in 2014, according to
the report. Combined with the economic multiplier developed by the U.S.
Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total economic impact
was more than $ 1.2 billion.

The multiplier takes into account the ripple effect direct hospital expenditures
have on other parts of the economy, such as medical supplies, durable medical
equipment and pharmaceuticals. Economic multipliers are used to model the
resulting impact of a change in one industry on the "circular flow" of spending
within an economy as a whole.

"We are very appreciative of the ongoing support our local hospitals receive,
and we will continue to work hard to ensure the residents in the communities we
serve have access to the best and highest quality health care," Wernick said.

With medical facilities throughout the state facing concerns about economic
challenges such as Medicare and Medicaid payments and a fast-growing uninsured
population, PPHS in 2014 provided $59.8 million in community benefits, including
charity and uncompensated care.

Health System hospitals included in the report were Phoebe Putney Memorial
Hospital, Phoebe Sumter Medical Center, Phoebe Worth Medical Center and
Southwest Georgia Regional Medical Center. A breakdown of the economic impact of
each in 2014, according to GHA, shows (community benefit numbers include charity
and uncompensated care):

-- Phoebe Putney Memorial generated a total economic impact of more than $1
billion on $461.2 million in direct expenditures. The hospital supported 7,974
full-time jobs while also providing nearly $50 million in community benefits;

-- Phoebe Sumter in Americus generated a total economic impact of more than $126
million on $55.3 million in direct expenditures. The hospital supported 1,025
full-time jobs while also providing more than $7.6 million in community
benefits;

-- Phoebe Worth in Sylvester generated a total economic impact of more than
$18.8 million on $8.2 million in direct expenditures. The hospital supported 538
full-time jobs while also providing nearly $2 million in community benefits.

-- Southwest Georgia Regional in Cuthbert, which is managed by Phoebe, generated
a total economic impact of more than $14 million on $6.1 million in direct
expenditures. The hospital supported 513 full-time jobs while also providing
approximately $1.2 million in community benefits.

Statewide, GHA said Georgia hospitals in 2014 generated nearly $43.6 billion for
the state's economy, provided nearly $1.8 billion in uncompensated and charity
care, and supported more than 364,800 full-time jobs.

___ (c)2016 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20160504-1AH-GHA-study-finds-Phoebe-Putney-Health-System-generates-1.2-billion-
economic-revenue-0504-20160504

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                        Copyright 2016 The Albany Herald


