                              200 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily News (Jacksonville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 25, 2010 Monday

Bad debt causes hospital costs to mount

BYLINE: Suzanne Ulbrich, The Daily News, Jacksonville, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 636 words


Oct. 25--It's not just individuals hurting financially.

Onslow County Memorial Hospital and Carteret General Hospital officials say they
foresee a rise in bad debt and charity care expenses.

As more and more people lose insurance they fall between the cracks in the
healthcare system, said Tim Strickland, the spokesman for Onslow Memorial
Hospital.

"Basically the folks that qualify for charity care are often the working poor.
Their income is not enough for them to be able to afford insurance," he said.
"(This fiscal year) we're looking at almost 11 percent of what we expect to take
in, in total patient revenues, going to charity care and bad debt."

Onslow budgeted $5,591,420 for this fiscal year, which began Oct.1, for charity
care, Strickland said. It budgeted $5,195,006 the previous fiscal year.

"So we projected $396,414 (more) in charity care, which amounts to a 7.6-percent
increase," he said.

Onslow budgeted $32,849,594 this fiscal year for bad debt versus $30,520,660 the
previous year, which also amounts to a 7.6-percent increase, Strickland said.

"So that is an increase of $2,328,934," he said.

He said the economy has put more patients in the bad debt category.

"Even though Onslow County is weathering the economic storm better than other
parts of the county, that does not mean it is not affected by the economic
storm," he said. "The impact of charity care and bad debt is based on economic
indicators, though we look more closely at what is going on in our region."

Likewise, Carteret General Hospital expects slight increases in charity care and
unpaid medical bills, said Beth Beswick, the spokeswoman for the hospital.

"Our bad debt went up about .2 percent, from $11,984,645 to $13,405,746," she
said.

Charity care went from $2,858,132 to $2,298,004.

"We have seen a shift in payor mix," she said. "Commercially insured patients
have declined by about 1.3 percent and Medicaid has increased about the same. We
assume this is due to low income individuals who had employer based insurance
and have lost that, for whatever reason, and qualified for Medicaid."

The upward trend in charity care costs has been evident in hospitals across the
state, said Don Dalton, spokesman for the N.C. Hospital Association.

In fiscal year 2008, the average estimated cost of treating charity care
patients at 110 of the organization's member hospitals was $5.7 million. That
average estimated cost increased to $6.3 million in fiscal year 2009, Dalton
said.

He said the economy and rising healthcare costs contributed to that increase.

Between fiscal year 2008 and 2009, the average hospital saw its estimated
un-reimbursed cost of providing Medicaid services increase by a similar margin.
Those rising costs put "tremendous pressure" on hospitals, he said.

"We have hospitals that have been forced to lay off employees because of
downturns, because of the growing un-reimbursed charity care and Medicaid and
Medicare issues as well," he said.

At this point, Onslow Memorial Hospital is not planning a workforce reduction,
Strickland said.

"Our employees receive modest raises, and we use a great degree of caution to
make sure the number of employees did not increase substantially," he said.
"Every hospital in the country deals with that -- we have to learn to work
creatively."

Contact staff writer Suzanne Ulbrich at 910-219-8454 or sulbrich@freedomenc.com

To see more of The Daily News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.jacksonvilledailynews.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Daily News,
Jacksonville, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
more information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101025-JN-Bad-debt-causes-hospital-costs-to-mount-1025-20101025

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JN


                         Copyright 2010 The Daily News


