                              219 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The Economic Times

                           December 11, 2005, Sunday

Wolf Knittlingen plans subsidiary in Gurgaon

BYLINE: By Priya Saini

LENGTH: 412 words



NEW DELHI -- Richard Wolf Knittlingen, one of world's leading endoscopy
equipment makers, plans to open an Indian subsidiary in Gurgaon.

This will be the group's seventh overseas subsidiaries after the U.S., France,
Austria, Belgium, U.K. and U.A.E. With an annual turnover of $ 100 million, the
German group is number two globally and owns 20 percent of the Indian endoscopes
market (the overall market in the country stands at $ 25 million).

Its latest and most sophisticated endoscopy equipment CORE (an integrating
operating room) will also be launched in India with the subsidiary, in which the
group has invested Rs 5 crore.

Globally, the group has more than 5,000 products, one-third of which are used in
India. Wolf plans to bring all the products to the country and expects a minimum
of 8-10 percent growth in revenues here.

"The Indian healthcare sector is growing at an average of 8 percent annually.
Our new subsidiary will help us monitor the Indian market more carefully in
terms of new techniques and changing trends. It would also mean better relations
with our customers and agents in the country," said Alfons Notheis,
director-marketing, Richard Wolf.

Most of the big hospitals in India like Jaslok Hospital, Hiranandani Hospital,
Escorts, Faridabad, CMC, Vellore, Manipal Hospital, Worckhardt Hospital, Kolkata
and Apollo hospitals across the country are equipped their products, which are
currently brought through the group's distributors across the country, including
Delhi-based Eagle Medical Systems.

Richard Wolf also has a tie-up with Wockhardt Hospitals, wherein six of their
new hospitals being set up will be equipped with the products. Talks are on with
Fortis on the same lines.

Even though the group is leveraging its alliances with major private hospitals,
it is also involved with government hospitals across the country. It is looking
at a Rs 20-25 cr revenue line from the government sector in the next three
years, while the tie-ups in the private sector are expected to yield
approximately Rs 5-10 cr this year.


-----

To see more of The Economic Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com Copyright (c) 2005, The Economic Times,
India

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: ET-MEDI-EQUIP-20051211

JOURNAL-CODE: ET

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                       Copyright 2005 The Economic Times


