                              231 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday

Barber: OMHS in good economic health

BYLINE: Rich Suwanski, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


Mar. 13--Owensboro Medical Health System hasn't been affected by the problems
that caused Jewish Hospital in Louisville to cut 500 positions this week, said
Jeff Barber, OMHS' president and CEO.

Jewish Hospital officials said the company struggled with the effects of the
economic downturn, and cut the positions.

"It hasn't affected us," Barber said. "We've had about a 5.1 percent jump in the
past three years in hospital admissions, and the trend continues.

"I think what it boils down to is that we've been focused on our strategic
direction of improved quality, and that's helped us gain more admissions and
reduce our costs considerably.

"We've been doing well."

Barber said OMHS hospital admissions were 17,791 in 2007 and 18,700 in 2009.

He added that OMHS has increased its employment by "about 15 percent" during
that time. OMHS is set to start construction on a new hospital, and at the time
it announced that project, officials said it would need to fill about 500 new
jobs.

"We're still going to add jobs and it looks like admissions are going to grow to
the extent that they can in this facility," Barber said. "I suspect they'll grow
even greater in the new one."

Jewish Hospital officials said its move included layoffs of about 250 workers,
some involving middle- and senior-level management positions, as well as some
back-office functions. About half of the cuts will come through attrition and
the elimination of open positions.

Few of the positions will come from hands-on-care providers, and schedules of
the remaining employees will be adjusted to compensate for staff reductions.

"Because of our unique status as a regional provider, we haven't felt the impact
like facilities in Louisville, St. Louis or Nashville," Barber said. "Health
care, whatever shape or form it might take, will have a greater effect on
hospitals in large urban areas than it will on areas like ours.

"We still remain a pretty protected environment because we're the safety net
hospital for a pretty large area."

OMHS and Jewish Hospital had a working agreement until last June in which Jewish
was instrumental in recruiting two cardiothoracic surgeons after OMHS' cardiac
program shut down in 2003. The contact also provided OMHS with some purchasing
power for some supplies and equipment.

Their contract was not renewed.

Rich Suwanski, 691-7315, rsuwanski@messenger-inquirer.com

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100313-OW-Barber-OMHS-in-good-economic-health-0313

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2010 Messenger-Inquirer


