                              244 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                               FINAL - 5 EDITION

STUDY SEES BENEFITS IN PARTNERSHIP PLAN;
HOSPITAL 'DESPERATELY NEEDED';
HEALTH CENTER RESCUE

BYLINE: ARIELLE LEVIN BECKER alevinbecker@courant.com

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 395 words


The proposed partnership between the University of Connecticut Health Center and
Hartford Hospital could generate 18,200 jobs and $3.28 billion in new individual
income by 2040, according to a study by the Connecticut Center for Economic
Analysis at UConn.

"This is a desperately needed economic engine for the region," said Fred
Carstensen, the center's director and a UConn economics professor.

The findings will be presented during a public hearing today as lawmakers
consider the proposal, which is intended to stabilize the financially troubled
Health Center and is expected to cost the state $605 million over 10 years.

The proposal calls for creating a "University Hospital" with campuses in
Hartford and Farmington, with a new $475 million hospital to replace the
outdated John Dempsey Hospital. Hartford Hospital would take responsibility for
any future deficits that the Health Center runs, but the state would be
responsible for the cost of the new hospital and an estimated $13 million in
annual labor costs.

UConn leaders say the proposal is the best hope for the Health Center, which
includes Dempsey, UConn's medical and dental schools and research laboratories.
Some lawmakers have expressed support, while others have questioned whether the
state can afford the cost of a new hospital.

Carstensen said that the proposal could help counteract a two-decade economic
decline in the state, which is experiencing a diminishing working-age population
and losing the highest-skilled, highest-paid young people to other states.
Investing in an academic medical center would be especially wise because medical
jobs are not likely to be outsourced, he said.

According to the report, building a new hospital and expanding the medical and
dental schools would generate 2,688 jobs by 2020 and 4,557 by 2040. But the
report says that doing that along with the Hartford Hospital partnership, a
collaboration with other area hospitals and having vastly expanded research
funding to become a top 20 university medical research center would pay far
greater dividends, creating 8,229 jobs by 2020 and 18,200 by 2040, and
generating $717 million in personal income by 2020 and $3.28 billion a year by
2040.

By 2035, the expected end-date for the bonds on the new hospital, the proposed
plan would generate $904 million in new net tax revenues for the state,
according to the report.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


