                              251 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            March 13, 2004, Saturday

120 patients benefited from dialysis treatment

SECTION: Nation; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 349 words


THE State Government has helped more than 120 patients undergo dialysis
treatment at the Southern Hospital here from 2001 till last year, Chief
Minister Datuk Seri Mohd Ali Rustam said.

They were helped with funds provided by the State Government, corporate
agencies and non-governmental organisations.

Patients only needed to pay between RM30 and RM60 for each treatment,
while the rest was sponsored.

He said there were about 100 patients who underwent dialysis at the
hospital every month and they only needed to make a minimum payment for
treatment.

"We have been able to do this thanks to the excellent economic
performance that Malacca has enjoyed over the years," he said.

Ali added that the State Government hoped to increase the number of
dialysis machines at the hospital soon.

Malacca recorded a 6.5 per cent growth in its Gross Domestic Product
last year.

According to the State Economic Action Council, the 6.5 per cent growth
was higher than the national average of 5.2 per cent.

Since 2000, Malacca had surpassed the national GDP average when it
recorded 9.2 per cent (2000), 0.4 per cent (2001) and 4.6 per cent in
2002.

Driving Malacca's economic growth are the manufacturing, construction
and services sectors, closely followed by the tourism and agricultural
sectors.

The per capita income of residents in Malacca had increased to RM16,535
last year.

This, again, is higher than the national average of RM15,630 recorded
last year.

"Such indicators show that Malacca is well on its way towards achieving
its target of being a developed State by 2010," Ali said.

Inflation here was at its lowest in three years last year, at 1.1 per
cent compared to the national average of 1.2 per cent.

Unemployment, Ali said, had dropped to 3.4 per cent in the third quarter
of last year.

In all, 285,200 people out of the total population of 600,000 were
employed in various sectors last year.

The services sector provides the largest number of jobs with 169,400
employed, followed by agriculture (78,900) and construction (20,200).


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus on Malacca.

            Copyright 2004 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


