                              257 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                        March 1, 2000, Wednesday Edition

FEWER BEDS FOR MENTALLY ILL: STUDY

BYLINE: CATRIONA JACKSON

SECTION: Part A; Page 3

LENGTH: 362 words


Health Reporter
 Mentally ill Australians are dying at a greater rate than the international
average, spend less time in hospital, and have access to fewer hospital beds,
according to a report this week.

In 1995, 14 in every mentally ill Australians died, compared with an average of
11 in across the international Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development, according to the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare.

The United States and Britain sat right on the average; 10 in every Germans
died, and eight in every Irish.

The report is the first to collect national and international statistics on
hospital care for the mentally ill.

Our mentally ill spent less than half the time in hospital their OECD
contemporaries did, locals averaging 14.5 bed days in 1996. The OECD average is
38.5 bed days. We also ranked down the scale in psychiatric beds per head of
population: 0.3 for every 1000 people, against the OECD average of almost one
bed for every 1000.

In Japan there were 2.9 beds for every 1000 people, in the US 0.5.

Report co-author Dr David Braddock said some of these disparities could be
explained by the reduced role of psychiatric hospitals treating Australia's
mentally ill.

"It's estimated that the number of beds available in these institutions declined
by 63 per cent, or 5400 beds, over the past decade, he said." "This is in line
with providing more mental-health services in the community." In other findings:
women were much more prone to anxiety disorders like obsessive compulsive
disorder than men, 820 in being affected, compared with 470 men. Women were
almost twice as likely to be depressed as men, with a prevalence of 500 in
compared with 275 for men.

But men had higher rates of mental illness caused by drug and alcohol abuse,
with a rate of 730 for every men, against 300 for women.

Substance use disorders declined rapidly as both men and women grew older, with
almost no women affected by the age of 65, and only around 2 per cent of men.
Between 18 and 24 years, more than 20 per cent of men had mental problems caused
by substance abuse, and 10 per cent of young women.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

             Copyright 2000 The Federal Capital Press of Australia
                                  Pty Limited


