                              269 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The Edge Malaysia

                                January 5, 2009

20 stocks for 2009: Less affected by turmoil because of nature of business

BYLINE: Gan Yen Kuan

LENGTH: 363 words


KPJ Healthcare Bhd is one of the stocks that should be able to sidle through the
current global economic slowdown, given that healthcare services are deemed a
necessity. Analysts, in general, are of the view that it should be less affected
by the poor economic outlook.

KPJ reported net profit growth of 90.1%, 40.8% and 14.3% respectively for the
first three quarters of FY2008, mainly due to higher patient admissions and
contributions from newly acquired hospitals. On a cumulative basis, its net
profit for the first nine months was 42.4% higher at RM63.19 million.

Some of the group's previously loss-making hospitals - Perdana Specialist
Hospital in Kelantan, Kuching Specialist Hospital and Taiping Medical Centre -
turned around or broke even in 2008.

KPJ is in expansion mode, targeting to acquire more specialist hospitals in
2009. It is able to continue expanding because of its asset-light position. Its
hospitals have been or are being disposed of to Al-'Aqar KPJ REIT - a real
estate investment trust in which it indirectly owns a 52% stake.

Selling hospital properties to the REIT and then leasing them back has enabled
the company to realise its investment in the properties, raise cash to pare down
debts and generate recurring income from consistent cash distribution from the
REIT. With savings in interest and depreciation expenses, KPJ has been able to
better utilise its capital for operational expansion.

Based on its closing price of RM2.55 on Dec 24, 2008, the stock was trading at a
FY2008 and FY2009 price earnings ratio (PER) of 6.68 and 5.77 times
respectively, according to Bloomberg's consensus data. KPJ's PER valuations are
undemanding compared to its regional peers' FY2009 PER of 10 to 20 times, says
OSK Research.

In terms of share price, KPJ was more resilient than the Kuala Lumpur Composite
Index (KLCI) in 2008 as the stock fell only 26.3% for the year up to Dec 26
compared to KLCI's fall of 40%.

Despite its thin liquidity, KPJ is an excellent choice for long-term investment
and portfolio balancing, with steady dividend payout, according to OSK Research.
For FY2008, the company paid an interim gross dividend of seven sen a share on
Sept 26.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 The Edge Communications Sdn. Bhd.
                              All Rights Reserved


