                              290 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        DeWitt Era-Enterprise (Arkansas)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                January 30, 2014

What is the Contribution of DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. to the Overall
Economy of the Area?

BYLINE: DeWitt Era-Enterprise staff

LENGTH: 329  words


In this report, IMPLAN software and data were used to study and estimate the
economic impact of DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. on Arkansas County. The
term economic impact refers to any number of processes that trace how changes in
spending resulting from an economic event, such as business closures and new
industrial or infrastructural developments move through an economy. An impact
study measures the cumulative effects of that spending on a defined geographic
region, as small as a ZIP area, or as large as an entire country.

Hospitals may use impact analysis to demonstrate their role, importance and
contribution to the local economy, and the potential effects of expansion or
relocation of the hospital.

DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. makes a significant contribution to the
local economy by purchasing goods and services from local businesses and by
providing jobs and income to local residents who in turn send part of their
income at these local-businesses. This section of the report estimates the
direct and secondary contribution of DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. to the
local economy. We measure the economic contribution of the hospital in terms of
employment and income.

DeWitt Hospital & Nursing Home Inc. hires a significant number of employees and
generates: 113 jobs created directly by the hospital 36 secondary jobs created
in other businesses 149 total job impact generated by DeWitt Hospital & Nursing
Home Inc.

It provides $6,438,610 in direct labor income/wages And it provides a total
labor income impact of $8,020,680 to the local economy $6,438,610 earned by 113
employees generated an additional 36 jobs for the local community created from
employees' spending and adds $1,582,070 in secondary labor income to the owners
and employees of the benefiting businesses in the community. In 2011, DeWitt
Hospital 8c Nursing Home Inc. had a total revenue impact of $18,237,468, a job
impact of 149 and a total income impact of $8,020,680.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

