                              303 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  March, 1993

                         Vol. 26, No. 3, HOSPLW Pg. 73

LENGTH: 5707 words

TITLE: Data on Employee Physician Profiling



AUTHOR: Gregory D. Wozniak, AMA. B.S., 1974, University of Illinois at Chicago;
Ph.D, 1980, Iowa State University.
David W. Emmons, American Medical Association (AMA).  B.A., 1976, Drake
University; Ph.D, 1985, Johns Hopkins University.

   Robert D. Otten, AMA. B.S., 1981, Purdue University; M.S., 1982, Purdue
University.

   Neal A. Baker, AMA. B.A., 1981, Michigan State University; MHSA, 1983,
University of Michigan; J. D. Cand., 1993, DePaul University.

TEXT:

   INTRODUCTION

   Due to rapidly rising health care costs, employers, third party payors, and
other purchasers of health care services have sought effective ways of measuring
the quality, utilization, and cost of services provided to patients.  Hospitals
and large group practices have also grown increasingly interested in assessing
these factors within their organizations.  In addition, variations in medical
practice patterns have sparked a growing interest in how and why processes and
outcomes of care differ in various regions of the country, within counties, and
within metropolitan areas.  Physician profiling is now viewed as a powerful tool
to measure the quality, utilization and cost of services provided, as well as
the variations in process and outcomes of care. [n1]

   Physician profiling is defined differently by various organizations.  For
example, the Physician Payment Review Commission (PPRC) defines profiling as "an
analytic tool that uses epidemiologic methods to compare practice patterns of
providers on the dimensions of cost, service use, or quality (process and
outcome) of care." [n2] The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association of America
(BCBS) describes profiling as:

   . . . a computer-based management technique to monitor resource consumption
and quality of care through an examination of patterns of health care delivery.
It involves the identification of one pattern of practice and its comparison
with formal or informal norms derived from aggregate patterns.  Profiles can be
constructed for individual practitioners, or groups of practitioners, defined by
hospital, geographic area, specialty, type of practice or other characteristics.
[n3]

   Moreover, John Blum, in his Article Expanding Fiscal Considerations Impacting
the Medical Staff: A Review of Economic Credentialing (published in this issue
of the JOURNAL OF HEALTH AND HOSPITAL LAW), defines a physician profile as a set
of aggregate data that statistically depicts clinical and/or economic factors
for a particular physician over a given period of time which can be compared
with larger aggregate medical practice data sets to determine whether a
physician's practice patterns fall within an acceptable range of performance.
[n4]

   Interestingly, these definitions are similar in that they all view the use of
profiling to be a basis for comparing practice patterns.  However, the
definitions are also distinct.  PPRC sees profiling as an "epidemiologic
method," [n5] BCBS describes it as a "management technique," [n6] and Blum
defines profiling as a "statistical depiction." [n7] These differences reflect
the range of intended purposes to which profiling is applied by health care
organizations, including third party payors, health maintenance organizations,
preferred provider organizations, Medicare peer review organizations (PROs),
state governments, hospitals, group practices, and research entities.

   This Article begins by discussing the potential uses of physician profiling.
It then describes the current profiling activities undertaken by two state
governments, New York and Pennsylvania. [n8] It also discusses the federal
government's efforts to develop physician profiles under the aegis of the Health
Care Financing Administration's (HCFA) Medicare PRO and Medicare carrier
programs. [n9] Finally, this Article reports descriptive data on both the
frequency of physician profiling among employee physicians, and the extent to
which those physicians receive profile feedback. [n10]

   POTENTIAL APPLICATIONS OF PHYSICIAN PROFILING

   Profiling has been identified as having three primary applications: quality
improvement, utilization review, and assessment of provider performance. [n11]
The distinction between these applications often is blurred, especially when
utilization rates are used to assess quality and provider performance.

   Profiling may be used in quality improvement programs by targeting apparent
problem areas.  Profiling identifies conditions or procedures in which there are
large variations in outcomes between providers.  Where variations exist,
physician profiling also identifies over- and under-utilization of services so
an organization can investigate the quality of care being provided.  This
improves the quality of care and reduces unnecessary costs created by
over-utilization. [n12] Such profiles often focus on compliance with review
criteria, practice parameters or other standards of care.  Frequent measures
include mortality and complication rates, as well as the degree to which a
recommended number of tests or procedures occurred during a given period of
time.  With the increased emphasis on "continuous quality improvement,"
profiling may also be used for "benchmarking." Benchmarking is a system in which
individual physicians or groups compare, over time, their own performance with
those practices considered as providing the "best" quality. [n13]

   To enhance utilization review, many third party payors and utilization review
firms use profiling to identify the need for more detailed review, and to
encourage more appropriate delivery of services.  Because global profiling may
be costly, many firms follow an "outlier" approach.  This approach uses profiles
to compare the rates at which individual physicians provide particular services
with the rates of physicians in similar practices or with target rates based on
practice parameters. [n14] Individual case review then focuses primarily on
"outliers" whose practice patterns suggest a greater likelihood of either over-
or under-utilization. [n15]

   Finally, profiling may also be used to assess the economic performance of
physicians. [n16] The factors that may be considered relevant in assessing
economic performance include the cost per case, average length of stay by
medical service or diagnosis, denial rates, and malpractice claims. [n17] In a
process often referred to as "economic credentialing," some hospitals have used
physicians' economic profiles to decide whether to grant hospital privileges.
[n18] Similarly, managed care plans have turned increasingly to profiling in an
effort to improve physician selection, network management, and the effectiveness
of medical and quality management. [n19]

   PHYSICIAN PROFILES DEVELOPED BY NEW YORK STATE

   Some state governments have begun using physician profiles to measure quality
as determined through outcomes measures.  New York [n20] and Pennsylvania, [n21]
for example, have pioneered the public release of individual cardiac surgeon
profiles on mortality rates following coronary artery bypass graft surgery
(CABG).  In 1988, the New York State Department of Health (NYDH), created the
Cardiac Surgery Reporting System (CSRS), [n22] which is a patient specific
surgical report form.  The NYDH began using this form to collect information on
the following: patient demographics; admissions; discharge and surgical
procedure dates; as well as preoperative risk factors such as age, race, sex,
reoperation, ejection fraction, previous myocardial infarction, morbid obesity,
hypertension history, preoperative intra-aortic balloon pump, dialysis
dependency, diabetes requiring medication, more than 90 percent narrowing of
left main trunk, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) "crash,"
and cardiac catherization "crash." [n23] Data on complications and discharge
status for every open heart surgery patient in New York State, as well as
surgeon and hospital identifiers, are also included in the CSRS.  The elements
used in this reporting system were determined by the NYDH Cardiac Advisory
Committee, which was made up of practicing cardiac surgeons and cardiologists
from both inside and outside the state of New York. [n24]

   In December 1992, the NYDH released physician and hospital profiles on CABG
outcomes to the public based on the results of CABG operations completed from
1989-1991 [n25] (see Table 1).  According to the Department, the purpose of
releasing these profiles to the public was to: understand the characteristics of
individual patients which adversely affect outcomes; improve the results of
interventional and noninterventional treatment of heart disease; improve the
provision of cardiac care; and provide information to the public that allows
individuals to make better informed decisions about their own care. [n26]

   Table 1

   Facsimile of a Profiling Report Format Used by the New York Department of
Health.  Actual, expected, and risk-adjusted hospital and surgeon mortality
after coronary artery bypass grafting, 1989-1991.
                             Hospital Deaths         Risk-Adjusted Mortality
Surgeon    Patients
              (n)    Number    Actual     Expected     Percent       95%
                             (Observed)       %                   Confidence
                             % Mortality  Mortality                 Limits
Hospital A
Totals         2058       71         3.45       2.86         3.90   3.04-4.91

 Doctor A      413         8         1.94       2.80         2.24   0.96-4.41

 Doctor B      452        13         2.88       2.41         3.85   2.05-6.59

 Doctor C      250         7         2.80       2.37         3.82   1.53-7.87

 Doctor D      339        18         5.31       3.29         5.21   3.09-8.24

 All           604        25         4.14       3.20         4.18   2.70-6.16
 Others       (<200)
 (8)

Hospital B
Totals         1466       51         3.48       3.03         3.71   2.76-4.88

 Doctor A      544        22         4.04       3.19         4.10   2.57-6.21

 Doctor B      336        12         3.57       3.11         3.70   1.91-6.47

 Doctor C      496        13         2.62       2.89         2.93   1.56-5.01

 All           90          4         4.44       2.49         5.76         --
 Others       (<200)
(2)

   Analyzing the effect of the mandated profiles the NYDH found that the
risk-adjusted mortality decreased from 4.25 percent in 1989 to 2.72 percent in
1991, a 36 percent decrease, [n27] even though the number of CABGs increased
from 12,269 in 1989 to 14,944 in 1991. [n28] The NYDH believes state wide
profiling also facilitated the improved outcomes for CABGs performed over that
same period. [n29]

   PHYSICIAN PROFILES DEVELOPED BY PENNSYLVANIA

   The Pennsylvania Health Care Cost Containment Council (Council) was
established by the Pennsylvania state legislature in 1986 to gather and publish
hospital outcomes, mortality, and cost data. [n30] In 1989, the Council began
disseminating profiling data on the 170 hospitals with more than 100 beds in its
reports on hospital effectiveness.  In November 1992, the Council released
physician profiles, limited to CABG surgery outcomes.  (See Table 2) The Council
selected physician profiles on CABG outcomes for release because it felt a
number of patients might have time to select a physician prior to the procedure
being performed. [n31] In addition, the Council believed the public interest in
physician-specific profiles on CABG outcomes is heightened by the fact that
heart disease continues to be the leading cause of death in the United States,
and the risk of adverse patient outcome and overall costs are both moderately
high compared to other surgical procedures. [n32]

   Table 2

   Facsimile of a Report Format Used by the Pennsylvania Health Care Cost
Containment Council. Statistical rating for cardiac surgeons who performed CABGs
in 1991.
Hospital Physician Practice Group    Total
           and Surgeons             Patients
Hospital A                             332

 Doctor A                              206

 Doctor B                              126

Hospital B                             323

 Doctor A                              58

 Doctor B                               7

 Doctor C                              50

 Doctor D                              133

 Doctor E                              75

Hospital C                             467

 Doctor A                              23

 Doctor B                              62

 Doctor C                              26

 Doctor D                              40

 Doctor E                              56

 Doctor F                              43
Hospital Physician Practice Group               Patients Who Died
           and Surgeons
                                    Actual    Expected    Statistical   P-
                                    Number     Range        Rating     Value
Hospital A                             4     5.35 - 18.08            +  0.018

 Doctor A                              2     2.64 - 12.81            +  0.029

 Doctor B                              2      0.21 - 7.86            *  0.307

Hospital B                            15     3.91 - 15.30            *  0.061

 Doctor A                              1      0.00 - 4.05            *  0.632
 Doctor B                                 less than 30 patients treated
 Doctor C                              3      0.00 - 3.26            *  0.079

 Doctor D                              8      0.00 - 6.82            -  0.008

 Doctor E                              3      0.24 - 6.34            *  0.873

Hospital C                            21     6.42 - 20.09            -  0.026
 Doctor A                                 less than 30 patients treated
 Doctor B                              1      0.00 - 4.52            *  0.518
 Doctor C                                 less than 30 patients treated
 Doctor D                              1      0.00 - 2.98            *  0.986

 Doctor E                              4      0.00 - 4.71            *  0.149

 Doctor F                              3      0.00 - 2.94            -  0.039

   Statistical Rating Key

   + fewer deaths than expected

   - more deaths than expected

   * the number of deaths was not different than what was expected

   Hospitals and Physicians may have commented on these data.  Copies are
available upon request.

   According to the Council, the primarily goal of the public release of these
data "is to provide objective information to assist consumers and purchasers of
care in selecting a hospital and physician for CABG." [n33] A secondary goal is
to provide health care providers and the legislature with statewide hospital and
physician data to assist in policy and planning efforts. [n34] Physicians
affected by these data profiles were allowed to review and comment on a draft
report prior to the final publication of the Council's report.  Those comments
were also included in one volume of the three reports made available to the
public. [n35]

   PROFILES DEVELOPED BY HCFA

   Under the HCFA's forthcoming PRO Fourth Scope of Work, Medicare PROs will
analyze patterns of care and outcomes.  PROs will then share this information
with physicians and providers to help them identify ways to achieve the best
success rates in improved outcomes and quality of care. [n36] In doing so,
HCFA's goal is to implement and refine the data collection, data analysis, and
physician/provider feedback mechanisms necessary to improve the mainstream of
care. [n37] Specifically, HCFA's "pattern analysis" is intended to be used in
developing individual physician profiles for the purpose of assessing the
quality of care, utilization/DRG problems, and questionable patterns of
practice. [n38]

   Concurrently, HCFA plans to implement its "Cooperative Cardiovascular
Project," in which PROs will collect and analyze data on Medicare cases
involving CABGs, acute myocardial infarction, and percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty. [n39] The project is scheduled to be implemented by PROs
in approximately twelve states beginning in the fall of 1993.  According to
HCFA, the goals of the project are: to provide hospital-specific information to
each hospital and its medical staff on patterns of cardiovascular care; to meet
with hospitals and medical staffs to identify and analyze further areas in which
there may be opportunities for improvement; and, where appropriate, to negotiate
an improvement program with the hospital and its staff. [n40] HCFA believes that
innovative physician profiling efforts such as the ones proposed will improve
medical care and overall hospital delivery systems.

   Medicare carriers have also undertaken profiling initiatives. [n41] A
provision in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 called for Medicare
carriers to monitor and profile physicians' billing patterns within each carrier
area and provide comparative data to physicians whose utilization patterns
varied significantly from other physicians in the same area. [n42] Accordingly,
Medicare carriers developed and issued Comparative Performance Reports to
physicians in 1991-1992 to inform physicians, who had unusually high utilization
rates, where they stood in relation to their peers. [n43] Although physicians
are not required to formally respond to these informational reports, they are
urged to assess their coding, billing and practice patterns to determine why
their utilization rates are different from their peers, and to discuss their
findings with the carrier. [n44]

   PROFILING PREVALENCE AMONG EMPLOYEE PHYSICIANS

   In light of these efforts, the following section presents survey data on
physician profiling drawn from the AMA's 1992 Socioeconomic Monitoring System
(SMS) survey.  SMS is an annual survey with more than 4,000 physician
respondents. [n45] Each survey is drawn from a nationally representative frame
of reference.  The 1992 SMS survey collected information on whether or not
activities in physicians' main medical practices were subject to either clinical
or financial-economic profiling.  For purposes of the survey, clinical profiling
was defined as: [n46]

   The collection and use of clinical, performance-based measures such as
patterns of treatment, health care outcomes, and patient satisfaction for the
purpose of comparing individual data with those of some comparison group.

   Likewise, economic or financial profiling was defined as:

   The collection and use of data on costs, charges, claims, reimbursement per
admission or diagnostic related group (DRG) for the purpose of comparing
individual data with those of some comparison group. [n47]

   The survey also obtained information on whether the physician was provided
with regular feedback on his or her clinical and economic profiles.  Previous
research on these data has shown that rates of profiling are highest among
employee physicians and independent contractors. [n48] The attention of this
Article, therefore, is focused on physicians employed by physicians or physician
groups, private hospitals, and other employers.  Within the context of the SMS
survey, employee physicians are those who are not full or part owners of their
main medical practice, and do not identify themselves as independent
contractors.  All the data reported have been weighted to correct for survey
nonresponse bias. [n49]

   In order to examine the rates of clinical and economic profiling of employee
physicians, and the frequencies with which employee physicians receive feedback
on their profiles, the data is broken down by specialty, gender, employer, and
census division.  The percentage of employee physicians reporting clinical and
economic profiling, and the percentage of profiled employee physicians regularly
receiving profile feedback by specialty and gender, are presented in Table 3.
The data indicate that among all employee physicians, 42.5 percent are subjected
to clinical profiling, but only 21.9 percent are subject to economic profiling.
Although the percentages reporting ranged from 39.7 percent for general and
family practitioners to 46.3 percent for medical specialists, the observed
variation is not statistically significant. [n50] In addition, no significant
differences are found in the economic profiling rates across specialties, or
between genders.  The frequency of economic profiling, however, does vary
significantly by gender.  While 22.6 percent of male physicians are subject to
economic profiling only 19.2 percent of female physicians are.

   Table 3

   Percent of Employee Physicians Subject to Clinical and Economic Profiling,
and Percent of Profiled Employee Physicians Receiving Regular Feedback, by
Specialty and Gender, 1992
                                                       Clinical  Economic
                               Clinical    Economic     Profile   Profile
                              Profiling    Profiling   Feedback  Feedback
                                 (1)          (2)         (3)       (4)
All Physicians                     42.5%         21.9%     53.6%     53.7%

Specialty

 General and Family Practice       39.7          25.6      72.0      72.0
 Medical Specialties               46.3          23.2      52.7      54.2
 Surgical Specialties              42.2          22.6      56.6      48.3
 Other Specialties                 40.4          18.5      44.6      44.7

Gender

 Male                              43.0          22.6      49.9      50.2
 Female                            40.8          19.2      67.3      68.5

   Notes: Medical specialties includes internal medicine and pediatrics.
Surgical specialties includes surgery, and obstetrics-gynecology.  Other
specialties includes radiology, psychiatry, anesthesiology, pathology, and
others.

   Comparisons of the data presented in columns (1) and (2) in Table 3 suggest
that employee physicians are subjected to clinical profiling more frequently
than economic profiling for both genders and for all specialties.  The
differential between the rates of clinical profiling and economic profiling is
smallest for general and family practitioners.  Male and female employee
physicians are about twice as likely to face clinical profiling as they are to
face economic profiling.

   From the data presented in columns (3) and (4) in Table 3, it is clear that
nearly 54 percent of profiled employee physicians receive regular feedback on
their clinical and economic profiles.  However, the frequencies of receiving
clinical profile feedback and economic profile feedback differ significantly by
specialty and between genders.  Physicians in general and family practice
receive feedback on clinical and economic profiles most often (72 percent for
each type of profile), while physicians classified in the "other" specialty are
the least likely to receive feedback on clinical and economic profiles (each
less than 45 percent).  The data also suggests female physicians are more likely
to receive feedback on their profiles than male physicians.  Of female
physicians, at least 67 percent regularly receive feedback on either profiles.
Only about 50 percent of male physicians regularly receive profile feedback.
There are no differences between the likelihood of receiving clinical profile
feedback and the likelihood of receiving economic feedback for any specialty or
gender.

   The percentages of employee physicians profiled, and physicians regularly
receiving profile feedback by employer are presented in Table 4.  It may be
noted from Table 4 that the rate of clinical profiling among employee physicians
ranged from 36.4 percent for employees of private hospitals to 45.7 percent for
employees of a physician or group of physicians.  The rate of economic profiling
ranged from 21.2 percent for employees of "other" employers to 23.1 percent for
employees of private hospitals.  However, neither the variation observed in the
clinical profiling rates nor the variation observed in the economic profiling
rates is statistically significant.

   Table 4

   Percent of Employee Physicians Subject to Clinical and Economic Profiling,
and Percent of Profiled Employee Physicians Receiving Regular Feedback, by
Employer, 1992.
                                                       Clinical  Economic
                               Clinical    Economic     Profile   Profile
                              Profiling    Profiling   Feedback  Feedback
                                 (1)          (2)         (3)       (4)
All Physicians                     42.5%         21.9%     53.6%     53.7%

Employer

 Physician or Physician Group      45.7          22.3      47.4      43.2
 Private Hospital                  36.4          23.1      59.2      70.5
 Other                             42.8          21.2      55.4      53.3

   Notes: Other employment includes employment in an HMO, a free standing
ambulatory care center, medical school, university, college, government, or
others.

   Interestingly, the differences between the clinical profiling rates and the
economic profiling rates are statistically significant by type of employer.
Physician-employees of another physician or a group of physicians are more than
twice as likely to be subjected to clinical profiling as to be subjected to
economic profiling.  Hospital employee physicians have the smallest differential
between the probabilities of having their activities subjected to clinical
profiling or to economic profiling.  Clinical profiling occurs about 60 percent
more often than economic profiling for those physicians.

   The data presented in columns (3) and (4) in Table 4 show the frequency with
which profiled physicians receive regular feedback by type of profile and by
employer.  The variation in the frequency of clinical profile feedback is not
statistically significant.  The likelihood of a physician receiving economic
profile feedback does, however, vary by employer.  For example, 70.5 percent of
hospital employee physicians receive economic profile feedback, but only 43.2
percent of physician and physician group employees regularly receive economic
profile feedback.  However, the information summarized in columns (3) and (4) of
Table 4 reveals that the difference between the percent reporting feedback on a
clinical profile and the percent reporting feedback on an economic profile is
not statistically significant, even for private hospital employees.  It is
important to note that because the data does not contain information on who is
constructing the physician profiles, no conclusions can be drawn with respect to
the relative likelihoods that hospitals, physician practices, or other employers
are profiling their employee physicians.

   Table 5 reports census division breakouts of the percentages of employee
physicians profiled and if they received profile feedback.  The rates of both
clinical profiling and economic profiling differ significantly across census
divisions.  More than half of all employee physicians in both the West North
Central and New England divisions report being subjected to clinical profiling.
The West South Central has the lowest rate, where only 30.7 percent of employee
physicians report being subject to clinical profiling.  Physicians employed in
the Mountain and New England states are most frequently subjected to economic
profiling, 37.3 percent and 33.4 percent, respectively, while physicians in the
Pacific states are the least likely to be profiled (13.5 percent).  Significant
differences in the rates of clinical and economic profiling exist across the
census divisions.  The largest differential is found in the Pacific census
division.

   Table 5

   Percent of Employee Physicians Subject to Clinical and Economic Profiling,
and Percent of Profiled Employee Physicians Receiving Regular Feedback, by
Census Division, 1992
                                                       Clinical  Economic
                               Clinical    Economic     Profile   Profile
                              Profiling    Profiling   Feedback  Feedback
                                 (1)          (2)         (3)       (4)
All Physicians                     42.5%         21.9%     53.6%     53.7%

Census Division

 New England                       50.2          33.4      47.8      72.1
 Middle Atlantic                   41.9          14.7      54.0      48.2
 East North Central                40.7          24.6      55.9      50.9
 West North Central                51.8          24.2      60.8      --
 South Atlantic                    40.3          24.2      54.4      54.1
 East South Central                35.0          19.1      --        --
 West South Central                30.7          20.4      --        --
 Mountain                          46.2          37.3      --        --
 Pacific                           44.7          13.5      48.0      --

   Notes: The states comprising each of the nine census divisions are:
Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont for
New England; New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania for Middle Atlantic;
Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin for East North Central; Iowa,
Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota for West
North Central; Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia for South Atlantic;
Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Tennessee for East South Central; Arkansas,
Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas for West South Central; Arizona, Colorado, Idaho,
Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming for Mountain; Pacific, Alaska,
California, Hawaii, Oregon, and Washington for Pacific.  Data for the categories
with less than 20 observations are not reported.

   Columns (3) and (4) in Table 5 show the percentage of profiled physicians who
are provided feedback on their clinical and economic profiles, respectively.
The variation exhibited in clinical profiling is not statistically significant.
However, statistically significant variation exists in the percentage of
physicians receiving information on their economic profiles.  Slightly less than
one-half of employee physicians in the Middle Atlantic division (48.2 percent)
receive economic profile feedback, while almost three-quarters (72.1 percent) of
employee physicians in New England receive feedback on their economic profile.
Except for New England, there are no significant differences across census
divisions in the frequencies with which physicians receive clinical profile
feedback and economic profile feedback.  Employee physicians in New England are
more likely to receive economic profile feedback than clinical profile feedback.

   Table 6 reports profiling data for New York and Pennsylvania, the two states
discussed above.  Although CABGs constitute a relatively small proportion of
physician's services, the impact of the CABG profiling efforts of these two
states may increase their rates of clinical profiling.  In keeping with the
expressed goals of improving CABG outcomes, increases in the frequency of
profile feedback might also be expected.  Unfortunately, because the data are
taken from a single point in time, 1992, they are unable to measure changes in
profiling activities.  Nonetheless, they are of interest.  Table 6 reveals that
both New York and Pennsylvania have higher rates of clinical profiling (43.9
percent and 50.0 percent, respectively) than the national average (42.5
percent).  With respect to feedback, however, the evidence is mixed.  While New
York employee physicians are more likely to receive feedback on their clinical
profile than the national average, employee physicians in Pennsylvania report
feedback less frequently than the national norm.

   Table 6

   Percent of Employee Physicians Subject to Clinical and Economic Profiling,
and Percent of Profiled Employee Physicians Receiving Regular Feedback, Selected
States, 1992
                                                       Clinical  Economic
                               Clinical    Economic     Profile   Profile
                              Profiling    Profiling   Feedback  Feedback
                                 (1)          (2)         (3)       (4)
All Physicians                     42.5%         21.9%     53.6%     53.7%

State

 New York                          43.9           8.0      55.5       --
 Pennsylvania                      50.0          32.2      38.1       --

   Note: Data for categories with less than 20 observations are not reported.

   CONCLUSION

   As described in this Article, current trends suggest the use of physician
profiling might be increasing because of increased public and employer demand
for physician accountability.  Federal and state governments, hospitals, and
third party payors have begun to create physician profiles to monitor quality,
conduct utilization review, and assess provider performance in efforts to get
the most "value" for their health care spending.  New York and Pennsylvania have
pioneered efforts at the state level to develop surgeon-specific profiles
related to CABGs so consumers and purchasers of care may evaluate for themselves
the skills of individual physicians.  Such efforts are likely to be replicated
and expanded by other states as the idea gains acceptance.  In addition, the
federal government is pursuing methods, under both its Medicare carrier and PRO
program, to develop physician profiles to improve the quality of care rendered
to Medicare beneficiaries and to eliminate unnecessary or inappropriate care.
Finally, hospitals and third party payors are using profiling not only to
monitor quality and conduct utilization review, but also to assess physician
performance in terms of economic measures.  Arguably, such entities are
interested in physicians' contributions to the profitability of the institution
or corporation.

   The survey data presented in this Article suggest physician profiling is
currently used more to focus on quality and utilization issues than on cost.  It
is likely, however, that the use of economic profiling as a cost-containment
mechanism will grow as the nation struggles with ways to slow health care
spending.

   Three disturbing patterns emerge from the data presented.  First, Table 3
shows that only slightly more than one-half of employee physicians receive
regular feedback on their clinical and economic profiles.  This finding is
puzzling because if profiling is to be effective in improving quality, changing
utilization rates or making physicians more cost conscious, physicians must
receive feedback.  Employers may be unwilling to provide physicians with
economic profiling because such profiles may be used as a decision making tool
regarding a physician's continued employment with the employer.

   Second, the data also show that of female physicians, at least 67 percent
regularly receive feedback on their profiles compared to only about 50 percent
of male physicians.  This finding bears further examination using multivariate
statistical techniques.

   Finally, as seen by the data presented in Table 5 and Table 6, the rates of
both clinical and economic profiling vary significantly across geographic
regions.  As noted in Table 5, clinical profiling rates range from 30.7% to
51.8%, while economic profiling rates range from 13.5% to 37.3%.  The
differences undoubtedly reflect differences in definition, intent, the existence
of other cost cutting or quality assurance mechanisms, and perceptions of the
ability of profiling to deliver better or cheaper care.  Even where states have
embraced the concept, as in New York, and Pennsylvania, a mixed picture emerges.
While physicians in those states are more likely to experience clinical
profiling than physicians in other states, they differ dramatically in their
likelihood of experiencing economic profiling.  Additionally, their feedback
experiences are dissimilar.  It should be noted that assessing an appropriate
rate of profiling is essentially subjective, and we will not attempt such a
discussion here.

   The potential of physician profiling to improve quality of care and contain
costs is currently under intense scrutiny.  The findings of one recently
published study calls into question the notion that profiling can deliver
substantially improved care or sizable savings. [n51] Nonetheless, as the
Washington Business Group on Health has noted:

   properly defined profiling emphasizes the importance of appropriate feedback
mechanisms to providers. . . .  [Physicians] are willing to alter their practice
patterns when they see they are out of line with their peers and when they
learned of their deviations from fellow specialists.  Without such a
dissemination strategy, the powerful statistical technique [of physician
profiling] would be worthless in practice. [n52]

   It is clear that if profiling is to succeed in achieving its goals, then
feedback efforts must be enhanced.



REFERENCE: [n2.] Roz Diane Lasker, et al., Realizing the Potential of Profiling,
Physician Payment Review Commission Conference [Proceedings] on Profiling at 1
(1992).
[n1.] See generally Barbara J. McNeil, et al., Current Issues in Profiling
Quality of Care, 29 INQUIRY 298 (1992).

   [n3.] BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION, PROVIDER PROFILING: A GUIDE TO
DEVELOPMENT 1 (Dec. 1991).

   [n4.] John Blum, Expanding Fiscal Considerations Impacting the Medical Staff:
A Review of Economic Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. LAW 65 (1993).

   [n5.] Lasker, supra note 2 at 1.

   [n6.] BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION, supra note 3, at 1.

   [n7.] Blum, supra note 4, at 65.

   [n8.] See infra notes 20-35 and accompanying text.

   [n9.] See infra notes 36-43 and accompanying text.

   [n10.] The data are drawn from the American Medical Association's 1992
Socioeconomic Monitoring System (SMS) survey. See infra notes 34-38 and
accompanying text and tables.

   [n11.] Lasker, supra note 2, at 4.

   [n12.] Id.

   [n13.] Id. at 6.

   [n14.] Kurt D. Gillis & Jesse S. Hixson, Efficacy of Statistical Outlier
Analysis for Monitoring Quality of Care, 9 J. OF BUS. & ECON. STATISTICS 241
(1991). The screening ability of "outlier" technique might be sensitive to how
widespread the quality-related mortality is among hospitals, but insensitive to
other factors generally thought to be important. The small sample sizes for
individual hospital-employed physicians, for example, raise additional concerns
about the validity of the technique in assessing the quality of physician care.
Id.

   [n15.] AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, MEASURING MEDICAL PRACTICE at 36 (1987)
(Outliers are specific hospitals or physicians who exhibit practice patterns
that significantly deviate from the mean or median pattern for a particular
diagnosis).

   [n16.] See Lang, infra note 18.

   [n17.] See Mary Jean Barrett, Is Your Organization Ready for Total Quality
Management? 7 AM. J. OF MED. QUALITY 106, 108 (1992). See also, Brian McCormick,
Is Economic Credentialing Really Thriving? AM. MED. NEWS, Dec. 14, 1992, at 1.

   [n18.] Howard L. Lang, Economic Credentialing-Why It Must be Stopped, THE
MED. STAFF COUNSELOR, Spring 1991, at 19. Economic credentialing may be defined
as the process of evaluating an individual's qualifications for the granting or
renewal of medical staff membership or privileges based on economic factors that
are unrelated to quality of care or competency considerations. Id.

   [n19.] See, e.g., BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION, supra note 3, at 3.

   [n20.] See Chassin, infra note 25.

   [n21.] See infra notes 30-35 and accompanying text.

   [n22.] Edward L. Hannan, et al., Adult Open Heart Surgery in New York State,
264 JAMA 2768, 2796 (1990) [hereinafter Hannan, Adult Open Heart Surgery]; see
also Edward L. Hannan, et al., Human Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery: The
Relationship Between In-hospital Mortality Rate and Surgical Volume After
Controlling For Clinical Risk Factors, 29 MEDICAL CARE 1094 (1991) [hereinafter
Hannan, Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery.]

   [n23.] Hannan, Adult Open Heart Surgery, supra note 22, at 2769.

   [n24.] Id. at 2768.

   [n25.] Mark R. Chassin, State of New York Department of Health News Release,
Dec. 8, 1992, at 1.

   [n26.] New York State Department of Health, Coronary Artery Bypass Graft
Surgery in New York State -- 1989-1991, (Dec. 1992).

   [n27.] Chassin, supra note 25, at 1.

   [n28.] The CABG counts for 1989 and 1991 constitute a 21 percent increase in
the number of CABGs per capita. This increase, not the increase in the number of
CABGs, makes the drop in the risk-adjusted mortality rates noteworthy.

   [n29.] Chassin, supra note 25.

   [n30.] THE PENNSYLVANIA HEALTH CARE COST CONTAINMENT COUNCIL, RESEARCH PLAN
FOR DETERMINING THE METHODOLOGY & REPORTING ISSUES FOR: THE 1990 HOSPITAL &
PHYSICIAN REPORT FOR CORONARY ARTERY BYPASS GRAFT SURGERY April 22, 1992, at 1
[hereinafter PHCC RESEARCH PLAN].

   [n31.] Id.

   [n32.] Id.

   [n33.] Id.

   [n34.] Id.

   [n35.] Id. at 2.

   [n36.] HEALTH CARE FINANCING ADMINISTRATION, PRO FOURTH SCOPE OF WORK, C-2
(1992).

   [n37.] Id.

   [n38.] Id. at C-3.

   [n39.] Id. at C-21, C-22. The purposes of the CCP are to improve information
available to the health care community, and to improve processes and outcomes of
care for patients hospitalized for acute myocardial infarction, coronary artery
bypass graft surgery, and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Id. at
C-22.

   [n40.] Stephen F. Jencks & Gail R. Wilensky, The Health Care Quality
Improvement Initiative, 268 JAMA 900, 902 (1992).

   [n41.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395u(b)(3)(L) (West 1993). See also AMERICAN MEDICAL
ASSOCIATION, WHAT EVERY PHYSICIAN SHOULD KNOW ABOUT MEDICARE CARRIER REVIEW 49
(1991).

   [n42.] 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395u(b)(3)(L) (Medicare carriers will monitor and
profile physicians' billing patterns within each area or locality and provide
comparative data to physicians whose utilization patterns vary significantly
from other physicians in the same payment area or locality.)

   [n43.] AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, supra note 41, at 49.

   [n45.] See Gonzalez, infra note 49, at 155.

   [n46.] These definitions were given to physicians unable to readily answer
the two profiling questions.

   [n47.] Id.

   [n48.] David W. Emmons & Gregory D. Wozniak, Physician Profiling,
SOCIOECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS OF MEDICAL PRACTICE 1993 (American Medical
Association). (Emmons and Wozniak report detailed profiling information by
specialty, managed care participation, type of employer, and location.)

   [n49.] See Martin L. Gonzalez, SOCIOECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS OF MEDICAL
PRACTICE 1993 (American Medical Association), for a discussion of the weighting.

   [n50.] Testing for statistical significance in this article was done at a p =
0.05 level.

   [n51.] Lucian L. Leape, et al., The Appropriateness of Use of Coronary Artery
Bypass Graft Surgery in New York State, 269 JAMA 753 (1993).

   [n52.] WASHINGTON BUSINESS GROUP ON HEALTH, Physician Profiling: A Strong
Tool to Influence Medical Practice, QUALITY RESOURCE CENTER UPDATE, Summer 1991,
at 5. #LS930830SP# #LS930902LEufishmx#  #LS931105SP# #LS931105LEuhollsj#


