                              317 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     High Point Enterprise (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday

Economic potential drives hospital debate

BYLINE: Pat Kimbrough, The High Point Enterprise, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 498 words


Dec. 18--HIGH POINT -- From an economic development standpoint, would a
privately-run, state-contracted mental hospital outweigh the commercial
development potential of the former Evergreens Nursing Home site?

That's one issue underlying a rezoning case coming before the City Council
Monday involving the Greensboro Road property, where Florida-based GEO Care
wants to open a forensic hospital to treat defendants with mental competency
issues.

Some High Point leaders, including Mayor Becky Smothers, argue the site's
location at an Interstate 74/U.S. 311 Bypass interchange make it ideal for
commercial development, such as restaurants and hotels, as its highest and best
use.

Jay Wagner, a local attorney representing GEO Care, said a hotel and restaurant
on the site would have fewer employees and pay average wages that are lower than
those of the 185 permanent jobs the company says would be associated with the
hospital.

"There's really no comparison of what is the highest and best use," he said.
"Even three hotels and three restaurants are not going to employ the same number
of people and generate the same amount of economic benefits as this project."

GEO Care Vice President of Corporate Relations Pablo Paez told the Planning &
Zoning Commission Tuesday that High Point residents would be given preference
for the new jobs if the project is approved.

"We're willing to guarantee 80 percent of the 185 jobs for residents of your
community," Paez said. "We're willing to put that in writing."

According to the company, the jobs would range in pay from $23,750 for
housekeeping personnel to $172,000 for an administrator, with 68 licensed
practical nurses or certified nursing assistants ($30,000 to $45,000), 22
registered nurses and supervisors ($60,000 to $75,000) and 16 programming staff
($40,000 to $60,000) among the projected personnel.

The company pledges a $20 million capital investment in renovation and new
construction at the site within the first year, and $40 million in annual
economic benefits to the city.

Company representatives said the facility would have extensive security and
"constant monitoring and observation and working with the patient population."
It would not treat defendants from out-of-state or any federal patients. Inmates
in state prison who need psychiatric services would get treatment from within
the prison system, not the GEO Care hospital.

"These are folks that are incompetent to proceed with their trial or they've
already been adjudicated and the charges have been dismissed and they need
extended treatment before eventually they get released back to their home
community," said Dale Frick, GEO Care Vice President for Residential Treatment
Services. "They don't get released to the High Point community. They go back to
the place they came from."

pkimbrough@hpe.com -- 888-3531

___ (c)2011 The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) Visit The High Point
Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) at www.hpe.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111218-HP-Economic-potential-drives-hospital-debate-1218-20111218

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


                      Copyright 2011 High Point Enterprise


