                              335 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

Good Q1 for some listed hospitals

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 480 words


Bumrungrad Hospital posted net profit of Bt338 million in the quarter, up 8 per
cent from the same period last year. Its net profit margin increased slightly,
from 14.1 per cent to 14.4 per cent.

Revenue in the quarter grew by 5 per cent from Bt2.23 billion a year earlier to
Bt2.33 billion, thanks to rising patient numbers.

The hospital has promoted membership of the "Healthy Living Club" programme,
which gives privileges to card members during the economic crisis. The
membership fee for three years is Bt6,300 per person.

Bumrungrad has more than 10,000 members in the programme.

According to United Research brokerage house, Bumrungrad's tight control of its
operating costs since the final quarter of 2008 had an effect in the first three
months of this year. This offset the depreciation of the hospital's new
building, Bumrungrad International Clinic, which was opened in the middle of
last year.

Bangkok Chain Hospital, the operator of Kasemrad hospitals, booked net profit of
Bt175.14 million, a 23.3-per-cent increase from the same quarter last year.
Revenue was Bt1.14 billion, a rise of 13.2 per cent.

Revenue from cash-payment patients rose by 5.4 per cent, while that from the
social security scheme grew by 36.5 per cent and income from the universal
healthcare-coverage scheme went up by 11.5 per cent.

The government this year increased medical benefits for members of the Social
Security Fund from Bt1,674 per person per year to Bt1,996. This has enabled
hospitals to earn more from medical benefit payments.

However, Bangkok Dusit Medical Services (BMDS), one of the top-three private
hospitals, reported consolidated net profit in the first quarter at Bt454.44
million, down by 35 per cent from the same period last year.

Its net profit margin dropped to 8.4 per cent from 12.5 per cent a year earlier.

BMDS's operating revenues fell by 2 per cent from the same quarter of 2008 to
Bt5.38 billion.

It attributed a decrease in its international patient numbers to the global
economic slowdown, while some patients have tended to postpone inpatient
treatment and surgical procedures.

BDMS operates several hospital chains, including Bangkok Hospital, the
second-largest private hospital by revenue.

The hospital has launched the "Thai Help Thai" campaign, under which Thai
patients get discounted room rates and medical treatment.

Chatree Duangnet, CEO of Bangkok Hospital Medical Centre, yesterday said the
hospital would continue to provide these discounts, even though they have
pressured its net profit margin.

He said the hospital was putting more effort into controlling operating costs in
a bid to shore up its profit margin.

Chatree added that Bangkok Hospital would soon sign a contract with the National
Health Security Office, which will see the office transfer 100 heart-disease
patients under universal healthcare coverage for surgery in the Bangkok Hospital
chain.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


