                              344 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday

Rate of Growth in Healthcare Costs Accelerate in the New Year According to the
S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

LENGTH: 631  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, March 19 -- Data released today by Standard & Poor's for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicate that the average per capita cost of
healthcare services covered by commercial insurance and Medicare programs
increased by 6.29% over the 12-months ending January 2011. This is an increase
over the 6.05% annual growth rate in the December 2010 reading for this index,
and the first time this rate has accelerated since May 2010.

Over the year ending January 2011, healthcare costs covered by commercial
insurance rose by 8.03%, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial
Index. Medicare claim costs for hospital and professional services rose at a
slower rate of 3.40%, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index.
Following the Composite, both the Commercial and Medicare indices recorded an
increase in annual rates of change compared to the +7.72% and +3.27% respective
prints posted for December.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the monthly
index levels versus the same month of the prior year.

"In January, we saw the annual growth rates in healthcare costs picking up
slightly after six consecutive months of decelerating rates in the latter half
of 2010," says David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at Standard &
Poor's. "The Composite Index rose by 6.29%, the Commercial Index was up 8.03%
and the Medicare Index was up 3.40% compared to their January 2010 levels. The
annual growth rates for these headline indices - Composite, Commercial and
Medicare - are up 0.24, 0.31 and 0.13 percentage points from their respective
December 2010 rates. If you look at all of the sub-indices in this family, only
the Hospital Medicare Index reached a new low, +1.72% in January 2011 versus the
same month in 2010.

"In the past year we began to see a trend of deceleration in annual growth rates
for the nine indices in this family, especially in the second half of 2010. The
first month of the New Year shows a departure from this trend; but it is too
soon to predict if this is an anomaly or a sign of what 2011 has in store for
us. The S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital and Professional Services Indices
annual growth rates were +5.64% and +6.76% for January 2011, respectively,
versus December 2010 prints of +5.56% and +6.34%.

"As observed for the majority of these indices six-year history, the rate of
change in expenditures associated with commercial health insurance plans
continues to outpace expenditures for Medicare. The only time we ever saw this
relationship reversed was for a brief period in late 2005. In the past year
alone, the gap has widened by more than 3.0 percentage points."

S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

(12-Month Moving Average)

Index

1-Year Change (%)

S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index

6.29%

S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index

8.03%

S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index

3.40%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Index

5.64%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Medicare Index

1.72%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Commercial Index

8.70%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index

6.76%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Medicare Index

5.58%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Commercial Index

7.26%

Source: Standard & Poor's

Data through January 201 Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


