                              345 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 03, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS TODAY; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 330 words



ECONOMIC INDICATORS POINT TO SLOWDOWN: The Conference Board said its Index of
Leading Economic Indicators held steady in June. The index, which attempts to
forecast economic trends for the next three to six months, suggests a break from
rapid economic growth for the rest of 2000. However, the board's Index of
Coincident Indicators, which gauges current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent
in June, the same as the previous month, on gains in employment, income and
industrial production.

BAKERY FACES $ 120-MILLION

JUDGMENT: Interstate Bakeries Corp., the nation's largest wholesale baker, was
ordered to pay $ 120-million in punitive damages to black workers who said they
suffered racial discrimination at a San Francisco Wonder Bread plant. The award
came two days after a jury ordered the company to pay $ 11-million in actual
damages to 21 workers at the plant. Lawyers for the bakery said they would
appeal. Interstate produces Wonder Bread, Twinkies, Home Pride and Hostess
Cupcakes.

HEALTH NETWORK SUES HCA: The Health Network in Orlando has sued HCA - The
Healthcare Company, alleging HCA canceled a deal to invest in the network. The
network contends HCA's decision came the same day in 1997 that former HCA chief
executive Rick Scott resigned. Scott is now one of the principal investors in a
limited partnership that owns half of The Health Network. Scott is not a party
to the lawsuit.

HCA REMOVED FROM WATCHDOG LIST: INFACT, a corporate watchdog group based in
Boston, has removed the former Columbia/HCA Corp. from its corporate Hall of
Shame. The group criticized Columbia, now known as HCA, for wrongdoing in 1997
as the Nashville, Tenn., hospital chain was coming under federal criminal and
civil investigations. INFACT said HCA, under new leadership, has eliminated
federal lobbyists, reduced state lobbying and made no soft-money contributions
during the 2000 election cycle. In 1996, the company had 19 registered lobbyists
in Florida alone.


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


