                              343 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

BGH makes Chiang Mai northern hub

BYLINE: Nop Tephaval

LENGTH: 412  words


Chiang Mai: Bangkok Dusit Medical Services Plc (BGH), the country's largest
medical chain, is tapping into northern and regional economic growth through its
hub hospital expansion.

Dr Chatree Duangnet, chief operating officer for medical affairs, said its new
Chiang Mai hospital will be the hub hospital in the region, with medical
equipment comparable with major hospitals in Bangkok.

The expansion is due to growing demand for private hospitals in Chiang Mai and
an influx of patients from neighbouring countries once the Asean Economic
Community is established.

The 1.72-billion-baht Bangkok Hospital Chiang Mai will eventually have 180 beds
and be capable of treating 1,000 patients a day.

"Previously, there was no hospital in Chiang Mai of the same standard as
hospitals in Bangkok, so patients who often fly to Bangkok for treatment will be
the our primary target, followed by expats, tourists and patients from southern
China," said Dr Chatree.

He estimates 80% of patients will be Thai, 15% expats and 5% tourists.

The branch is negotiating a partnership in elderly care with a well-known US
hospital, Dr Chatree said, declining to name the facility until a deal is made.

"Elderly care will focus on acute illness that cannot be treated at home for
patients who need to be close to their family," he said, adding that other
targets for inpatient treatment were long-stay and subacute care patients.

BGH expects 500 outpatients per day on average in the first six months and 900
outpatients by the end of next year.

Initially, only 36 beds will be available, increasing to 150 by the end of next
year.

"In three years, we hope to have 1,000 patients a day with a total of 300 beds
when another building is completed," Dr Chatree said.

At present, the hospital occupies 12 rai of a 38-rai area. The rest will be used
for expansion.

"The hospital projects to break even in two years and complete loan repayment in
the fourth year. Patient growth is expected at 30-40% a year until the fourth
year and 20% afterwards as the market stabilises," Dr Chatree said.

BGH operates Bangkok Hospital Group, BNH Hospital, the Samitivej hospitals, the
Phaya Thai hospitals and the Paolo Memorial hospitals.

The group comprises 43 hospitals with 5,616 beds. It targets to have 50
hospitals and 8,000 beds next year.

Some 22,000 people visit the group's hospitals each day.

BGH shares closed yesterday on the Stock Exchange of Thailand at 16.40 baht, up
30 satang, in trade worth 652 million baht.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


