                              347 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      April 10, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

China Medical Industry Research Report 2014-2018 Now Available at China
MarketResearchReports.com

LENGTH: 507  words


April 10 -- In China, medical institutions refer to licensed (the Practice
License of Medical Institutions) hospitals, health centers, clinics and firstaid
stations that diagnose and treat diseases.



As a public service provider, medical institutions are regulated by National
Health and Family Planning Commission of China and other related government
departments. Uneven regional distribution of medical resources exhibits the
uneven economic development in aspects of medical institution classification,
assets scale, revenue and expenditure, and distribution of private and
foreignfunded medical institutions for profits. Developed regions like Shanghai,
Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang have more advanced medical technology.

According to the Chinese government, the total medical expense was approximately
CNY 2,891.44 billion (about USD 466 billion) in 2012, up by 18.8% compared with
that in 2011. The medical expense per capita was CNY 2,135.8 (approximately USD
344) at a growth rate of 18.2%. The total medical expense and expense per capita
are increasing rapidly due to economic growth and population aging. In 2012, the
total medical expense accounted for 5.57% of GDP, 0.42% higher than that in
2011. However, the percentage was much lower than that in developed countries.

The number of medical institutions was 0.962 million by the end of November
2013, including 24,000 hospitals, 0.923 million primary medical institutions,
12,000 public medical institutions and 2,000 other institutions. The number of
hospitals and public medical institutions increased by 1,564 and 247
respectively while that of primary medical institutions decreased by 1,606
compared with those in November 2012.

The number of visits in medical institutions reached 6.41 billion in January to
November 2013, up by 8.2% YOY, including 2.41 billion in hospitals (up by 9.5%
YOY), 3.79 billion in primary medical institutions (up by 7.3% YOY) and 0.21
billion in other institutions.

The number of visits in public hospitals was 2.17 billion (up by 8.9% YOY) while
that in private hospitals was 0.24 billion, up by 15.6% YOY, which exhibits
rapid development of private hospitals in China.

The medical system in China was controlled by public medical institutions for a
long time, leading to problems such as lack of competition, uneven resource
distribution, poor service and underdeveloped technology, as well as frequent
disputes between doctors and patients. Hindered by certain interest groups, the
development of the medical system fell far behind other industries in China. The
new government attempts to reform the medical system which exhibits great market
potential. According to CRI, new entrants such as private and foreignfunded
enterprises are bullish about the prospect of the medical industry due to the
reform measures. New medical institutions need at least 35 years to make profits
while M&A institutions need much shorter period of time by taking advantage of
the existing employees, equipment and patients of the purchased medical
institutions.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


