                              361 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday
                                   AV EDITION

HOSPITAL TO BE A JOB-MAKING 'ECONOMIC ENGINE'

BYLINE: By Jim Skeen Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. AV2

LENGTH: 419 words


PALMDALE - A new hospital in Palmdale will open several months later than
expected and will cost $20 million more to build, but it will be an economic
powerhouse, city and hospital officials said Friday.

The Palmdale Regional Medical Center being built by Universal Health Services
will cost about $100 million, up from the projected $80 million, because
material costs went up from a building boom. The hospital is slated to open in
December 2007 rather than early 2007 as first anticipated.

Along with two medical office buildings being constructed as part of the overall
project, the hospital construction will employ 1,300 workers and pump about $200
million into the region's economy, according to UHS.

When the complex is complete, it will provide between 800 to 1,000 jobs and have
an economic impact of $359 million.

``A whole new economic engine is coming to the Antelope Valley - the UHS
hospital,'' said Palmdale Mayor Jim Ledford.

Grading work for the project, located south of Palmdale Boulevard at 10th Street
West, is nearly complete. Bids will go out next week to select the project's
general contractor, said Robert Trautman, chief executive officer of Lancaster
Community Hospital and UHS's top area official.

Built for 239 beds, the new hospital is expected to open with 171 beds, because
that is as many as officials expect they can find the staff for. The new
hospital will have 35 emergency room beds, Trautman said.

``It's going to keep health care in the local market and address the needs of
the community,'' Trautman said.

Trautman defended the Palmdale hospital against criticism from Antelope Valley
Hospital officials, who assert the new hospital will transfer out poor patients.

Antelope Valley Hospital officials fear a new private hospital will draw off
patients with insurance, leaving Antelope Valley Hospital caring for a higher
percentage of patients unable to pay for their treatment.

By law, the hospital must treat any patient who shows up at the emergency room,
whether or not they have insurance or money to pay, Trautman said.

Trautman said corporation-wide, UHS had about $597 million in uncompensated
care. Lancaster Community Hospital, which UHS acquired in 2002, had about $7.3
million in uncompensated patient care last year.

``We will take our share of indigent care,'' Trautman said.

Lancaster Community Hospital, which has 117 beds and a staff of about 500,
contributed about $217 million into the region's economy, Trautman said.

Jim Skeen, (661) 267-5743

james.skeen@dailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Digital First Media


