                              379 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 23, 2017 Tuesday

City OK's $250K for hospital renovations

BYLINE: Mitchell Kirk Staff reporter, Pharos-Tribune, Logansport, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 503 words


May 23--Logansport City Council approved on first reading a contribution of
$250,000 Monday to Logansport Memorial Hospital's cancer treatment and
obstetrics projects.

The two developments will bring a new cancer treatment center and remodeled
obstetrics unit to the hospital.

The hospital and Logansport Memorial Hospital Foundation were seeking to raise a
combined $500,000 from the city and Cass County outside of their capital
campaign to raise 10 percent of the projects' $7.5 million cost. The Cass County
Council agreed to contribute $250,000 last Friday. Both councils plan to
distribute funds in five $50,000 annual increments.

Dave Morris was one of six city council members who voted in favor of the
ordinance May 22 authorizing funding from the city's county economic development
income tax, or CEDIT, fund to the hospital. A second vote is necessary to pass
an ordinance.

"Even though they're one of our larger employers, they're also one of the city's
best advocates," Morris said after Monday's meeting. "They have the trail system
that their foundation supports and they reach out for the community, so I just
felt like it was the right thing to do."

City Councilman Matt Meagher, a hospital employee, abstained from the vote.

Scott Kraud, a member of the hospital foundation board, said after the meeting
that he and his fellow board members are grateful for the city's and county's
contributions.

"Just having the city and county on board means a lot to our organization, the
hospital foundation," he said. "It says they believe in the project and they
want to see our community grow."

Health care is an important factor in economic development, Kraud continued.

"Economic development in our community is more about retention than it is about
expansion, than it is attraction, just because we're just not at that point
anymore," he said. "So anything that we can do to help the hospital move forward
and provide that type of service to our community members so that they don't
have to drive to Lafayette or Indianapolis to get health care, they can get it
right here."

In other news, the council also:

--Approved unanimously a resolution authorizing a five-year tax abatement for
Tyson Foods' $9.2 million investment in new equipment that will be 100 percent
the first year, 80 the second, 60 the third, 40 the fourth and 20 the fifth.

--Approved unanimously a resolution authorizing a 10-year tax abatement for
Tyson Foods' $6 million investment in real estate improvement that will be 100
percent the first year, 90 the second, 80 the third, 65 the fourth, 50 the
fifth, 40 the sixth, 30 the seventh, 20 the eighth, 10 the ninth and 5 the
tenth.

--Approved unanimously an ordinance on first reading committing $25,000 in CEDIT
funds to renew the city's contract with Voorhees Studio.

Reach Mitchell Kirk at mitchell.kirk@pharostribune.com or 574-732-5130

___ (c)2017 the Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, Ind.) Visit the Pharos-Tribune
(Logansport, Ind.) at www.pharostribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170523-LG-City-OK-s-250K-for-hospital-renovations-0523-20170523

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LG


                         Copyright 2017 Pharos-Tribune


