                              387 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                              July 13, 2009 Monday

Studying York County hospitals' financial health

BYLINE: KATHY STEVENS The York Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 531 words


Area hospitals fared well financially from 2004 through 2008, according to a
recent report released that outlines facilities' expenses and revenue statewide.

The report offers a financial snapshot of 170 hospitals in Pennsylvania just
before the economy began its downward spiral.

It looks at three-year averages of patient revenue and operating costs showing
long-term viability for all area hospitals.

But some health care officials say the report by the Pennsylvania Health Cost
Containment Council provides a skewed picture of hospital well being, that the
fiscal year that ended June 30 would reveal the full impact of the economic
downturn.

"It paints a picture that's different than what it is today for most hospitals,"
said Barry Sparks, spokesman for WellSpan Health's York Hospital. "It's skewed
because it was before the economic downturn."

What it says: The Containment Council reports the following:

---Hanover Hospital's net patient revenue increased from $93 million in fiscal
2004-05 to $115 million in fiscal 2007-08. Operating expenses grew in the past
three years from $91 million in 2004-05 to $116 million last year.

---Memorial's net patient revenue increased from $75 million in fiscal 2004-05
to $94 million last fiscal year. Its operating expenses grew from $75 million in
2004-05 to $98 million last fiscal year.

---York's net patient revenue increased from $417 million in 2004-05 to $644
million last fiscal year. Its operating expenses in the past three years
increased from $437 million in fiscal 2004-05 to $603 million last year.

All of the hospitals during that time made improvements to deal with an
influx of patients and demand for care.

Cutbacks: But as the economic horizon darkened, facilities were forced to cut
back.

York Hospital put the brakes on expansion plans in March 2008, citing decreased
investment revenue as the stock market began to plummet.

In January 2009, Memorial cut 32 positions to adjust staff-to-patient ratio due
to a decrease in elective procedures and reduced in-patient population, said
Sally Dixon, Memorial's chief executive officer.

She said the hospital was overstaffed, and that once personnel adjustments were
made, the facility's bottom line leveled.

Outlook now: Like Sparks, Dixon said the report is information they've already
digested, adjusted for and forgotten.

She said Memorial's net patient revenue has not grown as quickly as operating
costs have but that things appear to be looking up this fiscal year. Outpatient
surgeries, emergency visits and elective procedures have increased. And while
the facility hasn't brought back positions it cut in January, vacant positions
are being filled, Dixon said.

"A lot of people who still have jobs have kind of held off (on medical
procedures) because they're not sure what's happening (financially)," Dixon
said. "All people, whether they have jobs or not, are being more judicious."

Sparks said York Hospital has not seen the decline in patient volumes that 40
percent of hospitals nationwide have reported.

He added that expansion plans for its Emergency Department are on hold until the
economic situation stabilizes.

-- Reach Kathy Stevens at 505-5437 or kstevens@
yorkdispatch.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


