                              394 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday

Recession's REAL BITE;
From birth, to parties, to death - recession hits them all. As Singapore sinks
deeper into the economic downturn, it is not just retrenched bankers and
unemployed workers who suffer. Insight checks out five other occupations to see
recession's impact.

BYLINE: Aaron low

LENGTH: 699 words


GYNAECOLOGIST: New parents seek to cut costs

MS IRENE Wee had enjoyed welcoming her baby girl in the privacy of a single-bed
ward when she was born two years ago.

But Ms Wee will have to forgo that same luxury when her second child is born in
April.

Instead she will hold her baby boy's tiny fingers for the first time with three
other sets of parents in the same room.

'I'm not looking forward to having to share the first few precious hours of my
baby's life with three other mothers but I have no choice,' the sales executive,
34, told Insight.

The reason? She opted to take up cheaper government-subsidised care for her
pregnancy because of the uncertain economic conditions.

This means not having a personal gynaecologist attend to her, bearing with
longer waiting hours and staying in a four-bed ward.

This was not her ideal situation.

In fact, as late as August last year, MsWee was still seeing her gynaecologist
at a private hospital and had planned to deliver there in a single-bed room.

But the financial fallout took its toll and by the end of the year, her
husband's IT firm had started to talk about pay cuts.

As a precautionary measure, the couple decided to switch doctors and take up
government-subsidised care at KK Women's and Children's Hospital (KKH).

She estimates she would save about $1,800 in cash by going through the public
health-care system.

'Every dollar counts,' she said.

Indeed, the recession is proving to be a real turn-off for couples when it comes
to having babies. Couples, like Ms Wee and her husband, are either going for
cheaper care or are delaying the arrival of the stork altogether.

Currently, such a trend has not yet picked up momentum.

Both KKH and Thomson Medical Centre say they do not detect a clear trend of
people opting to go cheap or switching from private to public health care.

But several private gynaecologists tell Insight it will just be a matter of time
before such a situation pans out.

Dr Yap Lip Kee, who has been in practice for more than 25 years, said that there
was a dip in the number of people seeing private doctors in the past.

'But people would return to the private sector when the economy recovered as the
public sector would be stretched in providing the same quality care to an
increased load of patients.'

One gynaecologist, who runs a clinic in the north of Singapore, expects the
figures to start dropping after Chinese New Year, when retrenchments are
expected to soar.

Figures seem to bear his views out.

In the past 15 years, there were four recessions - 1985, 1997, 2001 and 2003.

In the year following each recession, there was a perceptible drop in the number
of babies born.

For instance, in 1985, 41,100 babies were born but in 1986, the number fell to
37,159 - a drop of 10 per cent.

Similarly, the number of babies fell by 8.2 per cent in 1998 to 41,636, from
45,356 in 1997.

The figure hovered at 41,327 in 1999 before jumping to 44,765 in 2000.

But these figures do not mean that there is a direct link between babies and
recessions. Couples may simply not want children or are opting for fewer kids as
a matter of personal choice, regardless of whether they are rich or poor.

Nonetheless, social workers say they have been seeing cases of couples who are
increasingly worried about being retrenched.

Mr Samuel Chua, a counsellor at Shan You Counselling Centre, said that couples
he has been seeing for marriage preparation courses are still excited about
starting their own families.

'Many are also anxious about losing their jobs. If they lose their jobs, plans
might be turned upside down,' he said.

But some couples remain unaffected by the gloomy outlook and will continue to
have children - and in abundance.

Mr Bernard Chao and his wife Ai Jin will have their third child in just two
weeks. Beyond recycling used baby items and taking hand-me-downs, the Chaos are
not taking extreme measures to cut costs.

Said Mr Chao, 36: 'We don't plan children around the economy but view them as
gifts.'

aaronl@sph.com.sg

Recession babies

Number of resident babies born in post-recession years

Recession #1

1985: 41,100

1986: 37,159

Recession #2

1997: 45,356

1998: 41,636

Recession #3

2001: 39,281

2002: 38,555

Recession: #4

2003: 35,474

2004: 35,135

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


