                              395 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                          November 17, 2004, Wednesday

Foreign Hospitals in FEZ to Accept Local Residents

LENGTH: 439 words


The government decided to allow local residents to receive medical services at
foreign-run hospitals in the free economic zones to be set up in Inchon, Pusan
and Kwangyang during a Cabinet meeting Tuesday.''Medical services for native
Koreans are inevitable for the establishment of prominent foreign hospitals,
which is a key factor for the successful establishment of free economic zones
and the government project to make the nation a business hub for Northeast
Asia,'' a Health and Welfare Ministry official said.According to the government
plan, general hospitals, dental clinics and recuperation facilities to be
established by foreigners or foreign corporations in the special economic zone
will be able to provide medical services to local residents. But pharmacies
operating in the zones will not be allowed to sell medicine to locals, the
official said.Hospitals are expected to have 500-1,000 beds and be completed by
around 2008. Health insurance will not cover medical fees at the foreign
hospitals.The planning office of free economic zones is contacting several
foreign hospitals to invite competent doctors and medical teams.The government
also pledged to strengthen public medical services to lessen the possible impact
that might be caused by foreign hospitals giving services to local patients,
allocating a budget of 4 trillion won from 2005 to 2009.However, controversy is
expected on the issue as associations of local doctors and hospitals as well as
civic groups are strongly opposed to the plan, saying the measure would result
in discrimination against domestic medical institutions.'' Prominent Korean
medical manpower should be also used in the establishment of a medical hub for
Northeast Asia. The government should scrap such discriminatory policies and
give Korean hospitals the same support they are giving to foreign
institutions,'' Kwon Yong-jin, spokesman of the Korean Medical Association
said.Kwon added the government should establish a presidential committee to map
out a detailed strategy for the development of the domestic medical service.The
Korean Federation of Medical Groups for Health Rights (KFHR) also denounced the
government decision, saying such profit-making hospitals would lead to the
collapse of the nation's medical system, as medical institutions here have not
been allowed to become profit-making corporations.''Also, with wealthy Korean
residents visiting these expensive hospitals where health insurance does not
cover the medical fees, it will aggravate the gap between the rich and the poor
in terms of medical service,'' the KFHR said in a written statement.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                          Copyright 2004 Hankook Ilbo


