                              401 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           February 10, 1997, Monday

University news

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 370 words


Queen's University, Belfast

The university has won research funding for Pounds 2.8 million. The latest
grants have come from various sources, including the Department of Economic
Development's Industrial Research and Technology Unit, industry, charities,
research councils, and the European Commission.

The funding is for studies in the university's Faculties of Agriculture and Food
Science, Arts, Economics and Social Sciences, Education, Engineering, Law,
Medicine and Science. The Institute of Irish Studies at Queen's and the
university's Health and Health Care Research Unit and Palaeocology Centre have
also benefited.

The largest award, of more than Pounds 1 million, has gone to the Department of
Electrical and Electronic Engineering, while Pounds 900,000 has been won by the
School of Agriculture and Food Science. Other research awards include a British
Academy Joint Institutional Fellowship, worth Pounds 140,000, to the
university's Institute of Irish Studies and the Centre for Irish Literature and
Bibliography at the University of Ulster.

Honorary Titles

The following honorary titles have been conferred:

Honorary Lecturer in the School of Clinical Medicine, for five years: Dr Terence
Mc Murray, consultant in cardiac anaesthesia and intensive care, Royal Victoria
Hospital; Dr Stuart Elborn, consultant, Belfast City Hospital and director of
the hospital's adult cystic fibrosis unit; Dr J G Barr, head of the microbiology
service, Royal Victoria Hospital; and Dr Philip Murphy, consultant in the
department of bacteriology, Belfast City Hospital.

Honorary Lecturer in the School of Psychology, for five years: Raman Kapur,
consultant clinical psychologist and Northern Ireland training co-ordinator,
Richmond Fellowship; Maxine Cresswell, acting consultant clinical psychologist,
Whiteabbey Hospital; Adrian McKinney, principal clinical child psychologist,
Sperrin Lakeland Health and Social Care Trust, Omagh; Dr Nichola Rooney,
consultant clinical psychologist and deputy manager of psychology services,
Royal Group of Hospitals Trust; for two years: Dr Michael Stuart and John Eakin,
educational psychologists with the Southern Education and Library Board.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited


