                              407 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                             June 29, 1999, Tuesday

Expensive Medical Equipment Raising Health Care Costs

LENGTH: 499 words


   High-priced medical equipment has been blamed for the soaring cost of medical
services, putting heavier burdens on patients and draining health insurance
resources.

Hospitals have entered a race to purchase expensive high-tech medical testing
machines,'' said Dr. Yang Bong-min, professor of economics at the School of
Public Health, Seoul National University.

He acknowledged that the introduction of such advanced medical equipment can
help hospitals provide better medical services to patients.

But Prof. Yang said that hospitals are struggling to make up for the cost of
medical equipment by forcing patients to have unnecessary medical tests, which
are very expensive and not covered by the health insurance system.

Among the most equipment is the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machine, which
is used to take pictures of internal organs.  MRIs are sold at the price of
$500,000 or more in the international market.

Diagnosis using MRI usually costs patients about 400,000 won to 500,000 won
($340 to $450) for a one-time test.

Technological breakthroughs generally brings about a decline in costs in the
manufacturing sector. But such progress often results in a surge in health care
costs,'' Dr. Yang said in a recent seminar.

He stressed that the government will have to control the introduction of
expensive medical equipment and its use, saying that hospitals should share such
equipment with each other to reduce costs.

He said member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) put strict controls on the use of high-priced equipment.

There are 286 MRIs at medical institutions throughout the nation as of Feb. 28
this year, up 274 at the end of 1998 and 249 at the end of 1997.

The French government set a quota on the number of MRIs per 1 million people.
There are three MRIs for all the hospitals in Ottawa, the capital city of
Canada.

It was often reported that some Korean hospitals made money by conducting
unnecessary MRI tests on patients.

The Ministry of Health and Welfare plans to lift any restrictions on the
purchase or use of such expensive high-tech equipment in 2001, fueling fears
about skyrocketing health care costs.

The total sum of medical bills for all patients soared to 9.96 trillion won in
1998 from 8.8 trillion won in 1998 and 7.62 trillion won in 1997, according to
the National Health Insurance Corp. (NHIC).

The sum was estimated at 7.62 trillion won in 1996, 6.14 trillion won in 1995,
4.89 trillion won in 1994, 4.34 trillion won in 1993, 3.73 trillion won in 1992,
3.2 trillion won in 1991 and 2.94 trillion won in 1990.

The medical insurance coverage also increased 14.3 percent to 6.57 trillion won
last year from 5.75 trillion won in 1997, the NHIC figures said.

The coverage totaled 4.94 trillion won in 1996, 3.93 trillion won in 1995, 3.1
trillion won in 1994, 2.73 trillion won in 1993, 2.33 trillion won in 1992, 2
trillion won in 1991 and 1.89 trillion won in 1990.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                          Copyright 1999 Hankook Ilbo


