                              493 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 1, 1998, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Nation

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 696 words



Rise of index points

to growth in 1998

A key measure of future economic activity, released Wednesday, rose for the
fifth straight month and promised further growth in 1998 for an economic
expansion that already is the third longest in U.S. history. The Conference
Board, a private research group, said the Index of Leading Economic Indicators
rose 0.1 percent in November to 104.6, suggesting that the U.S. economy will
continue growing at least through early 1998.

PART OF TELECOM LAW STRUCK DOWN: A federal judge in Wichita Falls, Texas, on
Wednesday struck down a provision of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 that
prevented the so-called Baby Bells from providing long-distance service.
Kendall ruled on a lawsuit that SBC Communications of San Antonio, Texas,  filed
alleging that the law unconstitutionally singled out the companies. SBC  said
the ruling enables it to provide long-distance in the Southwest.

TEAMSTERS HEAD LOSES IN COURT: U.S. District Judge David Edelstein upheld the
disqualification of Teamsters union president Ron Carey from seeking
re-election. On Wednesday, the judge also refused to order a hearing Carey
requested to rebut charges of illegal fund raising. His attorney said Carey
will appeal.

ANOTHER COLUMBIA OFFICIAL QUITS: Another Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.
executive is leaving, the 12th senior executive to exit the troubled company
this year. David Manning, who is leaving to start a health care consulting
business, has for three years served as Columbia's senior vice president in
charge of government relations and issues concerning Medicaid and the
uninsured, the company said this week.

AOL ADDRESSES MAY BE POSTED: The National Organization of Internet Commerce of
Chino, Calif., which represents small Internet businesses, has threatened to
make public the e-mail addresses of 5-million America Online members on Jan. 8
if AOL continues to bar the businesses from pitching products to its
subscribers.

Tampa Bay/State

STORE TO CLOSE: Service Merchandise Co. said Wednesday that it will close its
store at Eastlake Square Mall, 5701 E Hillsborough Ave., Tampa. Normal
operations will end Jan. 15, with a sample sale scheduled for Jan. 16-19. The
move is part of a plan announced in March to close underperforming stores.

PURCHASE COMPLETED: Vision Twenty-One Inc. of Largo, an eye care practice
management company, has completed the acquisitions of LSI Acquisition Inc. and
MEC Health Care Inc. from LaserSight Inc. LSI has a 25-year service agreement
with Northern N.J. Eye Institute, an ophthalmology practice in South Orange,
N.J. MEC, a managed care company in Baltimore, holds 11 managed eye care
contracts, principally in Baltimore, Washington, D.C., and Virginia.

Markets

MORTGAGE RATES UP: Mortgage interest rates rose slightly this week from a
22-month low. The average rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages was 7.03
percent, up from 6.99 percent last week, Freddie Mac, the mortgage company,
said Wednesday. Fifteen-year mortgages, a popular option for refinancing,
averaged 6.61 percent this week, up from 6.57 percent. On one-year
adjustable-rate mortgages, lenders were asking an average initial rate of 5.50
percent, down from 5.53 percent. The rates do not include add-on fees known as
points.

DOW SLIPS: Blue-chip shares faltered as 1997 drew to a close, but most stocks
rose on Wednesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 7.72 to 7,908.25,
trimming 1997's gain to 1,459.98 points, or 22.6 percent.

1997 MARKET REVIEW COMING FRIDAY: Look in Friday's Business section for our
annual review of the stock, mutual fund and bond markets, including year-end
financial listings. The section also includes a glimpse of what market  analysts
are thinking about the prospects for 1998.

DOW              DOLLAR              YIELD

30 INDUSTRIALS  VS. JAPANESE YEN   30-YEAR U.S. BOND

7908.25          130.42               5.92

-7.72            +0.29              -0.04

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


