                              56 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      East Valley Tribune (Mesa, Arizona)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 31, 2009 Saturday

Banner's Pinal hospital opening still a mystery

BYLINE: Amanda Keim, The Tribune, Mesa, Ariz.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 523 words


Oct. 31--Banner Health plans to announce a timeline for opening its new Ironwood
location by the end of the year.

Meanwhile, Queen Creek and Banner are continuing talks on annexing the hospital
into the town, which Town Manager John Kross hopes will happen by the time the
facility starts accepting patients.

Banner hoped to open the $128 million first phase of the Banner Ironwood Medical
Campus, located at Gantzel and Combs roads in Pinal County, this November. But
the company announced last year that opening date would be pushed out due to
economic conditions.

Banner had originally said the date would be delayed a year. On Friday, Banner
spokeswoman Susan Gordon said an exact date is still being determined.

"We'll be making an announcement before the end of the year," Gordon said. "We
will open. It's just a question of when."

Construction is pretty much complete at this point, although some more work will
have to be done to install equipment once an opening date is set, Gordon said.

The hospital met with town representatives this week, which was the first time
the two sides had talked in a while, Kross said.

But both groups say they're still working to annex the hospital into the town.

Banner Ironwood was built in unincorporated Pinal County in an area that was
recently named San Tan Valley. Queen Creek annexed land near the hospital site
last September, but has yet to annex the hospital itself.

Kross would like the hospital to open with a Queen Creek address, although
Gordon said the hospital's timeline probably isn't as strong for annexation.

Having the hospital in Queen Creek instead of a couple of miles outside of its
border will serve as a catalyst for economic development in the southeastern
part of town, Kross said.

"From an economic development standpoint, it's extremely important," Kross said.
"When our economic development department goes to market the town to businesses,
we can tell them we have a major hospital in Queen Creek."

Access to emergency services and infrastructure is the hospital's primary
benefit to annexation, Gordon said.

Impact for things like medical support offices are also lower in Queen Creek
than they are in unincorporated Pinal County.

There are a few more hurdles Queen Creek will have to jump before it can annex
the hospital.

For instance, since there's a shopping center between the hospital and town
limits, that shopping center will have to be annexed with the hospital, Kross
said.

Kross said talks with Barclay Group, the shopping center's management company,
are going well.

The person at Barclay Group with information on annexation talks wasn't
available Friday because the office was in the process of moving.

Contact writer: (480)898-6574 or akeim@evtrib.com

To see more of The Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.eastvalleytribune.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Tribune, Mesa, Ariz.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091031-MZ-Banner-s-Pinal-hospital-opening-still-a-mystery-1031

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MZ


                       Copyright 2009 East Valley Tribune


