                              68 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                           October 23, 2010 Saturday

S&P: US Healthcare Costs Rise 7.32% Over the 12-Months Ending August 2010

LENGTH: 727  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Oct. 23 -- Data released today by Standard & Poor's for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicates that the average per capita cost
of healthcare services covered by private insurance and Medicare programs rose
7.32% over the 12 months ending August 2010. Hospital and physician claims for
patients covered under commercial health plans were the hardest hit, as claim
costs associated with commercial health plans rose 8.66%, as measured by the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index. Medicare claim costs for services rendered
by hospitals and physicians rose a more modest 5.08%, as depicted by the S&P
Healthcare Economic Medicare Index.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the index levels
versus the same month of the prior year.

"Healthcare costs continued to rise in the month of August. The annual rates of
change for the Composite, Commercial and Medicare Indices were +7.32%, +8.66%
and +5.08%, respectively. August data shows that the most significant rise in
healthcare costs was those covered by commercial health insurance plans," says
David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at Standard & Poor's. "If you
look at these data by service provider, the annual change in hospital claims
costs, at +7.41%, are only slightly above those for professional services,
+7.01%. This is far different than what we witnessed in the middle of 2009, when
hospital claims costs were rising close to 8.0% per year, while professional
services were growing at a more modest 6.0%.

"Looking across the family of S&P Healthcare Indices, we have seen a trend of
moderation in the annual growth rates, particularly in the last 12 months. This
is most prominent with Medicare claims costs. In November 2009 those costs were
rising at an annual rate of 7.94%. With August's report we see that the rate has
fallen to +5.08%.

"Two caveats to these figures: first Medicare is subject to different regulatory
and market effects than the Commercial Index. Second, these data, which are
through August 2010, do not reflect any impact of the recently passed federal
health care legislation. As the cost of healthcare is a daily topic of
discussion, we expect many to use these indices to understand changes in
healthcare costs for the insured population in the U.S., by both service
provider and by benefits coverage."

The S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index is a weighted average of the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare
Index. Alternatively, it is a weighted average of the S&P Healthcare Economic
Hospital Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index, as
each of these indices has the analogous Commercial and Medicare component.

The table below summarizes the year-over-year change in the S&P Healthcare
Economic Indices for the 12-month period ending August 2010. With each monthly
release, the index levels, including the 12 month moving averages, are
recalculated for the full history of the indices, whenever there are revisions
to an underlying data used in the models. The entire revised history, as well as
full results for the underlying S&P Healthcare Economic Indices are available
from Standard & Poor's as a subscription service.

S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

(12-Month Moving Average)

Index

1-Year Change (%)

S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index

7.32%

S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index

8.66%

S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index

5.08%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Index

7.41%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Medicare Index

4.48%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Commercial Index

9.66%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index

7.01%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Medicare Index

5.62%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Commercial Index

7.60%

Source: Standard & Poor's

Data through August 2010 Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


