                              75 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times (Munster, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 19, 2011 Wednesday

Report shows economic impact of Munster hospital

BYLINE: Kathleen Quilligan, The Times, Munster, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 309 words


Jan. 19--MUNSTER -- A local, for-profit hospital contributed 240 jobs and a
total economic impact of more than $44.8 million in 2009, according to an
economic vitality report released Tuesday.

Franciscan Physicians Hospital, 701 Superior Ave., is a 63-bed facility
partially owned by physicians and partially owned by the Franciscan Alliance
Northern Indiana Region, formerly known as the Sisters of St. Francis Health
Services. The report released by the hospital Tuesday was created by the Indiana
Hospital Association, said hospital spokesman Andrew Mullins.

"Being in such a competitive area, we wanted to show, aside from our medical
services, what our impact is," he said.

According to the report, the hospital employs 169 health care professionals, who
earn $11 million. Its total payroll is $18.4 million. Spending by hospital
employees supported an additional 111 jobs in the community, according to the
report.

The hospital paid $588,429 in real estate taxes in 2009 and spent $1.4 million
on buildings and equipment, the report said.

Mullins said it's important for the impact of the hospital to be disclosed
because funding is an important piece of the health care puzzle. The report
urges state legislators, members of Congress and community leaders to see the
role the hospital plays in community for the continued investment in state
health care dollars. He said if hospitals don't follow the guidelines of health
care reform legislation, they won't be reimbursed, and reimbursement affects the
work the hospital does.

To see more of The Times or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.nwitimes.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Times, Munster, Ind.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110119-MU-Report-shows-economic-impact-of-Munster-hospital-20110119

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MU


                            Copyright 2011 The Times


