                              77 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            December 20, 2010 Monday

S&P: US Healthcare Costs Rise 6.70% Over the 12-Months Ending October 2010

LENGTH: 757  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Dec. 20 -- Data released today by Standard & Poor's for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicates that the average per capita cost
of healthcare services covered by commercial insurance and Medicare programs
rose 6.70% over the 12-months ending October 2010. This is a deceleration from
the 7.08% reported for the 12-months ending in September 2010.

Claim costs associated with hospital and professional services for patients
covered under commercial health plans rose 8.21% over the year ending in
October, as measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index. Looking at
the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index, Medicare claim costs for services
rendered by hospitals and physicians rose at roughly half that growth rate, up
4.18%. This is the lowest annual growth rate for Medicare claims costs since
January 2008, when it was +4.02%. These two indices both saw growth deceleration
versus their September reports of 8.53% and 4.68%, respectively.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the monthly
index levels versus the same month of the prior year.

"The annual growth rate of Medicare and commercial insurance costs has slowed
significantly in the last five months and substantially dropped in the month of
October," says David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at Standard &
Poor's. "In the 12 months ended in October, the composite index rose 6.70%,
which is 1.7 percentage points less than our recorded peak of 8.40% in May 2010.
Expenditures associated with commercial health insurance plans continue to
significantly outpace expenditures for Medicare; the commercial increase over
the 12 months to October was 8.21% vs. 4.18% for Medicare.

"We are seeing two patterns in these data. The first is the large and growing
difference between commercial and Medicare annual growth rates, and the second
is the across-the-board deceleration in these rates in 2010. Since May, 2010,
most of the indices annual growth rates have declined month-to-month. Indeed,
the slowdown in annual expenditure growth continued with this release. Comparing
the 12-months-to-October with the 12-months-to-September, the Hospital Medicare
Index showed the most moderation in costs, up 3.33% versus +3.96% reported for
September; while the Professional Services Medicare Index showed the slightest
decrease in the growth of expenditures, up 5.13% versus +5.41% in September.
Both the Hospital and Professional Services Commercial Indices annual rates
decelerated by about 0.3% in October."

The S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index is a weighted average of the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare
Index. Alternatively, it is a weighted average of the S&P Healthcare Economic
Hospital Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index, as
each of these indices has the analogous Commercial and Medicare component.

The table below summarizes the year-over-year change in the S&P Healthcare
Economic Indices for the 12-month period ending October 2010. With each monthly
release, the index levels, including the 12-month moving averages, are
recalculated for the full history of the indices, whenever there are revisions
to underlying data used in the models. The entire revised history, as well as
full results for the underlying S&P Healthcare Economic Indices, are available
from Standard & Poor's as a subscription service.

S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

(12-Month Moving Average)

Index

1-Year Change (%)

S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index

6.70%

S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index

8.21%

S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare Index

4.18%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Index

6.68%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Medicare Index

3.33%

S&P Healthcare Economic Hospital Commercial Index

9.30%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index

6.51%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Medicare Index

5.13%

S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Commercial Index

7.09%

Source: Standard & Poor's

Data through October 2010 Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


