                              79 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    Jacksonville Journal-Courier (Illinois)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 26, 2014 Wednesday

Report says state's hospitals have $83.4 billion impact

BYLINE: Jacksonville Journal-Courier, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 736 words


March 26--Illinois' more than 200 hospitals and nearly 50 health systems
generate a total annual impact of $83.4 billion on the state's economy,
according to a new report by the Illinois Hospital Association that examines the
statewide economic impact of the state's hospitals and health systems.

"Clearly, hospitals and health systems continue to be critical job creators for
their communities," said Illinois Hospital Association President Maryjane A.
Wurth. "Hospitals and health systems are not only vital to the fiscal health of
their communities, they are also essential to ensuring the health and well-being
of all Illinoisans."

In Illinois, one out of every 10 jobs is in healthcare, with the state's
hospitals and health systems employing more than a quarter of a million people,
generating nearly 450,000 direct and indirect jobs. Illinois' hospitals and
health systems have a total economic impact on the local and state economies of
$83.4 billion a year.

Hospitals provide excellent jobs and substantial benefits for a wide range of
workers and spur additional economic activity through their spending on goods,
services and capital improvements. They are a key cornerstone of the local and
state economy.

The report's key findings emphasize the significant number of jobs created by
Illinois hospitals and health systems:

-- One out of every 10 jobs in Illinois is in healthcare;

-- Illinois hospitals and health systems employ more than a quarter of a million
people and expend $16.3 billion a year on wages and benefits, resulting in a
total of 449,868 direct and indirect jobs;

-- The economic impact from hospital/health system payrolls alone is $38.6
billion;

-- Illinois hospitals spend $14.6 billion on goods and services, resulting in
$20.2 billion in other spending in the state economy, for a combined impact of
$34.8 billion;

-- Illinois hospitals also invest in capital improvements, spending $4.2 billion
on buildings and equipment, which generated an additional $5.8 billion for a
total of $10.0 billion;

-- Illinois hospitals generate a total economic impact to the state of $83.4
billion;

-- Each Illinois hospital job generates an additional 1.25 Illinois jobs;

-- Every dollar spent by Illinois hospitals on goods, services and payroll
generates an additional $1.38 in spending throughout the local and state
economy;

Between 2000 and 2013, Illinois health care employment grew by 23.6 percent or
115,600 jobs. In contrast, overall Illinois employment declined by 3.7 percent
or lost 217,300 jobs.

Healthcare is a consistent source of employment for the state. From 2000 to 2013
health care employment grew by an average of 1.6 percent each year while
Illinois statewide employment dropped by an average of 0.3 percent each year
during the same time.

In the last five years, health care employment in Illinois grew by 7.2 percent
(41,200 jobs). During the same time, total employment statewide grew by just 3.7
percent.

The IHA report noted that Illinois hospitals and health systems provide enormous
benefits to their communities with their charity care and uncompensated care;
subsidization of high-cost services such as emergency and trauma care; medical
research; education and training of physicians, nurses and other highly-skilled
health care professionals; and underpayments for services to Medicare and
Medicaid patients that they absorb. Overall community benefits provided by the
more than 100 Illinois hospitals that file annual community benefit reports with
the state is now more than $5.2 billion annually, including $704 million in
charity care, an increase in charity care of 182 percent since 2005.

"We realize that the state and federal governments face fiscal challenges.
However, any further Medicare and Medicaid cuts will undermine hospitals and
health systems as they create jobs and transform health care delivery," Wurth
said. "Illinois' hospitals and health systems have already been hit by
substantial state and federal funding cuts."

Illinois hospitals are absorbing more than $11 billion in Medicare payment
reductions over ten years under health care reform and other federal legislative
and regulatory actions, as well as more than $380 million in state Medicaid
reductions since 2011.

___ (c)2014 Jacksonville Journal-Courier (Jacksonville, Ill.) Visit the
Jacksonville Journal-Courier (Jacksonville, Ill.) at www.myjournalcourier.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140326-JJ-Report-says-state-s-hospitals
-have-83.4-billion-impact-20140326

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JJ


                  Copyright 2014 Jacksonville Journal-Courier


