                               1 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday

NSS technical cell conducts free repair of Rs 3 crore healthcare equipment in
three years

BYLINE: Sreedevi Chitharanjan

SECTION: KOZHIKODE

LENGTH: 392 words


KOZHIKODE: Residential camps of National Service Scheme (NSS) Technical Cell
Kerala in the government hospitals have helped to repair the unused and damaged
healthcare equipment that were gathered dust on the corners of the hospital
buildings in the district owing to fund crunch. The camps have helped many
hospitals to carry out repair works of healthcare equipment at free of cost. In
Kozhikode district, volunteers of NSS technical cell had recreated the hospital
assets to the tune of more than Rs 3 crore so far.The annual camps were
conducted as part of the state level project Punarjani- an initiative of the
directorate of Technical Education and the NSS Technical cell which was launched
in 2013. This year, the NSS technical cell had conducted residential camps at
Kozhikode Medical College Hospital, government dental college and Government
Beach general hospital and recreated assets worth more than Rs 1 crore.The
volunteers had conducted the repair works of damaged cots, surgical equipment,
X-ray machineries, electrical and plumbing works and painting to the tune of Rs
77.21 lakh at the Beach General hospital and another Rs 97 lakh at the Kozhikode
medical college hospital.According to the district NSS Technical cell, Kozhikode
has sixteen units of NSS technical cell.

A total of 1600 NSS volunteers have been rendering free expertise in the
technical field under the Punarjani scheme.Beach Hospital superintendent Dr A
Sabu said the camp has helped to repair the damaged hospital equipment at free
of cost. `` We are also planning to hold another three day camp of NSS technical
cell volunteers during republic day period,'' he said.Meanwhile, T S
Sharathchandra Babu, district programme officer NSS Technical Cell Kerala said
under the project, the NSS has succeeded in recreating hospital assets worth
more than Rs 3 crore within three years of project launch in Kozhikode alone. ``
NSS technical cell volunteers rendered their services at 34 hospitals in the
state and helped to recreate hospital assets worth Rs 12 crore after the launch
of the project in 2013,'' he said. `` In the initial stage, hospital authorities
had always doubted the capability of the volunteers doing repair work. But,
seeing their work, the hospital authorities had extended their full cooperation
to them,'' he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


