                              147 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                           September 11, 2009 Friday
                               1 - State Edition

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 87

LENGTH: 472  words


How do sizes of our major footy ovals compare?

Can you please supply the measurements of the playing areas of AAMI Stadium,
Docklands, Skilled Stadium, Subiaco and the MCG? - L.B. (Mitcham)

The ground dimensions from fence to fence of AAMI Stadium are 177m long and 145m
wide. The playing area from the boundary lines is 165m long and 133m wide.

Docklands Stadium, also known as Etihad Stadium, has a length of 170m and a
width of 140m.

Subiaco Oval in Western Australia is 175m long and 122m wide. The length of the
MCG is 174m, while its width is 149m. Skilled Stadium at Geelong is 170m long
and only 115m wide. Skilled Stadium is the narrowest playing field used for AFL
games.

In accordance with AFL laws, a ground must have a minimum length of 135m and a
minimum width of 110m.

History of School of Mines

Can you please tell me something about the School of Mines? When and why was it
established? When and why was it closed down? Did it have any connection with
the mining industry? Was it connected in any way with the Adelaide Technical
High School? When and why was the ATHS established? When and why did that school
close? - D.H. (Rostrevor)

Adelaide Technical High School was created originally to improve the educational
standard of young men who planned to study at the School of Mines and Industries
and then work in the mining industry.

The school's courses began in 1898 with 27 students, followed by a second stage
in 1903 when the classes merged with the Agricultural School, thus forming the
Preparatory School of the South Australian School of Mines and Industries.

In 1918, the name was changed to Adelaide Technical High School.

The South Australian School of Mines and Industries was established in 1889 on
the corner of North Tce and Frome Rd, between the University of Adelaide and the
Royal Adelaide Hospital.

The SA School of Mines and Industries and Adelaide Technical High School
combined in 1960 to form the South Australian Institute of Technology, which
remains a part of the University of South Australia.

More beds at new RAH

Can you please tell me the number of beds at the Royal Adelaide Hospital and how
many beds are proposed at the new Royal Adelaide Hospital? - K.S. (Kadina)

The new Royal Adelaide Hospital will have 800 beds, most in single rooms, 40
technical suites and 23 theatres. The current Royal Adelaide Hospital has 680
beds.

Where to write

Questions should be addressed to What's Your Problem? The Advertiser, GPO Box
339, Adelaide, 5001, or email to problems@adv.newsltd.com.au

Please include name and address, not necessarily for publication.Need more
information? Contact the State Library of SA inquiry service on 82077250/7252 or
country (freecall) 1800182013.

WWW home page: http://www.slsa.sa.gov.au/goto/askus

Please note that answers published are not necessarily supplied by the State
Library.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


