                              154 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Jamestown Sun (North Dakota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           December 17, 2016 Saturday

Funding available for critical access hospitals

BYLINE: The Jamestown Sun, N.D.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 328 words


Dec. 17--The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Health Resources and
Services Administration announced that it expects to award a cooperative
agreement for the Frontier Community Health Integration Project's technical
assistance to 10 critical access hospitals in Montana, Nevada and North Dakota.

The estimated total program funding available was cited as $500,000.

This funding opportunity is open to public, private and nonprofit organizations;
faith-based and community-based organizations; and tribes and tribal
organizations.

The agency description of the grant states: Technical assistance to the critical
access hospitals must include support for implementing one or any combination of
three specific health care interventions:

-- the waiver of the 35-mile rule for ambulance services, allowing cost-based
reimbursement for ambulance services regardless of nearby providers;

-- the waiver of the fixed $25 originating site fee for telehealth services,
instead allowing cost-based reimbursement for 101 percent of cost for overhead,
salaries, fringe benefits and the depreciation value of the telehealth
equipment; and

-- the waiver of the 25-bed inpatient bed limit, allowing up to 10 additional
beds to be used for skilled nursing facility/nursing facility care.

Other technical assistance activities should include support for quality
measurement and performance improvement projects, strategic planning to improve
patients' access to services, and other tracking, analytic and administrative
tasks as appropriate for the individual needs of the participating critical
access hospitals.

The funding opportunity number is HRSA-17-001 (CFDA 93.155). It was posted on
Dec. 8 with an application closing date of March 13.

For more information, contact Aaron Beswick at (301) 945-9810 or at
ABeswick@hrsa.gov

___ (c)2016 The Jamestown Sun (Jamestown, N.D.) Visit The Jamestown Sun
(Jamestown, N.D.) at www.jamestownsun.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161217-QJ-Funding-available-for-critical-access-hospitals
-1217-20161217

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QJ


                        Copyright 2016 The Jamestown Sun


