                              186 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                         TendersInfo - Project Notices

                              July 17, 2016 Sunday

Development of construction projects based on energy audits of buildings

LENGTH: 335  words


Tenders are invited for Development of building projects
size or scope of the contract: The contract is for the development of
construction projects based on energy audits of buildings, broken down into two
parts, Part 1 includes: 1. the development of construction projects, technical
specifications of the workmanship and the receipt of work construction,
investment cost estimates, to achieve conservation recommendations (if
necessary) insulation with a change in color of the facade of multi-family
buildings located in Koszalin 1.1 Street. Legnica 17 1.2. ul.

Hospital 8, 1.3. ul.Hospital 10 1.4. ul. Walery Wroblewski 4-6, 1.5. ul. Walery
Wroblewski 10. 2. The development of construction projects reconstruction of
residential units in order to create a stand-alone residential premises in
residential buildings, with the development of construction projects, projects,
installation of internal plumbing, gas and electric, obtain technical conditions
from the competent administrators of the media, an opinion chimney with
inventory, development of investment cost (construction, water and sewage, gas,
electric), development of technical specifications for execution and acceptance
of works multifamily buildings located in Koszalin 2.1. ul. Legnica 17 -
reconstruction 5 units, 2.2. ul. Walery Wroblewski 4-6 - reconstruction of 7
units, 2.3. ul. Walery Wroblewski 10 - reconstruction of 4 units. 3. the
development of projects for the construction of central heating and hot water,
technical specifications of performance and acceptance of works, cost estimates
investor in residential buildings, located in Koszalin: 3.1 Street. Legnica 17
3.2. ul. Hospital 8, 3.3. ul. Hospital 10 3.4. ul. Walery Wroblewski 4-6, 3.5.
ul. Walery Wroblewski 10. Part 2 includes:
Major organization : CITY OF KOSZALIN BOARD OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS

Address : 75-815 Koszalin, ul. Polczynska 24

Country :Poland
Url : ZBM.KOSZALIN.IBIP.PL

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2016-07-22

Tender documents : T34511748.htm

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 81


                          Copyright 2016 Tenders Info
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


