                              194 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Plus Patent News

                             May 24, 2017 Wednesday

Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property granted patent to Technical
University of Denmark on May 17, 2017 titled as "AN ILLUMINATION SYSTEM FOR
ENDOSCOPIC APPLICATIONS"

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: New York


Bern: Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property Office has granted patent
no. EP2793679 on May 17, 2017, to Technical University of Denmark, titled as "AN
ILLUMINATION SYSTEM FOR ENDOSCOPIC APPLICATIONS"

Inventors: LINDVOLD LARS [DK]; HERMANN GREGERS [DK] + (LINDVOLD, LARS, ;
HERMANN, GREGERS, ; LINDVOLD, Lars, ; HERMANN, Gregers)



Assignee: UNIV DENMARK TECH DTU [DK]; FREDERIKSBERG HOSPITAL [DK] + (TECHNICAL
UNIVERSITY OF DENMARK, ; FREDERIKSBERG HOSPITAL, ; Technical University of
Denmark, ; Frederiksberg Hospital)

According to the abstract released by the Swiss Federal Institute of
Intellectual Property Office: "The present disclosure relates to an illumination
system for endoscopic applications comprising at least one substantially
monochromatic light source having a predefined central wavelength between 400
and 500 nm or between 500 and 550 nm, an optical transmission path adapted to
guide light emanating from the light source to an endoscopic region of
examination, and an optical band-rejection filter, wherein the illumination
system is adapted to illuminate at least a part of the region of examination by
generating autofluorescence in surrounding tissue, and the band-rejection filter
is adapted to attenuate at least said light source wavelength to a viewer and
wherein said light source is the single light source in the illumination system.
A further embodiment relates to an endoscope for examining a body cavity
comprising tissue, the endoscope comprising a source of light consisting of a
substantially monochromatic light source having a predefined central wavelength
between 400 and 550 nm, means for guiding light from the substantially
monochromatic light source towards at least a part of the tissue, and at least
one band-rejection filter adapted to attenuate at least said central wavelength,
wherein the substantially monochromatic light source is configured to generate
autofluorescence in the irradiated tissue such that the irradiated tissue is
observable, and wherein the endoscope is configured to display at least a part
of the irradiated tissue through said band-rejection filter. A system for
photodynamic diagnosis and/or therapy of bladder cancer is further disclosed
herein."

The patent was filed on 19.12.2012 Application no. EP20120809805


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


