                              195 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                             April 13, 2014 Sunday
                              Correction Appended

BRIEFLY

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1025 words


WINN-DIXIE LAUNCHES PAWS PROGRAM:Winn-Dixie recently launched PAWS "Feed the
Love," a program to benefit food banks and nonprofit organizations dedicated to
eliminating hunger for pets.

Through April 29, customers can purchase a $5 prepackaged bag of pet food with
their Winn-Dixie reward card or give a monetary donation at any store register.
Each bag contains a week's worth of dry and canned packages of PAWS Premium, the
store's brand of cat and dog food.

For every bag purchased, customers will receive an additional 5 cents per gallon
in fuel perks rewards, the store's program that saves customers money on gas.

HOSPITAL RECEIVES GOLD AWARD: Oak Hill Hospital was recently presented the
American Heart Association's Start! Fit-Friendly Company Gold Award.

The recognition program, by the American Heart Association's Start! Movement, is
intended to be a catalyst for positive change in the workplace.

* * *

Who's news

HOSPITAL PROMOTES ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTOR OF SURGICAL SERVICES:Registered nurse
Ralph Taylor was recently promoted to administrative director of surgical
services at Oak Hill Hospital in Spring Hill.

Before the promotion, Taylor was assistant chief nursing officer at the
hospital. He transferred to Oak Hill two years ago from another HCA facility,
Englewood Hospital, where he was director of surgical services.

HOSPITAL PROMOTES DIRECTOR OF QUALITY & RISK MANAGEMENT:Registered nurse Carol
McMullen was recently promoted to director of quality and risk management at Oak
Hill Hospital in Spring Hill.

Before the promotion, McMullen was the hospital's quality manager. She joined
Oak Hill about two years ago.

* * *

Events

ROOKIES SUPPORTS RELAY FOR LIFE: Rookies Sports Bar & Grill, 3095 Anderson Snow
Road, south of Brooksville, will host a Spring Hill Relay for Life fundraiser
from 4 to 11 p.m. Tuesday.

Ten percent of customers' food purchases will be donated to Relay for Life. The
event will include a 50-50 raffle, and luminaria for the Relay for Life will be
available for purchase.

For information, call Nancy Kesselring at (352) 584-4247.

HERNANDO COUNTY FOOD TRUCK FIESTA: The Greater Hernando County Chamber of
Commerce will present the first Hernando County Food Truck Fiesta from 5 to 9
p.m. Friday at Weeki Wachee High School, 12150 Vespa Way, Weeki Wachee.

The event is being billed as a "family date night," open to the public and
designed for families to spend the evening together enjoying foods from area
food truck vendors. There will be a free movie on the school lawn.

The event will also feature local vendors, nonprofit organizations and a
children's activity area with games, prizes and other activities. Guests are
invited to bring lawn chairs.

For information, call (352) 796-0697.

LEADER DEVELOPMENT:The Greater Hernando County Chamber of Commerce will present
its Leadercast event May 9 at Grace World Outreach Church, 20366 Cortez Blvd.,
Brooksville.

Registration begins at 7:30 a.m., breakfast is at 8 a.m. and the program will be
from 8:45 a.m. to 5 p.m.

The event is broadcast live from Atlanta to hundreds of sites. Speakers will
include Andy Stanley, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Malcolm Gladwell, Randall
Wallace, Bill McDermott, Laura Schroff, Dr. Henry Cloud, Simon Sinek and Laura
Bush.

This year's theme is "Beyond You." The event is open to the public. Tickets are
$49 if purchased before Tuesday. Prices after the early-bird deadline are $69
for chamber members, $79 for nonmembers and $59 for nonprofits.

Groups of 10 receive a $10 discount per person.

Partnership opportunities are available: gold event partner, $1,000; silver
partner, $500; and bronze partner, $300.

For information, email Dawn Badami at the chamber at dawn@hernandochamber.com

* * *

Building skills

SMALL BUSINESS SEMINARS: SCORE Chapter 439 is presenting a series of free
business seminars. Upcoming seminars include:

-"How to really start your own business," 5:25 to 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, Hudson
Regional Library, 8012 Library Road, Hudson.

-"Marketing to grow your business," 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, Centennial Park
Branch Library, 5740 Moog Road, Holiday.

-"Using the Internet in your business," 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. April 24, New River
Branch Library, 34043 State Road 54, Wesley Chapel.

To register, visit score439.org and click on the "Local Workshops" tab or call
the SCORE office at (727) 842-4638.

MAKE MORE SALES SEMINAR:The Greater Hernando County Chamber of Commerce, in
partnership with the Small Business Development Center at the University of
South Florida, will present a seminar, "Make More Sales," from 11:30 a.m. to 1
p.m. Wednesday at the chamber office, 15588 Aviation Loop Drive, south of
Brooksville.

The seminar will be presented by Jerry Karp, a certified business analyst with
the SBDC. The cost is $10 per person. To RSVP, visit hernandochamber.com/events.

If you have business announcements to share with our readers, mail the details
to Jean Hayes, Business Digest, Hernando Times, 15365 Cortez Blvd., Brooksville,
FL 34613-6174. You may also email them to jhayes@tampabay.com or fax them to
(352) 754-6133. Items may be edited for length and clarity. Photos are published
as space permits; they will not be returned.

* * *

Networking and mixers

BNI Winning Edge: 7:15 to 9 a.m. Tuesday, Regency Oaks Clubhouse, 4445
Breakwater Blvd., Spring Hill. The cost is $10 and includes breakfast. Call Lisa
Cornett at (352) 345-1377.

BNI Leaders by Design: 7:15 to 9:30 a.m. Thursday, Marine Corps League
Detachment 708, 8405 Sunshine Grove Road, west of Brooksville. The cost is $9
and includes breakfast; no cost for first-time visitors. Call Marianne Zirk at
(352) 340-4456.

Greater Hernando County Chamber of Commerce After Hours Mixer: April's After
Hours Mixer will be at 5:30 p.m. Thursday at the Palace Grand, 275 Della Court,
Spring Hill.

The event is free and open to the public. For information, call Jennifer Mara at
(352) 688-3390. To RSVP, visit hernandochamber.com/events.

Nature Coast Business Professionals: 8 a.m. Friday, Chicken Lickins Restaurant,
3019 Commercial Way, on the south side of Towne Square Mall, Spring Hill. Guests
are welcome. Those attending may order from the menu. Call Dana Cutlip at (352)
293-4317.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2014



CORRECTION:Â CORRECTION: The Greater Hernando County Chamber of Commerce will
present the first Hernando County Food Truck Fiesta from 5 to 9 p.m. May 16 at
Weeki Wachee High School, 12150 Vespa Way, north of Weeki Wachee. An incorrect
date was reported in Sunday's Business digest.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO - Courtesy of Anita Hawkins: CHAMBER HELPS ADULT ED: The Greater
Hernando County Chamber of Commerce, through its foundation, the Chamber
Education Training Association, recently presented start-up funding of $5,000
for equipment for the Hernando County Adult Technical Education Program at
Nature Coast Technical High School. The Suncoast Technical Education Center
offers courses and training for adults to build their careers. Lori Romano,
superintendent of Hernando County schools, accepted the check. From left are:
Mary Dysart, Mary LeDoux, Morris Porton, Tracy Echols, Sam Shrieves, Romano, Gus
Guadagnino and Pat Crowley, chamber president. PHOTO (2): Taylor; McMullen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


