                              201 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 18, 2016 Thursday

Regulatory update: New York State Department of Public Service; Digital Divide
Partners, LLC, has submitted (15-M-0647) 19-NYS Universal Broadband Grant_Final
Report

LENGTH: 2594 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Albany: New York State Department of Public Service has issued the following
document:



 Page 1 of 5

 Final Universal Broadband Grant Progress Report

 Grantee Company:

 Urban Communications Transport Corp.

 Grantee Contact: Stuart Reid

 Grantee Address:

 318 East 149th Street, #289, Bronx, NY 10451

 Grantee Email:



 stureid@live.com

 Grantee Phone Number:

 718.401.5913

 Grant I Contract Number: C000228

 Service Area Covered (List Municipalities Served and Zip Codes)

 Manhattan: 10030, 10031, 10037, 10025, 10029, 10009

 Bronx: 10454, 10455

 Brooklyn: 11216, 11212

 Project Status: X Complete [#xf0a8]Incomplete

 If Incomplete, please explain:

 Provide a Project Summary:

 A partnership of leading digital inclusion advocates and broadband service
providers constructed a hybrid Fiber/Wireless Residential Broadband Pilot
Project with an embedded broadband adoption program that focused on providing
service to NYC's underserved public and affordable housing communities. Initial
project partners included Urban Communications Transport Corp., One Economy
Corp., WHCR FM 90.3 FM (City College of New York), SoBRO and Per Scholas,
together the Digital Divide Partnership (DDP). Over the course of the Project
the DDP expanded to include CCNY, the Harlem Hospital Center, the Bedford
Stuyvesant Restoration Corp., the Manhattan North, Manhattan South and the Bronx
South Districts Councils of New York City Housing Association (NYCHA) Resident
Association Presidents.

 The Project constructed a high-capacity wireless broadband network that
interconnects community anchor institutions, NYCHA developments and local
non-profit organizations in three (3) New York City boroughs, including the
Bronx, Manhattan, and Brooklyn, with a Community Wide Area Network (CWAN). The
CWAN is an open broadband communications platform that contains redundant,
high-capacity links that enable each of the participating institutions and
organizations to create "smart neighborhoods" in their communities. CWAN members
deploy Wireless Technical Campuses (upgraded Wi-Fi Cloud Corridors) at their
respective public and affordable housing apartment building complexes, public
schools, public parks, outdoor plazas and municipal hospital. Each Wireless
Technical Campus contains multiple access points that provide wireless broadband
access across a radius of multiple city blocks. The Wireless Technical Campuses
range in size and homes passed based upon the housing density in each given
neighborhood, as well as the geographic distribution of the Campus node
locations. A critical component of the Wireless Technical Campuses is the
community-centric programming, services and applications that are delivered over
the network (see below). Wireless Technical Campus Have been installed in East
Harlem, Central Harlem (including Harlem Hospital), the Lower East Side, the
Upper West Side, the South Bronx, Central Brooklyn (including the Bedford
Stuyvesant Restoration Plaza), and historic Riverbank State Park in Harlem.

 Each Wireless Technical Campus accommodates potentially thousands of users, and
by early 2012 included over 400 wireless nodes directly passing 40,000 homes.
Pedestrian traffic equipped with mobile devices also has access to the network
throughout the neighborhoods, parks, plazas and hospital community covered by
the Wireless Technical Campuses, bringing the total potential user base to an
estimated 180,000 people, not including the 2 million annual visitors at
Riverbank State Park.

 The DDP broadband adoption program is embedded in the Wireless Technical
Campuses, and includes targeted digital content and applications that stimulate
the use of the wireless network, and broadband in general. Specific digital
content and applications have been developed over the last 5 years by the DDP
working in collaboration with its community partners, including the NYCHA
Resident Association Citywide Councils of Presidents Chairs in Manhattan and the
Bronx, WHCR 90.3 FM, and the CCNY. Digital content includes community-centric
educational, cultural, informational and emergency preparedness video
programming that is streamed live, as well as archived on-line, by the DDP's
content partner, Streaming University.

 Applications developed in collaboration with NYCHA resident association
leadership across two NYC boroughs include the DDP's Video Intercom and the
Virtual Tenant Patrol services, both of which have been enthusiastically
embraced by residents and local law enforcement alike for their positive impact
on the local quality-of-life (see Community Impact, below). Additionally, these
applications have significantly stimulated broadband engagement and adoption
among the Project's targeted communities.

 Page 2 of 5

 Describe the Community and Economic Impact as a result of the completion of
your project:

 The Project's primary target, the NYCHA residential community, has an
unemployment rate of 52.8%, an average household income of $23,150 (below the
federal "Poverty Line")and an estimated in-home broadband penetration of 50%.
The Project has made a tremendous impact upon this community by making free
wireless broadband service available to over 35,000 NYCHA and several thousand
affordable housing families, enabling them to access the rich informational
resources of the Internet, at home. Additionally, hundreds of hours of targeted,
community-focused, educational, informational and cultural programming have been
delivered by Streaming University over the wireless network to this population.
On-line learning opportunities have been stimulated and enhanced, with personal
and professional development programming made available to thousands of new
broadband users via the Wireless Technical Campuses.

 The DDP's Video Intercom service enables NYCHA residents to monitor their
building entrances, lobbies, courtyards and playgrounds from the comfort of
their home, and has become a compelling way for families to enhance their safety
and quality-of-life. Delivered over the DDP's Wireless Technical Campuses, as
well as the Internet itself, residents are able to view live images of their
development on their smart phones, tablets and other digital devices in
real-time. Additionally, the Video Intercom service has worked as a gateway
application that expands the in-home adoption and use of broadband, particularly
by Seniors, who regard the Video Intercom as a compelling service. The DDP's
Virtual Tenant Patrol service extends video monitoring capabilities to NYCHA
resident patrol groups, enabling them to monitor their development from mobile
devices remotely, as well as from their resident association office monitors.
Working with resident leaders, the NYPD has used the Virtual Tenant Patrol
service to locate missing children and to gather other information helpful in
the performance of their duties. Many relieved families, scores of individual
residents and resident association leadership across multiple boroughs have
reported the impact of the Video Intercom and Virtual Tenant Patrol applications
to be transformative and overwhelmingly positive.

 Riverbank State Park was the first NY State Park to offer free public Wi-Fi for
their visitors, estimated at 2 million annually. The DDP has provided ubiquitous
Wi-Fi access, via its Riverbank Wireless Technical Campus, throughout the 28
acre outdoor and indoor Park facilities in support of the annual NYCHA Senior
Benefit Fair, the annual New York Urban League Historically Black Colleges and
Universities Fair, and other major exhibitors and Park vendors since 2010.
Typical of the impact, the NYCHA Senior Benefit Fair has averaged nearly 2,000
seniors from all five NYC boroughs, many of whom learned about email, Internet
searching and social media for the first time as a result of the Riverbank
Wireless Technical Campus. Similarly, the Historically Black Colleges and
Universities Fair has been able to successfully access school websites, process
student applications, and gather related educational information in real-time
for several years thanks to the Riverbank Wireless Technical Campus.

 The DDP has worked as the technology partner of the WHCR Emergency Broadcast
Team (WEBT) at CCNY since its creation following Hurricane Sandy in 2012. WEBT's
mission is to provide emergency preparedness, mitigation and recovery
information for the Harlem and northern Manhattan communities that is broadcast
over WHCR 90.3 FM during emergencies, as well as community news and information
during normal times. In furtherance of this mandate, the DDP has interconnected
its community-based Wireless Technical Campuses with the Network Operations
Center (NOC) at WEBT/CCNY in order to collect and disseminate local,
community-focused information in real-time for broadcast. As part of this
undertaking, the DDP installed an emergency back-up wireless connection at the
Harlem Hospital Center, interconnecting their Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
with WEBT/CCNY NOC and Wireless Technical Campus locations. The WEBT/CCNY NOC
and Harlem Hospital EOC wireless links are each connected to backup power
generators for emergency operation during electrical blackouts. Several of the
DDP's Wireless Technical Campuses at NYCHA developments also have backup
solar-powered access points for emergency use during power failures.

 In addition to the emergency communications link, in 2014 the DDP completed the
installation of its Wireless Technical Campus at Harlem Hospital, providing free
public Wi-Fi service to hundreds of hospital visitors and patients in waiting
rooms and clinics on a daily basis.

 In Brooklyn the DDP has worked with the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration
Corporation to install a Wireless Technical Campus at their 300,000 square foot
Restoration Plaza. Hundreds of visitors per day now have access to free public
Wi-Fi and community-based programming as they visit the many stores and offices
at the Plaza, or merely hang out at the attractive outdoor plaza facilities.

 In the Bronx, the DDP completed the installation of a Wireless Technical Campus
at the SoBRO (South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corp.) Venture Center.
The Venture Center Wireless Technical Campus provides backup Internet service to
the 20+ small businesses located in this South Bronx community-based office
complex. The Wireless Technical Campus includes a wireless link with the Harlem
Hospital EOC and the WEBT/CCNY NOC for use during emergencies.

 Page 3 of 5

 Project Conclusions and Recommendations:

 The DDP Residential Broadband Pilot Project has been successful in meeting all
of its goals as summarized in this Report, exceeding expectations despite
receiving only one-third of the total amount of the contract award, due to an
apparent shortfall in State funding availability. The need for ubiquitous
Internet access and adoption across all economic, geographic, and demographic
lines, particularly the poor and people of color, is well documented, and indeed
was the impetus for the State's funding of this Project. The primary objective
of the five (5) year Pilot Project to explore and demonstrate an operating model
that addressed this concern was met, and has resulted in the following
conclusions and recommendations:

 1. The only "affordable" broadband service that works for the unemployed and
families living below the Poverty Level is FREE Universal Broadband Service;

 2. A socially conscious, non-profit oriented Internet service provider (ISP)
can partner with community non-profit anchor institutions and resident
associations to create viable community-based technological ecosystems that are
locally managed, self-sustaining and that address the needs of underserved
residents;

 3. There must be broadband services and applications targeted to specific needs
of the community in order to enhance relevance and stimulate adoption of the
transformative power of the Internet by historically underserved communities.

 . In addition to the above precepts, the DDP believes that FREE wireless
gigabit level broadband (Wi-Fi) can and must be provided in the apartment
buildings, developments and homes where the poor and underserved live, not just
outside in the neighborhood, down the block and around the corner. The DDP urges
the State to continue its funding support of this groundbreaking and critical
initiative so that the community-based Wireless Technical Campus ecosystem can
be expanded and continue to provide technology training and entrepreneurial
opportunities for local residents to participate in the creation, management and
programming of their own technological empowerment.

 Page 4 of 5

 Project Description- Access and Subscriber Information Key Indicator Total
Number Comments

 Residential/Business - the following information is for the services to homes
and businesses

 Number of Households Served

 40,000

 Wireless broadband service available

 Number of New Residential Subscribers

 718

 Paying subscribers contracted through One Economy and the Enterprise Corp.

 List All Residential Speed Tiers Offered and Pricing Associated with Each Tier

 Resident Association Link- 1-2 Gigabits: Free

 Individual Users:

 5-10 Mbs: Free

 Resident Association annual CWAN membership fee: $500-1,500 yr, depending on
ability to pay

 Number of Business Served

 25

 SoBRO Venture Center (20), Harlem Hospital, Bed-Stuy Restoration, CCNY,
Riverbank State Park, WHCR 90.3 FM Radio

 Number of New Business Subscribers

 25

 List All Business Speed Tiers Offered and Pricing Associated with Each Tier

 Non-Profit Business Link: 1-2 Gigabit: Free

 $500-$2,500 annual CWAN membership fee, depending on ability to pay. Emergency
back-up Internet service provided free of charge

 Community Anchor Institutions - the following information is for service to
Community Anchor Institutions

 Number of Community Anchor Institutions Passed



 2

 WHCR Emergency Broadcast Team, Harlem Hospital Emergency Management Office

 [#xf0b7] Other

 2

 SoBRO, Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corp.

 List All Speed Tiers Available for Community Anchor Institutions and Pricing
Associated with Each Tier

 Anchor Institution Link -

 1-2 Gigabits: Free

 $1,500-$5,000 annual CWAN membership fee, depending on ability to pay.
Emergency back-up Internet service provided free of charge.

 Infrastructure Key Indicators - the following information provides additional
information as it relates to your project

 New Network Miles Deployed



 Impact and Adoption - the following information demonstrates how the project
addresses barriers to adoption

 Did you provide any Include any discounts/subsidies for Internet service?

 X Yes

 [#xf0a8]No

 If yes, Please provide details:

 Service provided free of charge to resident associations and their members

 Did your project include computer, mobile devices or other equipment at
subsidized rates?

 X Yes

 [#xf0a8]No

 If yes, Please provide details:

 In association with Per Scholas, discounted refurbished computers were made
available under the Project

 Did your project include any Digital Literacy Programs and/or Training Programs


 X Yes

 [#xf0a8]No

 If yes, Please list all programs offered and all partners:

 In association with Per Scholas, basic computer classes were made available to
residents under the Project

 Name and Title of Authorized Grantee:

 ______Stuart Reid_______________________________________
______Co-Chairman____________________________________________

 Please Print Title

 Stuart Reid

 _____________________________________________________ ____November 26,
2014________________________________________

 Signature Date



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


