                              203 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                             March 28, 2011 Monday

HC rejects plea to grant land at cheaper rate to institutes

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, March 28 -- The Delhi High Court has rejected the plea of a group of
private educational institutes seeking a direction to DDA to allot them nazul
land at a cheaper rate rather than auctioning at market price for establishing
higher/technical education institutes and schools.

Dismissing a batch of petitions, a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and SK
Mishra said, "The clear mode of disposal of nazul land for hospitals,
dispensaries, higher or technical education institutes and schools, would
continue to be by way of auction" while referring to the amended rules in 2006
with regard to the DDA Act.

"We are unable to accept the plea that there is any unguided power conferred
under the said rules which is capable of being misused. It is, in fact, the past
misuses which gave rise to the amendments with a view to minimise arbitrary
exercise of excessive discretion," it said.

The bench accepted DDA's argument that the agency was entitled to either auction
the land or allot it at pre-determined rates for establishment of higher/
technical education institutes, schools or hospitals, but no proper safeguard or
guidelines have been put in force as to whom land is to be allotted and by which
mode.

"We are of the considered view that the interpretation of rules placed before us
by the DDA is the correct view and the petitioners have no case in this behalf
in view of no allotment having matured in their favour prior to the amendments
of the said rules," it said.

The court was hearing the group of petitions dealing with Higher/Technical
Education Institutes and Schools that the right to education should be treated
on a different pedestal.

The Delhi High Court has rejected the plea of a group of private educational
institutes seeking a direction to DDA to allot them nazul land at a cheaper rate
rather than auctioning at market price for establishing higher/technical
education institutes and schools. Dismissing a batch of petitions, a bench of
justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and SK Mishra said, "The clear mode of disposal of
nazul land for hospitals, dispensaries, higher or technical education institutes
and schools, would continue to be by way of auction" while referring to the
amended rules in 2006 with regard to the DDA Act."We are unable to accept the
plea that there is any unguided power conferred under the said rules which is
capable of being misused. It is, in fact, the past misuses which gave rise to
the amendments with a view to minimise arbitrary exercise of excessive
discretion," it said.The bench accepted DDA's argument that the agency was
entitled to either auction the land or allot it at pre-determined rates for
establishment of higher/technical education institutes, schools or hospitals,
but no proper safeguard or guidelines have been put in force as to whom land is
to be allotted and by which mode."We are of the considered view that the
interpretation of rules placed before us by the DDA is the correct view and the
petitioners have no case in this behalf in view of no allotment having matured
in their favour prior to the amendments of the said rules," it said.The court
was hearing the group of petitions dealing with Higher/Technical Education
Institutes and Schools that the right to education should be treated on a
different pedestal. Published by HT Syndication with permission from The
Political & Business Daily. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2011 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved


