                              21 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Plus Patent News

                             May 20, 2017 Saturday

Head Line: European Patent Office granted patent to TECHNICAL UNIV OF DENMARK
[DK]; FREDERIKSBERG HOSPITAL [DK] titled as "AN ILLUMINATION SYSTEM FOR
ENDOSCOPIC APPLICATIONS"

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: New York


Munich: European Patent Office has granted patent no. EP2793679 on May 17, 2017,
to TECHNICAL UNIV OF DENMARK [DK]; FREDERIKSBERG HOSPITAL [DK] titled as "AN
ILLUMINATION SYSTEM FOR ENDOSCOPIC APPLICATIONS"

Inventor(s): LINDVOLD LARS [DK]; HERMANN GREGERS [DK] + (LINDVOLD, LARS, ;
HERMANN, GREGERS, ; LINDVOLD, Lars, ; HERMANN, Gregers)



Applicant(s): TECHNICAL UNIV OF DENMARK [DK]; FREDERIKSBERG HOSPITAL [DK] + (
TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY OF DENMARK, ; FREDERIKSBERG HOSPITAL, ; Technical
University of Denmark, ; Frederiksberg Hospital)

Priority number(s): EP20110194323 20111219 ; WO2012EP76193 20121219 ;
EP20120809805 20121219

According to the abstract published by the European Patent Office on its
website: "The present disclosure relates to an illumination system for
endoscopic applications comprising at least one substantially monochromatic
light source having a predefined central wavelength between 400 and 500 nm or
between 500 and 550 nm, an optical transmission path adapted to guide light
emanating from the light source to an endoscopic region of examination, and an
optical band-rejection filter, wherein the illumination system is adapted to
illuminate at least a part of the region of examination by generating
autofluorescence in surrounding tissue, and the band-rejection filter is adapted
to attenuate at least said light source wavelength to a viewer and wherein said
light source is the single light source in the illumination system. A further
embodiment relates to an endoscope for examining a body cavity comprising
tissue, the endoscope comprising a source of light consisting of a substantially
monochromatic light source having a predefined central wavelength between 400
and 550 nm, means for guiding light from the substantially monochromatic light
source towards at least a part of the tissue, and at least one band-rejection
filter adapted to attenuate at least said central wavelength, wherein the
substantially monochromatic light source is configured to generate
autofluorescence in the irradiated tissue such that the irradiated tissue is
observable, and wherein the endoscope is configured to display at least a part
of the irradiated tissue through said band-rejection filter. A system for
photodynamic diagnosis and/or therapy of bladder cancer is further disclosed
herein."

The patent was filed under Application No. EP20120809805 20121219


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


