                              229 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                             June 25, 1993, Friday

EXPORT OPPORTUNITIES

BYLINE: Information Supplied by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce

SECTION: FOREIGN TRADE, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 693 words


Trade leads supplied by:

US Department of Commerce

U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service

Room HCHB 3804, Washington, D.C. 20230

HOW TO USE:

Trade leads on this page are listed according to type of lead. Codes preceding
each industry/product heading represent classifications according to the
Harmonized System of tariff codes published by the Bureau of the Census. An
accompanying box outlines section product classifications under the HS codes.

FOR FURTHER

ASSISTANCE:

U.S. firms should be aware that the listing here of opportunities to trade in
specific commodities and technical data does not necessarily imply approval of
their export by the U.S. Department of Commerce.

While every effort is made to maintain the accuracy of information included in
this list, the Department of Commerce cannot assume responsibility for any
erroneous data. Additionally, the government and its officers cannot assume
responsibility for any transactions with the firms or individuals listed.

For more information,

contact your local District

Office of the U.S. Department of

Commerce (listed on this page

every Tuesday and in the Blue

Pages of the telephone book),

or call 1-800-USA-TRAD(E) and

ask for the phone number of

the nearest office.  JOINT VENTURES/LICENSING S15 Parking garages

Product data: Interested in licenses for steel construction of parking garages.
Specifications/technical data: parking garages for cars/buses, size variable.
Quantity, U.S. dollar value: NA. Purchase needed: asap. Service contract: no.

Response data: From manufacturers only: no. Language: English. Best way to
respond: fax. Information desired: technical data, conditions, company profile,
licensor. Primary buying factor: market suitability, technical standards; will
purchase in six months or more.

Company data: Licensor. Established: 1991. Employees: 27. Annual sales: DM2.5
million. Member of business chamber: Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Bank ref:
Deutsche Bank, Ilsenburg. U.S. firms represented: NA. Sales area: Germany.

Post remarks: Engaged in mechanical engineering, assemblage, crane services,
steel construction. Note: as of July 1, 1993, new postal code will be 38871
Ilsenburg. Post contact: Ncrabeler.

Contact: A. Frank, Manager, Ilsenburger Maschinenbaugesellschaft GmbH,
Veckenstedter Weg, P.O. Box 430, 3705 Ilsenburg, Germany. Tel: 011-49 39452-221.
Fax: 011-49 39452-85741.

Please send a copy of your response to:

Commercial Officer (TOP), American Consulate General, Hamburg, Unit 22550, APO
AE 09215-0002. Refer to: P0036.

Germany - Licensing Abroad S8091 Hospital management

S8062 Hospital management, general

medical & surgical

Product data: Joint venture with U.S. firm to supply complete hospital
operation/management. Specifications/technical data: operation/management of
hospitals. Quantity, U.S. dollar value: NA. Purchase needed: asap. Desires joint
venture with U.S. firm experienced in providing turnkey operations.

Response data: From manufacturers only: NA. Language: English. Best way to
respond: fax. Information desired: Details of experience in operation/
management of hospitals. Primary buying factor: NA.

Company data: Specialize mainly in instrumentation/supply of manpower.
Established: 1989. Employees: 400. Annual sales: US$ 1.3 million. Member of
business chamber: Dammam Chamber of Commerce & Industry. Bank ref: Al Bank Al
Saudi Al Fransi, Dammam. U.S. firms represented: none. Involved in
instrumentation/supply of manpower to hospitals. Wants to branch out to include
hospital management; needs to enter into joint venture with U.S. firm
experienced in hospital management so can qualify to bid on several
opportunities that will be open in this area in future. Post contact: Moore.

Contact: Mohammed Hadi, Vice President, Arabian Gold Star, P.O. Box 118, Rahima
31941, Saudi Arabia. Tel: 966-3 667-0364. Telex: 851023 HADICO SJ. Fax: 966-3
667-2989.

Please send a copy of your response to:

Commercial Section (FCS TOP), American Consulate General, Dhahran, Unit 66803,
APO AE 09858 6803. Refer to: P0042.

Saudi Arabia - Joint-Venture Abroad

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

EDITOR-NOTE: Export Opportunities. Briefs

                  Copyright 1993 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


