                              28 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Valdosta Daily Times (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 29, 2009 Friday

Val Tech to offer associate degree in nursing in Fall

BYLINE: Malynda Fulton, The Valdosta Daily Times, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words


May 29--VALDOSTA  -- Southwest Georgia Technical College and Valdosta Technical
College announced the introduction of an associate degree in nursing program at
Valdosta Tech Thursday.

The nursing program offers general core classes and occupational core classes
and requires 108 credit hours to graduate.

Through the program, students will be allowed to participate in clinical
rotations at area hospitals, which include South Georgia Medical Center, Smith
Northview Hospital, Presbyterian Home, Brooks County Hospital, Tift Regional
Medical Center and Greenleaf.

The nursing program will begin Fall Quarter 2009. Valdosta Tech will admit 20
students into the first class. Valdosta Tech has been developing the nursing
program since last July.

The Georgia Board of Nursing reviewed the nursing program, which was submitted
by Southwest Georgia Technical College, and issued an approval about two weeks
ago. The nursing program is also approved by the National League of Nursing
Accrediting Commission.

Valdosta Tech Interim President Dr. F.D. Toth expressed his optimism in the
nursing program and the opportunities it will bring to local students.

"Students who will enter this program are from the six counties that we
(Valdosta Tech) serve, which includes Berrien, Brooks, Cook, Echols, Lanier, and
Lowndes counties," Toth said. "Most of the students who enter the program will
probably stay here after they graduate and benefit our local hospitals and
health care facilities. That is why it is such an advantage to have such a
nursing program at Valdosta Technical College."

SGMC Assistant Administrator for Patient Care Services Ken Kiser mentioned the
hospital's plans to maintain a positive partnership with Valdosta Tech, as it
has maintained with the Valdosta State University College of Nursing.

"At any given time, we have 30 to 50 vacant nurse positions at the hospital,"
Kiser said. "The shortage of nurses in the area not only affects the hospital,
but Hospice, home health and public health services as well. We are excited
about this program and the opportunity to offer jobs to nurses who remain in the
community after they graduate."

Informational sessions will be held on June 3 and June 10 for all interested
parties at Valdosta Tech.

The sessions will begin at 10 a.m. and end at 4 p.m.

The HESI (Health Education Systems Inc.) exam is required to be accepted into
the nursing program. This exam will be given June 17 at 10 a.m.

For more information about Valdosta Technical College's associate degree in
nursing program, please contact Southwest Georgia Technical College at (229)
227-2980 or (229) 225-5280.

To see more of The Valdosta Daily Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.valdostadailytimes.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Valdosta Daily
Times, Ga. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090529-VD-Val-Tech-to-offer-associate-degree-in-nursing-in-Fall-0529

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VD


                                 Copyright 2009


