                              307 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday

Committee to assess psychological trauma in Kasur incident

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 241

LENGTH: 297  words


The Punjab government constituted technical experts committee comprising of
renowned psychiatrists for the psychological assessment of the persons suffered
psychological trauma in Kasur incident.

It is pertinent to mention here that, a child sexual abuse scandal occurred in
Hussain Khanwala village in Kasur District, Punjab, estimated that 280 to 300
mainly male children were victims of sexual abuse.

In this regard a letter has been issued here by the Health Department that in
the wake of the recent incident took place in district Kasur leading to physical
and psychological trauma to the affectees and their families, the competent
authority has been pleased to direct that the technical expert committee may
visit the locality immediately, conduct sessions with the sufferers and their
families and furnish recommendation for further course of action Letter further
says, an associate professor Department of psychiatry King Edward Medical
University (KEMU), Mayo hospital would be coordinator of the 9 members
committee.

Dr, Aftab Asif chairman psychiatry department KEMU/ Mayo hospital, Dr Nazish
Imran Associate professor Child psychiatry department, KEMU/Mayo hospital, Dr
Altaf Qadir head of psychiatry department Lahore General Hospital, Dr Sadaf
Rashid head of psychiatry department Sir Ganga Ganga Ram hospital, Prof. Dr.
Nasar Sayed Khan head of psychiatry department SIMS, Dr Rubina Aslam head of
psychiatry department Jinnah Hospital, Dr Tanvir Nasir principle clinical
psychologist Mayo Hospital and Dr Mohsina Najeeb principle clinical psychologist
mayo hospital would also be members of committee.

Health department directed said committee to visit Kasur on 5 September 2015
while Mayo hospital and Executive District Health Kasur would arrange
transportation service.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


