                              321 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 14, 1994, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

WHAT'S HAPPENING

SECTION: ILLINOIS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words

WHAT'S HAPPENING COLUMN


CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE Granite City: The Edgewood Program at Edwardsville will
present a talk and film on "Alcohol and Drug Addiction - What Is It?" The
speaker will be Warren Neal, Prevention/Intervention counselor for Edgewood.

Place: Wiesman Room, St. Elizabeth Medical Center, 2100 Madison Avenue.

When: Tuesday, Nov. 22, at 7:30 p.m.

Cost: Free.

Info: Call 798-3012. PARENT'S GROUP Belleville: The newly formed Parents of
Preschoolers group will hold a meeting. New participants are welcome to join in
a time of fellowship, learning and craft activities. Child care for preschoolers
will be provided.

Place: Westminster Presbyterian Church, 1419 North 17th Street.

When: Friday at 9 a.m.

Info: For information or to RSVP, call Jenni at 234-6254 GED/VOCATIONAL Venice:
Venice-Lincoln Technical Center is offering General Equivalency Diploma (GED)
classes and vocational training. Vocational classes include certified nurse
assistant, business careers, welding and machine shop. Free bus service and
child care are available.

Place: Venice-Lincoln Technical Center, 300 South 4th Street.

When: Orientation every Thursday at 9 a.m. School in session 8:50 a.m.-3 p.m.
Monday-Friday.

Cost: No charge.

Info: To register, call 874-7792. INFANT/CHILD CPR Alton: Saint Anthony's
Hospital is offering "Childsafe," a program on accident prevention in infants
and children. Participants can learn Infant and Child Cardiopulmonary
Resuscitation (CPR). Child Registry Handbooks and Emergency Treatment Permission
Forms will be distributed. The class is designed for parents, grandparents and
baby sitters. Class size is limited.

Place: Saint Anthony's Hospital.

When: Tuesday, Nov. 22, at 6:45 p.m.

Cost: $ 7.

Info: For information or to register, call Saint Anthony's Health Resource
Center at 465-2264 (weekdays). ORCHESTRA Fairview Heights: The RSVP (Retired and
Senior Volunteer Program) Orchestra will entertain community residents with the
big band sounds for dancing and listening pleasure.

Place: Caseyville Township Center, 10001 Bunkum Road.

When: Wednesday, Nov. 16, from 10:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.

Cost: Free.

Info: For information, call 234-4410. DEPRESSION GROUP Belleville: Fr. Dennis
Voss, chaplain at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, will address the subject of Guilt,
Hopelessness and Depression. The program is sponsored by The Depressive and
Manic-Depressive Association, Belleville Chapter.

Place: Cypress Room, St. Elizabeth's Hospital.

When: Wednesday, Nov. 16, at 7 p.m.

Cost: Free.

Info: Call 234-2864. SIBLING CLASS Alton: Saint Anthony's Hospital is offering a
"Sibling Party" for children, ages 3 to 10 years, whose parents are expecting
babies. Parents are encouraged to attend class with their children.

Place: Saint Anthony's Hospital.

When: Saturday at 10 a.m.

Info: To register, call Community Relations at 465-4507 (weekdays). BLOOD DRIVE
Edwardsville: Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville is hosting an
American Red Cross Blood Drive. Donors must be at least 17 years of age, weigh
at least 110 pounds and be in good general health.

Place: SIUE Student Fitness Center.

When: Wednesday, Nov. 16, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.

Info: Call Kimmel Student Leadership Center at 692-2686. WOMEN'S CLUB O'Fallon:
The O'Fallon Women's Club, Inc., will hold its regular meeting. The scheduled
program will be "Social Security and You," presented by Susan Hoffman.

Place: First United Methodist Church.

When: Wednesday, Nov. 16, at 12:30 p.m.

Info: Call Harriet Baker at 632-5530. DIABETES Granite City: St. Elizabeth
Medical Center is hosting a free "Take Care of Your Diabetes" class. The class
features a general overview of diabetes, symptoms, diabetes management,
exercise, testing, complications of the condition, nutrition and medication.

Place: Wiesman Room, SEMC, 2100 Madison Avenue.

When: Wednesday, Nov. 16, from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.

Cost: Free.

Info: For information or to register, call the SEMC Education Resources
Department at 798-3201. Send items at least 10 days before publication date to
Illinois Editor, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 900 North Tucker Boulevard, St. Louis,
Mo. 63101-1099.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


