                              330 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 24, 2016 Friday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Agency Information Collection Activities: Proposed Collection:
Public Comment Request Pages 41315 - 41316 [FR DOC # 2016-14952]

LENGTH: 1135  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:



  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Resources and Services
Administration Agency Information Collection Activities: Proposed Collection:
Public Comment Request AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration,
HHS. ACTION: Notice.
----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY:
In compliance with the requirement for opportunity for public comment on
proposed data collection projects (Section 3506(c)(2)(A) of the Paperwork
Reduction Act of 1995), the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA)
announces plans to submit an Information Collection Request (ICR), described
below, to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Prior to submitting the ICR
to OMB, HRSA seeks comments from the public regarding the burden estimate,
below, or any other aspect of the ICR. DATES: Comments on this ICR must be
received no later than August 23, 2016. ADDRESSES: Submit your comments to
paperwork@hrsa.gov or mail the HRSA Information Collection Clearance Officer,
Room 14N-39, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
CONTACT: To request more information on the proposed project or to obtain a copy
of the data collection plans and draft instruments, email

paperwork@hrsa.gov or call the HRSA Information Collection Clearance Officer at
(301) 443-1984. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: When submitting comments or
requesting information, please include the information request collection title
for reference. Information Collection Request Title: Small Rural Hospital
Transition Project (SRHT) OMB No. 0906-xxxx--New. Abstract: Under Section 330A
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c(e)), the Federal Office of
Rural [[Page 41316]] Health Policy (FORHP) funds grant programs supporting
expanding access to, coordinating, restraining the cost of, and improving the
quality of essential health care services in rural and frontier communities.
Small rural hospitals are facing many challenges in the new health care
environment, including the concurrent need to better measure and account for
quality of care in all settings; improve transitions of care as patients move
from one care setting to another; the evolution of new payment approaches such
as value-based purchasing; and, new approaches to care delivery such as
accountable care organizations (ACO) and patient-centered medical homes. Success
in this new environment will require bridging the gaps between the current
system and the newly emerging system of healthcare delivery and payment. Because
little is known about how these new models might impact rural communities, there
is a need to help hospitals understand and consider those factors that would
make them logical participants in health care systems that focus on value. The
SRHT, also funded by Section 330A, will assist small rural hospitals facing
these challenges. The purpose of the project is to provide on-site technical
assistance to nine small rural hospitals residing in persistent poverty
counties. Technical assistance will be provided in the areas of: (1) Financial
assessments, (2) creating a quality-focused environment, (3) aligning services
to community need, and, (4) to the extent that financial and quality core areas
have been stabilized, provide assistance to help recipients of technical
assistance consider factors that would make them logical participants in health
care systems that focus on value (for example ACOs, shared savings programs,
primary care medical homes). Need and Proposed Use of the Information: SRHT
includes a deliverable to design processes for developing, receiving, reviewing,
and scoring hospital applications for participation in the SRHT project. The
processes will ensure that the selection of applicants is consistent with
established criteria and hospitals' readiness or ability to implement
consultants' recommendations. Specifically, the application form will be
designed to solicit information that will be scored and ranked to aid in the
selection of nine small rural hospitals to receive on-site technical assistance.
Likely Respondents: Small rural hospitals located in a rural community, as
defined by FORHP, persistent poverty county or a rural census tract of a metro
persistent poverty county and have 49 staffed beds or less as reported on the
hospital's most recently filed Medicare Cost Report. Hospitals may be for-profit
or not-for-profit. Burden Statement: Burden in this context means the time
expended by persons to generate, maintain, retain, disclose or provide the
information requested. This includes the time needed to review instructions; to
develop, acquire, install and utilize technology and systems for the purpose of
collecting, validating and verifying information, processing and maintaining
information, and disclosing and providing information; to train personnel and to
be able to respond to a collection of information; to search data sources; to
complete and review the collection of information; and to transmit or otherwise
disclose the information. The total annual burden hours estimated for this ICR
are summarized in the table below. Total Estimated Annualized burden hours:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------- Average Number of Number of Total burden per
Total burden Form name respondents responses per responses response (in hours
respondent hours)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------- SRHT Online Application......... 30 38 1,140
.50 570 Assessment: Performance 30 29 870 .25 217.5 Excellence for Rural
Hospitals. Total....................... 30 * .............. 2,010 ..............
787.5
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------- * The same individuals complete the SRHT Online
Application and the Assessment for a total of 30 respondents. HRSA specifically
requests comments on: (1) The necessity and utility of the proposed information
collection for the proper performance of the agency's functions; (2) the
accuracy of the estimated burden; (3) ways to enhance the quality, utility, and
clarity of the information to be collected; and (4) the use of automated
collection techniques or other forms of information technology to minimize the
information collection burden. Jason E. Bennett, Director, Division of the
Executive Secretariat. [FR Doc. 2016-14952 Filed 6-23-16; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE
4165-15-P





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


