                              336 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 10, 2017 Monday
                                 Jaipur Edition

Patients reel under heat as power cut hits SMS Hospital

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 348 words


Amid intense heat, the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital witnessed power failure on
Sunday afternoon. Patients were literally left under the weather with many
stepping outside the hospital premises to find relief.

As per officials, due to some technical fault, electricity supply remained
affected for over one-and-a-half hour.\x93There was no fault in SMS hospital's
electricity supply but some technical fault in the feeder of discom led to the
power cut,\x93 hospital's additional superintendent Dr Ajit Singh said.

Around 2pm, the power supply was disrupted. Attendants and some patients
admitted to the wards came out in the open. But those who could not come out
remain inside the wards, sources said.

After the power cut, the hospital administration immediately supplied
electricity to emergency , ICUs and also in operation theatre. However, other
units in the hospital, which are not connected to generators, faced
difficulties.

\x93At a time when the tempe

rature is hovering over 40 degrees, it is difficult to stay in ward. My patient
is admitted to trauma ward, as he has undergone surgery . The fans and coolers
are not working. There is intense heat inside,\x93 Babulal, attendant of a
patient said, who came to meet him on Sunday .

Not only the main building, but other parts of the hospital including cottage

wards and Bangar block where patients with heart and neuro diseases are
admitted, were affected by power cut. The hospital administration claimed that
the discom officials resolved the problem to ensure proper electricity supply in
the hospital.

In 2012, a major power failure had affected SMS Hospital's emergency services.
Patients on ventilators in ICU on the ground floor were shifted

to ICUs on the first floor. Some parts of the hospital had witnessed total
blackout.

After that incident, the hospital administration had repaired all the
electricity cables and made arrangement for backup power supply . However, on
Sunday , power failure was due to technical fault in feeder of discom, which has
nothing to do with hospital's arrangement of uninterrupted power supply .

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


