                              372 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

J&K rural sports to begin from May 13

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: SRINAGAR


SRINAGAR, May 10 -- Minister for Medical Education R S Chib today said that
government would launch a departmental website to bring Directorate of Technical
Education, Youth Services and Sports, State Sports Council and all the
Government Polytechnics on line.

This was stated by the Minister at a review meeting, convened to take stock of
the functioning of departments under his charge. Minister said the department
would introduce file tracking system to ensure prompt movement of files, adding
this would improve the efficiency of the system, besides ensuring transparency
in the departments. He said the employees would also be imparted necessary
training for getting familiarity with the latest techniques.

Reviewing the progress on super specialty hospitals coming up both at Jammu and
Srinagar, the Minister emphasized on speeding up execution to make them
functional at the earliest. He asked the Principal Secretary, Health and Medical
Education to personally monitor the on-going projects being executed in
Government Medical colleges and their associated hospitals in the state

Chib saib rural sports activities would take off on May 13 under Panchayat Yuva
Khel Krida Abhiyan to give boost to the sports sector across the State and
harness the talent of budding sports persons in the countryside. Among others,
Principal Secretary, Health and Medical Education Suresh Kumar, Commissioner
Secretary, Technical Education B A Runiyal, Director, Technical Education Sourab
Bhagat, Director, Youth Services and Sports Jaipal Singh, Secretary, J&K State
Board of Technical Education B R Sharma, besides other senior officers of the
departments were attended the meeting. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Early Times. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2011 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


