                              379 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                August 7, 1996, Wednesday, CONSTITUTION EDITION

HOW GEORGIA STOCKS FARED;
Electronics distributor subject of large trade

BYLINE: Tom Walker; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 04F Tom Walker

LENGTH: 589 words


A single block of shares representing 16 percent of the outstanding stock in
Southern Electronics (ticker symbol SECX) was traded on Tuesday.

The transaction involving approximately 1.19 million shares was recorded at 1:08
p.m. in the Nasdaq market. By day's end, trading in Tucker-based Southern
Electronics totaled about 2.19 million shares, compared with a three-month
average of 18,255 shares.

The share price lost 18 3/4 cents to $ 6.56 1/4.

Company officials were unavailable for comment. But analyst Mark C. Jordan of
A.G. Edwards said venture capitalists may have been responsible for the trade.

"It's hard to tell at this point whether it was a (buy or sell) transaction, or
a stock distribution," said Jordan. "There have been some long-term venture
capitalists investing in this company recently."

Southern Electronics distributes microcomputers, computer peripherals, video
products, disk drives, terminals and cellular telephones.

The company on Friday reported net income of 23 cents a share for the fourth
quarter, against a loss of 17 cents a share, including a special charge, in the
year-earlier period.

Jordan said he looks for "a good year of growth" for the company in fiscal 1997.

Elsewhere, the shares of Magellan Health Services (MGL) traded at a 52-week low
for the second straight session following a disappointing earnings report. The
Atlanta-based company, which operates psychiatric hospitals, traded at $ 15.75
before closing at $ 15.87 1/2, down $ 1.62 1/2.

Analysts at two Wall Street brokerages downgraded their ratings Tuesday: to
"underperform" from "market perform" at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Securities,
and to "accumulate" from "buy" at Dean Witter Reynolds.

Magellan Health Services (formerly Charter Medical) on Monday reported a
third-quarter net loss of 18 cents per share after taking a total of $ 34
million in charges to settle billing disputes and close three hospitals. The
company also noted pressure on prices is continuing.

The best traffic month in its history did not help Delta Air Lines (DAL)
overcome investor reluctance to buy airline stocks. Its shares fell $ 1.62 1/2
to $ 71.62 1/2 despite an 11 percent jump in July traffic and an increase to
almost 75 percent in airplane occupancy from 69 percent in 1995.

The recent crash of a TWA jetliner and the imminent restoration of a 10 percent
federal ticket tax have plagued airline stocks.

Norrell (NRL), a temporary help firm, rose 50 cents to $ 29.87 1/2 after
announcing the acquisition of American Technical Resources, a McLean, Va.-based
provider of information technology support services with 1996 revenue estimated
at $ 40 million.

Georgia-Pacific (GP) lost 37 1/2 cents to $ 75.87 1/2. The forest products giant
said it will sell its gypsum wallboard plants in Buchanan, N.Y., and Wilmington,
Del., to Lafarge for undisclosed terms. The Justice Department required the sale
because of Georgia-Pacific's deal to buy the gypsum operations of Domtar.

Premiere Technologies (PTEK), a software company, rose 25 cents to $ 27 after
J.C. Bradford analysts increased their rating to "strong buy" from "buy."

Suburban Lodges of America (SLAM), a hotel developer that went public May 23,
jumped $ 2.50 to $ 23.87 1/2 after reporting a second- quarter profit of 8 cents
per share.

Weeks (WKS), a real estate investment trust and developer that last week agreed
to acquire a Nashville development company in a $ 120.7 million deal, closed at
a new high of $ 27.25, up 50 cents.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Line Graph: IN GEORGIA
 Bloomberg Georgia Stock Index
 Index is based on a level of 100 at the end of 1994 and tracks 182
 Georgia-based stocks:
 Tuesday's close: 138.82
 Change: Down 0.16
 Chart: Major Georgia Stocks - largest based on market capitalization (see
 microfilm for details)
 Source: Bloomberg Business News

                    Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution


