                              373 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 17, 2009 Thursday

Nigeria disburses 2m dollars to UN atomic agency to boost nuclear medicine
services

LENGTH: 453 words


Text of report by Folasade Folarin entitles "Nigeria Commits $2m to upgrade
nuclear medical services" published by private Nigerian newspaper The Guardian
website on 17 December

The Federal Government has released $2 million as counterpart funding to the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for the expansion of Nuclear Medicine
Services to upgrade and strengthen radiotherapy services in 10 tertiary
hospitals.

Minister of Health, Prof. Babatunde Osotimehin, revealed this in Abuja while
receiving the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),
Ambassador Yukiya Amano, who is in Nigeria for a two-day working visit.

Coming on the heels of Nigeria's participation at the 53rd General Conference of
the IAEA held in Vienna, the delegation led by wife of the President, Hajia
Turai Yar'Adua, canvassed among others, technical cooperation between the IAEA
and the International Cancer Centre.

The outcome of this will ensure that nuclear medicine, radiotherapy upgrades, a
process of technical assistance to residents and other relevant health
personnel, would be in place in about 23 tertiary institutions in Nigeria.

Osotimehin, while reiterating government's continued commitment to the
realisation of the cancer project within the shortest possible time, also
solicited the agency's assistance in the areas of periodic capacity building,
cancer prevention education workshop and technical partnership, noting that
early detection will cut costs.

He noted that the government has outlined measures to make the system work,
stressing that the government demonstrates seriousness in harnessing
collaborative effort in terms of capacity building in partnership with the IAEA.

The first phase of the nuclear medicine projects will be available in the
University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, University of Nigeria Teaching
Hospital, Enugu, University of Port-Harcourt Teaching Hospital, the National
Hospital, Abuja and the Federal Medical Centre, Gombe, while the upgrading of
radiotherapy facilities will be carried out in the National Hospital, Abuja,
University of Calabar, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, among others.

Ambassador Amano described Nigeria as a "better partner" to IAEA because of his
leadership role and the impact the country made in neighbouring African
countries and the level of seriousness and commitment demonstrated in the fight
against cancer.

A first time visitor to Nigeria, Amano since his appointment as the director
general of IAEA, announced that 40 per cent of technical support of IAEA in
Nigeria is for the health sector and promised to advocate support for Nigeria in
the next Scientific Conference Agency.

Source: The Guardian website, Lagos, in English 17 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


