                              391 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 10, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

VA hospital adds outpatient clinic in St. Petersburg

BYLINE: KRIS MAYES

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



In an effort to reach more veterans, the VA Medical Center at Bay Pines will
add a satellite health clinic on 34th Street S in St. Petersburg.

A second VA clinic is on the drawing board for Clearwater, but a location  has
not been chosen, officials said.

"Our theory is we serve a lot of clients and there are more we could serve  if
they could get to us," said VA spokesman Laurence Christman. "We know  that some
people can't drive, don't have a car and so you need to be close to  where the
bus lines are, close to where people work and live."

The St. Petersburg clinic, which will be based at the St. Petersburg campus  of
Pinellas Technical Education Centers at Eighth Avenue and 34 Street S, is
scheduled to open July 15. It will have four examination rooms staffed by a
physician, a registered nurse, a licensed practical nurse and two clerical
workers.

The agreement between the VA and the Pinellas County school district, which
owns PTEC, was signed April 28. In return for the space, PTEC students and
teachers will be offered training by VA staff members in areas such as medical
ethics, AIDS/HIV, pathophysiology, pharmacology and information management.

The VA and the school district have another agreement under which the VA
sponsors training courses for the Pinellas County School to Work program,  which
seeks to make connections between academic and work experiences.

VA officials said the satellite expansion is designed to meet a growing  demand
for outpatient services rather than in-patient hospital stays.

For instance, in 1995 the Bay Pines medical center had 11,899 admissions,
compared with 10,946 in 1996, fewer than 10,000 in 1997 and fewer than 9,000  so
far in 1998. By contrast, the VA expects to exceed 370,000 outpatient  visits
for fiscal year 1998, which ends in December. The center had 225,941  outpatient
visits in 1996 and approximately 240,000 outpatient visits in 1997.

"We keep going down . . . (on) inpatient visits, but our ambulatory care  keeps
going up," Christman said.

Inviting the VA onto campus "serves the community and it's going to give  us an
opportunity," said PTEC director Warren Laux. "It's a win-win for  everybody."

The clinic will take appointments only. Veterans may call 398-6661, ext.  7639
for information.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


