                              389 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Director of Application Development

LENGTH: 868  words

DATELINE: Arlington


National Defense Industrial Association has issued the following Job Vacancy:


Job Summary

Company
    Advanced ICU Care Inc
Location
    Irvine, CA
Industries
    Computer Software
    Healthcare Services
    Computer/[#x200b]IT Services
Job Type
    Full Time
    Employee
Job Reference Code
    1043
Contact Information
    Amber Chavez
    Advanced ICU Care Inc

Director of Application Development
About the Job

Advanced ICU Care (www.[#x200b]icumedicine.[#x200b]com), a rapidly growing,
venture backed, technology enabled health care services company is actively
seeking highly motivated individuals to join our team as a Director of
Application Development.[#x200b]  This position is responsible for providing
leadership to the development and database management groups, supporting eICU
technical implementation at new hospitals and for technical requirements to
build applications and databases to meet the needs of the company.[#x200b] This
individual will work from our office in Irvine, CA.[#x200b]

Our company is a leader in the hospital based tele-medicine space, providing
tele-ICU services to 60+[#x200b] hospitals (and growing) throughout the
nation.[#x200b] We are an organization that rewards creativity, collaboration,
innovation, and results.[#x200b]

Responsibilities for this position includes:

o    Delivering solutions that meet the needs of our business with speed,
accuracy and quality

o    Active and visible leader

o    Proactively removes issues

o    Results-focused individual with strong coaching, decision making,
influencing, negotiation, problem solving and situational analysis skills

o    Ensures that our development teams comply with all technical procedures,
quality controls, corporate policies and regulatory controls

o    Communicates effectively with our Business and Technology partners

o    Monitors the financial performance of our team

o    Review technical architecture of new and ongoing projects

o    Implement processes and systems to gather functional requirements, manage
development projects, prototype and design new applications, identify software
defects, identify performance and security issues prior to deployment, and
manage releases and release schedules

o    Help business owners reconcile business value with technical costs

o    Be the internal sponsor/[#x200b]stakeholder of projects and features that
will decrease technical debt in our feature prioritization process

o    Work with technical operations and support teams to increase stability and
reliability of the deployment environments

o    Monitor emerging trends in technology to maintain competitive advantage

o    Be a role model for software engineers (and mentor for junior engineers)
throughout the organization

Qualifications for this position includes:

Required:

o    Undergraduate degree in Computer Science or equivalent experience

o    10+[#x200b] years of experience in software development in web, java,
and/[#x200b]or batch processing

o    Experience managing teams of at least 15-20 individuals comprised of system
analysts, developers, and QA resources, in coordination with project and release
management resources

o    3+[#x200b] years of experience coaching, mentoring staff through conflict
resolution

o    5+[#x200b] years of experience managing application development projects
using both a waterfall and agile project management methodology

o    Broad knowledge of development and database technologies such as Java-based
web applications, MVC framework, web services (REST and SOAP), SQL and Oracle
relational databases, NoSQL and similar non-relational databases, content
management, and mobile applications

o    Expert understanding of developing distributed systems, CAP theorem, ACID
vs.[#x200b] BASE systems

o    Excellent written and verbal communication skills

Preferred Qualifications:

o    Healthcare experience preferably in a hospital or health system

o    Knowledge of the ICU setting is highly desirable

o    3+[#x200b] years of working with offshore and/[#x200b]or remote development
teams

o    Experience utilizing Cerner, Epic, and/[#x200b]or Meditech EMRs APIs to
build custom applications

Advanced ICU Care offers comprehensive tele-ICU programs with a proven track
record for improving clinical, financial, and operational performance for its
hospital partners.[#x200b] As the nation's largest independent tele-ICU
provider, Advanced ICU Care has successfully implemented and managed more
tele-ICU programs than any other organization.[#x200b] Our programs combine
experienced intensivist-led care teams, cutting edge technology, and a keen
focus on evidence-based best practices to improve patient care, safety, and
outcomes.[#x200b]

Our company fuses a friendly and collegial work environment with high
performance standards.[#x200b] Our compensation plans include base salary,
annual bonus opportunities and competitive benefit programs.[#x200b]

Advanced ICU Care provides equal employment opportunities (EEO) to all employees
and applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, marital status, amnesty, or status as a covered
veteran in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws.[#x200b]

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


