                              397 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            January 20, 2006 Friday

st. johns briefs

BYLINE: dana david

SECTION: Pg. SU-26

LENGTH: 1518 words


flagler hospital joins 100,000 lives campaign

Flagler Hospital has joined the Institute for Healthcare Improvement's 100,000
Lives Campaign, the first national initiative to save a specified number of
lives by June 14 using proven clinical practices and methods.

Health care facilities that choose to participate in the campaign commit to
implement some or all of the following six quality improvement changes:
deploying rapid response teams, delivering reliable evidence-based care for
acute myocardial infarction, preventing adverse drug events, preventing central
line infections, preventing surgical site infections and preventing
ventilator-associated pneumonia.

Additional information about the campaign and a list of all participating
hospitals and hospital systems are available at
www.ihi.org/ihi/programs/campaigns.

h&r block expands network

H&R Block is opening hundreds of new offices across the country to answer a
growing demand for tax services during the 2006 tax filing season. One of the
newest offices has opened at 2849 County Road 210 West, Suite 109. Professionals
will be prepared to help clients with any tax issue, tax planning and other
financial issues. H&R Block also offers a wide range of mortgage and
investment-related services. For more information about the new office, or to
make an appointment, call (904) 230-8080.

technical scholarships

First Coast Technical Institute will award scholarships to graduating high
school seniors who desire technical career education. Applicants must reside in
Putnam, St. Johns or Clay counties. The FCTI scholarship overs tuition for one
year and may be used in any of the 24 technical courses offered. Program
completion takes from several months to two years. Applications are available at
www.fcti.org or by calling (904) 824-4401, and must be returned by April 1.

relay for life

The northwest St. Johns County Relay for Life committee and School
Superintendent Joseph Joyner will host a kickoff dinner for the 2006 relay event
at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday in the multipurpose room of the St. Johns County Service
Center, located at the intersection of Flora Branch Boulevard and Race Track
Road.

This year's event, which is an annual fundraiser for the American Cancer
Society, will take place at Bartram Trail High School May 6-7. Tuesday's dinner
will provide the opportunity for teams and volunteers to sign up to participate.
For more information, contact Brenda Johnson at relaybrenda@comcast.net or call
(904) 230-3441.

tops meeting

TOPS (Take Off Pounds Sensibly) Chapter No. FL493, St. Augustine, meets each
Wednesday at the Colee Cove Volunteer Fire Station, 9105 Florida 13 North.
Weigh-in is at 8:30 a.m. and the meeting starts at 9 a.m. For more information,
contact Sara Weaver at (904) 940-7528.

peace rally

People for Peace and Justice of St. Augustine and Grandparents for Peace will
hold a peace rally from 10 a.m. to noon Saturday at the Bridge of Lions in St.
Augustine to support bringing American troops home now. Attendees are asked to
bring their own signs. For more information, e-mail marstans@hotmail.com or call
(904) 471-1986.

ready, set, grow!

Flagler County Extension and Master Gardener Club will offer a "Ready, Set,
Grow" program from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday at Flagler County Extension
Service, 150 Sawgrass Road, Bunnell. Cost is $20 per person and includes lunch.
Pre-registration is required.

The program is geared to teach Flagler County residents more about gardening in
Flagler County. Topics include growing herbs, cooking with herbs (with
demonstration), a buffet lunch featuring items from the cooking demonstration,
how to plan a Florida landscape and how to manage a Florida lawn.

For more information or to register, call (386) 437-7464.

workshop and trade show

The 2006 Annual Directors Workshop and Mini-Trade Show will begin 8:45 a.m.
Saturday at the Renaissance Resort at the World Golf Village. The event is
sponsored by Clayton & McCulloh, a law firm that practices homeowner and
condominium association law. Attorneys will be available before and after the
show to answer any questions. Richard White, a syndicated newspaper columnist
will also be available for questions during the trade show. For more information
on reservations and prices, call toll-free 1 (888) 793-1486 or visit
www.clayton-mcculloh.com.

relay for life kickoff

Join Dr. Joseph Joyner and the Relay for Life Committee for a kickoff dinner,
6:30 p.m. Tuesday at the St. Johns County Service Center, 725 Flora Branch Road.
Find out how to be a part of Bartram Trail High School's Relay for Life, the
American Cancer Society's fundraising event and celebration to honor and
remember those whose lives have been affected by cancer. Those interested in
signing up a team or volunteering for the event are invited to the dinner. For
more information, contact Brenda Johnson at (904) 230-3441 or register online at
www.acsevents.org/relay/fl/bartram.

camp healing powers

To help children cope with the loss of a loved one, Community Hospice of
Northeast Florida will offer Camp Healing Powers Feb. 3-5, for children ages
12-16. The deadline for receiving applications is Wednesday. A $20 deposit is
required but will be returned upon completion of camp. The cost of Camp Healing
Powers, including housing, meals, activities and curriculum, is funded entirely
by private donations. To be eligible, the death must have occurred at least 90
days before camp attendance and a pre-camp assessment is required for all
attendees.

Designed by bereavement specialists, the camp provides a safe and secure
environment where children can remember those who have died, acknowledge sadness
and pain and begin taking steps toward reconciliation through age-appropriate
activities. The camp will be held at the Marywood Retreat Center. To schedule an
appointment for a camp assessment, contact Child Bereavement Specialist Vickie
Smith at (904) 407-7197.

unity church's guest speaker

Jon Mundy will be a guest speaker 7 p.m. Wednesday at Unity Church of Creative
Living, 2777 Race Track Road. Tickets are available for $15 each by phone or
e-mail registration, and $20 at the door. Limited seating is available for this
event.

A college professor for 38 years, Mundy serves as a professor of philosophy at
Marist College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He is the co-founder and senior minister
emeritus of Interfaith Fellowship and co-founder of New Seminary, both in New
York City. He is also the author of seven books.

For more information or for reservations, contact Tonya Bennett by e-mail at
admin@unityinjax.com or call (904) 287-1505.

northwest community coalition meeting

The Northwest St. Johns County Community Coalition will meet 7 p.m. Thursday at
the St. Johns County Annex, 725 Flora Branch Road. Marcy Silkenbaken from the
St. Johns Civic Roundtable will speak on charter government, and Don Beattie
will speak on school law. For additional information, contact Phyllis Abbatiello
at (904) 287-5577.

girls on the run

Registration is now open for Girls On The Run of Northeast Florida, an
after-school program for third to sixth grade girls. The program combines
running and training for a 5K run/walk, with healthy living education and life
lessons.Deadline to register is Jan. 27, but team sizes are limited so register
early. Coaching opportunities are also available. For more information, visit
www.GOTRneflorida.org or call (904) 321-4315.

girl scouts open house

The Girl Scouts invite the public to attend an open house from 1-3 p.m.
Saturday, Jan. 28, at the Bartram Trail branch public library. The event is
hosted by the Julington River Bend Service Unit of Gateway Girl Scout Council.
Discover how the Girl Scouts are helping girls everywhere to build character and
gain skills for success in the real world. The open house will feature a series
of stations for games, troop activities and demonstrations, SWAPs, community
involvement, membership and volunteer information, and guest speakers. For more
information, contact Cheryl Smith at (904) 230-1644.

wordstream retreat

The Wordstream writer's retreat is scheduled for 9 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. Saturday,
Jan. 28, at Riverdale Inn, 1521 Riverside Ave., Jacksonville. Registration fee
of $75 includes workshop materials and lunch. The retreat will be led by local
authors Dorothy Fletcher and Kay Day. Space is limited and pre-registration is
required. To receive an application and information package, call (904) 880-4516
or (904) 737-1550.

republican club

The Republican Club of Northwest St. Johns County will meet 6:30 p.m. Tuesday,
Jan. 31, at the Julington Creek Plantation Champions Golf Club. Bob McClure,
president and CEO of the James Madison Institute, will speak on "Current Issues
Facing Florida." JMI is a non-partisan, public policy research organization
engaged in the battle of ideas. Larry Reed, president of Mackinac Center for
Public Policy, will speak on "My Favorite President." Mackinac is a Midland,
Mich.-based research and educational institute. For more information about the
meeting, contact Hank Heinold at (904) 254-2316 or Sherman Turnage at (904)
838-6759.

--compiled by dana david

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Florida Times-Union


