                              490 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            March 30, 2017 Thursday

Dist admin finds technical irregularities at 25 clinics

SECTION: KOLHAPUR

LENGTH: 405 words


Kolhapur: The district health administration has found technical irregularities
in 25 clinics it has inspected since March 15.The administration decided to
crack down on illegally-run hospitals and sonography centres across the centres
after the sex determination racket was exposed in Mhaisal town in Sangli
district this month.These irregularities include violation of norms regarding
the ICU and not having the required certificates and no objection certificates
(NOC) from various departments of the civic body, health administration, and the
state's directorate of health. The administration will be inspecting around 400
hospitals more. In the last two weeks, however, only 90 hospitals were
inspected.

The deadline for teams appointed for surprise visits and inspection ends on
April 15. District civil surgeon L S Patil, said, "We have found irregularities
in 25 hospitals and clinics across the district. These irregularities are mostly
related to technical issues such as failure in getting certificates for
disposing medical waste or any other provisions as mentioned in the Bombay
Nursing Act. We are yet to find any maternity clinic or sonography centre where
illegal processes are taking place. Show-cause notices have been issued to the
hospitals' doctors and we have sought a reply within a week."Inspection teams
have been formed at the taluka-level comprising a medical superintendent and
representatives from the revenue department, police and food and drugs
administration (FDA). These teams will make surprise visits. Similar teams were
formed for inspection of hospitals in the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC)
limits as well as village areas. A committee has been formed at the district
level headed by the district collector. Patil said that a report regarding the
irregularities in these 25 clinics was tabled before the committee which will
soon decide the future course of action."The teams inspect the qualifications of
doctors and nursing staff operating in the clinics. Documents related to various
permissions under the Act are scrutinised and various departments such as
outpatient department (OPD), operation theatres, delivery sections, sonography
section, medical stores, laboratories and scanning department are searched. The
doctors, especially those handling pregnancy cases, have to give details of
medicines prescribed to any pregnant women," Patil said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


