                              496 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                            October 21, 2016 Friday

GRAND OPENING

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 861 words


Briefly

Strike City, 3544 Mariner Blvd., Spring Hill, had its grand opening Oct. 6,
offering free bowling, free arcade play, door prizes, refreshments and music.
For information, call (352) 683-7576.

- - -

ALCOHOL DELIVERY OFFERED: An expanded partnership between ABC Fine Wine &
Spirits and Shipt will now offer Spring Hill residents, of legal drinking age,
the opportunity to use their Shipt memberships to have alcohol delivered to
their front doors. The delivery area extends from the store at 4120 Commercial
Way, Spring Hill. To kick off the partnership, Shipt members will receive free
delivery on orders of more than $35 until Oct. 31. For information, visit
abcfws.com or shipt.com.

- - -

GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM EXPANDS: Oak Hill Hospital in Spring Hill
recently announced the expansion of its graduate medical education program to
include an accredited transitional year residency program. The program will
accept 10 post-graduate Year 1 resident physicians beginning in the summer of
2017. The program is under the direction of Dr. Dean F. Connors, and core
faculty members include Drs. Stephen Mitchell, Nikolay Mitzov, Salman Muddassir
and Nicholas Strobbe.

* * *

Who's news

NEW CREDENTIAL EARNED: Board-certified emergency nurse Catherine Edminsten, vice
president of operations at Oak Hill Hospital, recently became a fellow of the
American College of Healthcare Executives, the nation's leading professional
society for health care leaders, and earned the distinction of board
certification from the college.

* * *

Events

HERNANDO UNTAPPED: The Greater Hernando County Chamber of Commerce will present
its second annual Hernando Untapped Craft Beer & Wine Festival from 6 to 10 p.m.
Friday at American Aviation Flight Academy, 17076 Helicopter Drive, south of
Brooksville. Those attending will be able to sample beer and wine while
listening to music by the Bearded Brothers Band. There also will be food truck
vendors as well as local merchants and retailers. General admission is $25 per
person and includes a tasting glass and unlimited samplings of beer, wine and
entertainment. Food is not included but will be available for sale. Designated
driver tickets are $10 per person and include complimentary soda or water and
entertainment. VIP tickets are $50 per person (only 150 tickets available) and
include one-hour-early admission, a complimentary tasting glass, a VIP swag bag,
VIP snacks and access to a VIP area with private restrooms and seating. Only
people age 21 and older will be admitted. For information or tickets, call (352)
796-0697 or visit hernandochamber.com.

- - -

CHAMBER RIBBON-CUTTING: The Greater Hernando County Chamber of Commerce will
have a ribbon-cutting for Senior Voice at the chamber's office, 15588 Aviation
Loop Drive, south of Brooksville, at noon Tuesday. Call Jim Vavala, (352)
848-3201.

- - -

BPW CELEBRATES NATIONAL BUSINESS WOMEN'S WEEK: BPW of Hernando County will
celebrate National Business Women's Week with a dinner at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday at
Bonefish Grill, 12906 Cortez Blvd., Spring Hill. Proceeds benefit the BPW/FL
Breast Cancer Scholarship Fund. Tickets are $10 per person. For information,
call (917) 929-2442.

- - -

CHAMBER MEMBERSHIP MEETING: The Greater Hernando County Chamber of Commerce will
have its October membership meeting at 7:15 a.m. Wednesday at Silverthorn
Country Club, 4550 Golf Club Lane, south of Brooksville. The breakfast will be
sponsored by Brewer Funeral Home & Cremation Services. The speaker will be
Eileen Rodriguez of the Small Business Development Center. The prepayment cost
with breakfast is $15 online or $20 at the door. To RSVP, visit
hernandochamber.com/events. For information, call (352) 796-0697.

- - -

BUSINESS BOOT CAMP: Chamber members participating in the Greater Hernando County
Chamber of Commerce's Business Boot Camp will learn how to maximize their
chamber membership. The last session, "Advocacy in Action," will be from 7:15 to
9 a.m. Thursday at the chamber's office, 15588 Aviation Loop Drive, south of
Brooksville. The session is free and will include networking opportunities. To
RSVP, call (352) 796-0697 or visit hernandochamber.com.

* * *

Building skills

SMALL BUSINESS SEMINAR: Pasco Hernando SCORE is presenting a series of free
small business seminars.

- Creating a Successful Business Plan, 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Oct. 25 at New Port
Richey Library, 5939 Main St., New Port Richey.

- Grant Writing for Nonprofits, 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Tuesday at Hudson Regional
Library, 8012 Library Road, Hudson.

- Using the Internet in Your Business, 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Tuesday at Land O'Lakes
Branch Library, 2818 Collier Parkway, Land O'Lakes.

To register and for information, visit pascohernando.score.org and click on the
Local Workshops tab or call the SCORE office at (727) 842-4638.

* * *

If you have business announcements you would like to share with our readers,
mail the details to Jean Hamilton, Business Digest, Hernando Times, 15365 Cortez
Blvd., Brooksville, FL 34613-6174. You may also email items to
jhamilton@tampabay.com or fax them to (352) 754-6133. Items may be edited for
length and clarity. Photos are published as space permits; they will not be
returned.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edminsten PHOTO - Courtesy of Vince Vanni: TECHNICAL ANALYSTS
RECOGNIZED: Two technical analysts who work with HCA Oak Hill Hospital - John
Redpath and Frank Drinkwine - were recently recognized by the HCA West Florida
Division. Redpath, left, received the 2016 Technical Superstar Award for
superior technical skills; Drinkwin received the 2016 HCA Information Technology
& Services MVP Award.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


