                              494 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             March 27, 2016 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

Anne Wilson

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 340 words


MARTINEZ, Ga. - Entered into rest Saturday, March 19, 2016, Miss Elizabeth Anne
Wilson, age 67.

Miss Wilson was a native and lifelong resident of Augusta, GA. She was a member
of St. Paul's Episcopal Church. Miss Wilson was a graduate of Academy of
Richmond County High School. She began her career as a Licensed Practical Nurse
then graduated from Augusta Technical College as a Registered Nurse. Miss Wilson
returned to Augusta Technical College teach in the LPN program. Miss Wilson
returned to school and received her BSN from the Medical College of Georgia,
then her Masters in Divinity from Columbia Theologian Seminary. She worked at
several local hospitals including University Hospital, Gracewood State School
and Hospital, Walton Rehab, and Doctors Hospital. She served in several small
churches in Georgia, South Carolina and in the mountains of North Carolina, as a
Pastor. Miss Wilson was a former member of Greene Street Presbyterian Church, a
member of the choir, a deacon and elder. She was a former member of AAHORN and
APIC Nursing Organizations and Augusta Charter Chapter of the American Business
Women's Association.

Family members include brothers: James W. Wilson, Jr. and wife Marsha of
Augusta; brother: Charles P. Burch of Augusta and godchildren: Stacy R. Wilson
of Augusta and Chandler Saunders of Aiken. She was preceded in death by her
parents, James W. Wilson, Sr. and Frances Harrison Wilson, and nephew, Arthur J.
Wilson.

A memorial service will be Saturday, April 2, 2016 at 1:00 P.M. at The Church of
the Holy Comforter with Dr. Rev. Cynthia Taylor, Fr. Jay Pinkerton, Rev. Joan
Starnes Yates and Rev. Don Nail officiating.

In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Building Fund at
Church of the Holy Comforter, 473 Fury's Ferry Road, Martinez, GA 30907.

The family will receive friends following the service.

Thomas Poteet & Son Funeral Directors, 214 Davis Rd., Augusta, GA 30907 (706)
364-8484. Please sign the guestbook at

www.thomaspoteet.com

The Augusta Chronicle - Sunday, March 27, 2016

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wilson mug

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


