                              54 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            September 9, 2016 Friday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Health Resources and Services Administration Pages 62512 -
62513 [FR DOC # 2016-21733]

LENGTH: 1082  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:



 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Resources and Services
Administration Agency Information Collection Activities: Submission to OMB for
Review and Approval; Public Comment Request; Small Rural Hospital Transitions
Project AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), Department
of Health and Human Services ACTION: Notice.
----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY:
In compliance with Section 3507(a)(1)(D) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995,
HRSA submitted an Information Collection Request (ICR) to the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) for review and approval. Comments submitted during
the first public review of this ICR will be provided to OMB.

OMB will accept further comments from the public during the review and approval
period. DATES: Comments on this ICR should be received no later than October 11,
2016. ADDRESSES: Submit your comments, including the ICR Title, to the desk
officer for HRSA, either by email to OIRA_submission@omb.eop.gov or by fax to
202-395-5806. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: To request a copy of the
clearance requests submitted to OMB for review, email the HRSA Information
Collection Clearance [[Page 62513]] Officer at paperwork@hrsa.gov or call (301)
443-1984. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Information Collection Request Title: Small
Rural Hospital Transitions Project OMB No. 0906-xxxx--NEW Abstract: Under
Section 330A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c(e)), the Federal
Office of Rural Health Policy (FORHP) funds grant programs supporting expanding
access to, and improving the quality of essential health care services in rural
and frontier communities. Small rural hospitals are facing many challenges in
the new health care environment, including the concurrent need to better measure
and account for quality of care in all settings; improving transitions of care
as patients move from one care setting to another; adopting new payment
approaches such as value-based purchasing; and tailoring operations to the new
approaches to care delivery, such as accountable care organizations (ACO) and
patient-centered medical homes. Success in this new environment will require
bridging the gaps between the current system and the newly emerging system of
healthcare delivery and payment. Because little is known about how these new
models might impact rural communities, there is a need to help hospitals
understand and consider those factors that would make them logical participants
in health care systems that focus on value. The Small Rural Hospital Transitions
(SRHT) Project will assist small rural hospitals in making the transition. The
purpose of the project is to provide on-site technical assistance to nine small
rural hospitals located in persistent poverty counties. Technical assistance
will be provided in the areas of: (1) Financial assessments, (2) creating a
quality-focused environment, (3) aligning services to community need, and, (4)
to the extent that financial and quality core areas have been stabilized,
assistance to help the hospitals consider factors that would make them logical
participants in health care systems that focus on value (for example ACOs,
shared savings programs, primary care medical homes). Need and Proposed Use of
the Information: The information will be solicited in the form of the SRHT
Project Technical Assistance Online Application form and the supporting hospital
assessment, Performance Excellence for Rural Hospitals. All small rural
hospitals desiring to apply for onsite technical assistance through SRHT will be
required to complete the application and the survey. The applicant's information
will be scored and ranked to aid in the selection of nine small rural hospitals
to receive on-site technical assistance. Both the application form and the
hospital assessment are designed to ensure the selection of hospital applicants
consistent with established eligibility criteria and hospitals readiness or
ability to implement consultant's recommendations. A 60-day Federal Register
Notice was published in the Federal Register on June 24, 2016 (81 FR 41315).
There were no public comments. Likely Respondents: Small rural hospitals located
in a rural community, as defined by FORHP, persistent poverty county, or a rural
census tract of a metro persistent poverty county; have 49 staffed beds or less
as reported on the hospital's most recently filed Medicare Cost Report.
Hospitals; and for-profit or not-for-profit. Burden Statement: Burden in this
context means the time expended by persons to generate, maintain, retain,
disclose or provide the information requested. This includes the time needed to
review instructions; to develop, acquire, install and utilize technology and
systems for the purpose of collecting, validating and verifying information,
processing and maintaining information, and disclosing and providing
information; to train personnel and to be able to respond to a collection of
information; to search data sources; to complete and review the collection of
information; and to transmit or otherwise disclose the information. The total
annual burden hours estimated for this ICR are summarized in the table below.
Total Estimated Annualized Burden--Hours
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------- Average Number of Number of Total burden per
Total burden Form name respondents responses per responses response (in hours
respondent hours)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------- SRHT Project Technical 30 38 1140 .50 570
Assistance Online Application.. Assessment: Performance 30 29 870 .25 217.5
Excellence for Rural Hospitals.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total....................... * 30 .............. 2010 .............. 787.5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------- * The same individuals complete the SRHT Online
Application and the Assessment for a total of 30 respondents. Jason E. Bennett,
Director, Division of the Executive Secretariat. [FR Doc. 2016-21733 Filed
9-8-16; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4165-15-P



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


