                              64 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Press - Victorville (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday

St. Mary technical workers unionize: Non-professionals' vote still uncertain as
some ballots are contested for clarity

BYLINE: Matthew C. Durkee, Daily Press, Victorville, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words


Aug. 19--APPLE VALLEY -- Technical workers at St. Mary Medical Center have voted
to join the United Steel Workers union, however the collective votes of two
units of service workers remain in question.

Technical workers voted 63-56 in favor of joining the USW.

The non-professional units voted 177-165 against joining the union with five
votes contested and 11 votes for joining the Service Employees International
Union.

Because of the contested votes, a clear majority is not yet certain, and there
may be a runoff election.

St. Mary spokesman Randy Bevilacqua said that it's now time for reconciliation.
With respect to the uncertain vote, he said, the hospital looks forward to a
quick determination.

The voting was conducted by the National Labor Relations Board, a federal agency
over the course of Thursday and Friday.

This is the second time in the last three years that St. Mary's technical and
service workers -- typically employees in laboratory, radiology and custodial
departments -- have voted on unionizing.

The first time, a substantial majority voted against unionizing.

United Steel Workers field representative Maria Somma said this time she wanted
to make sure that sentiment was sufficiently strong to warrant another effort at
unionizing.

She said that employees are disgruntled over low pay, reduced hours, rampant
favoritism and understaffing.

Hospital management has been dismissive of the claims, saying that they are
typical accusations made by labor unions.

CEO Jason Barker and spokesman Bevilacqua have said pay is competitive for
hospitals in the Inland Empire, and workloads and staffing are determined
according to the hospital's capacity to serve the community.

To see more of the Daily Press, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.vvdailypress.com. Copyright (c) 2007, Daily Press, Victorville,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070819-VV-St-Mary-technical-workers-unionize-0819

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VV


                           Copyright 2007 Daily Press


