                              94 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                         TendersInfo - Project Notices

                             May 28, 2016 Saturday

Technical Control Market - Oprationconstruction New Hospital

LENGTH: 340  words


Contract notice: Technical Control Market - Oprationconstruction New Hospital
<nl/>Quantity or scope: The operation is an estimated duration of approximately
10 months of study, 20 months and12 months of work perfect achvementPour the
following scope of operation: Entire books, VRD and equipment covered studies
and technical travaux.La Mission controller covers all the technical parts
within the meaning of article 20 of the GCC-PI: - Part 1 Technique: Phase
conceptiono: risk / Apso: design document review (ODA PROJECT) - Part 2
Technique: Review of Part Execution- documents Technique 3: Review of site works
and quipements.- Technique Part 4: Upstream services in reception and assignment
during lapriode of completion guarantee. <nl/>

Main features: Consultation is to the award of a Technical Control Service
market) (CT involves the construction design, development, maintenance
maintenance of the project involves the construction nouvelhpital.Le design,
development, maintenance service dunouvel hpitalL~opration concerns
accommodation building 220 beds and 6 seats. The btimentreprsente a total floor
area of approximately 9500 meters is carrsL~opration an estimated duration of
approximately 10 months of study, 20 months and12 months of work perfect
achvementPour the following scope of operation: Entire books, VRD and equipment
subject of studies and works. <nl/>Time limit for receipt of tenders: 06/17/2016
11:00 <nl/>Minimum period of bid validity:90 days <nl/>Award criteria : The most
economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the
specifications (consultation regulations, invitation letter or descriptive
document).<nl/> Major organization : HOPITAL LOCAL DE REIGNIER. <nl/><nl/>
Address : 411, Grande rue 74930 Reignier <nl/>Attn: M. DE WILDE Samuel,
Directeur Adjoint <nl/><nl/>Country :France<nl/> Url : http://www.hl-reignier.fr
<nl/><nl/>  Tender notice number : 16-76505 <nl/><nl/>  Notice type : Tender
Notice <nl/><nl/>  Open date : 2016-06-18 <nl/><nl/> Tender documents :
T33807329.html

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 81


                          Copyright 2016 Tenders Info
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


