                              96 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 28, 2016 Friday

Information Services to Rural Hospital Flexibility Grantees Program Cooperative
Agreement (Technical Assistance Center)

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: US Government has issued the following grant:
  Document Type:






    Grants Notice



    Funding Opportunity Number:

    HRSA-17-004



    Funding Opportunity Title:

    Information Services to Rural Hospital Flexibility Grantees Program
Cooperative Agreement (Technical Assistance Center)





    Opportunity Category:

    Discretionary



    Opportunity Category Explanation:





    Funding Instrument Type:

    Cooperative Agreement



    Category of Funding Activity:

    Health



    Category Explanation:


https://grants.hrsa.gov/2010/Web2External/Interface/FundingCycle/ExternalView.as
px?fCycleID=a7266030-ef5d-43fb-b3ab-0f9189f2f116



    Expected Number of Awards:

    1



    CFDA Number(s):

    93.241 -- State Rural Hospital Flexibility Program



    Cost Sharing or Matching Requirement:

    No














         Version:

         Synopsis 1



         Posted Date:

         Oct 27, 2016



         Last Updated Date:

         Oct 27, 2016



         Original Closing Date for Applications:

         Jan 05, 2017



         Current Closing Date for Applications:

         Jan 05, 2017



         Archive Date:

         Mar 06, 2017



         Estimated Total Program Funding:

         $1,100,000



         Award Ceiling:

         $0



         Award Floor:

         $0









 Eligibility





      Eligible Applicants:

      Others (see text field entitled "Additional Information on Eligibility"
for clarification)



      Additional Information on Eligibility:

      Eligible applicants include domestic public or private, non-profit or
for-profit organizations.  Eligible organizations may include State, local, and
Indian tribal governments; institutions of higher education; other non-profit
organizations (including faith-based, community-based, and tribal
organizations); and hospitals. Applicants must have significant experience with
providing technical assistance virtually and onsite to a wide range of
stakeholders, including state and hospital staff.  Expert knowledge and
demonstrable national recognition in the realm of CAH Finance, Performance
Improvement, Quality Improvement, Health Systems Development, Emergency Medical
Services, Community Engagement, Population Health, and Network Development are
required.  Applicants must have established methodologies for the creation and
dissemination of TA related to the aforementioned focus areas.  Applicants must
have demonstrate national-level experience providing rural health-related TA,
and be able to provide, upon request, proof of completed TA products associated
with the focus areas. Foreign entities are not eligible for this award.






 Additional Information





      Agency Name:

      Health Resources and Services Administration



      Description:

      This announcement solicits applications for Information Services to Rural
Hospital Flexibility Program Grantees Cooperative Agreement.  The purpose of
this program is improve quality and financial viability in rural communities
through technical assistance to beneficiaries of FORHP initiatives, such as
grant recipients, Critical Access Hospitals, small rural hospitals, and rural
health networks.  Assistance will be provided in the areas of: financial and
operational performance improvements and benchmarking; community engagement and
population health initiatives; provision of rural emergency medical services;
quality improvement; and building capacity to participate in alternative payment
models.



      Link to Additional Information:





      Grantor Contact Information:

      If you have difficulty accessing the full announcement electronically,
please contact:



      Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services
Administration mmcneely@hrsa.gov



      Contact MIchael McNeely at (301)443-5812 or email mmcneely@hrsa.gov






   In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com






LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


