
                               1 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Straits Times

Four hospitals have their own ethics committees

                                 June 12, 1993


SEVERAL hospitals say that they either have their own ethics committees or are
in the process of setting them up.

A check with six private and re-structured hospitals showed that four already
have such committees, while one is in the process of forming one.

The Straits Times reported on Thursday that the Health Ministry is setting up a
national ethics committee to work out clearer ethical guidelines raised by new
medical treatments.

But the ministry also said that this does not prevent hospitals from forming
their own ethics committees.

The four hospitals with such committees are the National University Hospital
(NUH), Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH), Mount Elizabeth Hospital and East Shore
Hospital.

A spokesman for the Singapore General Hospital said that it is forming an ethics
committee, but that its terms of reference have not been finalised.

A spokesman for Gleneagles Hospital said it does not have a formal ethics
committee. Issues of an ethical nature are referred to the medical advisory
board, which handles all professional work in the hospital, he said.

The committee at NUH was formed at the end of 1991. Called the Ethical Research
Committee, it is headed by a senior clinician. Members include doctors and a
medical social worker.

The committee protects the subjects of research from possible harm, preserves
the rights of subjects to ensure that the research is ethical and provides
reassurance to the public that this is done.

TTSH set up its nine-member Ethics and Research Committee in July last year to
review cases which require inquires on ethical issues.

Mount Elizabeth and East Shore, both private hospitals, formed their ethics
committees six months ago. Each has a minimum of three doctors plus other
hospital representatives.


SECTION: Home; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 560 words

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1993 The Straits Times Press Limited


                               2 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                October 7, 2002

Doctors 'should tell of financial interest' in treatments

BYLINE: By CAROL COULTER, Legal Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 463 words


Doctors should have to tell patients when they have a financial interest in the
treatment they are recommending, the Medical Council has been told.

In its submission to the council, which is currently reviewing its ethical
guidelines, the Adelaide Hospital Society says patients should be aware of
doctors' potential conflicts of interest.

The document states: "These may arise when doctors have a financial interest in
certain healthcare facilities. We submit that the Medical Council should give
ethical guidance to the effect that where a doctor has a financial interest in a
healthcare facility, or course of treatment, and where they are recommending
patients to receive care in such a facility or obtain such a course of
treatment, that such an interest would be declared."

Stressing the ethical need for doctors to press for adequate and appropriate
care for all patients, it says: "There are major ethical dilemmas for doctors
when financial pressures prevent timely and/or appropriate care to patients.
Such advocacy will be ethical and effective when it is informed by social
justice principles, adequate research and analysis and is not directly related
to the remuneration of doctors themselves."

The society also recommends that doctors be involved in publicly advocating
appropriate and accessible healthcare for all, especially the less well-off,
without directly seeking more money for doctors.

The Medical Council called for submissions as part of its five-yearly updating
of the Ethical Guide, last updated in 1998.

The Adelaide Hospital Society is a charitable organisation and reflects the
Protestant ethos in medicine.

It was formerly involved in the Adelaide Hospital, and now is a central part of
the management of Tallaght Hospital, which incorporated the Adelaide, Meath and
National Children's Hospitals.

The submission states that the section of the Ethical Guide relating to
reproductive medicine will have to be totally revised to reflect the fact that
the Medical Council now recognises that termination of pregnancy is ethical
where there is a substantive risk to the life of the mother.

The society favours legislation to reflect the judgment in the X case,
permitting abortion where suicide is a real threat to the mother's life.

The submission stresses the importance of doctor/patient confidentiality. It
warns against the possible breach of this confidentiality by ethical committees
in certain hospitals.

It urges that doctors not be required to sign codes of ethics which would
inevitably mean breaches of confidentiality to such ethical committees.

The society enclosed its submission to the Commission on Assisted Human
Reproduction, where it stressed that there should be no direct State
interference.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


                               3 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        March 9, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Hospital of America Named Ethisphere Institute World's Most Ethical Company for
Sixth Consecutive Year

LENGTH: 713  words


March 9 -- Hospital Corporation of America (NYSE: HCA), a leading healthcare
provider with 166 hospitals and 113 ambulatory surgery centers in 20 states and
the United Kingdom, has been named a World's Most Ethical Company by the
Ethisphere Institute for the sixth consecutive year.

Ethisphere is the global leader in defining and advancing the standards of
ethical business practices. The World's Most Ethical Companies designation
recognizes those organizations that have had a material impact on the way
business is conducted by fostering a culture of ethics and transparency at every
level of the company. There are 132 organizations on Ethisphere's 2015 World's
Most Ethical Companies. HCA is one of only three healthcare services
organizations honored this year.

"Being named one of Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical Companies is in large part
a reflection of our innovative Ethics and Compliance Program, which serves as a
model for others in the healthcare services sector," said Alan Yuspeh, HCA's
senior vice president and chief ethics and compliance officer. "Of particular
note are our Internal Compliance Reporting process, our Compliance Process
Review efforts and our Responsible Executive program."

As part of HCA's focus on ethics and compliance, the company has named 42
individuals to serve as Responsible Executives for 46 areas of compliance risk;
these individuals provide leadership in developing policies and procedures and
training and communication, monitoring implementation and providing guidance in
their areas of risk. The Internal Compliance Reporting process requires
disclosure to the Ethics and Compliance Department of a wide range of potential
regulatory violations, which are investigated and addressed as necessary.
Compliance Process Reviews are conducted in each hospital every three to four
years with the intent of assessing the facility's effectiveness in implementing
the Company's Ethics and Compliance Program and providing assistance in
improving the facility's efforts, if necessary. This review program fosters the
sharing of best practices among all our facilities.

In addition, HCA is a leader in environmental practices among healthcare
companies. Increasingly, the company is purchasing eco-friendly products, using
sustainable building materials, enhancing recycling efforts and using energy and
water more efficiently. HCA has installed both solar and geothermal energy
sources at facilities and helped lead an industry effort to create standardized
environmental questions for healthcare purchases. HCA is a member of Practice
GreenHealth and a charter member of the Healthier Hospitals Initiative, two
organizations that champion eco-friendly practices in healthcare.

HCA also is active philanthropically, supporting agencies that promote health
and well-being, support childhood and youth development and foster the arts in
Middle Tennessee. The HCA Foundation has awarded grants totaling approximately
$25 million since 2008.

"The World's Most Ethical Companies embrace the correlation between ethical
business practice and improved company performance. These companies use ethics
as a means to further define their industry leadership and understand that
creating an ethical culture and earning the World's Most Ethical Companies
recognition involves more than just an outward facing message or a handful of
senior executives saying the right thing," said Ethisphere's chief executive
officer, Timothy Erblich. "Earning this recognition involves the collective
action of a global workforce from the top down. We congratulate everyone at HCA
for this extraordinary achievement."

The World's Most Ethical Company assessment is based upon the Ethisphere
Institute's Ethics Quotient (EQ) framework developed over years of research to
provide a means to assess an organization's performance in an objective,
consistent and standardized way. Scores are generated in five key categories:
ethics and compliance program (35%), corporate citizenship and responsibility
(20%), culture of ethics (20%), governance (15%) and leadership, innovation and
reputation (10%). The full list of the 2015 World's Most Ethical Companies can
be found at: (http://ethisphere.com/worlds-most-ethical/wme-honorees/).

Source: Hospital Corporation of America

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              July 17, 2006 Monday

Debate over childrens' hospital

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 735 words


Madam, - Brian Maurer (July 10th) raises three important points concerning the
governance of any new children's hospital, the importance of paediatric services
to the Adelaide & Meath Hospital at Tallaght, and the doctor-patient
relationship in Irish healthcare. I wish to respond as briefly as possible to
each of these.

In relation to governance, the "provision of separate governance and ownership
structures" for a new children's hospital is indeed a necessary condition but it
is not a sufficient one to "allay fears and apprehensions". It is vital that the
precise character of "separate governance and ownership structures" is discussed
and agreed. The facts are that any new children's hospital will involve the
existing two voluntary Roman Catholic paediatric hospitals and one
multidenominational and pluralist paediatric hospital. It is helpful that the
Government has decided that the new facility to be built at the Mater hospital
site will be governed on a multidenominational and pluralist basis. However,
this new hospital will have to relate to, and integrate with, services in the
Mater hospital, which is governed by a prescriptive written code of Roman
Catholic ethics. It is not unreasonable to seek clarification as to which
ethical stance will prevail in these circumstances.

The second point relates primarily to the healthcare needs of the rapidly
growing communities served by the Adelaide & Meath Hospital which, alone of the
hospitals mentioned by Mr Maurer, has already a National Children's Hospital
co-located and integrated with its adult services. Currently it serves more than
70,000 children each year, including 30,000 in its puprpose-built, separate A&E
unit, 29,000 outpatients and more than 10,000 in day and inpatient beds. We have
a clear responsibility to the families we serve to ensure both access and the
character of care they desire. If the hospital were simply to resile from its
legal mandate, under the charter, to develop the National Children's Hospital,
it would cease to be "a major contributor to Irish healthcare", as it is
currently the only paediatric teaching hospital in the Republic not under Roman
Catholic auspices.

Thirdly, Mr Maurer raises the uniqueness of the legal guarantee of a
confidential doctor-patient relationship contained in the charter of the
Adelaide & Meath Hospital, Dublin, incorporating the National Children's
Hospital. He asserts that this is not a necessary protection as such a
relationship is at "the core of the code of practice and ethics of all medical
practitioners".

Mr Maurer must surely know that Roman Catholic hospitals operate under a
written, prescriptive code of ethics which enshrines the teaching of that
church. Those who work in such hospitals are obliged to adhere to this code and
to treatment decisions made from time to time by a separate ethics committee.
Under such a code, for example, parents do not have a right to the full range of
family planning services which are legal in Ireland.

The ethical code of the Religious Sisters of Charity, who own and govern St
Vincent's University Hospital, prohibits in-vitro fertilisation which it
considers "not ethically justified". This ethical code states clearly that in
respect of "any partnership of co-operation or source of funding that will
effect our healthcare mission, the ethical identity and the Catholic ethos of
our services must be respected. Our healthcare services will participate and
co-operate insofar as our philosophy, mission and ethical code are not
compromised".

Why does it become "deeply, though perhaps inadvertently, offensive", to use Mr
Maurer's phrase, if Protestant church leaders, and indeed many other citizens,
seek for their Christian ethical positions to be similarly respected and not
compromised in any new arrangements? The reality is that doctor-patient
relationships are always vulnerable to those who wish for a variety of reasons
(which may be political or religious) to impose external beliefs systems and/or
ideologies on the care provided. The unique protection in the charter of the
Adelaide & Meath Hospital, far from being superfluous, is more essential than
ever to vindicate citizens' rights in a republic and perhaps public policy
should seek to extend it to many other healthcare providers. - Yours, etc,

Dr FERGUS O'FERRALL, Director, Adelaide Hospital Society, Adelaide & Meath
Hospital, Tallaght, Dublin 24.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 27 1987, Tuesday

Law Report: Test tube baby treatment claim fails

SECTION: Issue 62910.

LENGTH: 657 words


Regina v Ethical Committee of St Mary's Hospital, Ex parte Harriot

Before Mr Justice Schiemann


(Judgment October 26)

Doctors who decided that a woman should be refused in vitro fertilization (IVF)
treatment because off the refusal of the social services department to consider
her for adoption, and of her history of prostitution and associated criminal
record had not, on the evidence, acted unfairly. Further, there had been no
obligation on the infertility services and ethical committee of the hospital to
advise on whether or not the woman should be given IVF treatment.

Mr Justice Schiemann so held in the Queen's Bench Division in refusing
applications by Janet Harriott for judicial review of decisions of Dr Pamela
Buck and Dr B. A. Lieberman of St Mary's Hospital, Manchester and for judicial
review of the advice and guidance of the Ethical Committee of St Mary's Hospital
.

Mr Louis Blom-Cooper, QC and Mr Edward Fitzgerald for the applicant; Mr Rodger
Bell, QC and Mr Bruce Caulfield for the health authority.

MR JUSTICE SCHIEMANN said that it had not been suggested that the general policy
pursued by the regional IVF unit that couples accepted on to the waiting list
must, in the ordinary course of events, satisfy the general criteria established
by adoption societies in assessing suitability for adoption.

The ethical committee had been set up in the spirit of the Report of the
Committee of the Inquiry into Human Fertilizaton and Embryology (Cmnd 9314) (the
Warnock Report).

There had been no statutory duty to set up the committee and there was no
statutory duty imposed on the committee either to decide or advise. It was
essentially an informal body with the function of providing a forum for
discussion among professionals.

His Lordship was doubtful about accepting that judicial review did not lie to
review any advice of the committee, but this case did not involve such a
situation. Here the complaint was that the committee advised that the consultant
must make up her own mind as to whether the treatment should be given. That was
wholly unobjectionable.

It followed that there could be no objection that the committee did not afford
the applicant an opportunity of putting evidence and submissions before it. If
the committee was entitled not to give advice the court should be wlow, if
indeed it had the power, to force such a committee to receive representations
before it decided not to give advice.

The complaint against the consultant was that she had been under a duty to act
fairly when deciding to remove a patient from the IVF list on social grounds,
either exclusively or mainly, and those social grounds involved issues of
contested fact.

For the purpose of this judgment his Lordship was prepared to accept that that
submission was correct in law. But even on that assumption there were no grounds
for granting relief.

There were indeed grounds for criticism of Dr Buck's decisions. However, it had
to be remembered that decisions by doctors as to whether to give or refuse
treatment were not ones which, once made, rendered the doctor powerless to
change her view in the light of new arguments or facts.

The applicant, since the decision, had had the opportunity to put more
information in front of the doctors and health authority. There was no reason to
suppose that they had acted unfairly in the matter or had shut their ears to her
representations in the sense of being unwilling to entertain them. It was not
and could not be suggested that no reasonable consultant could have come to the
conclusion to refuse treatment to the applicant.

In those circumstances there was no reason to grant the applicant the relief she
sought. In consequence his Lordship did not need to decide whether in principle
judicial review would lie in respect of such a decision.

Solicitors: Hepworth & Halpern, Manchester; Mr E. G. Jones, Manchester.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited


                               6 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 4, 2000 Tuesday

The board failed Sick Kids

BYLINE: Ronald Bayne

SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: Hamilton, Ont.


I have no inside information on how the Hospital for Sick Children related to
Nancy Olivieri, but the Comment article (Dec. 31) by Sandy Aird, chairman of the
board of trustees of the hospital, compels me to write.

Mr. Aird is cowering behind the screen of the excellent scientific and
humanitarian work of the hospital staff that he describes so smugly. If the
staff is "immersed in a web of conflict," it is because the hospital board
failed to act in an area in which it has the ultimate responsibility - ethical
research - and then delayed in admitting its failure.

The concern is not just that the board failed to give "support expeditiously to
Dr. Olivieri"; it is that it did not recognize the important ethical question
involved. Perhaps the CEO acted autocratically in not bringing it to the board's
attention. But Mr. Aird still does not seem to realize its importance.

Dr. Olivieri may or may not have had adequate scientific evidence for refusing
to continue the research. But she followed an ancient and well-established
medical ethical principle, "First, do no harm." Even if some patients benefit
from a treatment, if others appear to be harmed by it, one must stop and
reassess.

To say that "disputes over the efficacy of a particular drug are a matter for
scientific debate, not internal dispute within Sick Kids or any other hospital,"
is wrong. The hospital is responsible for its patients, and the hospital must
have a research policy that protects its patients. It may rely on the university
research procedures, which should include a review by an independent ethical
review committee, but the hospital must know what that research procedure is,
and state in its own policies that it accepts it.

Mr. Aird concludes by saying, "That controversy may continue, but we hope it
will continue where it should - in the scientific community." Wrong again! The
controversy is of great concern to the public because it is not simply a
scientific question. The Sick Kids Hospital board represents the public, and
must concern itself not just with securing the most highly qualified and able
professional staff, but ensuring that its policies are based on ethical
principles, and that these policies are complied with.

MD

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Assam Tribune (India)

                              June 8, 2014 Sunday

Ethical accountability

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: Guwahati


Guwahati, June 8 -- The denial of human rights is not merely an individual and
family tragedy, it is a threat to humanity itself. Unfortunately, Assam is
experiencing this tragedy during last several years. The loss of life and
property of innocent people as well as the service providers to the nation is
giving a severe blow to the human rights of the people of Assam. The recent two
incidents i.e. the violation of human rights in BTAD and Assam Medical College
Hospital gave a great shock to all of us. These problems have different
dimensions - administrative, political, economic, legal, ethical etc. Viewing
the tragic incident of Assam Medical College Hospital which claimed the life of
a young lady doctor while on duty from ethical perspective it may be said that
the ethical vacuity in the hospital may have also contributed to a great extent
to the violation of human rights of the patients as well as the physicians and
the allied staff. The adoption of ethical guidelines may prevent at least the
preventable organizational ailments.

The need of moral and ethical guidelines for effective working of any
organization does not disappear with the progress of science and technology .
Science cannot give us license to create ethical vacuum in any human society. To
serve the society effectively one must be equipped with human qualities along
with the expert knowledge of the work.

Ethical failure begins soon after the service providers start hiding their acts
of omission by various means. The ethical failure brings administrative or
professional evils. These evils not only deprive the innocent people of the
environment for living with human dignity but also from the human rights. Here
is the beginning of the process of dehumanization of the human organization.

The world of medical sciences is unique by its significance in the human
society. The nature of its service has added to it. Because the decision and
activism of physicians have direct and immediate impact on the life and death of
the patient unlike other services. Further, the physicians are always in the
midst of sufferers who constitute the ailing section of the society. They cannot
afford to be unmindful while treating the patient, the eyes of the doctors are
tied up with the condition of the patients, their ears are always overloaded
with loud sound of grief or pain, weeping, emergency call, lamentation and
clamour caused by both patients and attendants of the patients. The environment
in which they are to render service is quite different from other services.

In India with the government efforts the private sector is also contributing
significantly to the health services through hospitals, nursing homes,
polyclinics, dispensaries and community-based health centers. The increase in
the number of the health care systems is a clear indicator of the growth of
patient population in the country. Recently a special research paper published
in the Lancet Oncology Journal indicated that every year 10 lakh Indians are
diagnosed with cancer. And it is feared that, by 2035 these numbers may go up to
17 lakh per year. It is a serious threat to Indian economy as well as human
resource. And more significantly it has a grave negative impact on the human
rights of individuals.

This situation is enough to realize the need of ethical accountability in any
service. The concept of ethical accountability is a comprehensive one. Within an
organization the principles and practices of ethical accountability aim to
improve both the internal standard of individual conduct or group conduct as
well as external factors. Every task has moral implication in addition to other
obligations.

In the biomedical area ethical codes were probably formulated as soon as man
began to receive care for his ailments. Gellhorn said that he was aware of the
Oath of the Hindu Physician prepared about 1500 B.C. which includes a number of
personal requirements for the physician such as no meat-eating, no adultery, no
drinking and so on. ' Do the sick no harm' was the motto of the physicians. The
physician's single-minded concern for the patient together with the other
cardinal principle, 'do no harm' had been the guiding ethics for the doctors for
close to 3500 years. After the horrific medical crimes in Germany during post
World war II the 'Hippocratic Oath' was to be resurrected in a more contemporary
form in the Geneva Declaration.

The birth of UN on 24th October 1945, the meeting of WMA in London in 1946, the
beginning of WHO on 7th April 1948 underline the realization by the world
leaders the need to safeguard the human rights of man and woman for peace and
security of the world. The discussion focuses issues of the health and human
rights of individuals and this was followed by the strong step of the adoption
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 10th December 1948 by the UN
General Assembly.

The physicians enjoy full autonomy in decision making as regards the treatment
of a patient who comes to him/her for this purpose. This right to autonomy is
insisted upon due to his/her expertness in the field of medical sciences which
cannot be claimed by the patients/attendants. This freedom has its uniqueness
due to the fact that there is complete surrender of a patient to the doctor.
This is more true in the case of a patient who meets the doctor in the OT. This
autonomy can never be divorced from very heavy responsibility of the medical
service providers.

Here is the need of human power which may be acquired through human qualities
inculcated in them by the process of socialization i.e from being to becoming.
Ahimsa is an appeal to the heart of a person to refrain from doing harm to
others. One must also develop the habit of doing good to others. Further every
physician is also a seeker of truth while making efforts to make the correct
diagnosis of the disease of a patient.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Assam Tribune. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Assam Tribune (P) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Senior doctors check younger ones from crossing ethical lines

                               November 15, 1995

Ravi Veloo


One hospital ethics committee blocked a project where the doctor would have had
to use a tube to literally suck the brains out of a living foetus to transplant
the tissue into an old man with Parkinson's Disease. Out of the public eye,
hospital ethics committees have been doing some significant work, as RAVI VELOO
finds out. See Page Two.

WHO'S WATCHING WHAT YOU DO, DOC?

ONE ethics committee put the brakes on a project which would have required using
a tube to literally suck the brains out of a foetus to transplant the tissue
into an old man with Parkinson's Disease.

Another hospital's ethics watchdog pulled the plug on a proposed organ operation
using a robot, which was still experimental.

Not often do these kinds of ethical issues arise in Singapore, but, quietly, out
of the public eye, these are some of the true-life dilemmas wrestled down by
ethics committees in hospitals here in the past three years or so since such
watchdogs were formed.

The avuncular Dr Aw Swee Eng, chairman of the ethics committee at Singapore
General Hospital, said: "We, as senior people, have to look after our younger
colleagues, who sometimes need to temper their enthusiasm with caution."

The soft-spoken Dr Aw, who is also the head of Nuclear Medicine at the hospital,
added: "On the foetal tissue transplant, it was proposed in good faith as the
only way to help the patient.

"We to-ed and fro-ed on it for six months, asking for more research material, as
it was still experimental.

"Finally, what swung us against the idea was the way the foetal tissue would be
taken. And sometimes, you need two or three foetuses."

But, in the few years the SGH committee has been around, there have been only a
couple of cases that troubled it. Other research proposals were problem-free.

Dr Aw noted: "Ethical issues are not such a big problem in Singapore hospitals.
We don't have people doing odd things, making Frankensteins."

At Toa Payoh Hospital, ethics committee chairman Dr Khoo Teng Kew concurred, but
said the one problem case they had had was intriguing.

He said: "It involved using an experimental robot to operate on a human organ. I
can't tell you too much about it, because it is still a secret project.

"The company developing it does not want the competition to know too much about
it, and there are issues about patents involved.

"We got the people who are involved to come and brief us about what's involved.
We're not in the machine line.

"We thrashed out our misgivings in the open, giving the researchers a chance to
present their case.

"We have asked for more data on initial trials on animals, and we are still
waiting for progress reports."

Traditionally, it has been the Singapore Medical Council which has provided
leadership on medical ethics here, and it continues to do so.

Doctors who violate its code can be censured, suspended or struck off the
medical register.

But over the past three years, several hospitals have set up their own ethics
committees to serve a different purpose.

The main reason for this is that medical journals often require a research
project to have formal approval from such a committee before they will publish
its reports.

So, hospital ethics committees here are basically research watchdogs.  They are
focused on protecting the interests of the human subjects.

Yet, as shown by the examples above, this does not mean they are spared the
challenging ethical dilemmas that doctors face today as cutting-edge technology
and possibilities confront age-old feelings on what is good or bad.

Toa Payoh Hospital's Dr Khoo said: "Cost is one factor that tends to arise as an
ethical issue. Why should the patient pay for an expensive, experimental drug
treatment if the benefits are not certain?

"But, this is usually resolved by the drug companies paying for it.

"The other issue fast arising is the type of machines coming into play. We ask:
Do you know what you are doing?, and we keep probing, and finding out more about
these experimental machines."

TO HELP achieve a decent spread of opinion on such issues, the hospital
committees include non-medical members, who are all volunteers.

Generally, the practice is that the head of the ethics committee is chosen by
the hospital, and he then picks the other members.

The Toa Payoh Hospital committee includes a medical-social worker, nursing staff
and its lawyer-member is Mr R. Palakrishnan, who has prepared legal advice on
when death has occurred and conducted a seminar in the hospital on the legal
angle on the Advance Medical Directive.

The hospital also has a school principal to represent the layman, and has the
benefit of someone trained specifically in bioethics, a Catholic priest.

The Singapore General Hospital committee draws on the work of similar relevant
institutions abroad, including the famous Hastings Centre in New York, which
trains bioethicists and produces specialised ethics journals.

At Tan Tock Seng Hospital, the ethics committee led by Dr F.J.  Jayaratnam even
has a Manual For Research Ethics Committees from the Centre of Medical Law and
Ethics at King's College in London. He has also touched base with an American
bioethicist who is available for consultation.

Dr Jayaratnam said: "We are better placed to play an educational role when we
have people who are trained in such roles, such as bioethicists. There is a need
for someone who is specially trained in bioethics."

Indeed, sources say the National Medical Ethics Committee is looking into
recommending to the Health Ministry that it offer fellowships for training in
bioethics for medical doctors here, which is a good sign.

But all the committees, like doctors generally here and elsewhere, take their
lead from the famous Helsinki Declaration by doctors, which gives broad
guidelines on medical ethics, emphasising that it is the patient's interests and
well-being that comes first and above all.

IN SINGAPORE, one could say the ethics committees are generally insulated from
public controversy regarding ethical issues, and for this they have their
limited terms of reference to thank.

Abroad, there are swirling debates about the ethics of having ethics committees
themselves, dubbed "God Committees" by critics for having the last say on who
gets access to limited facilities.

About half the hospitals in the United States have ethics committees, and they
are often invested with more onerous duties, too.  They usually perform at least
three functions:

- Influencing ethical issues that affect the care of the patient.

In Singapore, hospital committees leave such pace-setting directions to the
National Medical Ethics Committee, which was set up last year to lead on a
national level on such complex ethical issues as the Advance Medical Directive.

- Offering counselling to medical workers and patients on difficult decisions
involving treatment.

Again, hospital committees here are not usually involved in such matters.

Doctors are welcome to raise ethical issues with the committees, say those
chairmen who spoke to Life!, but they said dilemmas faced by younger doctors
were usually resolved at the department level in talks with senior doctors.

- Sponsoring educational programmes on ethics for medical staff and the public.

This, the Toa Payoh Hospital committee has done in past years, with talks on the
Advance Medical Directive, which drew standing-room-only crowds.

Can hospital ethical committees here go further in their work, for example, by
organising more frequent seminars or informal dicussions among doctors regarding
ethical matters?

Certainly, say their chiefs. But much of this is outside their purview.

Yet, these ethics committees open a window to a world of profound complexities,
one that involves everybody, whether it is a patient, his physician and nurse,
or a friend or relative of either one.

It is a big question whether such ethics committees will be able to stay their
ground, or whether the time is rapidly approaching when they will be called upon
to play the philosopher among physicians and patients daily and quickly, as
others do abroad.


SECTION: Life; (Cover Story); Pg. 1,L2

LENGTH: 1920 words

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Looking for a bible: manuals and expert testimony are some things
ethics committees turn to for guidance in murky waters, but there is not always
an easy answer. (Page L2)

                 Copyright 1995 The Straits Times Press Limited


                               9 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                                 June 19, 2016
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ethical conduct article: correction;
News in Brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 98 words


The headline of an article about a new code of ethical business conduct at Our
Lady's Children's Hospital, Crumlin ("Union fury as hospital staff 'gagged' by
HSE", Sunday, June 12) incorrectly suggested that the Health Service Executive
was responsible for restricting employees from making public criticisms of the
hospital. The HSE had no involvement whatsoever in the code of ethical business
conduct published by Our Lady's Children's Hospital, which is a public voluntary
hospital managed by its own board of management. We are happy to correct the
record and apologise for the error.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                          June 26, 1992, CITY EDITION

Coombe's wide range of ethical guidelines

BYLINE: By Geraldine Kennedy, Public Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; WEATHER EYE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 933 words


THE new guidelines on female sterilisation  issued  by the Coombe Hospital,
Dublin, on Wednesday form only part of the revised ethical policy of one of the
oldest maternity hospitals in the country.

The revised ethical policy and traditions of the Coombe were confirmed by the
board of the hospital last February - before the current debate on the rights
and risks to a woman's life in pregnancy arose in the "X" case.

Though the broadening of the grounds for female sterilisation is the most
newsworthy feature of the new ethical policy, which was two years in
preparation, the revised guidelines also cover the contentious questions of
euthanasia, organ transplants, fertility and infertility, confidentiality and
conscience.

The chairman of the board of the hospital, Mr Michael Gill, told The Irish Times
yesterday that the new sterilisation procedures did not fully conform to the
Catholic Church's teaching on the subject.  Since the Coombe was a
non-denominational,  voluntary hospital, it was 'free to set its own guidelines,
he said, totally independent of the Medical Council or the teaching of any
Church.

The incidence of female sterilisation was increasing over the years. he said,
and between 30 and 35 such operations were performed last year.

Almost half of the Coombe's new policy document, which has been seen by The
Irish Times, sets out the principles governing the broadening of the grounds on
which female sterilisation can be performed. Female sterilisation may be
permitted, it says, in the following circumstances:

(l) If, in the opinion of a consultant obstetrician/gynaecologist, a future
pregnancy would result in undue risk to the physical health of a woman;

(2) If, in the stated opinion of a consultant obstetrician/ gynaecologist, a
future pregnancy or fear of a future pregnancy would have a serious
psychological impact on a woman's health;

(3) If, in the stated opinion of a consultant obstetrician/ gynaecologist, a
future pregnancy would be unlikely to conclude successfully due to  a problems.

The major change in the procedures, according to Mr Gill, was that individual
applications for sterilisation would no longer have to be considered by an
ethical committee which could comprise lay, non-medical, members. The new
position, he said, was more compassionate and sympathetic to the needs of women.
It would provide that, if the decision by the consultant was within the ethical
guidelines laid down by the board, the master of the hospital would arrange for
the hospitals facilities to be made available for the procedure.

And if, in the opinion of the master, the decision by the consultant was not
within the ethical guidelines laid down by the board, the master would refer the
case to a review panel of five members of the medical consultant staff nominated
by the board.

The best interests of both mother and child had to be considered at all times,
each being the subject of inalienable rights, whether during pregnancy or
subsequently, according to the new guidelines.

On resources and access, the policy states that the resources of the hospital
include all of its staff, as well as its facilities.  "While supportive of
investment in technology, we wish to give an emphasis to important requirements
for patient care and staff facilities in the hospital which are not technology-
based," it adds.

The guidelines also state that "procedures necessary for the treatment of
serious organic pathological conditions of the mother, which cannot be postponed
until the foetus is viable, may be admitted even though the death of the foetus
results".

It goes on to say that euthanasia, "the directly intended termination of a
person's life, even at the person's own request or at the request of the
person's guardian, is always, we hold, unethical. Failure to provide ordinary or
reasonable means of preserving life, whether to an adult or an infant, is
unethical.  There is no obligation to use extraordinary or unreasonable means to
prolong life."

On fertility and infertility, the guidelines recognise that it is the couple
rather than the individual who bear responsibility for family planning, and "we
would, therefore, seek to serve the best interests of our patients in this
regard."

Any method of family planning deemed by current medical criteria to have, or
deemed likely to have, an abortifacient effect was excluded. The ethical basis
of treatments of patients who may be infertile rested in the guidelines on the
couple who would be parents, and who were capable genetically of being assisted
to have a child.

The obligation of professional secrecy, according to the new policy, covered not
only information on a patient's chart and records, but also confidential and
personal matters learned in the course of professional duty. It also provided,
on the question of conscience, that no person may, in any circumstances, be
required to participate in any way in an operation, procedure, treatment or
research to which he/she had a conscientious objection; nor may he/she suffer
any disability or discrimination whatsoever by reason of such conscientious
objection.

Meanwhile, Councillor Eithne FitzGerald of the Labour Party said yesterday that
the Coombe's guidelines governing the sterilisation of women did no! go far
enough. Women were still being asked to show that they needed to be sterilised
for a medical or psychological reason, she added, rather than being offered this
service where they had chosen this method of permanent contraception, having
completed their families.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1992 The Irish Times


                              11 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Ethical decisions figure in paediatrics seminar

                               November 28, 1994


GOOD ethical decisions in medicine require good medical facts.

Two speakers at the second and last day of the fourth Ministry of Health-Royal
Children's Hospital Update made this point in their papers yesterday.

The six speakers at the symposium at the College of Medicine Building covered
paediatric infectious diseases and ethical issues.

Dr Ho Nai-Kiong from Kandang Kerbau Hospital presented a paper on ethical issues
in neonatal paediatrics.

A senior consultant and head of KKH's department of neonatal medicine I, he said
that in situations where newborn babies have poor chances of living and when all
available measures of sustaining life have been exhausted, ethical and medical
decisions have to be made.

To make these decisions, an infant's diagnosis and prognosis must be accurate.
There should also be detailed information that continuation of any form of
medical treatment for the infant is futile, and will do more harm than good.

He said that it is not easy to formulate guidelines for people who live in a
multi-racial, multi-lingual, multi-cultural and multi-religious Singapore.

He said doctors in Singapore are in favour of prompt treatment for all
critically ill babies.

But the decision to continue aggressive and intensive treatment will be decided
later, depending on the clinical progress and outcome.

Specialist caregivers and parents should also be involved in the decision
making, he added.

He said: "Our experience is that parents are willing to discuss with the medical
staff when making decisions on their very sick babies.

"We always try to achieve consensus when coming to a decision."

Dr James Tibballs, deputy director of Intensive Care and Resuscitation Officer
at the Royal Children's Hospital in Melbourne, Australia, spoke on ethical
problems in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).

He said: "Whom should we admit into ICU? There are economic, moral and legal
issues involved."

Elaborating on the economics question, he said: "If I had $ 50,000, I could
inoculate several thousand children against Hepatitis B, admit about 100
patients into ICU or do one heart transplant.

"Which of these options does society want me to choose?

"Economics is about scarce resources, opportunity, cost and choosing what you
are going to do with the money."

He also touched on the withdrawal of life support systems in ICU.

He said: "In ICU, where technology takes over, it's quite easy to get involved
in technology and not recognise the patient as a person."

He added that he would not treat someone who has a lethal illness and who will
die within weeks, but would instead make him comfortable during his remaining
days.

But, he added: "I wouldn't withdraw life support unless I was very sure I was
making the right decision."


SECTION: Home; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 680 words

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1994 The Straits Times Press Limited


                              12 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

Med-Tech Notes: ConvaTec granted ethical business logo

LENGTH: 483 words


ConvaTec (Skillman, New Jersey), a developer of medical technologies for
community and hospital care, was granted use of the newly launched Ethical
Business Logo by Eucomed. The logo has been granted to ConvaTec because the
company has certified its commitment to the high ethical and professional
standards embodied by the Eucomed Code of Ethical Business Practice.

"We are pleased to be the first company granted the opportunity to be identified
as a company committed to ethics standards which are embodied by the Eucomed
Code of Ethical Business Practice," said Paul Moraviec, president, EMEA,
ConvaTec. "Now customers, patients and business partners will have another way
to identify ConvaTec as a company they can trust to provide life-changing
medical devices."

In addition to committing to the Eucomed Code of Ethical Business Practice,
ConvaTec has established separate and internal policies and procedures
consistent with the Code, and provides regular training and compliance
requirements throughout the company.

The Ethical Business Logo was created with the intention to ensure and
strengthen public confidence in the integrity of the industry and effectiveness
of member organizations' compliance programs, built on the Eucomed Code of
Ethics.

Toshiba installs milestone Vantage system

Demonstrating the ability of Toshiba's Vantage Titan MR system to help
healthcare providers improve patient care and workflow in MR, Toshiba America
Medical Systems (Tustin, California), has installed the 1,100th Vantage MR
system at Geisinger Health System (Danville, Pennsylvania). The facility is
using Toshiba's Vantage Titan 1.5T MR to image bariatric patients and improve
overall patient compliance for MR imaging.

Toshiba Medical Systems is a provider of medical diagnostic imaging systems and
comprehensive medical solutions, such as CT, X-ray and vascular, ultrasound,
nuclear medicine and MRI systems.

Health Net partners with Banner Health

Health Net of Arizona (Phoenix) and Banner Health Network have collaborated to
create Health Net ExcelCare, a new cost-effective commercial HMO network for
Maricopa County and parts of Pinal County effective Jan. 1, 2012. ExcelCare
consists exclusively of nationally recognized Banner Health Network providers.

"We worked collaboratively with Banner Health, a longstanding strategic provider
partner, to create this network and help make health care work for Arizonans,"
said Bret Morris, president of Health Net of Arizona.

Offered to both small and large employer groups, Health Net ExcelCare is
available in all of Maricopa County and parts of Pinal County. Members will have
access to more than 2,650 Banner Health Network primary care physicians and
specialists. Hospitals and facilities through ExcelCare include all of the
Banner hospital facilities, including Cardon Children's Hospital and the
recently opened Banner M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2011 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

Hospital shares probe

BYLINE:  Dave Blackhurst

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 438 words


A Review has been ordered into a hospital's decision to invest £30,000 in a
leading alcoholic drinks company.

The University Hospital of North Staffordshire has put the cash into Guinness
and spirits  manufacturer Diageo despite spending millions of pounds a year on
treating the effects of alcoholism.

Now, chief executive Julie Bridgewater wants an investigation into whether the
hospital's financial stake  in the firm   is ethical.

It comes just months after the trust's investment panel increased its share
ownership to more than £30,000 in the company. The cash is part of the
hospital's £4.2 million charity trust funds which are made up of donations and
money left to the complex in wills.

It is available to spend on items which are not covered by statutory NHS
spending.

North Staffordshire's other NHS trust, Combined Healthcare, and neighbouring
Leighton Hospital, in Crewe, have already adopted an "ethical investment policy"
forbidding any investment in companies linked to armaments, tobacco or alcohol.

The move comes as doctors say the effects of alcohol abuse are stretching the
NHS to breaking point. They estimate the cost of dealing with incidents and
disease involving alcohol is nearly £2 billion a year nationwide.

University Hospital chief executive Julia Bridgewater said today: "The
investment in Diageo is relatively small and the company may behave perfectly
honourably but I still think it is something we should look at. As a hospital we
need to take a wider view so we will now be reviewing this particular
investment."

One of the hospital's own liver specialists, Dr Alison Brind, has been involved
in a national campaign pressing for the Government to clamp down on drinks
companies which target young people.

She said: "If the hospital does invest in these companies it needs to look
carefully to make sure that they behave in an ethical manner."

But health campaigners condemned the trust's ownership of 3,000 shares in Diageo
which has gone on for several years.

Ian Syme, co-ordinator of North Staffordshire Healthwatch, said: "I like a drink
myself but for an NHS organisation to profit  from the suffering which is caused
by alcohol abuse is absolutely abhorrent."

The increase in the Diageo stake emerged from minutes of an investment panel
meeting which was held earlier in the summer and was reported to yesterday's
meeting of the hospital's trust board.  The Sentinel is making an application
under the Freedom of Information Act to find the full list of companies in the
charity fund's portfolio after the hospital said it could not release the
details.

Do you think the Diageo investment is ethical?

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                    December 14, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

The Challenge of Ethical Issues Discussed at Paediatric Clinical Trials 2017

BYLINE: SMi Group

LENGTH: 489  words


London, United Kingdom, December 14, 2016 --(PR.com)-- The 2017 agenda will
bring together leading industry experts to explore current clinical trials,
implementation and paediatric drug development. Key discussion points include:
clinical recruitment, ethical issues, regulations, executing a paediatric
clinical trial, paediatric drug formulation and determining clinical endpoints.

Ethical issues are a huge factor which need to be considered when it comes to
clinical trials, even more so when children are involved. This November Bermuda
Hospitals Board participated in Ethics Awareness Week and discussed various
ethical matters.

"We spent the week exploring some of the ethical issues that can become more
complicated when we're dealing with minors. Not only are you taking the law,
professional best practices and the patient's wishes into account, you're also
considering the wishes of the parents or legal guardians and the child's ability
to understand and make their own decisions." *(Source)

Jane Lamprill, Paediatric Research Advisor and Specialist Medical Writer from
Paediatric Research Consultancy will be speaking at Paediatric Clinical Trials
2017 as she discusses overcoming ethical challenges for companies, parents and
children. She will provide a presentation which will focus on all parties
involved when executing a paediatric clinical trial. Her session will provide
key guidance updates and focus on revised European Commission ethics
considerations, child and family protocol issues and planning and performing
good ethical practice.

Joining her for the 2017 line-up includes: EMA, GSK, Roche, Genentech,
Birmingham Children's Hospital, Otsuka Europe. AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson
and many more.

There is currently an early bird offer available; book by 16th of December to
save 200 off the conference price. Register at www.paediatric-trials.co.uk/prcom

For sponsorship packages: Contact Alia Malick on +44 (0)20 7827 6168 or email
amalick@smi-online.co.uk

For delegate enquiries: Contact Ameenah Begum on +44 (0)20 7827 6166 or email
abegum@smi-online.co.uk

For media enquiries, contact Zoe Gale on +44 20 7827 6138 or
zgale@smi-online.co.uk

11th annual Paediatric Clinical Trials

20-21 March 2017

London, UK

www.paediatric-trials.co.uk/prcom

Contact e-mail: zgale@smi-online.co.uk

Contact tel: +44 (0) 207 827 6166

#paediatricsmi

*(Source) http://bit.ly/2gY8F7c

About SMi Group: Established since 1993, the SMi Group is a global
event-production company that specializes in Business-to-Business Conferences,
Workshops, Masterclasses and online Communities. We create and deliver events in
the Defence, Security, Energy, Utilities, Finance and Pharmaceutical industries.
We pride ourselves on having access to the world's most forward thinking opinion
leaders and visionaries, allowing us to bring our communities together to Learn,
Engage, Share and Network. More information can be found at
http://www.smi-online.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2016 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 24, 2012 Saturday

Dr. Kate Scannell: Doctors divided over common ethical dilemmas

BYLINE: By Dr. Kate Scannell Contra Costa Times/Oakland Tribune columnist

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 975 words


They can haunt you for life. They can keep you awake at night They can change
forever how you practice medicine. And for many doctors, they are the stuff of
everyday experience.

"They" are the "ethical dilemmas" that so thoroughly permeate medical practice
as to become inseparable from it. And because these dilemmas are so enmeshed, it
is often difficult to tease them out from the daily fabric of health care.
Still, they regularly thread through medical decision-making between doctors and
patients in clinics, and through hospital policy-making in the executive
offices.

Broadly stated, an ethical dilemma occurs whenever "doing the right thing" is
brought into question. Opposing views about what's right and what's wrong create
friction that sparks an ethical conflict and, frequently, heated ethical debate.
Just about any medical or health care issue can provide the kindling: abortion;
government spending on Medicaid; hospital policy guiding organ transplantation;
physician-assisted suicide. ...

An act as seemingly simple and value-neutral as signing an antibiotic
prescription can bristle with ethical dilemmas. Should I prescribe an antibiotic
because that will calm my extremely anxious patient -- or should I resist
because it's wrong to waste resources and to risk the side effects from a
medically ineffective therapy for her viral infection? Should I prescribe the
antibiotic whose name is neatly emblazoned on the nifty pen I received from the
peppy pharmaceutical rep -- or should I choose a cheap ol' generic instead?
During a flu pandemic or national drug shortage, how do I decide which of two
deserving patients should receive a scarce antibiotic?

Ethical dilemmas often arouse strong emotions and forceful personal opinions
from people engaged in moral conflict, people waging an age-old battle between
perceptions of right and wrong. That can make it extremely difficult to unearth
what's actually at stake in the dilemma: the deeply rooted moral values at the
bottom of all the emotions and opining.

We carry these personal moral values into the clinics and hospitals -- whether
we are health care workers, patients, or administrators. And because they draw
upon our intimate philosophical and religious beliefs, our family values, and
our cultural traditions, they tend to anchor us firmly and meaningfully in a
moral predisposition or attitude that infuses our self-identity. That is why
these ethical dilemmas are often so difficult, so painful, so meaningful, and so
resistant to simple solutions or surface agreements.

The field of medical ethics emerged as a discipline in the 1960s and '70s to
assist patients, families, and health care workers who found themselves
entrenched in moral conflict over health care decisions. Most large U.S.
hospitals now provide medical ethics consultation by a trained consultant or
ethics committee.

The first objective of consultation is to unearth all the moral values at stake
in the ethical dilemma (not an easy task!) from all parties involved in the
decision at hand. That makes it possible to see someone who holds an opposing
view as a person taking a principled stand -- rather than as some wearisome
obstructionist who stands unreasonably in your way. Quite often, humanizing each
person's point of view in this way leads to common ground where dispute
resolution can succeed.

Last week, WebMD released its latest Medscape survey of more than 24,000 U.S.
doctors who were asked to identify the "top ethical dilemmas" they encountered
in medical practice.

Reading the results, it's readily apparent that ethical dilemmas are as common
as ... well, the common cold. Readers might be particularly interested to learn
that doctors often differed dramatically in their views about the right and
wrong way to handle those real-world clinical dilemmas. Notably, because many of
them involved life-and-death decision-making, it will be critical to further
study how physicians' personal points of view actually affect the care a patient
receives.

In these troubled economic times, it's also salient to note how the surveyed
physicians viewed their stewardship of health care expenditures. A sizable
percentage would consider providing care that was ostensibly "futile" or
intended only to alleviate malpractice fears.

Below are some of the Medscape survey questions. How would you respond? How
"should" you respond? (Excerpted from: Medscape 2012   Ethics Report. Available
atwww.medscape.com/features/slideshow/public/ethics2012 .)

Would you ever give life-sustaining therapy if you believed it to be futile?

Yes: 35 percent

No: 24 percent

It depends: 41 percent

Would you ever devote scarce or costly resources to a younger patient rather
than to one who was older but not facing imminent death?

Yes: 27 percent

No: 38 percent

It depends: 35 percent

Is it ever acceptable to perform "unnecessary" procedures due to malpractice
concerns?

Yes: 23 percent

No: 55 percent

It depends: 22 percent

Would you hide information from a patient about a terminal or preterminal
diagnosis to bolster their spirit?

Yes: 10 percent

No: 72 percent

It depends: 18 percent

Is it ever acceptable to cover up or avoid revealing a mistake if that mistake
would not cause harm to the patient?

Yes: 16 percent

No: 63 percent

It depends: 21 percent

Should physician-assisted suicides be allowed in some situations?

Yes: 47 percent

No: 40 percent

It depends: 13 percent

Would you ever continue treating a patient -- despite a family's wishes to end
treatment -- if you felt the patient had a chance to recover?

Yes: 23 percent

No: 32 percent

It depends: 45 percent

Would you ever report a physician, friend, or colleague who occasionally seemed
impaired by alcohol or illness?

Yes: 78 percent

No: 4 percent

It depends: 18 percent

Kate Scannell is a Bay Area physician and syndicated columnist. You can visit
her website atwww.katescannellmd.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 6, 1985 Thursday

Important committees

BYLINE: Grahame Meredith; GAM

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: Toronto ONT


Re Oh Lord, Deliver Us From The Committees (The Doctor Game - May 30):
    Bio-ethics committees in Canada and the United States are recent
 additions to hospitals. According to a survey published in February, 1985,
 there were only 14 in Canada prior to 1980. By 1984 there were 36. Their
 primary role, in more than 80 per cent of the cases, is to advise and
 provide consultation, not to make life-and- death decisions, as Dr.

Gifford- Jones indicates.

The other important activities of the committees include educating
 hospital staff and patients on ethical problems, and recommending policies
 for the hospital on ethical issues. A large number of the committees (47
 per cent) were established on the insistence of physicians who recognized
 their own lack of training in ethics. They understood that this educative
 function was necessary to ensure that the hospital staff (including the
 physicians) learned about the ethical issues and did support the patients'
 rights.

The discussion of issues involved in the allocation of scarce life-
 saving medical resources, such as kidney transplants, is one important
 part of this process.

Dr. Gifford-Jones has criticized the "first-come-first-served" method
 of allocating kidneys but has not shown why it would be more fair to treat
 a "productive member of society" than the alcoholic. He also hasn't
 indicated how we should choose between two "productive members of society"
 if there is only one kidney.

One of the benefits of bio-ethics committees may be that more people
 learn to question the physicians who say that someone is a "better person"
 than someone else and therefore more deserving of treatment. The
 committees may also provide a valuable resource to those physicians who
 recognize that they do not know all the issues or all the answers.

Grahame Meredith
   Toronto

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                           November 24, 2012 Saturday

Dr. Kate Scannell: Doctors divided over common ethical dilemmas

BYLINE: By Dr. Kate Scannell Contra Costa Times/Oakland Tribune columnist

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 975 words


They can haunt you for life. They can keep you awake at night They can change
forever how you practice medicine. And for many doctors, they are the stuff of
everyday experience.

"They" are the "ethical dilemmas" that so thoroughly permeate medical practice
as to become inseparable from it. And because these dilemmas are so enmeshed, it
is often difficult to tease them out from the daily fabric of health care.
Still, they regularly thread through medical decision-making between doctors and
patients in clinics, and through hospital policy-making in the executive
offices.

Broadly stated, an ethical dilemma occurs whenever "doing the right thing" is
brought into question. Opposing views about what's right and what's wrong create
friction that sparks an ethical conflict and, frequently, heated ethical debate.
Just about any medical or health care issue can provide the kindling: abortion;
government spending on Medicaid; hospital policy guiding organ transplantation;
physician-assisted suicide. ...

An act as seemingly simple and value-neutral as signing an antibiotic
prescription can bristle with ethical dilemmas. Should I prescribe an antibiotic
because that will calm my extremely anxious patient -- or should I resist
because it's wrong to waste resources and to risk the side effects from a
medically ineffective therapy for her viral infection? Should I prescribe the
antibiotic whose name is neatly emblazoned on the nifty pen I received from the
peppy pharmaceutical rep -- or should I choose a cheap ol' generic instead?
During a flu pandemic or national drug shortage, how do I decide which of two
deserving patients should receive a scarce antibiotic?

Ethical dilemmas often arouse strong emotions and forceful personal opinions
from people engaged in moral conflict, people waging an age-old battle between
perceptions of right and wrong. That can make it extremely difficult to unearth
what's actually at stake in the dilemma: the deeply rooted moral values at the
bottom of all the emotions and opining.

We carry these personal moral values into the clinics and hospitals -- whether
we are health care workers, patients, or administrators. And because they draw
upon our intimate philosophical and religious beliefs, our family values, and
our cultural traditions, they tend to anchor us firmly and meaningfully in a
moral predisposition or attitude that infuses our self-identity. That is why
these ethical dilemmas are often so difficult, so painful, so meaningful, and so
resistant to simple solutions or surface agreements.

The field of medical ethics emerged as a discipline in the 1960s and '70s to
assist patients, families, and health care workers who found themselves
entrenched in moral conflict over health care decisions. Most large U.S.
hospitals now provide medical ethics consultation by a trained consultant or
ethics committee.

The first objective of consultation is to unearth all the moral values at stake
in the ethical dilemma (not an easy task!) from all parties involved in the
decision at hand. That makes it possible to see someone who holds an opposing
view as a person taking a principled stand -- rather than as some wearisome
obstructionist who stands unreasonably in your way. Quite often, humanizing each
person's point of view in this way leads to common ground where dispute
resolution can succeed.

Last week, WebMD released its latest Medscape survey of more than 24,000 U.S.
doctors who were asked to identify the "top ethical dilemmas" they encountered
in medical practice.

Reading the results, it's readily apparent that ethical dilemmas are as common
as ... well, the common cold. Readers might be particularly interested to learn
that doctors often differed dramatically in their views about the right and
wrong way to handle those real-world clinical dilemmas. Notably, because many of
them involved life-and-death decision-making, it will be critical to further
study how physicians' personal points of view actually affect the care a patient
receives.

In these troubled economic times, it's also salient to note how the surveyed
physicians viewed their stewardship of health care expenditures. A sizable
percentage would consider providing care that was ostensibly "futile" or
intended only to alleviate malpractice fears.

Below are some of the Medscape survey questions. How would you respond? How
"should" you respond? (Excerpted from: Medscape 2012   Ethics Report. Available
atwww.medscape.com/features/slideshow/public/ethics2012 .)

Would you ever give life-sustaining therapy if you believed it to be futile?

Yes: 35 percent

No: 24 percent

It depends: 41 percent

Would you ever devote scarce or costly resources to a younger patient rather
than to one who was older but not facing imminent death?

Yes: 27 percent

No: 38 percent

It depends: 35 percent

Is it ever acceptable to perform "unnecessary" procedures due to malpractice
concerns?

Yes: 23 percent

No: 55 percent

It depends: 22 percent

Would you hide information from a patient about a terminal or preterminal
diagnosis to bolster their spirit?

Yes: 10 percent

No: 72 percent

It depends: 18 percent

Is it ever acceptable to cover up or avoid revealing a mistake if that mistake
would not cause harm to the patient?

Yes: 16 percent

No: 63 percent

It depends: 21 percent

Should physician-assisted suicides be allowed in some situations?

Yes: 47 percent

No: 40 percent

It depends: 13 percent

Would you ever continue treating a patient -- despite a family's wishes to end
treatment -- if you felt the patient had a chance to recover?

Yes: 23 percent

No: 32 percent

It depends: 45 percent

Would you ever report a physician, friend, or colleague who occasionally seemed
impaired by alcohol or illness?

Yes: 78 percent

No: 4 percent

It depends: 18 percent

Kate Scannell is a Bay Area physician and syndicated columnist. You can visit
her website atwww.katescannellmd.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday
                                   e1 Edition

Plan to replace doctors' ethical tariff comes under fire

BYLINE: Slindile Khanyile

SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 466 words


Organisations representing doctors and independent private hospitals, which do
not form part of the large hospital groups such as Netcare and Mediclinic, have
criticised the proposal by the Health Professions Council of SA (HPCSA) to
replace the ethical tariff that the maximum a doctor may charge.

Instead, a document would have to be signed by a patient to accept whatever fee
the practitioner decided to charge.

In November the HPCSA said the ethical tariff would not be used from May.

Instead, a patient must agree to pay the difference if a fee charged by the
doctor was above the national health reference price list or the rate set by a
medical aid scheme.

With the tariff in place, doctors will be able to charge a fee even if it is
above the medical aid rate, but as long as it is not above the ceiling set by
the health council.

Norman Mabasa, the chairman of the Society for General Practitioners, said this
plan would create chaos in the industry because medical aid schemes were
underpaying doctors.

"The reference price list is just that - a reference - and we are not obliged to
charge it. There are studies even from the Council for Medical Schemes showing
that general practitioners (GPs) are underpaid - and even specialists, though
they are paid better than the GPs," Mabasa said.

"If we are going to keep doctors in this country, we must pay them properly.
Removing the ethical tariff would be destroying something that is working,"
Mabasa said.

The proposal requires doctors to indicate to the patient the prevailing
reference price list or medical aid scheme rate for whatever the patient
requires; the difference between that rate and the rate the practitioner intends
to charge; and the amount the patient might then be expected to pay.

Trevor Terblanche, the chairman of GP Private Practice at the SA Medical
Association, said that the association would prefer that the HPCSA would not be
involved in the process of determining tariffs, but rather concern itself with
ethical issues only.

"But we see having the ethical tariff in place as a second preferred option. If
you remove it, you are now putting the onus on doctors to know all the rates
offered by medical aids, whereas it is the patients who should know what they
are buying," said Terblanche.

Otto Wypkema, the chief executive of National Hospital Networks, which
represents 79 independent private hospitals, said this would increase the chance
of doctors treating emergency patients at the risk of their fees remaining
unpaid.

The HPCSA said it made its decision following the establishment of a new
reference price list by the Department of Health, including an extensive
consultative process with stakeholders and healthcare practitioners.

The HPCSA executive committee is reviewing the system, which is still in effect.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2009 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            June 29, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

On July 1, doctors will join hands with public forums to promote ethical medical
practice

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 399 words


On the occasion of Doctor's Day on July 1, a group of doctors will join hands
with consumer and patients' forums to not only discuss the vexed doctor-patient
relationship but also consider setting up a joint forum to promote ethical
medical practice. SATHI, a non-governmental organisation, in association with
The Times of India, is organising the talk titled, 'Dear Doctor, how should we
heal our health system', in Dadar on July 1.

"We remember our doctor as one who has the knowledge, skills, determination and
concern required to relieve a patient from disease and pain, who is perpetually
on call," said SATHI's Dr Abhay Shukla. "But, on Doctor's Day , it is also
crucial to address certain serious issues such as how ethics in the medical
profession is under threat due to commercialisation," he added.

Dr Shukla and Dr Arun Gadre from SATHI recently wrote a book called 'Dissenting
Diagnosis', exposing the current unethical practices (such as cut practice) and
commercialisation in the private

medical sector through testimonies of 78 doctors across India.

They found that, in a city like Mumbai, 'targets' are given to doctors in
corporate hospitals. "There are ethical doctors who are resisting the tide, but
they are under severe pressure from commerciali

zation. People must take care to search for an ethical doctor and seek second
opinion when possible," said Dr Shukla. However, he noted that patients too are
getting affected by medical consumerism. "For example, when a patient comes for
second opinion, after being told by some doctor in a large private hospital to
get her uterus removed, the ethical doctor may assure the patient that no
intervention is required. But their advice may be ignored and impressed by
glitter of a large hospital, she gets herself operated. We would hence caution
people of Mumbai to avoid this typical consumerist framework, where we think
that high cost automatically means better quality," the doctors said.

The open house is hence an effort to "bring together rational, ethical doctors
and active citizens in Mumbai" to develop a common platform. "We want citizens
to support ethical doctors, become aware of their rights as patients, and
contribute to developing some solutions," said Dr Shukla. The forum could
counsel needy patients, and provide a database of ethical doctors to patients.
Such forums are already in existence in Bengaluru and Pune.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             May 18, 2016 Wednesday

National Maternity Hospital and ethics

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 967 words


Sir, - I would like to support Dr Peter Boylan (April 27th) and others who are
concerned about the imposition of the medical ethics of St Vincent's Hospital on
the National Maternity Hospital (NMH) were it to be governed by the board of St
Vincent's. Of course I admire the great contributions made by religious
organisations to medical care, as described by Rev Dr Vincent Twomey (May 11th),
but we must recognise that times and ethics have moved on. Catholic medical
ethics should not be imposed on patients who are being treated in publicly
funded hospitals or on doctors or other staff who work there.

Representatives have implied that medical treatment in St Vincent's is not
restricted by the Catholic Church. I am sorry to say I feel this is
disingenuous. The fact that St Vincent's now carries out some procedures that
are not approved by the church ignores the lesson that St Vincent's took more
than half a century to come to terms with quite ordinary medicine such as
contraception and sterilisation.

In the past, newly appointed staff at St Vincent's were required to sign a form
that in effect required them to adhere to Catholic ethics. I presume some of the
current staff signed these forms. Has that process been changed and have the
older staff been released from their solemn undertakings? I did not hear of such
a change.

Does St Vincent's have an ethical committee and might we see its terms of
reference?

Some years ago, in a very sad case, permission was given by the courts to switch
off the life support to a patient who had been in a permanent vegetative state
for many years. The hospital did not want to facilitate the courts or the
relatives, so the patient had to be moved to Tallaght Hospital.

The impact of Catholic ethics is strong partly because of the personal beliefs
of many nurses and doctors, to which they are perfectly entitled. But are they
entitled to superimpose these ethics on others who do not agree with them? Is it
right that medical cases should be referred to supervisory committees for
ethical approval?

I have a friend who had had a baby with anencephaly (a fatal foetal abnormality)
who became pregnant again. The chances of recurrence were quite high. She was
refused amniocentesis in the Rotunda in 1977 because of a standard objection by
nurses. They believed quite reasonably that if such a test showed a second
anencephalic baby, the mother might have chosen an abortion. She was told, quite
wrongly, that a sonar scan would be as good as a test for alpha-fetoprotein.
That was a long time ago but the question arises today - would amniocentesis for
prenatal diagnosis, with the implication that the mother might travel abroad for
an abortion, be routinely carried out in many circumstances (for example for
mothers of advanced maternal age - that is mothers over 35) if the NMH were to
be governed by the St Vincent's board?

Will the NMH be able freely to provide information on abortions abroad? Will the
NMH be able to provide after-care to its own patients who have had an abortion
abroad? Will the NMH be allowed to develop an IVF service to help couples to
conceive or for the purpose of preimplantation genetic diagnosis? Will the NMH
be allowed to develop services to help same-sex couples to have children? Or, as
Dr Boylan mentions, will the NMH be allowed to carry out surgery related to
sexual orientation?

I do not know if such services are provided by the NMH but it would be much more
difficult to do so, perhaps impossible, if the NMH were governed by St
Vincent's.

Of course by far the greatest test would be whether St Vincent's would allow
abortion under law to be carried out in the NMH.

At present abortion is only permitted under rare circumstances, which is
difficult to facilitate in any Irish hospital, but what happens if the Eighth
Amendment to the Constitution is repealed and our laws are changed to allow
abortion in more common circumstances? Many Irish people are choosing to have
abortions and many more feel that abortion should be legal and publicly
available in Ireland in more situations, for example in cases of significant
(but not necessarily fatal) foetal abnormality.

St Vincent's and other Catholic medical organisations, or organisations
dominated by Catholic ethics, stood in the way of family planning for many
decades.

Today members of the same institutions stand in the way of services in
reproductive medicine and medical genetics that are normal in most advanced
countries, that are desired by large numbers of Irish people, and that are the
subject of discussion within Government and in the Oireachtas.

It is quite important that we move into line with the view that patients should
take the ethical decisions about their own healthcare. They should be entitled
to receive, in private, lawful medically appropriate treatment of their choice.
Their cases should not be referred to ethical committees for ethical
supervision.

Public hospitals and their staff should provide such treatment without imposing
ethical filters that have no basis in law or more widely in general medical
ethics.

If a doctor is restricted by his or her own ethics in ways that are not
proscribed by law, then the patient should be told and referred to another.

The governance of the NMH will be an important test of the newly elected
Oireachtas and newly formed government, just as the ethical principles of
Tallaght Hospital were important in the past.

It would not be wise for a Government considering the introduction of an
amendment to the Constitution which could lead to extending the circumstances
for lawful abortion to transfer the governance of the National Maternity
Hospital to ethical supervision by a board that was bound to prohibit almost all
abortions. - Yours, etc,

DAVID McCONNELL,

Blackrock,

Co Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 02, 2013 Friday

Voice for the sick, dying

BYLINE: By Paul Swiech;pswiech@pantagraph.com

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1189 words


BLOOMINGTON - A chronically ill patient is dying and his physician at the
hospital has determined that the patient is not likely to recover.

The patient has no advance directive specifying what steps should be taken when
he can no longer make his own health care decisions and who should make those
decisions on his behalf. His family has not come to terms with the patient
dying.

"The family says 'Do anything to keep him alive,'" the Rev. Mollie Ward said in
her scenario.

The patient experiences sudden cardiac arrest and CPR is performed to help
restore blood flow and defibrillation is done to try to restore heart rhythm.
But the steps work only briefly, meaning CPR and defibrillation must be
performed again.

The patient is frail and further chest compressions are likely to break ribs,
putting the patient in more pain, Ward said. The medical professionals attending
to the patient question the value of continued treatment that merely will delay
the inevitable death.

"The staff may feel ethically uncomfortable continuing this line of care that
could further harm the patient," Ward said.

At that time, a doctor or nurse may call for an ethics consultation with a
member of the hospital's ethics committee.

While largely unknown to the average person, Central Illinois hospitals have
ethics committees whose responsibilities include being able to respond to
emergency ethical concerns.

The scenario described by Ward - a member of the Advocate BroMenn/Eureka Ethics
Committee - is an example of an ethical emergency that committee members address
from time to time. Dr. Paul Pedersen - a member of the OSF St. Joseph Medical
Center Ethics Committee - provided a similar example.

"We have a trained ethics triage person (a BroMenn staff member and member of
the ethics committee) on call for ethics consults 24/7," said Ward, an Episcopal
priest who is Advocate BroMenn manager of spiritual care and clinical pastoral
education.

In Ward's scenario, the ethics triage person would talk with a representative of
the staff and family to try to get the two sides to come to agreement that does
not violate hospital policy.

Generally, an agreement happens. If the two sides don't come to agreement, the
ethics triage person can call for an emergency meeting of the entire ethics
committee, which consists of about a dozen people representing doctors, nurses,
social workers, chaplains, clergy and the community.

The frequency of those meetings varies but they happen about once a month. Some
committee members join via conference call.

"We can put a committee meeting together in 30 minutes," said Linda Slotky, a
St. Joseph nurse and chairwoman of the hospital's ethics committee.

The committee would develop a consensus opinion and recommend that course of
action to the hospital administrator.

Ethics committees aren't new. For example, Advocate BroMenn in Normal, Advocate
Eureka in Eureka, OSF St. Joseph in Bloomington and OSF Saint James-John W.
Albrecht Medical Center in Pontiac have had ethics committees for at least 20
years.

"It is our goal to help people to do the right thing when it comes to making
medical decisions and providing treatment," Ward said.

"At the heart of any discussions is the patient," said Paula Corrigan,
chairwoman of the ethics committee at Saint James, where she also is vice
president and chief financial officer.

Availability of ethics consultation is required by regulators, said Pedersen,
also St. Joseph vice president and chief medical officer.

"We deal with a diverse population and different belief systems," Pedersen said.
"Trying to understand that - while providing high quality, consistent medical
care - can lead to questions."

Many ethics committees' emergency responses involve end-of-life decisions
affecting patients who don't have advance directives. In fact, the awareness
work of ethics committees in recent years is one reason that advance directives
and end-of-life planning have become more popular, committee members said.

"The single biggest category of concern has to do with end-of-life care and the
aggressiveness of treatment, particularly when a person does not have an advance
directive," Ward said. When there isn't agreement among family members and
medical professionals on how to proceed, ethics committee members get involved.

"We try to facilitate conversation," Ward said.

- Medical professionals caring for a patient determine that he or she isn't
mentally capable of making his or her own health care decision. A committee
member gets the patient's family involved. If the patient has no family, the
committee may bring in an administrative law judge to conduct a hearing on the
patient's competency, Pedersen said.

- A Jehovah's Witness has been in a traffic crash and needs a blood transfusion
to live. Witnesses believe blood transfusions are not allowed in Scripture.

In that case, an ethics committee member will explain to the patient and family
that delaying treatment could be fatal, Pedersen said.

As ethics committee members deliberate, they consider the patient's medical
condition, goals and risks of treatment, probability of success, patient
preferences, whether the patient understands his or her options, whether there
is an appropriate surrogate for an incapacitated patient and patients' religious
beliefs and cultural factors.

"An advance directive has priority," Ward said.

"If the patient has an advance directive, we honor that," Slotky said.

"The underlying goal is to provide an ethical response for patients and
providers that meets the ethical and religious directives of our institution,"
Pedersen said.

Catholic hospitals are bound by the ethical and religious directives of Catholic
health care systems, Slotky said. "If a patient wants to terminate a pregnancy,
we won't do that here."

But, "there is a misperception that Catholic institutions keep people alive at
all costs and that's not the case," Slotky said. "It's what is ethically correct
according to our religious directives as well as what's right for the patient.

"We want to support the family but the patient comes first," Slotky continued.
"With ethics, sometimes it's not always black and white."

In addition to responding to ethical emergencies, committees also meet about
every other month to discuss their response to emergencies and to review
proposed hospital policy changes and new regulations. Committees also encourage
awareness of ethical issues. For example, the St. Joseph committee offers two
workshops a year on ethical issues for hospital staff, Slotky said.

Ethics committees and ethics consultations re-assure family members that
decisions aren't being made in a vacuum and that everyone's opinion is
validated, Slotky said.

"It gives the family peace of mind."

Ethical concern?

Anyone - a doctor, hospital staff person, patient, family member or visitor -
can request an ethics consultation at a hospital. If you have an ethical
concern, discuss it with your doctor or nurse. If your concern isn't resolved,
tell them you would like an ethics consultation or that you'd like to speak with
a representative of the hospital's ethics committee.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This is a Quark CopyDesk document!

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Pantagraph


                              22 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 30, 1997, Sunday

Anti-abortion lobby forces shift in ethical investment

BYLINE: Paul Gosling

SECTION: NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 466 words


Several financial institutions are withdrawing investment in companies involved
in providing abortions after growing pressure from people wishing to save in
ethical trusts.

A campaign by Christian anti-abortionists has led some fund managers to
disinvest in private hospitals, pharmaceutical firms that produce "morning-
after" pills or carry out research on embryos, and manufacturers of equipment
used in terminations.

Standard Life, Europe's largest mutual life assurer, is likely to launch an
ethical unit trust in the spring. John Allan, unit trust investment manager,
says the organisation is surveying its clients. No final decision has been
taken, but Standard's ethical unit trust will probably refuse to invest in any
company connected to abortions. Standard's pounds 50bn of non- ethical funds
will not be affected.

Mr Allan last week met representatives of Ethical Financial, a "pro-life"
independent financial adviser, which has contacted many of the country's
insurers asking them to invest in line with Christian principles.

Brian Spence, Ethical Financial chief executive, said he expected Standard
Life's new fund to adopt an abortion boycott. "Their question was, will they be
more likely to lose business or gain business? I think it is clear they would
gain business. I did tell them it would cause a reaction, as there is a minority
which will make a lot of noise."

Mr Spence said that although there had been a big increase in ethical
investments in the past two years, these have focused on the wrong issues.
"People are more important than animals, but the vast majority of ethical funds
have an emphasis on animal rights rather than people."

Aberdeen Investment Management is already boycotting companies connected with
abortions, as are the Genesis funds managed by Ethical Financial and targeted at
Christians. The Henderson Ethical Fund intends to do the same, subject to
approval from its clients.

Mr Spence said other funds were considering joining the boycott. A similar
campaign in the US, which has a bigger, more militant anti-abortion lobby, has
led to some large financial institutions pulling investments out of private
hospitals.

Standard Life's headquarters is in Scotland, where the Catholic church has led a
vociferous campaign against abortion, but the company says this has not affected
its views. The Catholic church in Scotland says it has not pressed companies to
distance themselves from abortion. The Church of Scotland has asked Scottish
businesses to invest more ethically, but as it is split on abortion it has
stressed arms and the environment.

The Society for the Protection of Unborn Children says it "applauds" fund
managers who refuse to finance abortions.

Moral maze, Business page 16


LOAD-DATE: December 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd


                              23 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ethical issues pit patients against doctors

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Your Health: Trends - Discoveries; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 322  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical challenges"
stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who disagree with the
treatment being ordered by medical professionals, says a new report.

The report, published Sunday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated -- whether it involves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic, or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment
to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think-tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Singer.

Other ethical challenges include waiting lists. The report says the wait lists
now plaguing the system create ethical questions because, in some cases, the
lengthy waits can harm patients' health, impede their ability to return to work
and contribute to "psychological distress."

Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill was also an
issue cited in the report. The system has traditionally marginalized these
groups in regards to their priority for treatment -- a discriminatory practice
that must be openly acknowledged and ended, it says.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

               January 3, 1987, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

The ethical dilemma in case of Baby Andrew

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 460 words


   Re, your editorial, Whose decision? (Dec. 24). Having watched the case of
Baby Andrew unfold, I was pleased to find The Star acknowledging the important
ethical considerations which are brought to bear for decision makers.

As a Canadian PhD candidate in Bioethics at Georgetown University in Washington,
D.C., I have observed the increasing use of ethics committees and ethics
consultants in the hospital setting. The U.S. experience may be instructive.

During the last several years, at least five cases have been heard in U.S.
courts in which parents have refused to consent to treatment for infants with
the understanding that the denial of treatment would certainly result in their
child's death. In every case, the parents were seen to be thoughtful and
compassionate individuals who believed that their decision to refuse consent was
truly in the best interests of their child.

In some of these cases the court ordered treatment, and in others the parents'
wishes were honored. What is unfortunate, however, was that no precedent emerged
from this body of cases upon which future cases could be decided. The court was
unable to articulate a set of principles (legal or ethical) to which hospitals
or parents could turn when faced with a similar dilemma.

In fact, some of the courts acknowledged an uneasiness in addressing these cases
because they were primarily medical and ethical in nature and not legal. Some of
the court decisions also acknowledged the appropriateness of referring such
cases to hospital ethics committees. Recently, the American Academy of
Pediatrics encouraged hospitals to set up ethics committees for pediatric cases,
and it is likely that a similar trend will appear in geriatric settings. These
developments should be welcomed.

Although referral to ethics committees may be difficult, it seems reasonable
that hospitals should nevertheless consider implementing committees which
include individuals trained in clinical medical ethics and hospital attorneys.
In cases such as Baby Andrew's, a committee could retrospectively review the way
the case was handled, paying particular attention to the way the parents were
informed about their child's illness, and any mechanisms used for resolving the
conflict which occurred. This activity does not require that ethics committees
be granted adjudicatory power but it does provide the hospital with an
opportunity to build up a store of ethical reflections and considerations that
can be referred to in similar cases. Hospitals would be wise to examine their
own needs for ethics consultation to ensure that cases which can be (and often
ought to be) addressed in the hospital are not hastily referred to the courts.

ERIC M. MESLIN

Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              25 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 14, 2016 Monday

Lurie Children's Ethics presents: Building a Community of Integrity and Ethical
Practice

LENGTH: 221  words

DATELINE: New York



  Evenston: Northwestern University has issued has the following news release:





   Monday, November 14, 2016

 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM



 Where: Ann and Robert H Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Room 11-160

 225 E Chicago Ave

 Chicago, IL 60611 map it



 Audience: Faculty/Staff - Student - Post Docs/Docs - Graduate Students



 Contact: Bryan Morrison   (312) 503-1927

 bryan-morrison@northwestern.edu



 Group: Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities Events



 Category: Lectures  & Meetings

 Description:





 Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago Ethics Advisory Board
presents an



 Ethics Grand Rounds:



 Building a Community of Integrity and Ethical Practice



 Please join us for lunch, meet the members of the ethics advisory board, and
participate in a discussion about what is needed to develop a supportive ethical
community within our hospital. Share your opinions and insights to help the
Ethics Advisory Board focus on what is important to you! Learn ways that you can
access ethics resources or get more involved in ethics activities. Your input is
important to us!



 This event is not presented by the Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities.
We are sharing it here with permission.



   In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 14, 2016 Monday

Lurie Children's Ethics presents: Building a Community of Integrity and Ethical
Practice

LENGTH: 221  words

DATELINE: New York



  Evenston: Northwestern University has issued has the following news release:





   Monday, November 14, 2016

 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM



 Where: Ann and Robert H Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Room 11-160

 225 E Chicago Ave

 Chicago, IL 60611 map it



 Audience: Faculty/Staff - Student - Post Docs/Docs - Graduate Students



 Contact: Bryan Morrison   (312) 503-1927

 bryan-morrison@northwestern.edu



 Group: Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities Events



 Category: Lectures  & Meetings

 Description:





 Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago Ethics Advisory Board
presents an



 Ethics Grand Rounds:



 Building a Community of Integrity and Ethical Practice



 Please join us for lunch, meet the members of the ethics advisory board, and
participate in a discussion about what is needed to develop a supportive ethical
community within our hospital. Share your opinions and insights to help the
Ethics Advisory Board focus on what is important to you! Learn ways that you can
access ethics resources or get more involved in ethics activities. Your input is
important to us!



 This event is not presented by the Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities.
We are sharing it here with permission.



   In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Pakistan: AKU Symposium explores Ethical Challenges in Health Care Organisations

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 16 -- Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations
are reactive, addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at
a symposium organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday. They were
unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a health
care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily to
clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively. It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond
the scope of conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to
clinical service, research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.
Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics
Committee Symposium held at Aga Khan University. In her keynote address, Dr.
Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for Ethics in Health Care in the
United States identified the major limitations of traditional ethics committee
models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a paradigm shift that remedies
most of these defects. "By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in
health care," Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things
because it is the right thing to do",she said. Professor Murad Khan, Chair,
Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various components of organisational
ethics. "As part of an organisational approach to ethics, committees should
address matters such as conflict of interest issues, resource allocation,
appointments and promotions as well as support other ethical activities in their
institution." The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges,
examine ethical issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders,
faculty, administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions.
Summarising the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of
organisational culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success
in an integrated ethics approach. Other notable speakers at the Symposium
included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing
Director, Oxford University Press, Professor Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore
University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon,
Patel Hospital Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision
News. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright (c) 1994 Cleveland State University
                           Journal of Law and Health

                                  1994 / 1995

                              9 J.L. & Health 247

LENGTH: 13647 words

ARTICLE: ATTORNEYS ON BIOETHICS COMMITTEES: UNWELCOME MENACE OR VALUABLE ASSET?

NAME: Randall B. Bateman  n1

TEXT:
 [*247]  I. INTRODUCTION

   Fifteen years ago, many considered hospital ethics committees  n2 to be an
outlandish idea.  n3 Today, the majority of hospitals have some type of
committee  [*248]  charged with discussing or resolving ethical dilemmas.  n4
The majority of these committees were established in the early 1980s  n5 as a
response to government intervention in medical decision making.  n6 In their
effort to establish ethics committees, however, some hospitals paid little, if
any, attention to the reason for having a committee and how the committees
should operate.  n7

   The bioethics literature has done a good job of describing the workings of
ethics committees and defining the roles of many of the committees' members.  n8
Most hospital committee members agree that the committee should comprise
doctors, nurses and community representatives. The one area which lacks any
meaningful consensus is the role of attorneys on hospital ethics committees.  n9
Should attorneys be members of bioethics committees? If so, what type of
attorney should be on the committee and what should be the attorney's role?

   The purpose of this paper is to examine the role(s), if any, of the attorney
as a member of bioethics committees, especially hospital ethics committees. In
the process of determining whether an attorney should serve on these committees,
the arguments will contrast the potential role of an attorney with the different
types of attorneys who may be chosen to serve as members of a hospital ethics
committee.  n10 The ultimate conclusion of this paper is that attorneys do have
a role on ethics committees, but that the role depends on the type of attorney,
the individual committee and the way the committee functions.

    [*249]  II. BACKGROUND

   In order to understand the potential roles of an attorney on a bioethics
committee, it is important to consider the history of bioethics committees, the
purpose of the committees and what role attorneys currently have. While every
committee is unique, some generalizations apply to all and are important to
consider.

A. The History of Bioethics Committees

   The ethics committee movement stems from, of all places, a law review
article.  n11 In a short article in the Baylor Law Review, Dr. Karen Teel
suggested that hospitals consider having an advisory body composed of
physicians, social workers, attorneys and theologians.  n12 The resulting
committee could assist doctors and patients by opening dialogue and diffusing
the responsibility for difficult ethical decisions. By spreading responsibility,
the committee would allow doctors to feel more comfortable taking actions
normally avoided due to liability concerns.  n13 Though relying on the opinion
of other physicians could look like "passing the buck," it could also be viewed
as a conscientious attempt by the physician to obtain a second opinion. If the
doctor relied on the opinions of a group of health care workers, it would be
much more difficult to claim that his or her actions were outside the norms of
the medical profession. Because the committee's opinion would aid the doctor in
making the ethically superior decision, instead of the legally superior one, the
end result would ideally be more ethical treatment of the patient.  n14

   Dr. Teel's article soon caught the attention of the New Jersey Supreme Court
as it attempted to decide the case of In re Quinlan.  n15 The court faced the
difficult issue of what should be done with a patient in a "chronic and
persistent vegetative state."  n16 The patient's father sought to be appointed
guardian so he could have his daughter's respirator turned off. The patient's
physicians, however, were opposed to the termination of life support. The court
concluded that the father should be appointed guardian and allowed him to find
other physicians who would agree to follow his instructions.  n17

   The future impact of Quinlan stemmed not only from the holding, but from the
court's fascination with an idea that would have kept the matter out of the
courts to begin with. Relying on Dr. Teel's article, the court found that
decisions  [*250]  such as these could be more appropriately made by ethics
committees.  n18 The court viewed Dr. Teel's suggestion as an answer to two
problems. First, the medical profession needed a method to diffuse
responsibility for tough decisions involving life and death. Second, the judges
needed a method that would help them avoid handling such difficult conflicts in
the future. The court stated:


     The most appealing factor in the technique suggested by Dr. Teel seems
     to us to be the diffusion of professional responsibility for decision,
     comparable in a way to the value of multi-judge courts in finally
     resolving on appeal difficult questions of law. . . .

     We consider that a practice of applying to a court to confirm such
     decisions would generally be inappropriate, not only because that
     would be a gratuitous encroachment upon the medical profession's field
     of competence, but because it would be impossibly cumbersome.  n19


   In the end, the court assigned Mr. Quinlan to be his daughter's guardian. The
court, however, required Mr. Quinlan to consult an ethics committee before
discontinuing his daughter's life support.  n20 Interestingly, the "Ethics
Committee" as described by the court was somewhat different than that described
by Dr. Teel.  n21 Instead of a committee to advise on ethical considerations,
the court seemed to be envisioning something more along the lines of a prognosis
committee.  n22

   The court's references to Dr. Teel's article while describing a prognosis
committee evidences some confusion on the part of the court. It is unclear
whether the court thought that the ethics committee should decide prognoses and
ethical matters, or only prognoses. The court's apparent discomfort with
deciding the issue is likely one of the reasons it felt these issues should be
handled within the medical profession. Regardless of the court's intent or
understanding, its opinion gave judicial recognition to Dr. Teel's idea and set
the foundation for ethics committees in general.

    [*251]  The number of ethics committees grew slowly for the six years
following Quinlan. By 1982 only one percent of hospitals had ethics committees
with the potential to become involved in decision making in individual cases.
n23 In April of that year, another ethical dilemma, more agonizing than Karen
Quinlan's, presented itself. Baby Doe, a Down's syndrome infant with an
esophageal atresia  n24 and tracheoesophageal fistula,  n25 was born in Indiana.
n26 The medical staff was divided over whether surgery was appropriate. Some
believed that the atresia should be repaired immediately; others felt that the
child's quality of life would be poor and the baby should be allowed to die.
n27

   The parents sided with the latter and refused treatment for the child. Those
opposed to the parents' decision took the issue to the Indiana court. As Baby
Doe died of starvation, the Indiana court upheld the right of the parents to
choose nontreatment.  n28 Regardless of whether the court was right or wrong,
the case received primarily negative publicity.  n29 The press portrayed the
incident as one of cruelty to the handicapped.

   More ethics committees were established as a result of the publicity. The
gradual move for ethics committees then received a significant boost in the
spring of 1983 when the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems
in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research released its report "Deciding
to Forego Life-Sustaining Treatment."  n30 The report recommended that hospitals
create a means for review and consultation on decisions which had life or death
consequences for incompetent patients.  n31

   Later that year, the case of Baby Jane Doe brought the issue of nontreatment
of severely handicapped infants back into the news. The case involved a New York
couple who refused surgery for their daughter who was born with hydrocephaly,
microcephaly and spina bifida.  n32 Several private individuals  [*252]  and the
federal government attempted to force the parents to treat the child.  n33 The
courts, however, held that only the relevant state agency could bring an action
and allowed the parents to refuse treatment.  n34

   Hospitals quickly became aware that difficult ethical questions were not
going away and needed to be addressed. The solution seemed to be the
establishment of ethics committees. By the end of 1983, twenty-six percent of
hospitals had ethics committees.  n35

   In 1984 the Department of Health and Human Services responded to the denial
of treatment for disabled infants by putting forward the "Baby Doe regulations."
n36 The regulations required hospitals to post notice that denial of treatment
based on disability was a violation of federal law.  n37 The regulations also
encouraged each hospital providing newborn care, especially neonatal intensive
care units, to have an "infant care review committee."  n38 The support of such
groups as the American Medical Association, and the American Academy of
Pediatrics  n39 soon followed.  n40 By 1985, sixty percent of hospitals had
ethics committees.  n41

   The medico-legal community was excited by the rapid adoption of ethics
committees. Dr. Samuel Sherman, chairman of the American Medical Association's
Judicial Council, stated "before very long, all hospitals will have ethics
committees."  n42 Dr. Sherman also urged, however, that ethics committees be
allowed to "evolve slowly according to the needs expressed at the local level."
n43

    [*253]  In the hurry to establish hospital ethics committees, several
considerations were overlooked. First, many committees were formed before the
hospitals or even the committee members determined the committees' objectives.
n44 Second, there was, and still is, a lack of understanding about how the
committees should operate.  n45 Third, if the committee is not sure of its
goals, or how it is to function, it is difficult to know who should be on the
committee in the first place. For example, if the committee's goals and
functions are to determine the patient's prognosis, as recommended in In re
Quinlan,  n46 it would be illogical to have a social worker, an attorney or a
member of the dietary staff on the committee.  n47 In comparison, if the
committee is to serve as a multidisciplinary board for addressing ethical
dilemmas,  n48 it would be unwise to have the committee consist solely of
physicians or nurses. Thus, the purpose of the committee should be clear before
its membership is chosen.

   Ironically, Dr. Teel's suggestion had addressed both the purpose and
membership of the committees.  n49 Dr. Teel believed that the primary purpose of
the committee was to review difficult ethical cases. Furthermore, because
ethical viewpoints can differ depending on one's background, Dr. Teel felt the
committee also should be multidisciplinary.  n50 Thus, the committee should
include theologians, social workers and even attorneys.

   The literature that followed the growth of the committees has done a good job
of addressing the first and second problems. While recent literature has
discussed who should be on the committee, there is a clear lack of agreement on
whether attorneys should be included.  n51 If attorneys should not be on ethics
committees, the discussion is moot. If, however, attorneys can be a helpful
addition to the committees, some agreement ought to be reached concerning their
role. In order to look at the potential roles of an attorney on an ethics
committee, we must first consider the purpose of the committee as a whole.
[*254]  Then we must look to the individual benefits and drawbacks that
different types of attorneys have for the committee.

B. The Roles of a Hospital Ethics Committee

   In the literature, a general consensus emerged that hospital ethics
committees serve three major functions.  n52 First, the committee has a policy
development role.  n53 Because the committee deals with ethical problems, it is
a logical starting point for developing policies which deal with troubling
ethical issues. For example, the committee may draft guidelines on what
procedures are to be followed when terminating life support or writing
do-not-resuscitate orders. If physicians have well drafted guidelines to follow,
they may be more likely to withhold life-sustaining treatment in medically
indicated cases than they would be if no guidelines were available.  n54

   A second important function of ethics committees is that of education.  n55
The education the committee sponsors is of two kinds. First, the committee must
educate new members. The exact education needed for an individual is likely to
vary. For example, a new doctor may need to be versed in the methodology that
the committee uses when dealing with ethical issues. The social worker, in
contrast, may need to acquire a basic understanding of medical terms so she will
not feel intimidated or lost when the doctors and nurses begin discussing the
medical issues involved.  n56 Each of the committee members also needs to be
versed on the latest legal developments  n57 and guidelines from various
professional groups, and they should be up to date on bioethics literature.  n58
Continuing education for members is particularly important because the  [*255]
literature about ethics committees is growing at an astounding rate, and new
insights are being continually added.

   The committee also has the important function of educating others in the
hospital. It does little good for an ethics committee to exist if no one else
knows of its existence.  n59 The committee's education of others may occur both
directly and indirectly. The direct education occurs when the committee sponsors
seminars, publishes newsletters and conducts other activities that teach
hospital staff to deliver more ethical medical care. The committee is also
likely to be put in charge of educating other members of the hospital community
about new legislation such as The Patient Self Determination Act  n60 and how it
will affect each of them.

   The indirect educational function is a by-product of membership on the
committee. As influential members of the committee learn more about medical
ethics, that information is likely to be passed on to their colleagues. Whether
it is through consultation or daily conversation, the committee member is likely
to convey either the ethical methodology she is learning or relate examples of
typical conduct that is unethical. As a result, the committee member's
colleagues will hopefully learn more about how to ethically deliver medical
care.

   The ethics committee's educational function can also extend into the
community. By sponsoring programs that let the public know of the committee's
existence, the committee can build ties with the community and help avoid some
ethical dilemmas. For example, if more people thought about advance directives,
fewer ethical problems would arise. Committees could sponsor programs with such
groups as the American Association of Retired Persons to help their members
conform to the local requirements for a living will. The committees could also
petition state legislatures to change laws that hamper the ethical delivery of
medical care.

   The third purpose of ethics committees is case analysis.  n61 While most of
the literature refers to some type of case analysis, there is no uniformity of
what exactly is to be done with respect to individual cases. As Judith Ross
points out, the different words used to describe case analysis often show the
differences in what is happening within the committee.  n62 Case analysis is
often referred to as "case review," "case consultation," "case counseling" or
"case discussion." Each of these, while often used as synonyms, implies a
different approach by the  [*256]  committee. These differences often seem to
reflect the field of expertise of the particular author.  n63 The differences in
what is envisioned by these different activities affect the role of each member
of the committee and who should be on the committee in the first place.

   As each approach to individual cases is discussed, it is important to realize
that different members of the same committee can be operating under differing
approaches as they discuss the same case. The committee itself may also move
from one approach to another within the same case.

   "Case review" tends to be legalistic in nature. When John Robertson and Susan
Wolf discuss case review, they seem to be envisioning a process similar to what
happens when a termination of treatment decision is brought into the judicial
system.  n64 Committees relying on this model are more likely to focus on
procedural concerns and the roles of the committee members.  n65 Such committees
are likely to look at such issues as who may bring a case before the committee,
who attends the review, who acts as the patient's advocate and who votes. The
committee may also look at traditional legal concerns such as whether the
patient was afforded due process.  n66 Committees which use this model are also
more likely to refer to decisions they have made at the same time they claim
that they are not decision-makers.  n67 The end result is that this type of
committee adopts a quasi-judicial approach to resolving ethical issues.

   Case review requires a methodology. There are now many books and other
publications which provide detailed methodologies for committees to follow.  n68
These methodologies usually provide the committee with a routine to follow while
analyzing a case. This insures consistency and helps to give each case a fair
analysis.

    [*257]  Casuistry is one method for case review that has been recently
popularized.  n69 Casuistry is the application of a case system to moral, or in
this case, ethical reasoning. Instead of starting with general principles from
which answers are deduced, casuistry begins with specific cases for which there
is a consensus on the appropriate outcome.  n70 An essential element of a
casuistic approach is to identify cases that are taxonomically similar to the
case under consideration.  n71 The case in issue is then analyzed in light of
those cases to discover what the proper decision in the case ought to be.  n72
For example, if a committee is reviewing a case which involves withdrawing life
support, the committee looks to other cases in which the issue was raised. After
discussing each case, the committee decides which of the other cases is most
like the case at hand and follows the decision from the prior case. To an
extent, every attempt to deal with an ethical dilemma must be somewhat casuistic
in that it is case centered.  n73

   The most common example of casuistry today is the legal system. The casuistic
method is the basis for Anglo-American common law.  n74 As they function today,
American courts are constantly comparing like cases to like cases in order to
reach their rulings. Because a lawyer is schooled in the art of legal analysis,
he or she may assist the committee in developing an ethical analysis that
resembles that of the law. While the particular focus of the committee is not
identical to the law, the methodology is similar and can help the committee
reach ethical decisions.  n75 Because case review tends to be legalistic, it is
the most likely approach to adopt a casuistic methodology.

   A casuistical approach may be particularly beneficial to small hospitals that
cannot establish a full ethics committee. A network could be set up allowing
these institutions access to the cases discussed by other hospitals. Thus, the
doctor or nurse who is facing the dilemma could see how similar cases were
solved at another institution.

   The other approaches to case analysis differ greatly. The "case consultation"
approach as proffered by John LaPuma and Mark Siegler is a good example.  n76
[*258]  LaPuma and Siegler seem to view the committee as a body with a
consultative role; analogous to the specialist called in to consult with a
general practitioner facing a difficult problem. Committees with this view of
case analysis tend to see themselves as experts in ethics.  n77 In their
perception, they are specialists, just like a neurologist or toxicologist, who
have been asked to consult on a difficult case. In this function, these
committees essentially view themselves as a doctor and attempt to behave like
one. They may be concerned over such issues as whether there is a need to see
the patient, interview family members or formally place the recommendation on
the patient's chart.  n78 When following the case consultation approach,
committees are also less likely to ask whether "the committee should make a
recommendation but to whom it should make the recommendation."  n79

   Committees adopting the case consultation approach are likely to fall into
one of two methodologies. Like some specialists, one method is to provide the
doctor with multiple options and the likely outcome of each. Thus the
committee's recommendation may merely serve to clarify what options are
available to the physician and what the likely consequences will be. The other
method is adopting a referral view of consultation. Like other specialists, the
committee may feel that the case is being "turned over" to it and thus, it must
decide what is best for the patient. The person referring the case may even be
able to choose the committee's method. Moreover, the person may request that the
committee only discuss options, or that the committee reach a conclusion.

   A different approach is taken by Bill Winslade. His theory is that committees
should serve the role of case counseling.  n80 Committees adopting this approach
attempt to contour the understanding of the case and advise on that basis. Such
committees tend to focus more on the conversational development of the case with
the expectation that feasible solutions to the problem will become manifest.
n81 Unlike the case review and consultation methods, those using the counseling
idea look less to reaching a recommendation, and more to reshaping the problem
so those facing the ethical dilemma can see appropriate solutions.  n82 The
ultimate assumption in this theory of case analysis seems to be that the cause
of ethical conflicts is miscommunication. Thus, by assisting the involved
parties in coming to a common understanding of the facts, the ethical problem
will be resolved.  n83

   The final method of case analysis is what I refer to as case discussion. This
theory of analysis is closest to that espoused by Corrine Bayley and Joan
[*259]  Gibson.  n84 The role of case discussion is primarily educational. As
cases are discussed, the understanding of the committee members and others
increases. Thus, the more cases that one deals with, the greater one's
understanding. These committees tend to focus less on reaching decisions or
making recommendations and more on the educational benefit that can be derived
from case analysis.

   Though many committees may fit within one of these categories, many do not.
The most common scenario is a committee that operates under two or three of
these approaches. Which approach is used, and what methodology accompanies the
approach, depend in large part on the individual case. Some committees, and even
members, may operate in two or more of the scenarios within the same case
analysis.

   The varying approaches of case analysis are important for our discussion
because the approach used by a committee, or an individual, has a large impact
regarding who should serve on the committee. Additionally, the approach also
affects the individual roles of the committee's members. For example, an
attorney would probably be more comfortable and helpful to a committee that is
performing case review than to one engaged in either case counseling or case
consultation. In a case review paradigm, the attorney is called on to play some
role that is analogous to his or her profession. If the committee is
quasi-judicial, the attorney may serve the role of an advocate or a fact finder.
In comparison, a case counseling scenario may require the attorney to use his or
her sensitivity to ambiguity in a person's language to help the participants
understand each other better.

C. The Current Standing of Attorneys on Bioethics Committees

   Some commentators hold the view that attorneys of any type do not belong on a
hospital ethics committee.  n85 Despite this view, it seems that approximately
half of all ethics committees have an attorney as a member of the committee.
n86 The inclusion of attorneys on ethics committees is relatively consistent
with public sentiment about the issue. Two surveys have found forty-two percent
[*260]  of interviewed patients feel that a lawyer should serve on the hospital
ethics committee.  n87

   Those committees with attorneys are most likely to have the hospital's
attorney.  n88 While having the hospital's attorney seems convenient, it may
limit the effectiveness of both the ethics committee and the attorney. Because
the hospital attorney owes a duty of loyalty to the hospital, the situation may
present a conflict of interest for the attorney also serving on a committee that
may expose the hospital to liability.  n89

   III. TWO CAVEATS FOR ATTORNEYS ON BIOETHICS COMMITTEES

   There are two major problems with attorneys serving as members of bioethics
committees. The first is the tendency to want to control the proceedings.  n90
The second is the unique conflict of interest problems that attorneys face.

A. Attorney Control Thy Tongue

   An attorney may attempt to control things either by being appointed chair of
the committee, or by steering the considerations of the committee toward the
legal issues.  n91 While serious, neither of these problems is fatal. While an
attorney may be an asset to the committee, he or she should not be appointed the
chair of the committee.  n92 Instead, the chair should be someone who is
respected by both doctors and nurses. Some approaches, especially case review,
may work best with two chairs, one a doctor and one a nurse.  n93

    [*261]  The solution to attorneys who try to dominate the discussion is
simple -- leave them off the committee. The literature gives good guidelines on
what type of person should be invited to join the committee.  n94 A person who
tries to dominate the conversation, whether a doctor, nurse or anyone else,
should not serve on the committee. Those people who can be considered inflexible
should also be left off the committee.  n95 The disadvantages of having such a
person on the committee outweigh any benefits the person will bring.  n96

   The other solution is to limit the discussion of any legal concerns to the
end of the discussion. Any member should be able to ask questions or make
comments at any time. The members of the committee, including the attorney,
should also be free to make comments regarding the ethical dilemma. The
attorney, however, should understand that legal comments are only to be made at
the end of the discussion.  n97 A poorly placed legal comment stifles ethical
discussion. A good example is the following conversation from an ethics
committee meeting:

     Doctor 1: I would like to ask [Dr. 2], based on his experience in
     following children like this who have had significant damage and so on
     in the developmental evaluation clinic, how he thinks this child is
     going to fare. That would kind of put in perspective the extent of
     effort that we should put in this child.
     Doctor 2: I would go along with what the neurologist has said. The
     high probability that this child would have significant brain damage
     with neurological impairment like cerebral palsy or possibly seizure
     disorders and other neurological impairments, but I think the other
     compounding factors are all of the other things we haven't discussed.
     Attorney: Excuse me for one moment, I really do need to comment on
     something that [Dr. 1] just said and I know that this is never a
     welcome comment when it comes in these meetings, and I understand your
     feelings in this regard when you look at the quality of life that this
     child would have and that being significant in your view in terms of
     aggressiveness with which we treat the medical problem. I need to
     remind the  [*262]  committee, as we have discussed on many occasions
     in the past, that quality of life is not a permissible consideration
     under the Baby Doe Legislation. We know that there is a legislative
     determination that sets forth the conditions under which it is
     permissible to withhold medically indicated treatment and it is very
     specific in there that quality of life is not one of those
     considerations that we can even discuss at this point. So what I
     generally say at this point is let's look at the medical conditions
     and try not to look at future neurological impairment. If the
     neurological condition is itself one of the life threatening
     conditions we are talking about and that itself requires treatment
     that is different . . . If we are looking only at what the
     neurological outcome is for the child because of a preexisting
     condition and that's quality of life, we can't do it whether we like
     it or not.  n98

The attorney's misplaced comment was remarkably effective in ending that line of
conversation. The two doctors discussing an important concern ceased the
discussion and did not speak for the rest of the meeting. The doctors were
essentially told that their ethical concerns were important, but should not be
discussed in the ethical deliberation. Perhaps the saddest thing is that this
discussion is on tape and is shown to doctors and nurses to teach them how to
serve on their hospital's ethics committee. It is no wonder that doctors are
wary of attorneys on ethics committees (or anywhere else for that matter).

   To avoid problems such as this, the attorney should save any discussion of
pertinent legal issues to later parts of the case.  n99 Some questions may arise
which affect legal concerns as well as ethical ones. For example, the question
of whether the patient knows of the committee's discussion of her case is an
ethical issue as well as a legal one. Such questions are beneficial so long as
they are not an attempt at turning the conversation to other legal concerns
which might interfere with the ethical discussion.

   Such an approach allows the committee to look at all of the ethical
alternatives. Once these have been narrowed, the committee can look at how the
law views each alternative. Then the committee can decide if the preferred
recommendation is clearly legal, clearly illegal or somewhere in between. The
clearly illegal should not be recommended,  n100 leaving the clearly legal and
the questionable recommendations. The committee, depending upon the model under
which it operates, may recommend a course of action or give the people involved
a list of options and their potential outcomes.

    [*263]  If the attorney addresses the legal implications of a case, there is
also a risk that the entire meeting will devolve into a discussion of the law
and not of ethics.  n101 Instead of looking at the ethical issues and how they
may be resolved, the committee may end up discussing the legal issues and how to
deal with them. Such an approach steers the committee away from its intended
purpose and does a disservice to all involved.  n102 Thus, the legal discussion
should come last, after the ethical options have been enunciated.

B. Conflicts of Interest and the Attorney

   Another major consideration in whether an attorney should be a member of an
ethics committee is the potential for conflicts of interest. There are three
different types of attorneys in relationship to an ethics committee. Each of
these presents different advantages and disadvantages to the committee,
depending on the case analysis approach adopted by the committee.

   Due to the nature of legal representation, potential conflicts of interest
are important to the discussion of whether attorneys belong on hospital ethics
committees. Though the medical profession faces conflicts of interest (e.g. best
interest of one's patient versus the best interests of the hospital) the
attorney's interests are fundamentally different. The proper functioning of an
attorney is premised on absolute loyalty to his or her client. Therefore, the
loyalties of each type of attorney must be considered.

   The first type of lawyer is the hospital's attorney. This person usually
works in, and is employed directly by, the hospital (or the organization which
owns the hospital). The popular name for attorneys in this situation is
"in-house" counsel. The attorney in this type of situation is also personally
interested in the welfare of the hospital because it is his or her employer.
Failure to protect the hospital could result in the loss of his or her job.

   The second type of attorney is one retained by the hospital, but not directly
"employed" by the institution. Attorneys in this situation are usually referred
to as outside counsel.  n103 Unlike the employee/employer relationship of the
hospital's lawyer, the outside counsel and the hospital have a relationship more
like the traditional view of an attorney and client. Even though the attorney is
not an employee of the hospital, the attorney may have a duty of loyalty to the
hospital that requires the attorney to act in the hospital's best interests.

   The third type of attorney is comprised of all the attorneys that do not fit
into type one or type two. The field the attorney practices in is irrelevant,
with the possible exception of medical malpractice. These attorneys are all
inherently different in that, unlike attorneys one and two, they owe no duty of
loyalty to the hospital or to its parent corporation. This lack of duty allows
the attorney to focus more on the ethical considerations in the case and less on
the legal  [*264]  liabilities.  n104 Thus, the attorney can be more concerned
about helping the committee reach an ethical decision than about protecting the
hospital from lawsuits.

   Some commentators have argued that the hospital attorney (presumably meaning
attorneys one and two) has no greater duty of loyalty to the hospital than do
the hospital's other employees.  n105 This view, however, is false. Unlike the
doctor who often has a conflict between what is best for the hospital and his or
her duty to the patient, the attorney's duty of loyalty lies solely with the
hospital. If a hospital attorney sits on a committee making decisions that may
not be in the hospital's best interests, the attorney faces a conflict of
interest. Should the attorney assist the committee in reaching a recommendation
that is likely to result in the hospital being sued? If the attorney does, the
duty of loyalty to the hospital has been breached. If the attorney acts in the
best interest of the hospital, he or she may keep the committee from reaching
the most ethical recommendation.

   IV. THE ATTORNEY'S ROLE AND THE COMMITTEE'S PURPOSE

   As previously discussed, there are three major purposes of the hospital
ethics committee. When determining whether an attorney should be included on the
committee, it is important to look at the benefits and liabilities of having an
attorney on the committee in light of each purpose.

A. Policy Development

   One place an attorney may be valuable to a committee is in its policy
development functions.  n106 In several ways, the attorney can add a different
perspective to the development of such policies and may be able to help
implement them after they have been written.

   One benefit of having an attorney on a hospital ethics committee, when
drafting policies, is the role she can play as a "devil's advocate." While this
role would be negative in the other contexts of the committee's purpose, it is
important in policy formation. The attorney is most likely to catch subtle
ambiguities in the wording of a policy. Attorneys have a tendency to critique
policies by posing hypotheticals. This may be useful when one is considering the
desirability of having a policy and how the policy should be worded. Does
[*265]  the policy say what the committee wants it to say? Is the policy clear
in how it applies to different situations? Many policies are drafted with good
intent only to be misunderstood by those who later read them. Attorneys, due to
their legal training, tend to be careful about word choice. Thus, by critiquing
the policy, the attorney may help the policy to more effectively reach its aim.
n107

   The attorney could also help in making sure that policies are formed to
decrease potential liability. While avoidance of liability should not be the
major concern of the ethics committee, some potential legal problems can be
avoided merely by the way a policy is written. The ideal situation is to have a
policy that furthers ethical treatment and decreases the risk of legal action.
Providing clear guidelines on how a policy should be carried out is critical to
those who are supposed to follow it. A good policy will encourage ethical care
and result in more ethical treatment as the medical staff realizes that they are
legally protected.

   Particular knowledge of the hospital attorney may imply that he or she would
be the most helpful type of attorney during policy drafting. The hospital
attorney is probably more familiar with the language that doctors and nurses use
than other attorneys. However, the attorney is also likely to err in favor of
decreasing the hospital's liability over the ethical consideration behind the
policy. Outside counsel may also be prone to err on the side of the hospital's
interests. Therefore, the attorney who is not affiliated with the hospital is
probably the best choice. If help is needed with medical language, the outside
attorney can talk with doctors or even the hospital attorney.

   Another benefit of having a nonhospital attorney is having a second opinion.
For example, if a hospital administration rejects a policy prepared by the
ethics committee on the grounds that it is not within the law, the committee can
turn to its attorney member to research the issue objectively. Sometimes the
attorney will find that the hospital is correct. In other circumstances, the
hospital's view will have been overly conservative or incorrect. In this
situation, the attorney member of the committee can talk with the administration
to explain why the committee feels the policy is within the law, and possibly
negotiate wording that is acceptable to the hospital as well as the hospital's
ethics committee.

B. Education

   An attorney is also a valuable tool in the education of the committee itself
and its goal of educating others. Because most of the members of the committee
are not lawyers, an attorney can help by educating the committee members about
the law.  n108 In a recent article, Alan Meisel described eight legal myths
[*266]  that are common within the medical profession.  n109 These myths are: 1)
anything not specifically permitted by law is illegal; 2) termination of life
support is murder (or suicide); 3) a patient must be terminally ill for life
support to be stopped; 4) it is only permissible to terminate "extraordinary"
treatment; 5) it is permissible to withhold treatment, but not to stop it once
started; 6) the withdrawal of tube feeding is different from terminating other
treatments; 7) a court order must be obtained to terminate life support; and 8)
living wills are illegal.  n110 It seems hard to imagine any eight
misconceptions that could interfere more with the proper working of a hospital
ethics committee than these. A well informed attorney, or one who is willing to
become informed, could be an asset by warning the committee of these myths and
explaining what the law allows.

   An attorney also should help to ensure that doctors and nurses are familiar
with the law in areas related to the termination of treatment. For example, a
survey done two years ago showed that roughly two-thirds of the physicians and
nurses likely to be involved in organ procurement for transplantation could not
properly identify the medical and legal criteria for determining death.  n111 It
is important that those involved in ethically sensitive areas of medicine such
as organ transplantation be up-to-date on the legal as well as medical
definitions relevant to their work.

C. Case Analysis

   In case analysis, the attorney can play many different roles. What those
roles are varies from committee to committee and case to case. An attorney
should be as free as any other member to ask questions  n112 or make comments on
ethics. If an attorney, whether a hospital attorney or not, is giving legal
advice, the attorney should speak last.  n113 When the attorney speaks out on
the legal status of the case, the ethical consideration is chilled.  n114 Rather
than stopping important conversation, the legal implications should be discussed
only after some ethically acceptable alternatives have been found. Then each may
be considered in light of the law.  n115

   The exact role of the attorney will also vary with the type of case analysis
followed by the committee. While an attorney may be of assistance under each
[*267]  methodology, the role in each will likely be different. Thus, each must
be analyzed separately.

   1. Case Review

   Committees that operate under a case review methodology are most suited for
an attorney in his or her traditional role. Because the committee is following a
quasi-judicial methodology, many of the functions of the committee fit well with
someone trained in the law. Thus, the attorney can be a benefit to the committee
in helping them to "think like a lawyer."  n116

   If a committee is going to operate under a quasi-judicial methodology, it is
important for the committee to understand the obligations that follow. One of
the major benefits of having ethics committees is to avoid having to take issues
such as the termination of life support to court. If the committees are to be
viewed as a potential substitute for the courts, the committee must be fair to
all the parties involved.

   In a recent article, Susan Wolf demonstrated that many, if not most,
committees lack any sort of procedural due process to protect the patient's
rights.  n117 If a committee is going to make recommendations  n118 that may
affect a patient's treatment, it is important that the patient has an
opportunity to present his or her concerns to the committee.  n119

   The importance of providing due process protection is heightened by the
increasing legal recognition of ethics committees. Several states now
statutorily recognize ethics committees and some even provide the committees
with immunity.  n120 Thus, it is important that the committee be required to
conduct any case reviews with an emphasis on fairness.

    [*268]  Committees must also protect patients' due process rights if the
committees seek to be an alternative to the courts.  n121 Some commentators have
even suggested that committees should attempt to position themselves in such a
way that they will receive judicial deference.  n122 The approach seems to be
working in that several courts have admitted ethics committees' recommendations
as evidence.  n123 Providing due process is particularly important due to the
reluctance of the courts to interfere with medical decision making.  n124 If
ethics committees are seen as an alternative to the courts, it is vital that
they protect the due process rights of the patient. Otherwise, they will become
viewed as another dialysis committee.  n125 The public may end up viewing
bioethics committees as modern medicine's answer to the star chamber.

   An attorney as a member of the committee can help to assure that due process
rights are assured. Ideally, the attorney can make sure that the patient is
provided with the needed protection without turning the committee into a
courtroom. The protection of due process is one area where an attorney is
justified in addressing a legal issue before the end of a case. The attorney may
ask if the patient has been told about the committee meeting and if the patient
desired to attend. This could even be done before the committee met. The
attorney may discuss with the patient's doctor or nurse what ought to be done to
protect the patient's right to a fair hearing (due process). For example, the
attorney may advise a doctor that the patient be notified of the meeting and
given an invitation to attend. By providing the patient with due process, the
committee reaches a more accurate and therefore more ethical decision.  n126

   The function of case review is one of the most important reasons for having
an attorney that does not represent the hospital. If a case may have a "bad
outcome", the last person who should be on the committee is a hospital attorney.
The best defense to a suit against a hospital ethics committee is that  [*269]
the committee acted in good faith.  n127 It may be much more difficult to make
out such a case if the hospital's attorney was active in promoting the decision.
If it appears that the attorney was supporting a position that was in the
hospital's best interest and not the patient's, it will be much harder to
convince a jury (or even a judge) that the committee was acting in good faith.
Instead, it will look as if the hospital's attorney was encouraging a course of
action that was in the hospital's best interests but detrimental to the patient.

   The ethical guidelines of all attorneys make it difficult for either attorney
one or two to serve as a member of a committee with decision-making authority.
All attorneys are bound by the ethics rules of the state in which they practice.
All of the states look disfavorably on attorneys having conflicts of interest.
Rule 1.7 of the Model Rules of Professional Conduct provides: "A lawyer shall
not represent a client if the representation of that client may be materially
limited by the lawyer's responsibilities to another client or to a third person,
or by the lawyer's own interests . . . ."  n128 Even if the attorney made his or
her role clear, the attorney still has a potential conflict of interest. Despite
the efforts of the attorney, the potential conflicts may occasionally interfere
with the committee's proper functioning.

   While it is true that most ethics committees would not consider the
hospital's attorney to be "representing" them, a potential conflict still exists
and should be avoided. If the hospital attorney explains the law to the
committee, either the committee or the hospital usually suffers. Either the
committee gets a conservative view, to its disadvantage, or the attorney gives
the committee a liberal interpretation of the law to the hospital's
disadvantage. The Comment to Rule 1.7 states:

        Loyalty to a client is also impaired when a lawyer cannot consider,
     recommend or carry out an appropriate course of action for the client
     because of the lawyer's other responsibilities or interests. The
     conflict in effect forecloses alternatives that would otherwise be
     available to the client.  n129


The Comment later states, "if there is a material risk that the dual role will
compromise the lawyer's independence of professional judgment, the lawyer should
not serve [in both capacities]."  n130

   The inherent potential for conflicts of interest for attorneys one and two
creates a problem under the ethics rules. In a case review approach, there are
times when the ethical decisions of the ethics committee are not in harmony, if
not directly opposed to the best interests of the hospital.  n131 What choice is
to  [*270]  be made by the hospital attorney who also serves on the ethics
committee? Does the attorney recommend action that is ethical but may subject
the hospital to potential liability, or recommend against the most ethical
solution in order to protect his or her client? The best solution is to avoid
the problem in the first place. Because of the conflict of interest involved,
attorneys that are also counsel for the hospital should not serve as members of
the hospital ethics committee.  n132

   2. Case Consultation

   A committee that operates under the case consultation model will have a
different role for the attorney. Because the focus is on "consultation" rather
than "review," the members view themselves as experts in some area. With a
bioethics committee, the overall expertise would be one in ethics. If the
committee is multidisciplinary, or has a diversity of members, each member is
likely to be viewed as an expert in some specialized field. The role of the
attorney may be as an expert in the interrelationship between law and ethics.
n133

   The role of the attorney may be further defined by the model of consultation
to which the committee subscribes. If the committee views its role as providing
the doctor with numerous possibilities, a decision tree, then the attorney may
want to discuss the legal ramifications of each potential decision. Thus, the
doctor would be able to weigh the potential course of action against any legal
concerns or liabilities.

   If the committee adopts a consultation in which it takes over the case, the
attorney would be responsible for telling the committee what the best course of
action is from a legal standpoint. While the two roles seem fairly similar,
there is a substantial difference between merely explaining the legal
implications of each option and making a firm recommendation on best legal
alternative.

   The type of consultation may also affect the potential for a conflict of
interest. The hospital's attorney is in less of a conflict if the attorney
merely explains the legal ramifications of each course of action and the doctor
decides. Though the attorney can influence the doctor, the doctor makes the
ultimate decision. If the hospital's attorney makes a firm recommendation to the
committee about what is the legally most advantageous alternative, the potential
conflict with the patient's rights is increased. It may be very easy for the
attorney to advance the option that is the best legally for the hospital, but
not the patient. For these reasons, an attorney without a duty to the hospital
would be preferable. The  [*271]  attorney would be more likely to make legal
recommendations on the basis of the best interest of the patient, since no duty
is owed to the hospital.

   3. Case Counseling

   The case counseling policy would cast the attorney in a role that is less
familiar to many attorneys. The attorney would not be giving advice or even
giving an analysis on the legal implications of a potential course of action.
Instead, the attorney would be helping to focus the participants' understanding
to clarify the issues. The traits of an attorney are both a disadvantage and an
advantage. The disadvantage comes from the traditionally adversarial role of
attorneys in our legal system. It may be difficult for an attorney to step out
of that role and be essentially neutral. Though this would be difficult for
many, it is important for the counseling model to work properly. If participants
feel that the discussion is resulting in a division of ground rather than a
unification, they are likely to withhold both relevant information and their
emotional support. Either of these would result in an outcome that is less than
the ethical ideal.

   The advantage that an attorney has in this model is the issue-based nature of
it. In order for participants to reach a consensus, they must come to an
agreement on what issue is presented. Because attorneys are constantly dealing
with issue clarification, they may be able to help the participants agree on the
issues. Then the participants can find consensus on what needs to be done to
resolve the problem.

   The potential for conflicts of interest are less in case counseling than in
case review or case consultation. Instead of making recommendations or
suggestions, the attorney merely helps the participants reach a common
understanding. The only danger with an attorney that works for the hospital is
that the attorney may manipulate the flow of conversation. Thus, the
participants may reach a common understanding, but in a way that it works to the
hospital's advantage. For example, if a doctor wishes to write a
do-not-resuscitate order and the patient's family opposes the idea, the attorney
may manipulate the family's statements to show the family why the doctor's
decision should be supported. While this sounds bad, many attorneys are
conditioned to rework others' expressions until they meet the attorney's needs.
The attorney may twist what the participants are saying unconsciously.

   While the nonhospital attorney has less motivation for doing so, any attorney
may be guilty of the same thing. Instead of twisting things in favor of the
hospital however, the attorney may twist the conversation in favor of the
committee. For example, the committee may find a case very problematic. To
compensate for this, the attorney may steer the conversation away from the real
issues and toward an "easy answer." While the ethics committee has been let off
the hook, the participants have not come to a full concurrence of belief.

   4. Case Discussion

   Case discussion involves another role change for an attorney. If the goal of
the group is to seek intellectual edification, the attorney, like all the other
disciplines serves the role of adding a different perspective. The attorney, for
example, may explain to the committee how the law in the particular case  [*272]
developed. By providing one more point of view, the attorney has assisted the
committee in expanding its horizons.

   While the committee may benefit from the discussion, the case discussion
model represents the case where the attorney has the least unique role. If no
recommendation is given and no course of action decided upon, the committee is
of little use for the direct resolution of ethical problems. While the educating
of the committee may serve some form of a trickle down effect to more ethical
treatment, the committee is of little direct ethical value. Therefore, while the
committee may have an attorney on the committee, she is at best an indirect
asset to the delivery of ethical care.

   Because no substantive decisions are made, there is little reason for a
hospital attorney to be excluded from a committee that limits itself to case
discussion. The effects of the attorney's statements have little possibility of
directly influencing medical care. The additional medical knowledge of the
attorney may also be of more value to those seeking intellectual stimulation.
For these reasons, any type of attorney that has an interest would be beneficial
to a hospital ethics committee.

   V. CONCLUSION

   Attorneys have a role on hospital ethics committees. What that role is,
however, will differ from committee to committee. There are two major
guidelines. First, do not have the hospital's counsel, whether in-house or
outside, serve as a member of the ethics committee. It creates a potential
conflict of interest and is unfair to both the attorney and the committee.
Second, when the attorney is going to address legal matters in relation to a
present case, it should always be the last thing to be considered. If legal
issues are addressed too early in a meeting it will stifle creativity and turn
the rest of the meeting into a legal discussion instead of an ethical one.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawTreatmentEnd-of-Life DecisionsDo-Not-Resuscitate OrdersHealthcare
LawTreatmentPatient ConsentRight to Refuse TreatmentLegal EthicsGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  B.I.S. (Chemistry, Zoology and Anthropology), Weber State University, cum
laude, 1988; J.D., University of Utah College of Law, Order of the Coif, 1993.
The author wishes to thank Professor Leslie Francis of the University of Utah
College of Law and Morris Linton of Intermountain Health Care for their comments
and criticism.




n2  Bioethics committees, institutional ethics committees and hospital ethics
committees will be used interchangeably to refer to committees in hospitals and
other institutions, e.g. nursing homes, which respond to ethical dilemmas of
administering health care. Other committees such as institutional review boards
are mentioned separately.




n3  See John D. Golenski et al., HANDBOOK FOR ETHICS COMMITTEES 2 (1991).




n4  See Ethics Committees Double Since '83: Survey, 59 HOSPITALS 60-64 (Nov. 1,
1985) [hereinafter Ethics Committees Double]. Since the publication of the
study, interest in ethics committees has continued to increase. Thus, the
proportion of hospitals with ethics committees today is likely much higher than
the sixty percent cited in the study.




n5  Id. A study conducted in 1982 found that approximately 1 percent of
hospitals had ethics committees. Stuart Youngner et al., A National Survey of
Hospital Ethics Committees, 11 CRITICAL CARE MED. 902 (1983). Another study
found that 26 percent of hospitals had an ethics committee by 1983 and 60
percent had one by 1985. Ethics Committees Double, supra note 4 at 60. Ethics
committees in nursing homes had a similar growth curve in the early 1980s. See
Barbara Brown et al., The Prevalence and Design of Ethics Committees in Nursing
Homes, 35 J. AM. GERIATRICS SOC. 1029 (1987).




n6  See Ethics Committees Double, supra note 4, at 64. Alexandra Gekas, director
of the National Society for Patient Representatives, stated that hospitals
viewed ethics committees as the best response to the restrictive Baby Doe
regulations. By providing some proof that hospitals have internal controls, the
hospitals were able to avoid the hot lines recommended in the initial draft of
the regulations. Id.




n7  See Judith Ross et al., HANDBOOK FOR HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES 31 (1986).




n8  Id. at 31-63.




n9  David A. Beuhler et al., Hospital Ethics Committees: The Hospital Attorney's
Role, 1 H E C FORUM 183 (1989).




n10  See discussion infra part III. b. Conflicts of Interest and the Attorney.
Attorneys, for the purpose of this paper, are classified by the conflicting
duties the attorney may have to the hospital, or its corporate owner, and the
ethics committee.




n11  See Karen Teel, The Physician's Dilemma: A Doctor's View: What the Law
Should Be, 27 BAYLOR L. REV. 6 (1975).




n12  Id. at 9.




n13  Id.




n14  Id.




n15  355 A.2d 647 (N.J. 1976).




n16  Id. at 655.




n17  Id. at 671.




n18  Id. at 669.




n19  355 A.2d at 669.




n20  Id. at 672.




n21  Id.




n22  Id. The court held that:

        if that consultative body agrees that there is no reasonable
     possibility of Karen's ever emerging from her present comatose
     condition to a cognitive, sapient state, the present life support may
     be withdrawn and said action shall be without any civil or criminal
     liability therefor on the part of any participant, whether guardian,
     physician, hospital or others.

Id. at 672.




n23  Stuart Youngner et al., supra note 5, at 904.




n24  Esophageal atresia is a deformity of the esophagus which prevents
swallowing.




n25  Tracheoesophageal fistula is a hole between the trachea and the esophagus
which should not be there.




n26  See Joseph Pless, The Story of Baby Doe, 309 NEW ENG. J. MED. 664 (1983).




n27  Ross, supra note 7, at 6.




n28  See Steven Smith, Disabled Newborns and the Federal Child Abuse Amendments:
Tenuous Protection, 37 HASTINGS L.J. 765, 789 (1986).




n29  See Ross, supra note 7, at 6.




n30  See PRESIDENT'S COMM'N FOR THE STUDY OF ETHICAL PROBS. IN MED. AND BIOMED.
AND BEHAVIORAL RES., DECIDING TO FOREGO LIFE-SUSTAINING TREATMENT (1983).




n31  Id. at 5.




n32  Alan R. Fleishman & Thomas H. Murray, Ethics Committees for Infants Doe?,
THE HASTINGS CENT. REP., Dec. 1983 at 5. The parents did not refuse all
treatment. Instead, they chose "conservative" treatment such as antibiotics
instead of surgery.




n33  See Smith, supra note 28, at 792.




n34  Id.




n35  Ethics Committees Double, supra note 4, at 60.




n36  45 C.F.R. § 84 (1985).




n37  45 C.F.R. § 84.55(f).




n38  45 C.F.R. § 84.55(a).




n39  The American Academy of Pediatrics actually was behind the ethics committee
option under the Baby Doe regulations. In July of 1983, the Academy submitted a
brief proposal suggesting "infant bioethical review committees" to the
Department of Health and Human Services. See Fleishman & Murray, supra note 32,
at 6-7. In 1984 the Academy published guidelines for the establishment of Infant
Bioethics Committees. The guidelines gave a relatively complete overview of how
the committee should function, what it should do and even who should be on the
committee. The guidelines recommended that the committee have physicians,
nurses, a hospital administrator, a parent of a disabled child, a lawyer and
several members of the community. See Guidelines for Infant Bioethics Committees
, 74 PEDIATRICS 307 (1984).




n40  Ronald Cranford & Edward Doudera, The Emergence of Institutional Ethics
Committees, 12 LAW MED. & HEALTH CARE 13, 14 (Feb. 1984).




n41  Ethics Committees Double, supra note 4.




n42  Cranford & Doudera, supra, note 40, at 14.




n43  Id.




n44  Beuhler, supra note 9.




n45  Judith W. Ross, Why Cases Sometimes Go Wrong, HASTINGS CENT. REP.,
Jan./Feb. 1989 at 22.




n46  See supra note 22 and accompanying text.




n47  The above situation assumes that the medical condition did not relate to a
social or nutrition problem.




n48  While there are differences, most ethics committees are interdisciplinary
and have members from several fields other than medicine. James F. Drane &
Russell B. Roth, Institutional Ethics Committees: What How and Why, HEALTH
PROGRESS, Oct. 1985 at 30, 31.




n49  Dr. Teel's article viewed the committee as serving the purpose of what is
now referred to as case review. The article also suggested that part of the
benefit of the committee comes from the fact that it is multidisciplinary. Thus,
it should include medical staff, attorneys, theologians and social workers. See
Teel, supra note 11.




n50  Id.




n51  Beuhler, supra note 9, at 183.




n52  See Marshall B. Kapp, The Attorney's Role as Institutional Ethics Committee
Member, FLA. B.J., July/August 1987 at 19.




n53  While all of the literature refers to a role in which the committee deals
with policy formulation, there are several different views of exactly what the
committee is to do. See, e.g., American Academy of Pediatrics, supra note 39, at
308 (describing the committee's role of policy development); Kapp, supra note
52, at 20 (discussing the committee's role as policy drafting); Drane & Roth,
supra note 48, at 30 (discussing policy creation by the committee).




n54  See Drane & Roth supra note 48, at 32.




n55  Cynthia Cohen, Birth of a Network, HASTINGS CENT. REP., Feb./March 1988, at
11.




n56  Some committees literally have a doctor interpret for those who do not have
a medical background. After the case has been presented, the doctor puts the
medical terms in "plain English" so everyone can participate.




n57  The majority of the literature seems to hold the view that while the advice
given by ethics committees may exceed legal standards, it should not violate the
relevant laws. See American Medical Association, Judicial Council, Guidelines
for Ethics Committees in Health Care Institutions, 253 JAMA 2698 (1985); Robert
Orr, Should HECs Provide Advice Counter to the Law When They Believe It
Inappropriate? No, 3 H E C FORUM 167 (1991). Therefore, the committee members
should at least be aware of which options are clearly outside the law.




n58  See Consultation Revisited, 18 ETHICAL CURRENTS, Spring 1989 at 3.




n59  Studies have shown that the majority of hospital patients are unaware that
their hospital had an ethics committee. See Stuart Youngner et al., Patient's
Attitudes Toward Hospital Ethics Committees, 12 LAW, MED. & HEALTH CARE 21 (Feb.
1984) (finding that only eight percent of people asked were aware that their
hospital had an ethics committee).




n60  42 U.S.C. § 1395.




n61  The words "case analysis" are used in place of the more common phrase "case
review". As will be shown, references to the activity as case review, case
consultation or other similar names carry certain distinct connotations.




n62  Ross, supra note 45, at 22.




n63  The differing forms of case analysis espoused by various people seem to be
slanted toward a methodology that is used in their profession. Thus, those who
are attorneys are likely to view case analysis with a quasi-judicial tint.
Commentators that come from medical backgrounds tend to view case analysis as
being an extended form of medical consultation. See infra notes 63, 75, 79 and
83 and accompanying text.




n64  Ross, supra note 45, at 22. See also Judith Ross, Ethics Committees: Who
Wrote the Script (Presentation to LDS Bioethics Seminar, Mar. 13, 1992).




n65  Ross, supra, note 45, at 22.




n66  See Susan M. Wolf, Hospital Ethics Committees and The Law: Ethics
Committees and Due Process: Nesting Rights in a Community of Caring, 50 MD. L.
REV. 798 (1991).




n67  Ross, supra note 45, at 22.




n68  See, e.g., Guidelines for Infant Bioethics Committees, 74 PEDIATRICS 307
(1984); Judith Ross et al., HANDBOOK FOR HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES (1986) and
John D. Golenski et al., HANDBOOK FOR ETHICS COMMITTEES (1991).




n69  For a detailed analysis of casuistry, its development and its application
to bioethical issues, see ALBERT R. JONSEN & STEPHEN TOULMIN, THE ABUSE OF
CASUISTRY: A HISTORY OF MORAL REASONING (1988).




n70  Golenski, supra note 3, at Legal Issues - 3.




n71  Id.




n72  Thomas H. Murray, Medical Ethics, Moral Philosophy and Moral Tradition, 25
SOC. SCI. MED. 637, 639 (1987).




n73  Id. at 640.




n74  Id. at 639.




n75  Id. at 643. "The common law, for instance, shares many concerns with a
society's moral tradition (where they are not one and the same), as do the
traditions governing the actions of the various professions."




n76  See Ross, supra note 64.




n77  Id.




n78  Id.




n79  See Ross, supra note 45, at 22.




n80  Ross, supra note 64.




n81  See Ross, supra note 45, at 22-23.




n82  Id. at 23.




n83  Ross, supra note 64.




n84  Id.




n85  George Annas, Ethics Committees: From Ethical Comfort to Ethical Cover,
HASTINGS CENT. REP. May/June 1991, at 18, 20.




n86  See Andrew L. Merritt, The Tort Liability of Hospital Ethics Committees, 60
S. CAL. L. REV. 1239, 1246 n. 36 (citing a survey finding 62% of ethics
committees with attorneys); Ann Helm & Dennis Mazur, The Role of Attorneys on
Hospital Ethics Committees: Potential Influence on Committee Decisionmaking, 1 H
E C FORUM 195, 197 (1989) (citing a VA study in which 56.5% of VA ethics
committees had legal representation-even though they are immune from suit). See
also Brian Carter, Medical Ethics Committee-A Survey of Army Hospitals, 153 MIL.
MED. 426, 427 (Aug. 1988) (citing three studies which found 41%, 62% and 42% of
ethics committees have attorneys as members).




n87  Id. See also Stuart Youngner et al., Patients' Attitudes Toward Hospital
Ethics Committees, 12 LAW HEALTH & MED. Feb. 1984 at 21, 23.




n88  See Willard Green, The Philadelphia Story, HASTINGS CENT. REP. Sept./Oct.
1989 at 26 (finding that 39 percent of committees had the hospital's attorney as
a member and only 12 percent had outside lawyers).




n89  Golenski supra note 3, at 12. In the discussion on the membership of the
committee, Golenski starts the discussion on attorneys as members by saying,
"Under no circumstances should the hospital counsel sit on the ICE; it's an
absolute conflict of interest, since the hospital counsel can't look after the
hospital's interests while considering ethical questions of patient care."




n90  Kapp, supra note 52, at 21-22.




n91  Id. at 20.




n92  Appointing an attorney as chair of the committee may scare other members.
Medical personnel, especially doctors likely will give less credence to the
committee if they believe that it is being run by an outsider. Furthermore, many
doctors do not like attorneys and may feel less comfortable bringing a case
before the committee. See Golenski, supra note 3, at Getting Started - 3.




n93  Id. at 3-5. The advantages of having a nurse and a doctor as co-chairs are
several. First, nurses are not likely to speak up at ethics committee meetings
if they feel intimidated by doctors. If one of the chairpersons is a nurse with
influence, the other nurses may feel more comfortable with bringing up problems
they see. In contrast, the doctors are not likely to be cooperative if they
think that the ethics committee is stacked against them. If a doctor serves as
one of the chairpersons, the other physicians may be more likely to accept the
role of the committee rather than considering it a doctor review committee.




n94  See generally, Ann Helm & Dennis J. Mazur, The Role of Attorneys on
Hospital Ethics Committees: Potential Influence on Committee Decisionmaking, 1 H
E C FORUM 195 (1989).




n95  See Golenski, supra note 3, at Getting Started 13-14.




n96  The committee may wish to invite someone with a "radical" viewpoint if that
viewpoint is particularly germane to that meeting's discussion. The person
however, should not be a regular member of the committee. Id.




n97  Id. at Methodology-25.




n98  The exact committee in which this happened will not be cited for
confidentiality reasons. The italics represent emphasis made by the attorney.




n99  Golenski, supra note 3, at Methodology-25.




n100  See supra note 57 and accompanying text.




n101  See Kapp, supra note 52, at 22.




n102  Id.




n103  Some people refer to these attorneys as outhouse counsel, a name which may
or may not be deserved.




n104 " Legal liabilities" is used because the attorney still needs to be
concerned with legal matters. The attorney should not be encouraging a committee
to make recommendations that are clearly illegal. The attorney, however, also
should not be overly concerned with the committee taking actions that, while
legal, may result in the hospital being sued.




n105  Bruce White, Point and Counterpoint: Should an Institution's Risk
Manager/Lawyer Serve as HEC Members?, 3 H E C FORUM 87, 88 (1991).




n106  Policy development may vary depending on the committee. Some committees
will actually make policies while other committees may draft policies for review
by the hospital administration.




n107  Hopefully, the attorney will use the opportunity to critique the policy to
make sure the policy is clear. The attorney could have a detrimental effect if
he or she turned the policy into multi-clause legalese as is common in
government regulations.




n108  Kapp, supra note 52, at 21.




n109  Alan Meisel, Legal Myths About Terminating Life Support, 151 ARCH. INTERN.
MED. 1497 (1991).




n110  Id.




n111  Stuart Youngner et al., "Brain Death" and Organ Retrieval, 261 JAMA 2205
(1989).




n112  Questions should not lead the conversation into a legal discussion and
should be nonconfrontational.




n113  See supra note 96 and accompanying text.




n114  See supra note 98 and accompanying text.




n115  Golenski, supra note 3, at Methodology -25.




n116  While if overdone legal analysis could ruin the very reason for the
committee, the members may be able to function better in a case review
methodology if they have some training in legal analysis.




n117  Susan M. Wolf, Hospital Ethics Committees and the Law: Ethics Committees
and Due Process: Nesting Rights in a Community of Caring, 50 MD. L. REV. 798
(1991).




n118  Ms. Wolf's article contends that committees make decisions, not
recommendations. Many ethics committees claim to follow an optional/optional
model as explained by Professor John Robertson. In other words, the committee's
review is optional and any advice it gives is likewise optional. According to
Ms. Wolf, this is a misnomer. The social and professional influence of the
committee make the recommendation more of a decision, even if the committee does
not intend for it to become such. Few doctors will disregard the committee's
recommendations. The committee's recommendation will directly affect the
patient's care. Thus, the committee is ethically obligated to afford the patient
due process protection from the moment it agrees to hear a case. Id. at 809.




n119  Id. at 805-06.




n120  Id. at 800, 807 (citing Md. Health-Gen. Code Ann. §§ 19-370 to-374 (1990 &
Supp. 1990) (requiring hospitals to have ethics committees); Haw. Rev. Stat. §
663-1.7 (Supp. 1990) (offering immunity to ethics committees) and N.Y. Pub.
Health Law § 2972 (McKinney Supp. 1991) (requiring a "dispute mediation
mechanism")).




n121  Ms. Wolf conducts a detailed study of the bioethics literature and finds
that many articles suggest ways that ethics committees can be used to keep these
matters out of the courts. Some have even suggested things that the committee
can do to improve the likelihood of a court granting deference to the
committee's decision. Supra note 117, at 810.




n122  Id. (citing Cranford, Hester & Ashley, Institutional Ethics Committees:
Issues of Confidentiality and Immunity, 12 LAW, MED. & HEALTH CARE 21 (1984)).




n123  Id. at 800-01 n. 16.




n124  See In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647, 669 (N.J. 1976).




n125  In 1960, Dr. Belding Scribner of the University of Washington introduced a
shunt that made it possible to use hemodialysis as a treatment for end stage
renal disease. Because of the limited number of dialysis machines, a committee
with varying backgrounds was established to decide who would get dialysis and
who would not. When the story was published in Life magazine, the committee
received intense criticism for deciding who would live and who would die. See
Ross, supra note 7, at 5-6.




n126  See Wolf, supra note 117, at 805, 857-58.




n127  See Drane & Roth, supra note 48, at 32.




n128  MODEL RULES OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT Rule 1.7(b) and cmt. (1983).




n129  Id.




n130  Id.




n131  Golenski, supra note 3, at Getting Started - 12. The ethics committee's
decision may not be in the best interest of the hospital from the liability
standpoint. It is arguable that the committees recommendation is ultimately in
the hospital's best interest because it will likely result in more ethical
medical care and may protect the hospital in the long run.




n132  Id.




n133  In a recent conference, Peter Windt asserted that philosophy, law and
ethics are all interconnected. This is especially true in that "all three use
similar vocabulary and make judgements about human behavior." LDS Bioethics
Committee, April 3, 1992.


                              29 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

Medical trial delays put thousands at risk, say experts

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 637 words


continued from page 1

all. The process is necessarily thorough to protect patients and hospitals from
litigation. Trials can go spectacularly wrong, as happened in 2006 when six
young men were nearly killed by an experimental drug in a trial at Northwick
Park hospital in north London.

The 2002 Sars pandemic killed 774 people and infected more than 8,000. Had the
virus not been contained it could have killed far more. The reason the death
toll was not higher was that patients were most infectious when they were most
sick, so isolating the ill stopped the virus spreading. "There is no doubt we
were very lucky with Sars," said Farrar. "But nobody knows where it has gone and
we don't have a vaccine. If it were to come back tomorrow and I got infected,
the doctor treating me wouldn't have a clue which drug, if any, to give me."

Without hard evidence, the government's preparedness rests on educated guesses.
The Department of Health spent £424m stockpiling Tamiflu (oseltamivir) for a flu
pandemic. But the lack of trials in sick patients means doctors disagree on how
well the drug works.

A 2011 report from the Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS) raised major concerns
about delays to clinical trials. The report quoted Cancer Research UK data that
found the typical time taken to launch a trial and treat the first patient was a
staggering 621 days. The bulk of that time was spent obtaining NHS approval. The
time has come down since, to around 18 months, but has not improved much in the
past year or so.

Sir Michael Rawlins, president of the Royal Society of Medicine, who chaired the
report, said progress was disappointing. "It's going in the right direction, but
it's painfully slow," he said.

The Health Research Authority was set up in response to the AMS report and
charged with streamlining approval times. It has already cut delays that held up
ethical approval. One change was to hold weekly meetings of ethical committees
to consider and approve trials submitted in the days beforehand, and a system
for convening ethical committees virtually when a trial is urgent. One trial to
look at the effect of a vaccine in pandemic influenza received ethical approval
in two days.

But the major delays are not with ethical approval, but sign-off from the NHS
centres that host trials. It is here that the HRA proposals aim to make their
greatest impact. Instead of individual NHS hospitals duplicating each other's
work by independently reviewing, querying and finally approving a trial, the HRA
will act as a central authority, giving a single sign-off for all participating
hospitals.

Relieved of that workload, hospitals can focus on the practicalities, such as
obtaining trial drugs and making sure patients are enrolled. If the health
department agrees to the plans, a simple trial could be approved within 25 days.

"We will give researchers a lot more confidence that the NHS can respond if the
HRA is doing the greater part of the approving," said Janet Wisely, chief
executive of the HRA.

She said that ultimately, they should be able to approve emergency trials within
24 hours. "If you are intending to treat someone in a 24-hour timeframe then
research should match that. It's a challenge, but it's what we should aim for,"
she said.

Farrar wants more trials pre-approved so that doctors can start emergency tests
in patients the moment an outbreak is identified. "We need generic protocols
which have been pre-approved by ethics committees and institutions at a national
level. All the information, from what samples to take to the forms we'd record
patient data on, would be openly available. Then, in an emergency, a group that
has worked on the top three or four interventions can start enrolling patients
within 24 hours," he said. "There are groups trying to address this, but it's
nowhere near there yet."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            October 31, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

The Alfred tarred by a broad brush;
THE KOSSMAN AFFAIR

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2042 words


RECENT events at the The Alfred Trauma Service, as outlined by the hospital's
review and that of the State Ombudsman, add a sad chapter to the history of this
great hospital. The implications for the patients involved, the staff, their
families and the hospital are not what any of us would see as acceptable or
desirable. The Ombudsman's recommendations will be acted upon. He has, however,
painted the whole hospital as dysfunctional. This is not correct in my view.

The hospital is greater than one individual or any one part of its clinical
activity. While it continues as the major trauma hospital in the state, it also
functions as the provider of world-class treatment to many thousands of
Victorians whose illnesses are not trauma-related.

The Alfred's primary focus is on best patient care, with a culture that supports
its staff to deliver that care. The Ombudsman's criticism of the hospital should
be viewed in the context of his investigation and must not be allowed to
undermine the fine work done by dedicated doctors, nurses and others across a
wide range of medical and surgical specialties at this institution, or diminish
the trust The Alfred is rightly endowed with.

Vincent Cousins, Head ENT-Otoneurology Unit, The Alfred hospital, Associate
Professor, Monash University Department of Surgery

'Harvesting' for cash not confined to hospitals

IT IS interesting how "harvesting" people for cash (The Age, 30/10) is a source
of public outrage when applied to a profession that has self-imposed and
self-regulated ethical standards, yet harvesting the public for cash is the
unashamed purpose of the entire business world. Here, ethical standards are
usually non-existent or mere window-dressing to foster public confidence. Too
often so-called ethical standards equate only to minimum legal requirements.

In a world in which we expect health professions to put a patient's interests
before their own, in the business world it is "let the buyer beware" with no
duty of care offered to the public. Why are we not outraged by this? Why do we
not expect the same high standards of care given to the public by the business
world as health professionals routinely provide?

Instead we have over-servicing, where lay ignorance is routinely abused - the
"legitimate" activity of many businesses resulting in a wide range of social and
health-related public ills, executive salaries determined by the "ethics-free"
free market etc... etc... When will we expect the business world to put the
public interest before its own?

David Champion, Ivanhoe

Over-servicing? Quelle surprise

SURPRISE! Surprise! Over-servicing in the medical profession? Who would have
thunk it? Could the next investigation please be into the dental "profession",
its over-servicing, under-regulation and general exploitation of vulnerable
people?

Joanna Wilson, St Kilda

Kossman's birthplace irrelevant

MOST if not all of The Age articles about Dr Kossmann make sure to mention that
he is "German-born". What is the relevance of where he was born? Did he come
over here as a child, or was he trained as a surgeon in Germany? If he had come
from England, would every article mention that he was English-born ? I think
not. Is The Age suggesting Dr Kossmann's misconduct reflects a lack of integrity
in the German culture or ethnicity?

Ralph Bohmer (German-born and trained), St Kilda

Tread lightly on sacred ground

I WOULD like to compliment Tony Wright for "No monopoly on grief" (Comment &
Debate, 30/10). His beautifully written piece stirred up the emotions and sense
of shame I felt when I visited Gallipoli in 2007.

The first shock came with the realisation that we were in the wrong. We invaded
a country that had done us no harm and contributed to the slaughter of 80,000 of
its citizens who were defending their homeland. My second sense of shame came
when we were welcomed by the Turkish people to their cemeteries and monuments
with grace and friendliness. I was humbled to the point of tears when elderly
folk and children saw my cap and said "Astralie, welcome, welcome".

I know of no other nation that would have so graciously allowed the invading
countries to install monuments to their dead all over Turkish sacred soil.

Wright's article is a timely reminder to Australians planning a trip to that
mass graveyard. It is Turkish soil containing untold numbers of its dead sons,
as well as ours. We have few moral rights there, so treat it with the reverence
and respect it deserves.

Arnold Thomas, Boronia

It's a long life

IT IS TIMELY when many students are about to sit their year 12 exams, and when
some are perhaps becoming overly concerned, to reflect on their actual
importance. The exams are significant, and provide an opportunity for students
to win entry to courses and jobs of their choice. It is important, however, to
recognise that they are but one of many educational opportunities and pathways.
Failure to gain the desired result is not a permanent handicap.

No educational doors are permanently closed. There are a huge range of courses
available, and many ways to enter the courses and jobs of one's choice. Within a
couple of years of sitting year 12 exams, students are eligible for mature age
special entry schemes.

Having taught year 12, marked year 12 exams, sat on VCE examination setting
panels for many years and had three of my children sit VCE, I would urge
students, and parents, to keep the importance of the exams in perspective. The
exams are but one of a whole lifetime of educational opportunities.

Dr Bill Anderson, Surrey Hills

Full fees no loss

BORN into poverty, one of 14 kids and with no hope of finishing school (I
didn't), Gough Whitlam's introduction of a mature entry scheme to universities
allowed me to complete two degrees, a diploma and a PhD. I ended up a professor.

It has taken another Labor Government to rein in the money-making excesses of
university fiefdoms which have seriously impeded the potential of the youth of
this country. Full fees for Australian students (The Age, 30/10) was always a
recipe for preventing the many brilliant poor students making a sizeable
contribution to this country's advancement.

Dr Andrew Retsas, St Helena

Justice delayed

AS AN articled clerk, I had my first encounter with the County Court reserve
list on Monday as I waited keenly for the commencement of a trial. Defence and
prosecution assembled in the court room at 10.30am on Monday. We did not get on.
We returned at 2.15pm only to be told to return the next day. On Tuesday this
process was repeated and on Wednesday we were given a trial date in June 2009.
Our client has been waiting two years for his trial. He now waits another year.
At least he is on bail.

Calls by Director of Public Prosecutions Jeremy Rapke to reduce the legal
backlog (The Age , 28/10) are clearly pertinent for both sides of the bar table.
Does our Government's commitment to a trial without unreasonable delay extend
beyond the Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities to the realities of the
court room?

Jenny Black, Fitzroy

No law against youthful foolishness

MY HEART goes out to all the families affected by the "crammed car crash" (The
Age, 30/10). My heart also goes out to the emergency personnel who had to deal
with the carnage of a totally avoidable event.

With the greatest respect to Susan Watts, whose daughter Jennifer was injured in
the accident, would the banning of car travel with more passengers than
seatbelts have stopped your child from getting in that car? I don't think so.

People still drink and drive, still drive while talking or texting on a mobile
phone and still speed. The fact that these activities are illegal does not stop
them from happening.

Meg Stuart, Benalla

Blind to the signs

THE world is in a financial mess largely because the lotus eaters charged with
regulating US market activity blithely ignored the warning signs. It is
disturbing therefore to hear Andrew Robb and Malcolm Turnbull advocating the
same blind inaction on that other looming economic challenge, climate change. We
have had ample warning that when the climate change downturn inevitably arrives
the impact on Australia will be early and severe. This suggests the Opposition's
fear campaign against an emissions trading scheme is not only irresponsible and
shortsighted, but dangerous to Australia's future economic prosperity.

Alannah McIntosh, Chatswood, NSW

Dodgy defence

MARK Bailey (Letters, 30/10) is spot on about Julie Bishop's alleged plagiarism.
If a student was facing similar allegations before a university misconduct
committee, claiming that the plagiarism was actually committed by the flat mate
they paid to write their essay for them wouldn't really work as a defence.

Paul Norton, Highgate Hill, Qld

Dropping the dead donkey: a fable

YOUNG Charlie bought a donkey from a farmer for $100. The farmer agreed to
deliver the donkey the next day. But the next day he said, "Sorry son, the
donkey died." Charlie replied, "Well, then just give me my money back."

The farmer said, "Can't do that. I went and spent it already." Charlie said,
"OK, then, just bring me the dead donkey." The farmer asked, "What are you going
to do with him?" Charlie said, "I'm going to raffle him off." The farmer said
"You can't raffle off a dead donkey!" Charlie said, "Sure I can, watch me."

A month later, the farmer asked Charlie "What happened with that dead donkey?"
Charlie said "I raffled him off. I sold 500 tickets at two dollars a piece and
made a profit of $998."

"Didn't anyone complain?" the farmer asked. "Just the guy who won," said
Charlie. "So I gave him his two dollars back."

Charles now works as a consultant for Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and the US
Federal Reserve, the UK, the European Commission and as a special adviser to the
Prime Minister of Australia.

Ronald Kitching, Frenchville, Qld

Time to put rails before roads

STEVE Margetts (Letters, 30/10) repeats the familiar argument that private car
transport and public transport "complement" each other. Unfortunately, it is
nonsense.

Melbourne already has more roads per person than comparable cities around the
world, but it is not getting superior transport outcomes as a result. Meanwhile,
our public transport system is clearly lacking, with large parts of the city
receiving no more than a skeleton service.

There is not one freeway project, built or proposed, that will actually cause
more people to use public transport. Rather, they do the opposite. The two modes
are not complementary: they are in direct competition.

Having built lots of roads but not a single new rail line over the past 70
years, it really does appear that to redress the imbalance we ought to take a
rest from building roads for a while and fix up public transport instead.

Daniel Bowen, president, Public Transport Users Association, Melbourne

I hear hypocrisy

WHY IS it that every time a Howard government ex-minister opens their mouth or
goes into print (like Peter Costello's stunner on how, unlike the Liberals,
Labor has politicised the public service, Comment & Debate, 30/10) what emerges
is mind-boggling hypocrisy? Is this one of the challenging misfortunes of being
born to rule?

Kevin Farrell, Beelbangera, NSW

Value for money

SHAUN Carney (Comment & Debate, 29/10) is right. Of course taxpayers have a
right to know how their education dollar is being spent. But Carney is wrong
when he suggests there is no way of knowing whether independent schools provide
value for every dollar spent on education.

Federal and state governments know because independent schools acquit their
public funding in detail. The Victorian Government knows that it gives $8 to
every state school student for every $1 given to an independent school student.

Parents know because schools tell them exactly how their investment in the
education of their children is used, and they see the results. That's why they
make a financial sacrifice to send their children to independent schools.

Just because Carney feels the need to publicly detail how much he spent on
educating his daughter does not mean everybody else has to tell the world how
much of their hard-earned after-tax dollars they are investing to ensure the
educational future of their children.

Michelle Green, chief executive, Association of Independent Schools of Victoria,
South Yarra

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON BY LEUNIG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Invoking health providers' conscience can cloud debate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 271 words


USA TODAY's article  "Medical, religious ethics often are a tug of war" pointed
out the many cases where a patient's care choices might come into conflict with
"ethical dictates Catholic hospitals must heed," including policies on abortion,
contraception and end-of-life treatments (Life, June 8).

Professor Lisa Cahill of Boston College was paraphrased in the article as
stating,  "Nobody can demand a treatment that might violate the ethical or
religious conscience of the provider. That, too, is immoral. ... The patient
will have to look elsewhere for care."

What if the provider adheres to a religion or ethical worldview that sees racial
minorities as inferior and not worthy of treatment? Can a black patient still
demand a treatment "that might violate the ethical or religious conscience of" a
racist hospital board? Of course, she can. Would it be immoral of the patient to
demand that a racist health care professional either offer adequate medical care
or  lose his job? Of course it wouldn't.

One needn't go so far as to say that Catholic hospital policies are as evil as
these racist policies would be. But neither do we have to say that racial
discrimination in the  mortgage business is as evil as slavery or Jim Crow in
order to  recognize that it is still wrong and should not be allowed.

We should not be misled by bald invocations of providers' conscience. Many
fateful and unexpected decisions are made at local hospitals, and patients
should not have their care dictated by religious worldviews they may not accept.

Paul Kelleher

Assistant Professor

Medical History and Bioethics

University of Wisconsin-Madison

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 26, 2004, Thursday

MMR medics challenged over child spinal taps

BYLINE: Mark Henderson, Science Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 817 words


NEW questions about the ethics of the controversial study that linked the MMR
vaccine to autism in children will be raised in Parliament today, The Times has
learnt.

Less than a week after the doctor who pioneered the research was accused of
failing to disclose a £55,000 payment, ministers are to be asked whether he had
received proper ethical approval. The fresh doubts centre on whether the lumbar
punctures to which autistic children were subjected by Andrew Wakefield's team
at the Royal Free Hospital were clinically justified.

While The Lancet, the journal that first published the research, cleared the
researchers of failing to secure the full backing of the hospital's ethics
committee, the Liberal Democrat MP Evan Harris will today question whether it
was right to reach this verdict.

Dr Harris, a doctor and former health spokesman, said documents indicate that
the design of Dr Wakefield's study was altered after it was approved by the
Royal Free's ethics committee. The panel does not appear to have been asked to
revise its decision in light of the changes, which affected which children could
be given lumbar punctures -a procedure performed under sedation in which spinal
fluid is removed with a needle.

Dr Harris has tabled a written question to John Reid, the Health Secretary,
asking whether the Government considers that the study was performed within
ethical guidelines.

"How has he satisfied himself that lumbar punctures carried out on children at
the Royal Free Hospital by the inflammatory bowel disease study group since 1996
have had valid and effective ethical approval from a properly consituted ethical
committee, on the basis of the researchers' relevant interests and the full
clinical context?" he asks.

The new criticisms of Dr Wakefield's work follow The Lancet's announcement last
week that it would not have published the 1998 paper had it known that the lead
author had been paid £55,000 as part of a legal action against the MMR vaccine's
manufacturers. An investigation for The Sunday Times by Brian Deer found that Dr
Wakefield had failed to declare the payment, even though "four or five" of the
twelve children in the study were also involved in the litigation. Richard
Horton, the Editor of The Lancet, said non-disclosure left the original study
"fatally flawed".

Both the journal and the Royal Free rejected Mr Deer's charge that the ethical
background to the study was weak, but documents released yesterday on the
journalist's website have prompted Dr Harris to raise further questions.

His concerns surround the diagnosis of the condition of the children in the
study, which appears to have changed after it was approved by the hospital's
ethics committee. The original protocol suggested that Dr Wakefield's team
intended to investigate children with disintegrative disorder, an extreme,
late-onset form of autism known as DD. Lumbar punctures for such patients as
they would normally be conducted anyway to rule out other potential causes.

When the team's findings were published in The Lancet, however, only one of the
12 children studied had a possible diagnosis of DD. The others had a diagnosis
of either autism, an autistic spectrum disorder or encephalitis from vaccine or
viral damage. None of these conditions would normally require a lumbar puncture
for medical reasons, Dr Harris said, yet the procedure was performed anyway.
"Why, when the scientific rationale changed and it was a different study, do
they not appear to have gone back to the ethics committee?" he said. He urged Mr
Reid to call a public inquiry into the affair.

Independent neurologists said that it was appropriate for scientists to seek
renewed ethical approval when a study's terms were altered, and that the
clinical justification for lumbar punctures was very different for patients with
DD and autism.

"If they included patients who didn't fulfil the original diagnostic criteria
then they should have gone back," Carlos de Sousa of Great Ormond Street
Hospital, said.

A spokesman for Dr Wakefield said that he did not wish to comment. A spokeswoman
for the Royal Free Hospital said his former colleagues were unwilling to add to
statements released last week.

Last Friday, Professor Humphrey Hodgson, Vice-Dean of Royal Free and University
College Medical School, said: "We are entirely satisfied that the investigations
performed on the children reported in the Lancet paper had been subjected to
appropriate and rigorous ethical scrutiny." The Lancet found that the evidence
did not support the allegation that proper ethical approval was not received.
"The evidence we have seen indicates that ethics committee approval was given
for data collection from clinically indicated investigations in the children
with an initially undiagnosed illness and who were described in the 1998 Lancet
paper," it said.


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited


                              33 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                          September 24, 2008 Wednesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Abortion claims panned

BYLINE: Nick Higginbottom

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 210  words


CATHOLIC-run hospitals will not close maternity or emergency services if the
Government's abortion Bill is passed, Acting Premier Rob Hulls says.

Mr Hulls yesterday defended the legislation, which he opposed, and dismissed
Archbishop Denis Hart's claim it would pose a ``real threat'' to the Catholic
church's wide network of hospitals.

``Catholic hospitals, as I understand it, now don't perform abortion procedures
and there is no forcing of any hospitals to perform abortions,'' he said.

``The legislation actually says if a doctor has an ethical view that they don't
want to perform an abortion they are to refer a woman to a hospital or a doctor
that doesn't have such an ethical issue.''

But it was exactly that referral process Archbishop Hart identified as the
problematic element of the Bill.

In a pastoral letter -- parts of which were in yesterday's Herald Sun -- he
warned parishioners that Catholic staff would face the prospect of breaking the
law if they wanted to maintain their anti-abortion stance.

Mr Hulls said he understood Archbishop Hart's passionate view on the issue but
said the legislation was clear.

``If people or hospitals have, for whatever reason, an ethical issue in relation
to that, they simply won't perform those procedures,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            December 17, 2012 Monday

Pakistan: Traditional healthcare ethics committees termed reactive

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 17 -- Karachi Traditional ethics committees in health care
organisations are reactive and addressing only the most visible ethical
concerns. This was pointed out at a symposium organised by the Aga Khan
University Hospital on Saturday. "They are unable to highlight deeper
organisational factors that influence how a health care organisation functions
and instead focusing on issues related primarily to clinical ethics.
Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively." It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond
the scope of conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to
clinical service, research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated and
enforced in every function of the institute

Dr Robyna Khan Assistant Professor AKU

Therefore, common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set,
communicated and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr
Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital
Ethics Committee Symposium held at the Aga Khan University. In her keynote
address, Dr Melissa M Bottrell of the National Centre for Ethics in Health Care
in the United States identified the major limitations of traditional ethics
committee models and offered an integrated ethics model as a paradigm shift that
remedies most of these defects. "By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical
concern in health care, integrated ethics empowers organisations to do the right
things because it is the right thing to do," she said. Professor Murad Khan,
Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU, described various components of
organisational ethics, saying, "As part of an organisational approach to ethics,
committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues, resource
allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other ethical
activities in their institution." The symposium provided an opportunity to
review challenges, examine ethical issues in organisations, and identify the
role of leaders, faculty, administration and staff in formulating and
implementing solutions. Summarising the discussion, Professor Camer Vellani
reviewed the impact of organisational culture, leadership, and ethics committees
as drivers of success in an integrated ethics approach. Other speakers at the
symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO Indus Hospital; Ameena Saiyid,
Managing Director Oxford University Press; Professor Arif Zaman, former dean,
Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS); and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant
Surgeon, Patel Hospital Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                            June 29, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

When doctors and patients disagree: Conflicts between doctors and patients over
treatment can be extremely stressful -- for patients and health-care workers
alike

BYLINE: Karen Palmer, Toronto Star

SECTION: BODZ & HEALTH; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 770  words

DATELINE: TORONTO


TORONTO - When Kerry Bowman's pager goes off, it usually means there's a fight
brewing somewhere in Mount Sinai Hospital, often between doctors and patients or
their families.

In a place where decisions can mean life or death, and beliefs fuelled by
religion, culture or social values bubble just below the surface, Bowman, the
hospital's clinical ethicist, usually arrives just as emotions are about to boil
over.

"We simply try and avoid power struggles and try and negotiate," said Bowman, a
former social worker who does most of his work with families deciding how to
treat a patient barely hanging onto life in the intensive-care unit.

The issue took centre stage last spring as family members quarrelled over the
last days of Terry Schiavo, a brain-damaged Florida woman who was the focus of a
legal battle over how she should be allowed to die.

But medical ethicists who try to mediate disagreements between doctors and their
patients say the conflict quietly plays out regularly in hospitals.

In fact, the division between doctors and patients was recently rated in a
survey by the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics as the top
ethical quandary facing patients today.

"It plays itself out in a number of different ways, largely around end-of-life
care, or complex decisions that have high stakes associated with them," said
Susan MacRae, a nurse and one of the survey's authors.

"The fallout of these disagreements, I think, is soul-destroying in that it has
an impact on the moral stress of the health-care professionals, who are really
left with some very profoundly distressing feelings when they see health-care
treatments that they don't agree with or believe are torturous to the patient,"
she said. "On the other hand, you have families or patients who can be ripped
apart by a high-stress situation like this."

Twelve full-time ethicists at Toronto-area hospitals were asked by the Joint
Centre for Bioethics to rank the top 10 ethical challenges that Canadians may
face in health care.

Bowman said he deals with all sorts of disagreements, from when to terminate a
high-risk pregnancy and when fertility treatments should be cut off, to when
patients should be sent home from hospital or to a nursing home.

Jonathan Breslin, a philosopher who also worked on the survey, said the centre
is hoping that by publishing the top 10 list, hospitals and policy-makers will
take on the issue with public awareness campaigns, and involve patients and
health-care workers in setting national guidelines on how to deal with some of
the thornier ethical issues in medicine.

Doctors aren't trained in conflict resolution, said Peter Singer, the centre's
director. The issue deserves at least as much attention as wait times and doctor
shortages, he said.

Bowman said many patients and their families worry about not getting enough
treatment. With so much focus on health-care spending, cuts and hospital
budgets, it's easy for families to believe that hospitals are shoving patients
out the door before they feel they're ready.

The moral questions arising from waiting for care and accessing health resources
for seniors, the chronically ill and the mentally ill rated No. 2 and 3,
respectively, on the Top 10 list.

Beth Johnson, who heads the patient advocate program at Sunnybrook and Women's
Health Sciences Centre, said her team regularly deals with all 10 issues. She
said problems can arise when patients do Internet research on their symptoms and
then decide how they should be treated.

"There has definitely been a very significant shift in patient knowledge and a
sense of entitlement," Johnson said.

"A lot of energy and a lot of time go into trying to understand what the ... end
goal really is (for patients and families) and how we can make the system work
for them. But there will always be cases where the system can't meet their
needs.

"The message that we don't want out there is that we don't care."

ETHICAL QUANDARIES

The top 10 ethical dilemmas facing patients today, as determined by medical
ethicists:

- Conflicts pitting doctors against patients/families over treatment decisions.

- Setting priorities related to medical waiting lists.

- Access to needed health-care resources for the growing numbers of aged,
chronically ill or mentally ill.

- Shortage of family physicians/primary-care teams.

- Medical error.

- Palliative treatment for the terminally ill.

- Achieving informed consent.

- Issues relating to research.

- Substitute decision-making (i.e. families making decisions for incapacitated
patients).

- Surgical innovations and new technologies.

Source: University of Toronto Joint Centre for Bioethics.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: The Canadian Press, file; A survey found that disagreement with doctors
over treatment is the top ethical dilemma facing patients today.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Traditional healthcare ethics committees termed reactive

LENGTH: 460  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Karachi Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive
and addressing only the most visible ethical concerns. This was pointed out at a
symposium organised by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday. "They are
unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a health
care organisation functions and instead focusing on issues related primarily to
clinical ethics. Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with
other functions of the organisation which results in employees unable to handle
ethical issues effectively." It was pointed out that addressing these issues
often falls beyond the scope of conventional ethics committees because they may
not pertain to clinical service, research or academics, but to the way the
organisation runs.



Common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated and
enforced in every function of the institute

Dr Robyna Khan Assistant Professor AKU

Therefore, common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set,
communicated and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr
Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital
Ethics Committee Symposium held at the Aga Khan University. In her keynote
address, Dr Melissa M Bottrell of the National Centre for Ethics in Health Care
in the United States identified the major limitations of traditional ethics
committee models and offered an integrated ethics model as a paradigm shift that
remedies most of these defects. "By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical
concern in health care, integrated ethics empowers organisations to do the right
things because it is the right thing to do," she said. Professor Murad Khan,
Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU, described various components of
organisational ethics, saying, "As part of an organisational approach to ethics,
committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues, resource
allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other ethical
activities in their institution." The symposium provided an opportunity to
review challenges, examine ethical issues in organisations, and identify the
role of leaders, faculty, administration and staff in formulating and
implementing solutions. Summarising the discussion, Professor Camer Vellani
reviewed the impact of organisational culture, leadership, and ethics committees
as drivers of success in an integrated ethics approach. Other speakers at the
symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO Indus Hospital; Ameena Saiyid,
Managing Director Oxford University Press; Professor Arif Zaman, former dean,
Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS); and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant
Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Response to ethical challenges in healthcare bodies sought

SECTION: Vol. XXIII No. 299

LENGTH: 427  words


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU.

She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held at Aga
Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do", she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics.

"As part of an organisational approach to ethics, committees should address
matters such as conflict of interest issues, resource allocation, appointments
and promotions as well as support other ethical activities in their
institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising
the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational
culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an
integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Ethical challenges in health organisations discussed

BYLINE:  Staff Report

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 337

LENGTH: 433  words


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive and
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, Assistant Professor, Aga Khan
University (AKU) Dr. Robyna Khan pointed out at a symposium organized by AKU
Hospital on Saturday.

Chairing the sixth hospital Ethics Committee symposium, she said those
committees were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence
how a health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related
primarily to clinical ethics. Additionally, ethics committees are not well
connected with other functions of the organisation, which results in employees
unable to handle ethical issues effectively.

She pointed out that addressing these issues often fall beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs. "Thus common norms
and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated and enforced in
every function of the institute," explained Dr. Robyna Khan, Assistant
Professor, AKU.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in health care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an integrated ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects. "By envisioning new ways of
looking at ethical concern in health care," integrated ethics empowers
organisations to do the right things because it is the right thing to do", she
said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chairperson, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described
various components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational
approach to ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of
interest issues, resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as
support other ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising
the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational
culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an
integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Common norms & standards of ethical conduct need to be set

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 524

LENGTH: 427  words


Traditional ethics committees in health care organizations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organizational factors that influence how a
health care organization functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees were not well connected with other functions of
the organization which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organization runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics
Committee Symposium held at Aga Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organizations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do", she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organizational ethics. "As part of an organizational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organizations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions.

Summarizing the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of
organizational culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success
in an integrated ethics approach. Other notable speakers at the Symposium
included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing
Director, Oxford University Press, Professor Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore
University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon,
Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           December 15, 2012 Saturday

AKU Symposium explores Ethical Challenges in Health Care Organisations

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday. They were unable to
highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a health care
organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily to clinical
ethics. Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other
functions of the organisation which results in employees unable to handle
ethical issues effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs. Thus common norms
and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated and enforced in
every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor,
AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held
at Aga Khan University. In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the
National Center for Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the
major limitations of traditional ethics committee models and offered an
Integrated Ethics model as a paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.
"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do",she said. Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of
Psychiatry, AKU described various components of organisational ethics. "As part
of an organisational approach to ethics, committees should address matters such
as conflict of interest issues, resource allocation, appointments and promotions
as well as support other ethical activities in their institution." The Symposium
provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical issues in
organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty, administration and
staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising the discussions
Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational culture,
leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an integrated ethics
approach. Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan,
CEO, Indus Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press,
Professor Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences
(LUMS) and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          December 29, 2010 Wednesday

Role of ethics committees

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 543 words


Madam,   Prof Desmond O Neill s letter (December 24th), misses the point, indeed
misses many points.

The fact is that it is the Charter of the Adelaide Meath Hospital, commonly
called Tallaght Hospital, which in legal terms uniquely protects the
confidential relationship between doctors and their patients. In the hospital
there is no ethics committee to which doctors must refer clinical cases: there
is no prescriptive code of religious or denominational ethics to which all
clinicians must abide as is the case, for example, in St Vincent s University
Hospital and other religiously controlled hospitals. His attempt to ascribe this
factual situation as simply being my views or the views of the Adelaide Hospital
Society is rather sad as he is a  senior clinician  in the hospital.

Prof O Neill s reference to the joint research ethics committee shared by St
James s Hospital and Tallaght Hospital is quite beside the issues raised by the
case of Michelle Harte at Cork University Hospital. Research ethics committees
provide oversight for research but not for clinical practice and for specific
cases of individual treatment. Prof O Neill s references to the value of
clinical audit, accreditation, the coroner (surprisingly he does not refer to
the Medical Council which provides the ethical framework for doctors) as sources
of clinical oversight again obscures rather than enlightens the issues arising
in the Cork University Hospital case. The framework for ethical practice in
Tallaght Hospital allows both doctors and patients to obtain, and, if they wish,
to abide by whatever ethical or religious advice they wish: it is the presence
or absence of a prescriptive written code of ethics religiously or
denominationally controlled that is at issue. Those of us who respect freedom of
conscience and the freedom to practise religion object to the presence of such
codes in our publicly provided health services which are there to serve all
citizens.

The value of the Charter of Tallaght Hospital is that it facilitates those with
divergent religious and ethical perspectives to serve together in a university
hospital so long as they abide by their professional codes of ethics and the
laws of Ireland. It is apparent from my experience as a board member of the
hospital since 1996 that very many people both inside the hospital and outside
the hospital, both North and South, see it as a model for an inclusive health
service in this regard.

Finally, Prof O Neill s rather dismissive reference to my not being a medical
doctor shows perhaps that we are not yet past the day when medical consultants
were perceived as the fount of all knowledge; medical ethics concern everyone
and indeed lay involvement is now seen as central in medical and health
governance. I do have a post graduate degree in health services management which
involved the study of medical ethics and I have co-edited a valued book on
medical ethics, so perhaps Prof O Neill will allow me to state what is the
actual situation in the hospital without such personalisation of any argument he
might wish to make. Let us address in a mature way the important issues raised
by the Harte case.   Yours, etc,

FERGUS O FERRALL (Dr),

Adelaide Lecturer in Health

Policy,

Trinity College, Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    October 31, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Hospital bioethicist overdue, expert says: HOSPITAL: Bioethicist would 'offer
parents personal perspective on difficult medical issues'

BYLINE: ALEX STRACHAN; VANSUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 694 words


A proposed bioethicist for B.C. Children's Hospital would be a first for a
hospital in B.C. and is long overdue, a professor in ethics and medicine said
Sunday.

Eike Kluge, professor of medical ethics at the University of Victoria and the
inaugural president of the Canadian Medical Association's ethics board, said
creating a position for a bioethicist at Children's Hospital will force other
B.C. hospitals to re-examine their priorities.

As modern technology and advances in medical science overtake established
methods of dealing with illness, parents of critically ill or injured children
are being forced to make increasingly difficult decisions on behalf of their
children.

The position of bioethicist is just one item buried in a blizzard of Christmas
wishes for Children's Hospital as part of the hospital's $ 30-million corporate
and private fundraising drive, launched last week.

Part of the raised funds will be put towards an endowment, which among other
things would support a staff bioethicist at Children's Hospital.

A bioethicist would assist families and hospital staff in dealing with the
complex ethical dimensions of caring for children who are acutely or terminally
ill.

Parents are too often forced to live alone with the pain and distress their
decisions bring, Kluge said.

Kluge, who has been teaching at the University of Victoria since 1975, said
bioethics is not the same as medicine.

Simply being a professional in the medical field does not qualify someone to
give advice based on moral judgements.

A bioethicist would not be strictly a physician but someone trained also in the
application of social and moral principles, Kluge said.

A bioethicist at Children's Hospital would provide parents with a more personal
perspective on difficult medical issues.

A bioethicist is an adviser only and the final decision must rest with the
patient.

"An ethicist is not a gun for hire. His obligation is to declare the ethical lay
of the land, detailing the rights and obligations of all the parties involved,
to try and show people where their values lie and whether those values are
appropriate under the circumstances. Sometimes the advice an ethicist gives is
very clear, but in the end it is not his decision to make."

Issues such as euthanasia are likely to stir ethical debate for years to come.

A federal senate committee headed by Liberal Senator Joan Neiman has been
examining the ethical debate surrounding euthanasia for the past seven months
and is expected to hand down recommendations to parliament in December.

Kluge said emotions surrounding divisive issues such as euthanasia are
intensified where children are involved.

"Who should make a decision on the basis of values and informed consent
standards for a particular child?" Kluge asked. "You need someone who can weigh
the legal, medical and ethical issues."

Patients who are deeply religious should consult their own religious counsellors
for moral guidance, he said.

Since proclamation of the provincial Infant Act in 1993, a child in B.C. has the
right to accept or refuse medical treatment irrespective of the parents'
beliefs, so long as the child is competent.

"Advances in medical cures have created relatively few ethical dilemmas," Kluge
said. "Where problems have cropped up is cases where technology has drawn out
the dying process.

"We now have the ability to keep alive for a long time individuals whose quality
of life is increasingly negative -- both from the view of physicians and the
families.

"A lot of the time physicians know this is merely prolonging the dying process
-- but the family insists on it because the technology is available.

"A lot of the time, the family feels keeping a loved one alive is inappropriate
-- but the physicians insist on it because they have the technology.

"Very often, the problem has come up because the parties involved don't realize
what their rights and obligations are. Once that gets clarified, the issues tend
to become, if not simple, a little clearer. A bioethicist can help, and I am
absolutely delighted that Children's Hospital is taking this step."


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EIKE KLUGE

               Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            December 17, 2012 Monday

Pakistan: Response to ethical challenges in healthcare bodies sought

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 17 -- Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations
are reactive, addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at
a symposium organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU.

She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held at Aga
Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do",she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics.

"As part of an organisational approach to ethics, committees should address
matters such as conflict of interest issues, resource allocation, appointments
and promotions as well as support other ethical activities in their
institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising
the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational
culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an
integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Ethical challenges in health organisations discussed

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 16 -- Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations
are reactive and addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, Assistant
Professor, Aga Khan University (AKU) Dr. Robyna Khan pointed out at a symposium
organized by AKU Hospital on Saturday.

Chairing the sixth hospital Ethics Committee symposium, she said those
committees were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence
how a health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related
primarily to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with other functions of
the organisation, which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

She pointed out that addressing these issues often fall beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

"Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute," explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in health care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an integrated ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most

of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
integrated ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do", she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chairperson, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described
various components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational
approach to ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of
interest issues, resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as
support other ethical activities in their institution." The Symposium provided
an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical issues in organisations,
and identify the role of leaders, faculty, administration and staff in
formulating and implementing solutions.

Summarising the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of
organisational culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success
in an integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Daily Times. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday

Tata memorial joins global club;
ETHICALLY YOURS | High levels of ethical standards in clinical research bring
hospital laurels

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 401  words


ETHICALLY YOURS |  High levels of ethical standards in clinical research bring
hospital laurels

With 64,000 new cancer patients every year, the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMC)
probably sees the highest load in the world. But that has not dented the
commitment of the Parel-based hospital towards its patients a bit. In fact, the
centre just lifted it a few notches.

TMC has become the only government-run hospital in the country to be maintaining
the highest ethical standards to protect those taking part in clinical research.
The comprehensive cancer-care institute is autonomously run under the Department
of Atomic Energy.

"In the US, the largest institutes cater to close to 30,000 patients in a year,"
said Dr Rajendra Badwe, director, TMC, reacting to the accolade that came after
18 months of rigorous screening.

TMC has been accredited by the Association for the Accreditation of Human
Research Protection Programs (AAHRPP), a US-based agency that assesses health
institutes for the quality of clinical research and care provided to the human
subjects during trials.

Only up to 300 hospitals around the world are AAHRPP certified, including few
Asian set-ups - one in Singapore, two in China and five in Korea.

Currently, 220 clinical studies are underway in TMC, of which eight to ten
trials have the potential to change the way treatment for cancer will progress
in future.  Close to 4,000 patients are involved in these trials.

"Some landmark research has emerged out of these trials which involves
introduction of low-cost centennial node biopsy, cervical cancer screening
methods using acetic acid or vinegar, effective breast cancer treatment options
etc," said Dr Badwe.

Apart from this, trials to reduce treatment costs are also underway. "We are
looking at feasibility studies for repurposing of those drugs which are used in
other ailments for cancer treatment. This, we believe, will bring down costs,"
added Dr Badwe.

Doctors said a patient is enrolled for trials only after obtaining his consent.
Also, they have a choice of opting out of a trial. "We focus on counselling. If
a patient is in an unconscious stage during the trial, consent is obtained from
his relatives. But once s/he comes back to consciousness, we have to re-counsel
and ask for his/her consent on continuation of the trial," said Dr J Divatia,
head, department of anaesthesiology.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Daily The Post

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Response to ethical challenges in healthcare bodies sought

LENGTH: 427  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU.

She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held at Aga
Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do",she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics.

"As part of an organisational approach to ethics, committees should address
matters such as conflict of interest issues, resource allocation, appointments
and promotions as well as support other ethical activities in their
institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising
the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational
culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an
integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Financial Post (Pakistan)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Common norms & standards of ethical conduct need to be set

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 16 -- Traditional ethics committees in health care organizations
are reactive, addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at
a symposium organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organizational factors that influence how a
health care organization functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees were not well connected with other functions of
the organization which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organization runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU.

She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held at Aga
Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organizations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do", she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organizational ethics. "As part of an organizational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organizations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions.

Summarizing the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of
organizational culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success
in an integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from The Financial Post. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Daily Financial Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

New hospital ethicist focuses on what patient would want; Abdool hired to help
deal with tough questions

BYLINE: Brian Cross, The Windsor Star

SECTION: WINDSOR &; REGION; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 564 words


Rosalind Abdool's new job involves wading into really difficult hospital
dilemmas - like when an infirm patient's legal decision-maker and the rest of
his family argue over whether he should be discharged to a nursing home or his
home.

"Usually, what we would do from an ethics perspective is we go back to No. 1 -
what would the patient want," said Abdool, describing her role as the first-ever
clinical ethicist at Hotel-Dieu Grace Healthcare.

She started part-time in June after completing a fellowship at the Centre for
Clinical Ethics in Toronto and starts full-time in September as part of a
contract with the centre to provide clinical ethics services.

But she stressed she's not the one who makes these lifeaffecting decisions.

"My job really is to ask some more questions," she said, such as: Have we
involved everyone we need to for difficult situations; have we engaged the right
people; and have we explained all the different options to the patient and
family?

"I will be a support service for staff, for patients, volunteers, family
members, physicians, to help them reflect a little more deeply on the issues
that might come up in everyday health care," she said. Clinical ethics involves
reflecting on what could and should be done when facing a challenging
health-care issue. While Windsor Regional Hospital doesn't have a clinical
ethicist, it has an ethics and credentials committee that works with its
doctors.

"Roz (as she's known) will do consultations, sit in on case planning, case
studies with families and patients, she'll work with our staff when they're
having moral distress, ethical issues in the workplace," said Janice Kaffer,
Hotel-Dieu Grace's incoming CEO. As well, Abdool will work with the hospital's
leadership so when they have to deal with issues such as budget cuts, the
decisions will be made within an "ethical framework."

An example of an ethical issue Abdool could help with is when a patient who has
spent time at the non-acute hospital for rehabilitation or mental health is
being discharged, and staff - from their middle class perspective - are
concerned the patient is going back to a home they consider unsafe.

The home may have pest issues, or the neighbourhood may seem unsafe, or the
patient may not have money to outfit the home with safety devices. Sometimes,
staff get distressed about the patient going home in such circumstances, said
Kaffer.

"If the patient is capable of making that decision, and understands all the
risks, then we need to support the patient in moving home."

Abdool will also help families, patients and staff navigate the waters of
end-of-life issues in the hospital's palliative area. She'll go on rounds with
medical staff, raising ethical issues and facilitating discussions.

And she'll hold staff forums to discuss ethical issues, such as informed consent
and a patient's capacity to make decisions about his care.

Opening up the floor for dialogue, seeing if everyone can come to a consensus
about what the patient would want if he was capable of deciding, is the
essential idea, said Abdool, who is finishing a doctorate in philosophy at the
University of Waterloo.

Dealing each day with such weighty topics can be stressful, she admitted.

"We're dealing with some very important issues that impact patients' lives, and
family members and staff and community members, in very significant ways."

bcross@windsorstar.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tyler Brownbridge, The Windsor Star; Rosalind Abdool is the new
full-time ethicist dealing with some of the difficult issues at Hotel-Dieu Grace
Healthcare.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Windsor Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

Inquiry ignores nurse's claims

BYLINE: Des Houghton, Anna Caldwell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 431  words


QUEENSLAND Health dismissed serious allegations of assault and negligence at
Bundaberg hospital without speaking to the key witness, it is alleged.

In The Courier-Mail yesterday, Health Minister Stephen Robertson said
allegations a baby had been assaulted and an elderly man left to die on a
trolley in a hallway had been investigated by the Queensland Health Ethical
Standards Unit and ``found not to have been sustained''.

However, the nurse at the centre of the controversy claims she has not been
contacted by the unit.

``No one from the Ethical Standards Unit has ever contacted me -- not ever. Not
by phone or letter or in person,'' she said.

``And never once did a manager at Bundaberg come back to me and say, `Let's look
at your evidence'.''

The highly qualified nurse has made a series of startling allegations against
the hospital, including the falsifying of records, understaffing, bullying, and
gross medical neglect.

Following pressure from Rob Messenger (LNP, Burnett), Mr Robertson confirmed he
had referred the case to the Health Quality and Complaints Commission. He also
said 3000 complaints logged at the hospital in the past three years would be
reviewed by Queensland Health's patient safety centre.

As well, Dr Stephen Ayre, executive medical director of Prince Charles Hospital,
will investigate the 100 complaints by the whistleblower.

Mr Robertson said claims of falsified triage times would be investigated by the
Crime and Misconduct Commission and the Queensland Health Ethical Standards
Unit. The investigations into the hospital's emergency department would be
completed by February 23, with the report to be released publicly.

Mr Robertson rejected the hospital was understaffed and said 33 extra doctors,
114 extra nurses and 127 extra allied health professions had been appointed
since 2005.

The controversy took another strange twist yesterday when the Director-General
of Health, Mick Reid, was reported to his own ethical unit for allegedly using
explicit language.

Mr Messenger, the MLA who raised the allegations, claimed Mr Reid used the
unsavoury language during a meeting in Bundaberg with the whistleblower.

Mr Messenger said that, in a reply to a comment about the whistleblower's career
prospects, the Director-General said, ``If you want to say to me f--- off I'm
going to go and do something else, that's great''.

Mr Reid apologised last night for his choice of language.

``I'm not aware that the nurse or her partner were offended by the language I
used, but I reiterate that I am sorry for any offence I may have inadvertently
caused,'' Mr Reid said.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Ethical' hotel plan for old Keelmen's Hospital

BYLINE: Tony Henderson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 530 words


AN at-risk heritage building linked to a colourful part of Tyneside's past may
become one of a new network of "ethical" hotels.

The Keelmen's Hospital, with its domed tower, overlooking the River Tyne on City
Road in Newcastle, is Grade II-star listed, putting it in the top 5% of historic
buildings in the country.

It was built in 1701, when there were 1,600 keelmen in Newcastle, who played a
vital role in the commerce of the river by ferrying loads between ship and
shore.

They paid a levy to build the hospital which offered care for orphans, widows
and infirm beneficiaries.

But the city council-owned building, last used as student accommodation, has
been empty for several years and has been placed on Historic England's At Risk
register. The keelmen had strong links with Methodism, with founder John
Wesley's brother Charles their chaplain. And now, a partnership between the
Methodists and the North of England Civic Trust have been given £10,000 by the
Heritage Lottery Fund to explore options for the re-use of the building.

One of the proposals to be explored is to develop the hospitality and caring
history of the building by turning it into an ethical hotel.

It would follow The Wesley Hotel in London, which has Methodist roots and is the
first social enterprise hotel in the UK.

It is hoped to develop a network of such hotels, of which Newcastle - once a
Methodist stronghold - could be part. It is envisaged that the City Road
building could celebrate the role played in the city's past by Methodism and the
keelmen, who are the subject of one of Tyneside's bestknown folk songs.

Partners in the venture are the North of England Civic Trust, the Wesley Hotel
and the Wesley Orphan House Trustees, which has its origins in an orphanage
built by John Wesley in Northumberland Street in Newcastle in 1743. The site
remains in Methodist ownership.

Trust director Graham Bell said: "This project is a story of revival.

"It aims to revive the fortunes of a building that is hugely symbolic but
vulnerable, raise the historical pro-file of the keelmen as a mainstay of the
economy, society and culture of Newcastle and revive the signifi-cance of the
Wesleys to the keelmen, Newcastle and Britain, reminding people of its important
story of the ethical principles and relationships in society, from almshouses to
the Wesleys to a modern-day approach to hospitality."

Mr Bell said: "The Keelmen's Hospital is one of the few buildings with a direct
link to the times of the keelmen, who have been immortalised in song.

"The hospital was built for hospitality in the traditional sense of ethical
care. The hospitality link could be developed in a building which is a landmark
in the townscape of Newcastle, in the welfare care of the traveller."

Eden Fletcher, Minister at Brunswick Methodist Church off Northumberland Street,
was the first to see how the connections could make something special for the
city.

He said: "The Wesleys had a huge and lasting impact on this city.

"To revive those stories and the values they represent is as relevant as ever.
Both John and Charles were regularly to be found on the streets of Newcastle and
in the thick of society where need was most acute."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Keelmen's Hospital and Rev Eden Fletcher of the Brunswick
Method-<Bist Church and Graham Bell, Director of the North of England Civic
Trust

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2015 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Asia News Network (ANN)

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

Murky protocol led to fatal surgeries in Japanese hospital By Yukiko Takanashi
and Nozomi Suzuki in Tokyo/The Yomiuri Shimbun/25 December 2014

LENGTH: 1358  words


Tokyo (The Yomiuri Shimbun/ANN) - Despite the deaths of eight patients who
underwent complicated laparoscopic liver surgery at Gunma University Hospital,
the cutting-edge operation continued to be performed without the necessary
ethical investigations or examinations having been conducted over the
fatalities.
In addition, 10 other patients died after having open abdominal liver surgery, a
more common procedure for liver operations, at the hospital¿s No. 2 surgical
department.
Why did the hospital fail to suspend the operations sooner?
It has also been learned that explanations provided to the patients before the
operations were not sufficient, casting light on various ethical problems.
Lack of awareness
¿I doubt the surgeon who performed the operations in question was aware of the
need to examine the cases where patients died after undergoing the procedure,"
Yoshihisa Nojima, head of the hospital, said at a press conference Friday, by
way of explaining why the No. 2 surgical department had not held morbidity and
mortality (M&M) conferences to examine problems or mistakes that occurred during
care in the time since the eight patients died after undergoing the operations.

Even the professor who heads the department did not have enough awareness of the
problem, with the professor reportedly telling the hospital¿s in-house
investigation team, ¿My decision was too lenient, and we should have held M&M
conferences."
M&M conferences are held by doctors at relevant departments when patients die
after undergoing operations or other treatments, to examine potential problems
or mistakes in the course of the patients¿ care. The conferences are meant to
address problems and help doctors learn from the experience to improve future
treatment. University hospitals usually hold the conferences. Gunma University
Hospital said it should have closely examined the details of the eight cases.
Concerning laparoscopic operations performed at the department, of the 92
patients who underwent laparoscopic liver operations from 2010 to 2014, 58 seem
to have undergone complicated operations not covered by public health care
insurance plans. Of the 58, eight died after having the procedures performed by
the same assistant professor. While the causal relations between the operations
and the deaths have not yet been confirmed, the hospital admitted that liver
function tests, or other measures to determine whether a patient could withstand
an operation, were not carried out before the operations, and that the
department¿s informed consent processes were insufficient.  Cycle of ignorance
While the department had performed abdominal liver operations since before
introducing the laparoscopic surgery, it was recently learned that of 84
patients who had the abdominal procedures over the past five years, 10 died
after having the operations. The same assistant professor had also performed
surgical procedures on all 10 patients, with five out of the 10 patients dying
in fiscal 2009 - just before laparoscopic surgery was introduced at the
department.
Despite fatal cases involving abdominal liver operations, the department allowed
the assistant professor to perform new, complicated operations, suggesting the
department did not have any oversight system in place.
The laparoscopic liver surgeries that apparently led to the deaths of the eight
patients involved methods whose effectiveness and safety had not been
sufficiently confirmed. The department should have obtained approval from the
hospital¿s ethical review board before performing the surgeries, but it did not
submit the necessary applications to the board.
An ethical review board is a body tasked with examining potential problems with
new medical research or medical treatment. While there are several ways of
referring a board or a variety of forms of such boards, university hospitals
across the nation have their own ethical review boards. However, deciding
whether to apply for approval from the boards depends on the judgement of
doctors or respective medical departments.
¿Unless they make an application to the board, the hospital is unable to know
what is going on," Nojima said.
Furthermore, Gunma University Hospital has a system where any problems that
occur during the care of patients, such as medical accidents, are reported to
the hospital¿s safety management section. However, in the case of the eight
patients dying, there has been no report to the section, and the hospital only
came to know the situation in June. Until the eight patients died, a surgical
procedure that appeared to be vastly inappropriate had been repeatedly performed
without a second thought. Ultimately, if doctors or other workers have lax
awareness, relevant organisations do not examine problems, leaving patients
exposed to risks.
Unknown results
The hospital has taken measures to improve the situation, such as making clear
what matters are subject to a screening by the ethical review committee.
However, whether to apply for a review remains in the hands of the doctors,
making the effectiveness of the new measures unclear.
A similar problem came to light at Chiba Cancer Center in April. There were a
series of cases in which complicated laparoscopic procedures on the pancreas
were performed on patients without undergoing ethical screenings or providing
sufficient explanations to the patients, apparently resulting in deaths.
Currently, a third-party panel that has been investigating the fatal cases is
reportedly discussing ethical issues.
¿Medical science advances through trying new things," said Kozo Tatara, a
professor emeritus at Osaka University who chairs the panel. ¿However, we must
not put patients at risk."
¿Along with carefully obtaining the informed consent of patients, it also is
essential to establish a system that guarantees the safety of patients, such as
instituting a practice of gaining second opinions from other doctors based on a
recognition that patients are always in a vulnerable position," he added.
Hospital promoted new technique without explaining drawbacks
The Declaration of Lisbon on the Rights of Patients adopted by the World Medical
Association in 1981 says, ¿The patient has the right to the information
necessary to make his or her decisions."
However, in cases at Gunma University Hospital, factors including those
indicated in documents and testimony by bereaved families make it clear that
informed consent was given only in a perfunctory manner.
A consent form that a now-deceased man approved for his bile duct cancer
operation carries a name and the date of the operation, and only mentions to
some potential complications, including bleeding, bile spillage and failure of
sutures. It does not show any data concerning such things as the frequency of
complications or the mortality rate.
According to his bereaved family, the hospital representative took one to two
hours to explain the operation, including advantages of a laparoscopic operation
- such as placing less burden on the body - which they described as ¿making only
a small cut and contributing to early recovery."
The man¿s wife, 60, recalled, ¿We did not hear about the disadvantages [of the
laparoscopic operation], while we had heard about the disadvantages of open
abdominal operations, with which they said the cut takes a long time to heal."
In his operation, the left half of the man¿s liver was removed, and the liver
was directly connected to the small intestine after removing the bile duct.
A surgeon who knows liver operations well said, ¿It is difficult even in an open
abdominal operation; doing that all in a laparoscopic operation requires a very
high level of skill."
But the man¿s family had understood that the operation carried a low risk as the
hospital explained that the laparoscopic operation ¿needed a small cut and would
cause less burden on the body."
Another bereaved family member said that they had believed there was no other
way but to receive an operation using a laparoscope. Some bereaved family
members do not even have a clear understanding of the patient having undergone a
laparoscopic operation.- Kenta Kamimura

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 2075


                       Copyright 2014 Asia News Network.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              June 6, 2016 Monday

National Maternity Hospital

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 851 words


Sir, - I would like to reply to the letter (May 27th) from Drs Benson and
Crowley as to how medical ethical questions would be decided were the National
Maternity Hospital (NMH) to be governed by the board of St Vincent's Hospital
(SVH).

One point concerned the tragic case of a patient who had been in a permanent
vegetative state for 23 years. In 1995 the High Court and the Supreme Court gave
permission for life support to be withdrawn. I specifically did not name the
hospital, because I did not and do not know it. I am sorry if Drs Benson and
Crowley assumed, wrongly, that it was St Vincent's. My original reason for
mentioning the case was to show that a medical institution was not willing to
allow a patient in its care to die, even though permission had been granted by
the courts. That point stands.

The case was held in camera. It emerged in a lengthy article written anonymously
by the patient's mother in The Irish Times in 1996 that the patient was being
cared for by an institution run by an order of nuns in Dublin. The institution
was not willing to carry out the decision of the court, so the family had to
make alternative arrangements. The mother told of the wonderful care provided by
the nurses who had looked after her daughter for such a long time but many of
her experiences of medical institutions and the medical profession were
shocking. Reportedly, the Irish Medical Council decided not to amend their
ethical guidelines and doctors and institutions withdrew offers to help the
family; the patient had to be moved discreetly to the family home (not Tallaght
Hospital as I said) where a doctor and eight nurses volunteered to care for her
in the last eight days of her life, risking "censure by their various medical
ethics bodies".

St Vincent's is governed by a board on behalf of the owners, the Religious
Sisters of Charity. The board undertakes to develop "the hospital and its
services in accordance with the principles and ethics of the Congregation of the
Religious Sisters of Charity". It runs the hospital "subject to such directions,
if any, that may be given from time to time by the Provincial Superior". Its
objectives are qualified by "the continuance and furtherance of the ethos, aims
and purposes of the Congregation of the Religious Sisters of Charity" in
accordance "with the Health Care Philosophy and Ethical Code of the Religious
Sisters of Charity". No one can possibly doubt that St Vincent's is required to
adhere to the medical ethics of the Catholic Church. I wrote that "In the past
newly appointed staff at St Vincent's were required to sign a form, which in
effect required them to adhere to Catholic ethics". I wondered if that was still
the case. Drs Benson and Crowley say they were not asked to sign (in 1993 and
1994), and say that the practice has been ended. It is clearly not necessary -
it is the rule.

I greatly admire SVH. I have been a patient there, so were my mother and
friends, and all have been wonderfully cared for. Friends and colleagues are
members of staff. We can all be proud of SVH and grateful for all who work
there.

But it is more difficult for SVH to maintain its commitment to observe strictly
the medical ethics of the Catholic Church. This will become more difficult if
maternity services are placed under the governance of the Religious Sisters of
Charity. Reproductive medicine and related areas such as medical genetics pose
special difficulties for Catholic medical ethics. I wonder if SVH has carefully
considered the problems that it would face if it absorbs the NMH.

I do not know the ethical rules of the NMH. It is a Catholic foundation of great
distinction and doctors from the NMH have been leaders in their fields. The
Archbishop of Dublin is chairman of the board. It has 84 members, including
three parish priests who are ex-officio. I understand that the governance
structures are under review.

Should the governance of either or both hospitals be decided in discussions
between the hospitals or should there be some guidance on their ethical policies
by the Government? These are matters of national significance, and it might be
opportune for the Government to address them as part of the reorganisation of
maternity services. The Government should consider whether it is appropriate
that the medical ethics of the NMH and SVH be determined by a single religious
denomination, whose medical ethics are likely to be at variance with what is
permitted under law, with medical practice both in Ireland and abroad and with
the opinions and behaviour of a large number of Irish people. In particular they
are not consistent with the widely held principle of personal autonomy according
to which patients take ethical decisions within the law about their own
healthcare - without the direction by a medical ethics committee or any other
third party.

To take the point made by Gary Bury in his letter of June 1st, I am sure that
some of us who do not accept the ethics of St Vincent's (and presumably the NMH)
do feel disadvantaged in using their services. - Yours, etc,

DAVID McCONNELL,

Blackrock, Co Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Japan News

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday
                                   S Edition

Murky protocol led to fatal surgeries

BYLINE: Yukiko Takanashi and Nozomi Suzuki, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writers

SECTION: SOCIETY; Pg. 2; No. 23065

LENGTH: 1354 words


Despite the deaths of eight patients who underwent complicated laparoscopic
liver surgery at Gunma University Hospital, the cutting-edge operation continued
to be performed without the necessary ethical investigations or examinations
having been conducted over the fatalities.

In addition, 10 other patients died after having open abdominal liver surgery, a
more common procedure for liver operations, at the hospital's No. 2 surgical
department.

Why did the hospital fail to suspend the operations sooner?

It has also been learned that explanations provided to the patients before the
operations were not sufficient, casting light on various ethical problems.

Lack of awareness

"I doubt the surgeon who performed the operations in question was aware of the
need to examine the cases where patients died after undergoing the procedure,"
Yoshihisa Nojima, head of the hospital, said at a press conference Friday, by
way of explaining why the No. 2 surgical department had not held morbidity and
mortality (M&M) conferences to examine problems or mistakes that occurred during
care in the time since the eight patients died after undergoing the operations.

Even the professor who heads the department did not have enough awareness of the
problem, with the professor reportedly telling the hospital's in-house
investigation team, "My decision was too lenient, and we should have held M&M
conferences."

M&M conferences are held by doctors at relevant departments when patients die
after undergoing operations or other treatments, to examine potential problems
or mistakes in the course of the patients' care. The conferences are meant to
address problems and help doctors learn from the experience to improve future
treatment. University hospitals usually hold the conferences. Gunma University
Hospital said it should have closely examined the details of the eight cases.

Concerning laparoscopic operations performed at the department, of the 92
patients who underwent laparoscopic liver operations from 2010 to 2014, 58 seem
to have undergone complicated operations not covered by public health care
insurance plans. Of the 58, eight died after having the procedures performed by
the same assistant professor. While the causal relations between the operations
and the deaths have not yet been confirmed, the hospital admitted that liver
function tests, or other measures to determine whether a patient could withstand
an operation, were not carried out before the operations, and that the
department's informed consent processes were insufficient.

Cycle of ignorance

While the department had performed abdominal liver operations since before
introducing the laparoscopic surgery, it was recently learned that of 84
patients who had the abdominal procedures over the past five years, 10 died
after having the operations. The same assistant professor had also performed
surgical procedures on all 10 patients, with five out of the 10 patients dying
in fiscal 2009 -- just before laparoscopic surgery was introduced at the
department.

Despite fatal cases involving abdominal liver operations, the department allowed
the assistant professor to perform new, complicated operations, suggesting the
department did not have any oversight system in place.

The laparoscopic liver surgeries that apparently led to the deaths of the eight
patients involved methods whose effectiveness and safety had not been
sufficiently confirmed. The department should have obtained approval from the
hospital's ethical review board before performing the surgeries, but it did not
submit the necessary applications to the board.

An ethical review board is a body tasked with examining potential problems with
new medical research or medical treatment. While there are several ways of
referring a board or a variety of forms of such boards, university hospitals
across the nation have their own ethical review boards. However, deciding
whether to apply for approval from the boards depends on the judgement of
doctors or respective medical departments.

"Unless they make an application to the board, the hospital is unable to know
what is going on," Nojima said.

Furthermore, Gunma University Hospital has a system where any problems that
occur during the care of patients, such as medical accidents, are reported to
the hospital's safety management section. However, in the case of the eight
patients dying, there has been no report to the section, and the hospital only
came to know the situation in June. Until the eight patients died, a surgical
procedure that appeared to be vastly inappropriate had been repeatedly performed
without a second thought. Ultimately, if doctors or other workers have lax
awareness, relevant organizations do not examine problems, leaving patients
exposed to risks.

Unknown results

The hospital has taken measures to improve the situation, such as making clear
what matters are subject to a screening by the ethical review committee.
However, whether to apply for a review remains in the hands of the doctors,
making the effectiveness of the new measures unclear.

A similar problem came to light at Chiba Cancer Center in April. There were a
series of cases in which complicated laparoscopic procedures on the pancreas
were performed on patients without undergoing ethical screenings or providing
sufficient explanations to the patients, apparently resulting in deaths.
Currently, a third-party panel that has been investigating the fatal cases is
reportedly discussing ethical issues.

"Medical science advances through trying new things," said Kozo Tatara, a
professor emeritus at Osaka University who chairs the panel. "However, we must
not put patients at risk."

"Along with carefully obtaining the informed consent of patients, it also is
essential to establish a system that guarantees the safety of patients, such as
instituting a practice of gaining second opinions from other doctors based on a
recognition that patients are always in a vulnerable position," he added.

Hospital promoted new technique without explaining drawbacks

By Kenta Kamimura / Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writer

MAEBASHI -- The Declaration of Lisbon on the Rights of Patients adopted by the
World Medical Association in 1981 says, "The patient has the right to the
information necessary to make his or her decisions."

However, in cases at Gunma University Hospital, factors including those
indicated in documents and testimony by bereaved families make it clear that
informed consent was given only in a perfunctory manner.

A consent form that a now-deceased man approved for his bile duct cancer
operation carries a name and the date of the operation, and only mentions to
some potential complications, including bleeding, bile spillage and failure of
sutures. It does not show any data concerning such things as the frequency of
complications or the mortality rate.

According to his bereaved family, the hospital representative took one to two
hours to explain the operation, including advantages of a laparoscopic operation
-- such as placing less burden on the body -- which they described as "making
only a small cut and contributing to early recovery."

The man's wife, 60, recalled, "We did not hear about the disadvantages [of the
laparoscopic operation], while we had heard about the disadvantages of open
abdominal operations, with which they said the cut takes a long time to heal."

In his operation, the left half of the man's liver was removed, and the liver
was directly connected to the small intestine after removing the bile duct.

A surgeon who knows liver operations well said, "It is difficult even in an open
abdominal operation; doing that all in a laparoscopic operation requires a very
high level of skill."

But the man's family had understood that the operation carried a low risk as the
hospital explained that the laparoscopic operation "needed a small cut and would
cause less burden on the body."

Another bereaved family member said that they had believed there was no other
way but to receive an operation using a laparoscope. Some bereaved family
members do not even have a clear understanding of the patient having undergone a
laparoscopic operation.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Japan News

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday
                                   S Edition

Murky protocol led to fatal surgeries

BYLINE: Yukiko Takanashi and Nozomi Suzuki, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writers

SECTION: SOCIETY; Pg. 2; No. 23065

LENGTH: 1354 words


Despite the deaths of eight patients who underwent complicated laparoscopic
liver surgery at Gunma University Hospital, the cutting-edge operation continued
to be performed without the necessary ethical investigations or examinations
having been conducted over the fatalities.

In addition, 10 other patients died after having open abdominal liver surgery, a
more common procedure for liver operations, at the hospital's No. 2 surgical
department.

Why did the hospital fail to suspend the operations sooner?

It has also been learned that explanations provided to the patients before the
operations were not sufficient, casting light on various ethical problems.

Lack of awareness

"I doubt the surgeon who performed the operations in question was aware of the
need to examine the cases where patients died after undergoing the procedure,"
Yoshihisa Nojima, head of the hospital, said at a press conference Friday, by
way of explaining why the No. 2 surgical department had not held morbidity and
mortality (M&M) conferences to examine problems or mistakes that occurred during
care in the time since the eight patients died after undergoing the operations.

Even the professor who heads the department did not have enough awareness of the
problem, with the professor reportedly telling the hospital's in-house
investigation team, "My decision was too lenient, and we should have held M&M
conferences."

M&M conferences are held by doctors at relevant departments when patients die
after undergoing operations or other treatments, to examine potential problems
or mistakes in the course of the patients' care. The conferences are meant to
address problems and help doctors learn from the experience to improve future
treatment. University hospitals usually hold the conferences. Gunma University
Hospital said it should have closely examined the details of the eight cases.

Concerning laparoscopic operations performed at the department, of the 92
patients who underwent laparoscopic liver operations from 2010 to 2014, 58 seem
to have undergone complicated operations not covered by public health care
insurance plans. Of the 58, eight died after having the procedures performed by
the same assistant professor. While the causal relations between the operations
and the deaths have not yet been confirmed, the hospital admitted that liver
function tests, or other measures to determine whether a patient could withstand
an operation, were not carried out before the operations, and that the
department's informed consent processes were insufficient.

Cycle of ignorance

While the department had performed abdominal liver operations since before
introducing the laparoscopic surgery, it was recently learned that of 84
patients who had the abdominal procedures over the past five years, 10 died
after having the operations. The same assistant professor had also performed
surgical procedures on all 10 patients, with five out of the 10 patients dying
in fiscal 2009 -- just before laparoscopic surgery was introduced at the
department.

Despite fatal cases involving abdominal liver operations, the department allowed
the assistant professor to perform new, complicated operations, suggesting the
department did not have any oversight system in place.

The laparoscopic liver surgeries that apparently led to the deaths of the eight
patients involved methods whose effectiveness and safety had not been
sufficiently confirmed. The department should have obtained approval from the
hospital's ethical review board before performing the surgeries, but it did not
submit the necessary applications to the board.

An ethical review board is a body tasked with examining potential problems with
new medical research or medical treatment. While there are several ways of
referring a board or a variety of forms of such boards, university hospitals
across the nation have their own ethical review boards. However, deciding
whether to apply for approval from the boards depends on the judgement of
doctors or respective medical departments.

"Unless they make an application to the board, the hospital is unable to know
what is going on," Nojima said.

Furthermore, Gunma University Hospital has a system where any problems that
occur during the care of patients, such as medical accidents, are reported to
the hospital's safety management section. However, in the case of the eight
patients dying, there has been no report to the section, and the hospital only
came to know the situation in June. Until the eight patients died, a surgical
procedure that appeared to be vastly inappropriate had been repeatedly performed
without a second thought. Ultimately, if doctors or other workers have lax
awareness, relevant organizations do not examine problems, leaving patients
exposed to risks.

Unknown results

The hospital has taken measures to improve the situation, such as making clear
what matters are subject to a screening by the ethical review committee.
However, whether to apply for a review remains in the hands of the doctors,
making the effectiveness of the new measures unclear.

A similar problem came to light at Chiba Cancer Center in April. There were a
series of cases in which complicated laparoscopic procedures on the pancreas
were performed on patients without undergoing ethical screenings or providing
sufficient explanations to the patients, apparently resulting in deaths.
Currently, a third-party panel that has been investigating the fatal cases is
reportedly discussing ethical issues.

"Medical science advances through trying new things," said Kozo Tatara, a
professor emeritus at Osaka University who chairs the panel. "However, we must
not put patients at risk."

"Along with carefully obtaining the informed consent of patients, it also is
essential to establish a system that guarantees the safety of patients, such as
instituting a practice of gaining second opinions from other doctors based on a
recognition that patients are always in a vulnerable position," he added.

Hospital promoted new technique without explaining drawbacks

By Kenta Kamimura

Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writer

MAEBASHI -- The Declaration of Lisbon on the Rights of Patients adopted by the
World Medical Association in 1981 says, "The patient has the right to the
information necessary to make his or her decisions."

However, in cases at Gunma University Hospital, factors including those
indicated in documents and testimony by bereaved families make it clear that
informed consent was given only in a perfunctory manner.

A consent form that a now-deceased man approved for his bile duct cancer
operation carries a name and the date of the operation, and only mentions to
some potential complications, including bleeding, bile spillage and failure of
sutures. It does not show any data concerning such things as the frequency of
complications or the mortality rate.

According to his bereaved family, the hospital representative took one to two
hours to explain the operation, including advantages of a laparoscopic operation
-- such as placing less burden on the body -- which they described as "making
only a small cut and contributing to early recovery."

The man's wife, 60, recalled, "We did not hear about the disadvantages [of the
laparoscopic operation], while we had heard about the disadvantages of open
abdominal operations, with which they said the cut takes a long time to heal."

In his operation, the left half of the man's liver was removed, and the liver
was directly connected to the small intestine after removing the bile duct.

A surgeon who knows liver operations well said, "It is difficult even in an open
abdominal operation; doing that all in a laparoscopic operation requires a very
high level of skill."

But the man's family had understood that the operation carried a low risk as the
hospital explained that the laparoscopic operation "needed a small cut and would
cause less burden on the body."

Another bereaved family member said that they had believed there was no other
way but to receive an operation using a laparoscope. Some bereaved family
members do not even have a clear understanding of the patient having undergone a
laparoscopic operation.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

AKU Symposium explores Ethical Challenges in Healthcare Organisations

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 477

LENGTH: 289  words


Traditional ethics committees in healthcare organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns. They are unable to highlight
deeper organisational factors that influence how a health care organisation
functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily to clinical ethics.
Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

This was pointed out at a symposium organized by the Aga Khan University
Hospital on Saturday. It was pointed out that addressing these issues often
falls beyond the scope of conventional ethics committees because they may not
pertain to clinical service, research or academics, but to the way the
organisation runs. Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be
set, communicated and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr
Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking in her capacity as
Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held at Aga Khan University.
In her keynote address, Dr Melissa M Bottrell of the National Centre for Ethics
in Healthcare in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects. By envisioning new ways of
looking at ethical concern in health care, she said. Other notable speakers at
the Symposium included Dr Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus Hospital,  Ameena Saiyid,
Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor Arif Zaman, former Dean,
Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant
Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 April 13, 2009

Success from surgical checklists breeds idea for ethical checks

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Apr. 13, 2009

SECTION: PROFESSION

LENGTH: 1045 words



HIGHLIGHT: Pilot program explores a list for ethical concerns.


For ages, doctors have used lists and other reminders to help them give the
right care to patients. Recently, the use of checklists in areas such as surgery
and infection control has delivered remarkable results, greatly reducing
morbidity and mortality.

Beginning in April, residents working in the intensive care unit at the
Washington Hospital Center in Washington, D.C., got a different kind of reminder
when caring for patients -- an ethics checklist.

The idea is the brainchild of Daniel K. Sokol, PhD, a medical ethicist at the
University of London St. George's Hospital Medical School who served as a
visiting bioethics scholar at the Washington Hospital Center in January and
February. Sokol wrote about the ethics checklist in the March 4 British Medical
Journal and said bioethicists at hospitals in Canada and the United Kingdom also
are considering the idea.

"Having an ethics checklist changes the focus away from the purely clinical to
include the ethical dimension," Sokol said. "In the back of my mind I had this
idea of the surgical checklist, where uniformly the results have been quite
astounding. I see no reason why there shouldn't be a similar thing for ethics."

The eight-item checklist at Washington Hospital Center -- actually an ID-sized
badge that residents wear on lanyards -- covers ethical issues that commonly
arise in the hospital setting. Is the patient able to make medical decisions? Is
there a do-not-resuscitate order? Is there a disagreement among family members
about how care should proceed?

Residents are asked to review the list for each patient, note any potential
issues and call the hospital's bioethics staff if they need help resolving
problems. The hospital's three ethics consultants already handle about 300
queries a year, said Nneka Mokwunye, PhD, director of bioethics and spiritual
care. She said getting doctors to use the checklist could help avoid ugly
squabbles with families and prevent lawsuits.

"We want to recognize the potential for an ethical problem earlier downstream
and intervene early enough so that patient care doesn't get compromised and the
family doesn't get negatively impacted by the emotional rollercoaster the ICU
presents," Mokwunye said. "It's preventive ethics at its best."

Mokwunye will survey residents before and after they use the checklist to see
whether they find it helpful or too time-consuming.

The idea is "fantastic," said John J. Lynch, MD, chair of the Washington
Hospital Center's bioethics committee. "This is a brief list that raises the
really important questions that residents and other physicians need to be clear
about. It makes eminent sense."

The ethics checklist will be considered at the Loyola University Chicago Stritch
School of Medicine, said Kayhan Parsi, PhD, a clinical ethicist who directs the
Neiswanger Institute for Bioethics and Health Policy graduate program there.

"What the checklist does, in my mind, is it more formally integrates ethics into
the care of patients so it really just becomes part of the culture," Parsi said.
"It actually standardizes care so everyone gets treated in a similar fashion."

Dr. David Warriner, a physician in South Yorkshire, England, is so enthusiastic
about the checklist concept that he had an ink stamp made of it so that he can
quickly add it to patients' charts.

"The list stimulates doctors to think laterally, concerning themselves with the
patient, the relatives and their future, not just their temperature, blood tests
or scan results," Dr. Warriner said via e-mail.

Checklist hype?

But not everyone thinks the ethics checklist will make a big difference.

Atul Gawande, MD, MPH, director of the World Health Organization's Safe Surgery
Saves Lives initiative, said ethics issues should be integrated into a
streamlined checklist, not added as another set of items to review. Hospitals
implementing the WHO checklist cut deaths after surgery by 46% and reduced
surgical complications by 36%.

"Pilots don't have a communications checklist. They have a 'before takeoff'
checklist on which communications is a key goal," Dr. Gawande said in an e-mail.
"Likewise, clinicians probably won't have an ethics checklist. We will have an
[operating room] checklist or a ward rounds checklist, on which not missing a
key ethics issue may be a key goal."

Another leader in the checklist movement who expressed skepticism is Peter J.
Pronovost, MD, PhD, principal investigator of a patient-safety initiative that
helped more than 100 Michigan ICUs cut bloodstream infections by 66%. He said
checklists must be part of a broader approach to changing medical practice.

"There is a lot of hype about checklists," Dr. Pronovost said. "Checklists are a
way to summarize what to do, but it's naive to think that will change behavior.
The model, as we've done with bloodstream infections, has to be combined with
measurement and feedback of performance and culture change, and you put that
troika together.

"Writing a checklist on a piece of paper and saying, 'Doctor, go do this,' will
be no different than handing them a set of guidelines. Alone, they're not Harry
Potter's wand."

This content was published online only.

Is it ethical? Check

In April, the Washington Hospital Center in Washington, D.C., began piloting
this ethics checklist among residents working in the intensive care unit.

Clinical Ethics Patient Assessment

Add relevant ethical issues to progress notes and report on rounds

     ·     Patient's wishes unclear/refusal of treatment
     ·     Questionable capacity to consent to, or refuse, treatment
     ·     Disagreement involving relatives/surrogates/caregivers
     ·     End-of-life (advance directive/power of attorney, do not
          resuscitate/allow natural death, withdraw/withhold Rx)
     ·     Confidentiality/disclosure issue
     ·     Resource or fairness issue
     ·     Other (please note)
     ·     No notable ethical issues


Source: "Ethics Man: Rethinking ward rounds," British Medical Journal, March 4
(www.bmj.com/cgi/content/extract/338/mar04_3/b879)

Weblink

"Ethics Man: Rethinking ward rounds," abstract, British Medical Journal, March 4
(www.bmj.com/cgi/content/extract/338/mar04_3/b879)

"A Surgical Safety Checklist to Reduce Morbidity and Mortality in a Global
Population," abstract, New England Journal of Medicine, Jan. 29
(content.nejm.org/cgi/content/abstract/360/5/491)

Retrieve Attachment

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                      July 29, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM GMT

Iconic Keelmen's Hospital in Newcastle could be revived as 'ethical' hotel;
The Heritage Lottery Fund has awarded a £10,000 grant to help find a new use for
the at-risk site, which was built in 1701

BYLINE: By Tony Henderson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 582 words


An at-risk heritage building linked to a colourful part of Tyneside's past may
become one of a new network of "ethical" hotels.

The Keelmen's Hospital, with its domed tower, overlooking the River Tyne on City
Road in Newcastle, is Grade II-star listed, putting it in the top 5% of historic
buildings in the country.

It was built in 1701, when there were 1,600 keelmen in Newcastle, who played a
vital role in the commerce of the river by ferrying loads between ship and
shore.

They paid a levy to build the hospital which offered care for their orphans,
widows and infirm beneficiaries.

But the city council-owned building, last used as student accommodation, has
been empty for several years and has been placed on Historic England's At Risk
register.

The keelmen had strong links with Methodism with founder John Wesley's brother
Charles being their chaplain.

And now, a partnership between the Methodists and the North of England Civic
Trust have been given £10,000 by the Heritage Lottery Fund to explore options
for the re-use of the building.

One of the proposals to be explored is to develop the hospitality and caring
history of the building by turning it into an ethical hotel.

It would follow The Wesley Hotel in London, which has Methodist roots and is the
first social enterprise hotel in the UK.

It is hoped to develop a network of such hotels, of which Newcastle - once a
Methodist stronghold - could be part.

It is envisaged that the City Road building could celebrate the role played in
the city's past by Methodism and the keelmen, who are the subject of one of
Tyneside's best known folk songs.

Partners in the venture are the North of England Civic Trust, the Wesley Hotel
and the Wesley Orphan House Trustees, which has its origins in an orphanage
built by John Wesley in Northumberland Street in Newcastle in 1743. The site
remains in Methodist ownership.

Trust director Graham Bell said: "This project is a story of revival. It aims to
revive the fortunes of a building that is hugely symbolic but vulnerable, raise
the historical profile of the keelmen as a mainstay of the economy, society and
culture of Newcastle and revive the significance of the Wesleys to the keelmen,
Newcastle and Britain, reminding people of its important story of the ethical
principles and relationships in society, from almshouses to the Wesleys to a
modern-day approach to hospitality."

A pink and grey obelisk drinking fountain on Newcastle Quayside, unveiled in
1891, celebrates John Wesley preaching in Newcastle. He made around 50 visits
over his lifetime.

Mr Bell said: "The Keelmen's Hospital is one of the few buildings with a direct
link to the times of the keelmen, who have been immortalised in song.

"When times were good the keelmen paid to build the hospital to look after their
own in the days when there was no Welfare State.

"The hospital was built for hospitality in the traditional sense of ethical
care. The hospitality link could be developed in a building which is a landmark
in the townscape of Newcastle, in the welfare care of the traveller."

Eden Fletcher, Minister at Brunswick Methodist Church off Northumberland Street,
was the first to see how the connections could make something special for the
city.

He said: "The Wesleys had a huge and lasting impact on this city.

"To revive those stories and the values they represent is as relevant as ever.
Both John and Charles were regularly to be found on the streets of Newcastle and
in the thick of society where need was most acute."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Sunday Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            January 25, 2009 Sunday
                               E - Coast Edition

Surgeon calls for decision

BYLINE: Kay Dibben

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 179  words


A SURGEON who was acting director of Townsville Hospital's cardiac unit when it
was shut down for nine months in 2007 still faces allegations of official
misconduct.

Dr Antonio Xabregas has filed a Supreme Court application calling on the Crime
and Misconduct Commission to make a decision on the allegations by next month.

In late 2007, Queensland Health temporarily suspended all services in the
hospital's cardiothoracic unit ``in the interest of public safety'', after
disputes between surgeons.

Although Queensland Health's Ethical Standards Unit has since reviewed more than
5000 documents and conducted many interviews, investigations are continuing into
disputes among the hospital unit's staff.

Dr Xabregas's claim has asked for the CMC, and not the Ethical Standards Unit,
to make a decision over allegations made against him.

However the CMC says it is monitoring the Ethical Standards Unit's
investigations.

Dr Xabregas, the hospital's first cardiothoracic surgeon, remains an employee of
Queensland Health, but it is believed he no longer works at Townsville Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Fortune India names Apollo Hospitals as India's most admired healthcare company

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 245  words


New Delhi, Sept 2 (IBNS): Healthcare services provider Apollo Hospitals was
named the most admired pharma and healthcare company by Fortune India & Hay
Group in the third edition of their definitive annual report card on corporate
reputation.

The award recognized Apollo for its distinguished level of clinical excellence,
technological expertise and high standards of ethical value it showcases while
serving patients. The evaluation criteria for selection of winners was based on
corporate governance, endurance, social impact, investment value,
product/service quality, innovation, leadership quality, talent development,
employee empowerment and global footprint. Phase I of the report saw
participation of 1,523 companies, including Indian subsidiaries of foreign
companies. It is indeed a proud moment for us at Apollo to be recognized as the
most admired company in the healthcare sector. When Apollo Hospitals was
launched in 1983, our primary objective was to provide world class healthcare
services within the reach of every individual. High level of ethical standards
and transparency in governance has made us the most trusted brand in the
healthcare industry. These recognitions and awards further motivate us to
deliver the best of healthcare services to our people, said Suneeta Reddy,
Managing Director, Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited. The rankings were based
on inputs shared by top industry executives, including on the basis of peer
group response.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Fortune India names Apollo Hospitals as India's most admired healthcare company

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 245  words


New Delhi, Sept 2 (IBNS): Healthcare services provider Apollo Hospitals was
named the most admired pharma and healthcare company by Fortune India & Hay
Group in the third edition of their definitive annual report card on corporate
reputation.

The award recognized Apollo for its distinguished level of clinical excellence,
technological expertise and high standards of ethical value it showcases while
serving patients. The evaluation criteria for selection of winners was based on
corporate governance, endurance, social impact, investment value,
product/service quality, innovation, leadership quality, talent development,
employee empowerment and global footprint. Phase I of the report saw
participation of 1,523 companies, including Indian subsidiaries of foreign
companies. It is indeed a proud moment for us at Apollo to be recognized as the
most admired company in the healthcare sector. When Apollo Hospitals was
launched in 1983, our primary objective was to provide world class healthcare
services within the reach of every individual. High level of ethical standards
and transparency in governance has made us the most trusted brand in the
healthcare industry. These recognitions and awards further motivate us to
deliver the best of healthcare services to our people, said Suneeta Reddy,
Managing Director, Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited. The rankings were based
on inputs shared by top industry executives, including on the basis of peer
group response.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright (c) 2010 Washington University
                 Washington University Journal of Law & Policy

                                      2010

                 Washington University Journal of Law & Policy

                          32 Wash. U. J.L. & Pol'y 515

LENGTH: 8848 words

Note: Medical Repatriation: Examining the Legal and Ethical Implications of an
Emerging Practice

NAME: Emily R. Zoellner*

BIO: * J.D. (2010), Washington University School of Law; B.A., magna cum laude
(2006), Carleton College. I am grateful to my parents, Bill and Luan Zoellner,
and siblings, Bill, Anne, and Kate Zoellner, for loving and encouraging me in
this and all other endeavors. I also thank my friends for their support, the
many teachers who have inspired me, and the staff of the Washington University
Journal of Law & Policy.

TEXT:
 [*515]

   Introduction

 On July 10, 2003, Luis Alberto Jimenez was taken from the hospital that was
treating him in Stuart, Florida, to an airport, where he was placed on a private
plane and transported to Guatemala. n1 Mr. Jimenez had been hospitalized since
2000, when he sustained traumatic brain injuries as a result of a collision with
an intoxicated Florida driver. n2 His brain injury rendered him completely
incapacitated, and for three years he received twenty-four hour nursing care. n3
Since arriving in Guatemala, though, Mr. Jimenez has not received medical
treatment. n4 His sole caregiver is his seventy-two year-old mother. n5 He
routinely suffers violent seizures, vomits blood, and falls into bouts of
unconsciousness. n6 United States immigration  [*516]  procedures played no role
in Mr. Jimenez's deportation. Instead, the Florida hospital that previously
treated him obtained a court order that allowed it to privately "repatriate"
him. n7 The timing of this trip was not incidental. The hospital transported Mr.
Jimenez on a plane it had chartered a mere three hours before it was required to
file a response to Mr. Jimenez's guardian's motion to stay the court order
allowing for his repatriation. n8 Mr. Jimenez's case is not unique. To be sure,
he has received a level of media attention that few other patients in his
position have attained. n9 However, the underlying factual scenario - a United
States hospital privately deporting a critically ill patient - is increasingly
common. n10

   Medical repatriation results from myriad factors. n11 The incentives for
hospitals to "repatriate" indigent immigrants are largely economic. Federal
Medicare and Medicaid guidelines do not provide health care funding for the
treatment of undocumented immigrants,  [*517]  except in the cases of medical
emergencies, which traditionally have been narrowly defined. n12 However,
hospitals are required by other federal legislation to treat patients suffering
from emergent health care needs. n13 Repatriation often occurs in cases like
that of Mr. Jimenez, in which the patient is originally admitted after a medical
emergency, but then stabilizes to the point that his condition is no longer
deemed emergent. n14 Hospitals see repatriation as a way to avoid the financial
strain of treating patients who are unable to pay and are ineligible for public
medical assistance. n15 While exact numbers are not known, the practice likely
has become more common in recent years as health care costs climb, as does the
number of patients who are ineligible for state medical assistance because of
their immigration status. n16

   Medical repatriation raises substantial legal and ethical questions. The
facts of Mr. Jimenez's ordeal compel an almost universally negative reaction.
Something about his situation and medical  [*518]  repatriation seems
fundamentally wrong. The sense that something about medical repatriation is not
right is rooted in its potential violations of both legal standards for patient
treatment and discharge, n17 as well ethical standards governing the medical
profession. n18

   Because medical repatriation implicates both legal and ethical questions, any
proposal attempting to mitigate its problems must be similarly multifaceted and
address both the legal and ethical issues involved. This Note puts forth two
proposals. The first involves changing the Code of Federal Regulations to create
legal standards limiting the practice of medical repatriation. Additionally, it
would more broadly and clearly define the circumstances in which hospitals can
receive funding for treatment of undocumented immigrants. The second proposal
clarifies the American Medical Association's Principles of Medical Ethics with
respect to the effect of patients' immigration status on the applicability of
medical ethics standards.

   This Note asserts that changes are necessary to both legal regulations on
medical repatriation and medical ethics standards. Part I of the History section
explains the relevance of medical repatriation and anticipates its likely
future, absent new regulations. Part II.A of the History section discusses the
evolution of medical repatriation, focusing on the lack of government funding
available for treatment of undocumented immigrants and the concurrent mandate
that hospitals treat all patients with emergent medical conditions. Part II.B
reviews medical ethical standards and examines the interplay between ethical and
legal standards. Next, this Note analyzes the various factors contributing to
the emergence of medical repatriation and evaluates whether the practice
comports with currently established legal and ethical standards. Finally, this
Note proposes (1) changes to the  [*519]  federal regulations governing
hospitals and (2) clarifications to the ethical standards with which the medical
profession strives to comply.

   History

   I. Medical Repatriation is Important as a Medical Practice, the Legality and
Ethics of which Remain Disputed

 Medical repatriation is a poorly understood phenomenon, and one that is likely
to increase in importance as the number of undocumented immigrants living in the
United States, n19 as well as the cost of health care, continue to rise. n20
Hospitals are unlikely to find quick relief from the financial pressures that
have contributed to their efforts to repatriate patients, particularly when one
takes into account the current economic crisis. While both immigration and
health care are priorities of the Obama administration, n21 it is unclear
whether any current proposals will address the interplay between these two
policy areas. Additionally, despite President Obama's intent to affect policy
changes, n22 it is unclear what impact any changes will have on the ability of
documented and undocumented immigrants to receive publicly funded healthcare.
n23

    [*520]  There is scant information regarding the growth of medical
repatriation's use by hospitals or the number of people affected by its
operation. n24 The very factors that make medical repatriation troubling also
render it difficult to study: it exists in a murky gray area between immigration
law, health care law, and medical ethics. n25 Hospitals are unlikely to
advertise their use of repatriation, and many whom it affects are unable or
unwilling to draw public attention to their plight. n26 The specific cases that
have been brought to light, like that of Mr. Jimenez, illustrate that patients
who challenge hospitals' attempts to repatriate them face uphill battles that
are difficult even with legal assistance and most likely impossible without it.
n27

   Despite the factors that make medical repatriation difficult to quantify,
some people and organizations are attempting to collect data on its practice. In
her 2008 New York Times article that brought Mr. Jimenez national attention,
Deborah Sontag estimates that a Phoenix hospital repatriates nearly one hundred
patients per year, while a Chicago hospital returned ten patients to Honduras in
a recent twelve-month period. n28 Sontag's article also points to the existence
of  [*521]  a company, Mexcare, whose niche is the provision of repatriation
services, as evidence that the practice is fairly common. n29

   Research and anecdotal evidence suggest that undocumented immigrants are not
the only patients affected by hospitals' repatriation efforts. Cases of
hospitals repatriating immigrants who are lawfully living in the United States
abound. n30 Moreover, in at least one instance, a hospital tried to repatriate a
United States citizen - an infant born in its own maternity ward. n31 The range
of people affected by medical repatriation further counsels for an examination
of its legality and compliance with norms of medical ethics.

   Medical repatriation recently has begun to emerge as a topic of interest. The
California Medical Association voiced its opposition to the forced repatriation
of patients after a vote in October 2008. n32 The American Medical Association's
House of Delegates voted in early November 2008 to begin a study of the
practice. n33 The increasing  [*522]  media attention given to medical
repatriation and its specific occurrences is beginning to mirror the media
attention given to patient dumping in the 1980s. n34 Growing public sympathy for
those suffering the effects of medical repatriation increases the chance that
popular pressure will lead to new legislation. n35

   As the number of immigrants living in the United States continues to grow and
the cost of health care continues to rise, n36 the factors that incentivize
medical repatriation will likely persist. Anti-immigrant attitudes play an
important role, too, at least to the extent that hospitals arguably face much
less public outrage when they repatriate Latinos and non-citizens than when they
"dumped" non-Latino U.S. citizens. n37 Unless something changes, hospitals
likely will continue to  [*523]  utilize medical repatriation as a means to rid
themselves of costly patients.

   II. The Emergence of Medical Repatriation

 The combination of three main factors can explain why medical repatriation has
become a common practice. First, indigent undocumented (and some documented)
immigrants are ineligible for public assistance, and hospitals are unable to
receive reimbursement for their care. Second, hospitals have legal duties to
treat all patients with emergent health needs and to discharge patients to
appropriate facilities for further care, but receive no funding to compensate
for treatment of indigent patients who are ineligible for public assistance.
Third, the medical ethical standards arguably violated by medical repatriation
are unenforceable.

   A. Undocumented Immigrants and Government-Funded Healthcare

 Undocumented immigrants are ineligible for publicly funded health care except
in the case of medical emergencies. n38 A hospital that treats an indigent
undocumented immigrant for a non-emergent medical condition will not receive
public reimbursement for its expenses. n39

    [*524]  While non-citizens have long experienced diminished access to
government benefits relative to citizens, n40 the passage of the Personal
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 ("PRWORA" or
"Welfare Reform") marked a new era in their exclusion. n41 Congress enacted
welfare reform in 1996 in an attempt to reduce federal spending and, famously,
to "end welfare as we know it." n42 It not only dramatically changed public
assistance programs such as Aid to Families with Dependent Children ("AFDC"),
n43 but also imposed heightened restrictions on the ability of immigrants to
access public benefits. n44 PRWORA limits eligibility for medical assistance
programs to "qualified aliens" - a new category in the field of immigration
classifications. n45 "Qualified alien" is a term that includes lawful permanent
residents, refugees, asylees, and a few other select groups; it does not include
undocumented immigrants or lawful permanent residents who have maintained this
status for fewer than five years. n46

   There are conflicting opinions regarding PRWORA's goals and the extent to
which these goals have been achieved. n47 For the  [*525]  purposes of this
Note, the most important stated goal of Welfare Reform was to save the federal
government money by cutting funding for immigrants' medical care and narrowly
defining the groups of non-citizens who qualified. Because the general ban on
healthcare funding for immigrants was accompanied by an exception allowing for
treatment of emergency medical conditions, PRWORA did not completely eliminate
funding for the treatment of medical conditions among undocumented immigrants.
n48

   While PRWORA effectively prohibited undocumented immigrants from receiving
most forms of public assistance, n49 an exception allows for coverage of
emergency medical care. n50 An individual who is ineligible for Medicaid due to
his immigration status must receive the medical services necessary to treat an
emergency medical condition if withholding such treatment would be reasonably
expected to seriously jeopardize the patient's health, result in serious
impairment of bodily functions, or damage an organ or body part. n51 To qualify
for this emergency medical coverage, the  [*526]  individual must meet other
eligibility criteria for Medicaid, including income and asset limitations. n52

   It is unclear, though, what constitutes an "emergency medical condition." n53
There is not a consensus on either the definition of an emergency medical
condition or when an emergency medical condition ceases to be an emergency. n54
The narrowest construction of the meaning of emergency medical condition was
adopted by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in Greenery Rehabilitation Group
v. Hammon. n55 The court emphasized that only conditions characterized by acute
symptoms could be classified as emergencies. n56 Chronic conditions, despite
their severity, would not meet this test. n57 Courts considering the Greenery
rule in future cases often took broader approaches to the concept, finding that
emergency medical conditions existed in a more expansive class of cases. n58
These courts reasoned that the language of the emergency medical exception
indicates that an emergency exists when the absence of medical care would
reasonably be expected to result in serious danger to the individual's health or
in injuries to his bodily functions, organs, or body parts. n59  [*527]  The
definition of emergency medical condition is incredibly significant because it
determines a hospital's reimbursement for treatment of a non-citizen. n60
Hospitals will not be reimbursed for treatment of conditions that are not deemed
emergent. n61

   B. Hospitals' Legal Duties to Patients

 Hospitals have legal duties to treat patients with emergency medical conditions
and to discharge patients to appropriate facilities. n62

   1. The Duty to Treat Patients Experiencing Emergency Medical Conditions

 Congress passed the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act ("EMTALA")
in 1986. n63 EMTALA provides that any hospital n64 with an emergency department
must assess each patient that presents himself for treatment. n65 If a patient
presents with an  [*528]  "emergency medical condition," the hospital must treat
him until his condition stabilizes or transfer him to another hospital. n66
EMTALA, widely referred to as the "Patient Dumping Act," n67 was proposed and
enacted in response to public outcry at highly publicized instances of hospitals
denying life-saving treatment to people in need. Hospitals are bound to comply
with the provisions of EMTALA to the extent that they receive federal funding
through participation in the Medicare program. n68

   EMTALA requires hospitals with emergency departments to conduct preliminary
screening examinations on any individual who comes to the emergency department
and requests an exam or treatment. n69 If an emergency medical condition is
found, n70 EMTALA requires that the hospital provide treatment to stabilize the
condition  [*529]  or transfer the individual to another medical facility. n71
EMTALA imposes monetary penalties on both hospitals and doctors who violate its
requirements. n72 Importantly, the requirements EMTALA places on hospitals are
not matched with federal funding to compensate hospitals for the treatment they
are required to provide. When a patient cannot pay and is either ineligible for
or not enrolled in Medicare or Medicaid, a hospital will not be compensated. n73

   2. The Duty to Discharge Patients Appropriately

 A hospital's duties in discharging patients are consequences of its
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. n74 These duties include
identifying patients who need discharge planning, n75 conducting a discharge
planning evaluation for such patients, n76 creating a discharge plan, n77 and
transferring or referring patients for  [*530]  future care. n78 The language of
these regulations suggests that the rules included are obligations n79 and that
failure to comply will result in significant penalties. n80 For the purposes of
this Note, the most important of these duties is that a hospital "must transfer
or refer patients, along with necessary medical information, to appropriate
facilities, agencies, or outpatient services, as needed, for followup [sic] or
ancillary care." n81

   C. Ethical Norms and Obligations of the Medical Profession

 The American Medical Association's "Principles of Medical Ethics" impose
standards by which medical professionals are obligated to abide. n82 These
include principles such as accepting the rights of patients, providing competent
care, and upholding standards of professionalism. n83 The most recent update to
the Principles of  [*531]  Medical Ethics occurred in 2001 and involved the
addition of two new principles: (1) "A physician shall, while caring for a
patient, regard responsibility to the patient as paramount;" n84 and (2) "A
physician shall support access to medical care for all people." n85 However,
neither version provides language relating to the citizenship or financial
status of a patient. n86

   There are more foundational principles of medical ethics than those adopted
by the American Medical Association. The Hippocratic Oath lies at the root of
these fundamental ethical duties, which include autonomy, non-maleficence,
beneficence, and justice. n87 Even within these well-established and widely
respected ethical tenets, however, it is unclear how the principles should be
handled when they conflict. For example, it is unclear how a doctor should react
[*532]  when a patient refuses treatment that the doctor believes is medically
necessary. n88

   Medical ethical standards, unlike legal standards and regulations, are
generally unenforceable. n89 While violations of legal requirements can result
in civil or criminal liability, violations of ethical standards are not
violations of a strict code of conduct. Instead, they constitute failures to
live up to behavioral ideals. n90 The incentive to comply with ethical standards
is a desire to live up to the aspirations of a noble profession, in contrast to
a desire to avoid civil or criminal liability. n91

   The line between legal standards and ethical ones becomes blurred when
primarily ethical ideals are codified as law. When an ethical ideal is converted
into a legal duty, the legal duty is likely to be a diluted version of the
ethical ideal and create a minimum standard of legally acceptable behavior. n92
Professor Charity Scott has identified the tension inherent in the process of
transforming an ethical ideal into a legal obligation: when a complex ethical
issue requiring careful weighing is incorporated into law, medical professionals
are likely to focus on the legal inquiry rather than the ethical one. n93 In the
process, they may forget that the ethical issue is what gave rise to the legal
requirement in the first place. n94

   Despite the risk that the transformation of ethical ideals into legal
obligations may dilute those ideals, the enactment of ethical standards into law
has the advantage of making such standards enforceable. n95 Absent the threat of
legal liability, Professor Scott argues, medical  [*533]  professionals are not
as likely to comply with ethical ideals. n96 Historically, laws concerning
health care have found their basis in ethical doctrines. n97

   In some cases, though, the issue is not whether there should be a legal duty
where there arguably is an ethical duty, but rather what should be done when
legal and ethical standards conflict. n98 In such cases, hospitals and medical
practitioners must choose whether to comply with legal standards at the cost of
violating the principles of their profession, or to instead comply with ethical
standards while potentially exposing themselves to civil or criminal liability.
This is an untenable choice. n99

   Analysis

 The federal regulatory and legislative scheme imposes huge financial burdens on
hospitals. This creates an incentive to discharge immigrant patients who are
ineligible for public assistance, even when doing so conflicts with ethical
standards of the medical profession. The unenforceability of ethical standards
when compared to the potential liability attached to violations of legal duties
complicates this problem. n100

    [*534]  The federal regulatory system contributes to the growth of medical
repatriation. By requiring hospitals to treat patients experiencing medical
emergencies but denying medical coverage to immigrants, n101 regulations impose
financial burdens on hospitals if they treat immigrants beyond the minimum
necessary to stabilize an emergency. n102 The uncompensated provision of
services creates several financial incentives for hospitals. It encourages
hospitals to enroll as many uninsured patients as possible in medical assistance
programs for which they might be eligible. n103 In the case of uninsured
indigent patients who are ineligible for any government-funded medical
assistance, though, the hospitals' incentive becomes not how to assist the
patient in applying for coverage, but rather how to avoid providing
uncompensated treatment to the patient while complying with the minimum
strictures of EMTALA. Undocumented immigrants rarely are eligible for government
medical assistance programs that would compensate hospitals for their care, and
thus are likely to fall into the category of patients whom a hospital has
incentives not to treat.

   The conflicting obligations imposed on hospitals and the concomitant lack of
federal funding to support compliance creates a situation in which hospitals
face difficult choices. All must comply  [*535]  with EMTALA, n104 but beyond
that, many attempt to rid themselves of immigrant patients through repatriation
or other means. The tension between fulfilling an ethical obligation that
results in enormous financial costs and complying with the minimum requirements
imposed by law results in minimal compliance by some hospitals. n105 Others
choose to fulfill their ethical obligations and comprehensively treat immigrant
patients, despite the resulting financial costs. n106 The different choices made
by hospitals reflect divergent philosophies on the weight that should be
afforded ethical, legal, and financial obligations. Moreover, they reflect
prevalent societal values and the realities of a hospital's financial
circumstances. n107

   It can be argued that hospitals that repatriate patients regularly do so for
a variety of nefarious reasons, n108 but to classify medical repatriation as
simply a rogue action by anti-immigrant hospital executives oversimplifies the
issue. Hospitals should not have to choose between financial solvency and
compliance with fundamental principles of medical ethics. The relationship
between law and ethics may be complex, but at the very least law should not
preclude the exercise of higher ethical standards.

   Proposal

 Medical repatriation highlights serious flaws in two of the most complex and
impenetrable regulatory schemes: health care and immigration. n109 To the extent
that medical repatriation implicates fundamental policy questions in each of
these areas, the questions  [*536]  that it raises are unlikely to be resolved
without complex reform of both systems. However, in the short term, the
government can act in ways that mitigate its potential problems. This Note
offers a twofold proposal. First, changes to the federal regulations concerning
immigrant access to health care can be made to enhance the ability of hospitals
to receive funding for their treatment of undocumented immigrants. Second, a
statement by a reputable voice of the medical community, such as the American
Medical Association, should reaffirm that the ethical standards of the
profession apply regardless of the patient's citizenship and denounce the
practice of forced or coerced medical repatriation.

   The first part of this Note's proposal addresses the major causes of the
growth in medical repatriation: the legal obligations of hospitals to treat
patients in emergent situations and concomitant inability to receive
reimbursement for the care of such individuals when they are ineligible for
state medical assistance and are uninsured. n110 This Note proposes that the
definition of "emergency medical condition," which provides the one exception
under which undocumented immigrants are eligible for public medical assistance,
be expanded to include not only life-threatening medical conditions, but also
those which if left untreated could have deleterious effects on one's health.
n111 Under this broader definition, previously unfunded treatments for patients
such as Mr. Jimenez would be covered, n112 and hospitals no longer would be left
in the untenable position of being required to treat patients with medical
emergencies, but being unable to receive reimbursement for treatment beyond the
initial intervention and stabilization. n113 Such an expansion of the definition
would also  [*537]  recognize that serious but not yet life threatening
conditions, if left untreated, can quickly become life-threatening. n114 It
would encourage immigrants to seek treatment for illnesses at an earlier stage,
when they are more likely to be treated more effectively and at a lower cost.
n115 This Note also proposes revising the language in the Welfare Reform Act
that currently prevents states from providing more expansive medical coverage to
immigrants. n116 States that would choose to adopt a more expansive system of
coverage than the newly broadened but still relatively narrow one in the federal
regulations would have the option to do so. Finally, and perhaps most
importantly, this Note proposes to amend the federal regulations so that they
contain explicit language banning the practice of involuntary or coerced medical
repatriation. This Note does not propose a ban on the practice of repatriation
outright. There are limited but significant instances in which repatriation
would genuinely be in the patient's best interest and might be chosen
voluntarily. n117 Hospitals that wish to repatriate a patient, however, would
have to prove that the action was voluntary. In order to show that a
repatriation action was voluntary, hospitals would be required to take
significant steps to demonstrate their patients' wishes, taking into account
language and other communication barriers. Additionally, even in voluntary
cases, the discharge procedures already included in the federal regulations
should be amended to include a specific set of steps to be followed when
discharging a patient to a facility in another country and set clear standards
for assessing whether that facility can effectively treat the patient. n118

    [*538]  This Note's second proposal requests that a respected medical
organization - for example, the American Medical Association - renounce forced
repatriations and affirm the applicability of its ethical standards to
non-citizens. Such a statement would give doctors who might currently oppose
medical repatriation stronger footing upon which to reply if objecting to
policies in their work environments. This statement would both encourage support
for the regulatory changes envisioned in Part I and provide support to the
medical profession's opposition to the practice until Congress passes a law that
bans its use.

   Conclusion

 Medical repatriation and the legal and ethical questions it raises provide a
lens into two of the most complex and confused aspects of United States law:
immigration and health care. Although medical repatriation has emerged as a
common practice among some health care treatment facilities and particularly
among those located in border states, its legality and ethics have not been
fully assessed. It calls into question the legal duties of hospitals to treat
patients and to discharge them responsibly, the rationale behind restrictive
health care access for immigrants, and the ethical aspirations and obligations
of the medical profession. The proposals advanced in this Note take into account
the legal and ethical aspects of medical repatriation.

   This Note's proposals understand that the underlying causes of medical
repatriation will not be fully remedied until full-scale immigration and health
care reform occur, which is a process that likely will take years. These
proposals are not capable of completely solving the problem. What they can do is
to quickly and effectively limit the practice of medical repatriation until its
legality and ethics can be fully examined.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Immigration LawAdmissionVisasMedical ExaminationsPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicaidEligibilityGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Montejo v. Martin Mem'l Med. Ctr., Inc. 874 So. 2d 654, 656 (Fla. Dist. Ct.
App. 2004); Deborah Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, N.Y. Times, Aug. 3,
2008, at A1, available at http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/03/us/03deport.html
[hereinafter Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals].





n2.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at A1.





n3.  Montejo, 874 So. 2d at 656. Jimenez was hospitalized at Martin Memorial
from the time of the accident in February 2000 through June 2000, when he was
transferred to a nursing facility. Id. Jimenez was readmitted to Martin Memorial
in January 2001 on an emergency basis; he stayed there until July 2003. Id.





n4.  Sontag, Departed, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 19-20. Guatemala's
National Hospital for Orthopedics and Rehabilitation took in Jimenez upon his
arrival but discharged him a few weeks later. Id. The family members who came to
the hospital to pick him up found Jimenez "lying in the hallway on a stretcher,
covered in his own excrement." Id. at 19.





n5.  Id. at A1.





n6.  Id.





n7.  Montejo, 874 So. 2d at 656. The hospital intervened in guardianship
proceedings, arguing that Jimenez's legal guardian was not acting in his best
interest. Id. It sought and received a court order to transport Jimenez to
Guatemala, where his family lived. Id. The court order was reversed in 2004 on
the basis that: "(1) there was no competent substantial evidence to support
Jimenez's discharge from the hospital, and (2) the trial court lacked subject
matter jurisdiction to authorize the transportation (deportation) of Jimenez to
Guatemala." Id. at 658. By 2004, though, Jimenez already had been transported to
Guatemala. Id. at 656.





n8.  Montejo, 874 So. 2d at 656; Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note
1, at 19. The order that allowed the hospital to transport Jimenez to Guatemala
was entered on June 27, 2003. The guardian's motion for rehearing was denied on
July 9, at which point he filed a notice of appeal and a motion for a stay
pending that appeal. Montejo, 874 So. 2d at 656. The hospital began Jimenez's
transport to Guatemala at 7:30 a.m. the next day. Id. The hospital leased the
air ambulance used for Jimenez's return to Guatemala for $ 30,000. Sontag,
Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at A1. This type of fact pattern is
common in repatriation cases where the patient's family attempted to use the
legal system to prevent a forced repatriation. See Deborah Sontag, Deported in a
Coma, Saved Back in U.S., N.Y. Times, Nov. 9, 2008, at 39, available at
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/09/us/09deport.html [hereinafter Sontag, Deported
in a Coma] (describing a case in which a family's lawyer narrowly prevented an
Arizona hospital from transporting an infant American citizen to a hospital in
Mexico).





n9.  Deborah Sontag's piece on Mr. Jimenez's case appeared on the front page of
The New York Times. Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at A1.





n10.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18 (explaining that
instances of medical repatriation are difficult to quantify, but estimating that
the phenomenon is widespread enough in some areas to support a private company
that caters to hospitals seeking to repatriate patients).





n11.  Medical repatriation is only one of the names used for this practice. It
is more pejoratively deemed "international patient dumping" by some
commentators. This Note will refer to it as medical repatriation because that is
the most commonly used phrase.





n12.  The regulations limiting the availability of state-funded medical care for
non-citizens were published as part of the wide-scale welfare reform legislation
of 1996. Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of
1996, Pub. L. No. 104-193, 110 Stat. 2105 [hereinafter PRWORA]. Courts have
interpreted the emergency medical condition exception included in PRWORA
inconsistently. See Michael J. McKeefery, Comment, A Call to Move Forward:
Pushing Past the Unworkable Standard that Governs undocumented Immigrants'
Access to Health Care Under Medicaid, 10 J. Health Care L. & Pol'y 391, 409
(2007).





n13.  The duty to treat patients in medical emergencies was established by the
passage of the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act in 1986.
Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd (2000).





n14.  See Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at A1. While
"repatriation" typically occurs only in cases of immigrants or nationals of
another state, hospitals sometimes use other extreme measures to discharge
non-immigrants. For information on patients' rights in discharge situations, see
Olga Cotera-Perez-Perez, Discharge Planning in Acute Care and Long-Term
Facilities, 26 J. Legal Med. 85, 89-90 (2005). For an illustration of the use of
legal processes to effectuate a discharge against a patient's will, see Wyckoff
Heights Med. Ctr. v. Rodriguez, 741 N.Y.S.2d 400 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 2002) (issuing a
mandatory injunction requiring a patient to leave hospital from which he did not
wish to be discharged).





n15.  Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at A1, 38.





n16.  Statistics suggest that there are an estimated 11.9 million undocumented
immigrants living in the United States. Jeffery Passel & D'Vera Cohn, Pew
Hispanic Ctr., Trends in Unauthorized Immigration: Undocumented Inflow Now
Trails Legal Inflow 1 (2008), http://pewhispanic.org/files/reports/94.pdf. The
rise in health care costs in recent years is well-documented. See, e.g., U.S.
Dep't Health & Human Servs., National Health Expenditure Accounts (2008),
http://www.cms.hhs.gov/NationalHealthExpendData/downloads/tables.pdf
[hereinafter Nat'l Health Expenditure Data].





n17.  Legal requirements concerning treatment of patients with emergent health
needs can be found in the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act. 42
U.S.C. § 1395dd. Department of Health and Human Services regulations governing
the procedures with which hospitals must comply when discharging patients can be
found at 42 C.F.R. § 482.43 (2008).





n18.  The American Medical Association has published medical ethical standards.
American Medical Association, Code of medical Ethics, Principles of Medical
Ethics (2001) [hereinafter Principles of Medical Ethics], available at
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/medical-ethics/code-medical-
ethics/princples-medical-ethics.shtml.





n19.  There are an estimated 11.9 million undocumented immigrants living in the
United States. Passel & Cohn, supra note 16, at 1. Each year, approximately
500,000 new immigrants enter the United States without documentation. Id. at 2.





n20.  In 2007, United States health care expenditures totaled over $ 2.2
trillion. Nat'l Health Expenditure Accounts, supra note 16, at tbl.1. This
figure represented a 6.1 percent increase over the previous year and constituted
16.2 percent of the Gross Domestic Product. Id.





n21.  The White House Website: Issues, http://www.whitehouse.gov/issues (follow
"Immigration" hyperlink) (last visited Sept. 12, 2009).





n22.  See supra note 21 and accompanying text.





n23.  While the Obama administration has articulated policies in the realms of
both immigration and health care, there is not yet a proposal specifically
linking the two. See supra note 21 and accompanying text. The economic crisis is
another potential barrier to the effectuation of meaningful immigration and
health care reform. See note 21 and accompanying text. In addition,
anti-immigrant sentiment remains an obstacle to the creation of a comprehensive
immigration policy. For an examination of the role of anti-immigrant attitudes
in policy debates surrounding immigrant health care access, see Saby Ghoshray,
Race, Symmetry and False Consciousness: Piercing the Veil of America's
Anti-Immigration Policy, 16 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 335, 364-65 (2007);
Neda Mahmoudzadeh, Comment, Love Them, Love Them Not: The Reflection of
Anti-Immigrant Attitudes in Undocumented Immigrant Health Care Law, 9 Scholar
465, 486-88 (2007).





n24.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18.





n25.  For an examination of the interplay between immigration and health care
regulations, see Susan Okie, Immigrants and Health Care - At the Intersection of
Two Broken Systems, 357 New Eng. J. Med. 525 (2007). For an analysis of the
interconnectedness of legal and ethical requirements, see Charity Scott, Why Law
Pervades Medicine: An Essay on Ethics in Health Care, 14 Notre Dame J.L. Ethics
& Pub. Pol'y 245, 247-53 (2000).





n26.  There are a variety of reasons that undocumented immigrants might be
uniquely unlikely to protest the practice of repatriation. They may fear drawing
attention to the immigration status of themselves or their families, or they may
have been told that their only way to receive medical care is through
repatriation. Sontag reports on a mother whose consent was obtained after, as
she describes, "they said we had no rights, the baby neither. They said they
would send the baby with or without me. When Elliott was two weeks, they told me
to gather my things because the baby was leaving in 15 minutes." Id. This case
illustrates the gap in communication between hospital officials and patients,
particularly when language barriers are present. It also illustrates that
determining "consent" in medical repatriation cases is difficult. For more on
the issues of informed consent and its relation to medical ethics and legal
obligations, see Scott, supra note 25, at 263-67. For further analysis of
linguistic barriers and the statutory efforts to remedy them, see Mee Moua,
Fernando Guerra, Jill Moore & Ronaldo Valdiserri, Immigrant Health: Legal
Tools/Legal Barriers, 30 J.L. Med. & Ethics 189, 193 (2002). For more on
barriers affecting immigrant access to healthcare generally, see Okie, supra
note 25, at 526.





n27.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1; Sontag, Deported in a
Coma, supra note 8.





n28.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18. This Note's
focus on issues unique to immigrant access to health care and legal challenges
in avoiding repatriation does not intend to imply that non-immigrants do not
face a myriad of challenges. For a vivid illustration of the use of the legal
process to forcibly discharge a patient, see Wyckoff Heights Med. Ctr. v.
Rodriguez, 741 N.Y.S.2d 400, 401 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 2002).





n29.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18. This company,
MexCare, has been operating since 2001 and bills itself as "an alternative
choice for the care of the unfunded Latin American national." MexCare Homepage,
http://mexcare.com (last visited Apr. 17, 2010). MexCare operates with a network
of over twenty hospitals and treatment centers in Latin America. MexCare
Locations, http://mexcare.com/locations_MexCare.html (last visited Apr. 17,
2010).





n30.  Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38.





n31.  Id. The child suffered from Down syndrome, had a heart defect, and was
born to undocumented immigrant parents. Id. The hospital sought to repatriate
the child on the basis that, from a continuity of care perspective, it would be
better to send him to a Mexican hospital because his parents were Mexican
citizens. Id. The parents averted their child's repatriation only after they
contacted the Mexican consulate, which provided them with an attorney. The
two-week old infant was literally on his way to the airport. Id. His
repatriation was averted only with the threat of police intervention. Id.





n32.  Doctors Study Repatriation of Uninsured, N.Y. Times, Nov. 11, 2008, at
A18. The House of Delegates vote came at least in part as a response to the
publicity brought to the issue by the August New York Times article. Id.





n33.  Id. While the American Medical Association ("AMA") has declined to condemn
medical repatriation outright before conducting this study, it has acknowledged
concern over both the inappropriate discharge of patients and the financial
solvency of hospitals. Id. ""There are conflicting concerns here. On the one
hand, patients shouldn't be dumped. On the other, hospitals need to be solvent.
After all, if the care of these patients were actually paid for by some entity,
these repatriations would not be happening and this would not be an issue.'" Id.
(statement by AMA trustee Dr. Joseph Annis).





n34.  See David A. Hyman, Patient Dumping and EMTALA: Past Imperfect/Future
Shock, 8 Health Matrix 29, 32-43 (1998). Intense media scrutiny surrounding one
particular case of patient dumping and the resulting public outrage at the
dumping of seriously ill indigent persons were among the key factors ultimately
leading to the drafting of the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
("EMTALA"). Id. Hyman correctly asserts that EMTALA's passage was strongly
affected by public outcry at specific instances of patient dumping. His argument
that this reliance on public outrage is problematic because it can be
manipulated by advocacy groups suggests that he would find reliance on cases
like Mr. Jimenez's similarly problematic. Id. at 43. Both "spin" the facts and
involve "the perfect victim - someone who is genuine, articulate, and
sympathetic." Id. at 43. This argument is not persuasive; it is hard to think of
any attempt to pass legislation that does not rely, to some degree, on extreme
cases or sympathetic victims.





n35.  Medical repatriation has not achieved the same level of notoriety as the
practice of patient dumping in the 1980s. Cf. Hyman, supra note 34, at 33
(explaining the prevalence of anecdotes recounting patient dumping stories in
the 1980s). However, medical repatriation is even more complicated than patient
dumping because of its entanglement with immigration policy. It remains to be
seen whether and to what extent anti-immigrant sentiment will affect the chances
for legislative action. See, e.g., Mahmoudzadeh, supra note 23, at 486-88. If
federal action is not taken on medical repatriation, it is likely that the
practice will persist in states where anti-immigrant sentiment is strongest,
such as Arizona. See generally, Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38
(identifying Arizona as an exceptional state with regard to anti-immigrant
sentiment).





n36.  Passel & Cohn, supra note 16, at i (estimating that 500,000 undocumented
immigrants enter the United States yearly, with a total of 11.9 million
undocumented immigrants in the United States as of March 2008); Nat'l Health
Expenditure Data, supra note 16, at tbl.1 (estimating that the United States
spent over $ 2.2 trillion on healthcare in 2007, which amounted to 16.2 percent
of the United States' gross domestic product).





n37.  To the extent that anti-immigrant attitudes are dominant in a given area,
or at least are seen as acceptable, hospitals are more likely to repatriate
foreign patients than they are in areas where support for immigrant communities
is stronger. This explains, at least in part, the particularly extensive use of
medical repatriation in Arizona, a state where anti-immigrant sentiment is
notoriously strong. Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38. For more on
the role of anti-immigrant fervor and its impact on immigration policy, see
Ghoshray, supra note 23, at 336-40; Okie, supra note 25, at 528-29.





n38.  The federal regulations governing Medicare and Medicaid define eligibility
for publicly funded health care. See 42 C.F.R. pt. 440 (2008). The limited
circumstances under which an individual may be eligible notwithstanding his
immigration status can be found at 42 C.F.R. § 440.255 (2008). Courts charged
with interpreting the Medicaid regulations have reached vastly differing
conclusions. Compare Greenery Rehab. Group v. Hammon, 150 F.3d 226, 233 (2d Cir.
1998) (holding that once a patient has stabilized, his emergency has ended) with
Scottsdale Healthcare, Inc. v. Ariz. Health Care Cost Containment Sys. Admin.,
75 P.3d 91, 98 (Ariz. 2003) (finding that the proper inquiry is not whether the
patient is stable at one point in time, but rather whether the absence of
medical attention could reasonably be expected to cause him adverse
consequences).





n39.  This has changed somewhat since the enactment of the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 ("MMA"), under which providers
can recoup some costs incurred in treating indigent undocumented immigrants.
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, Pub. L.
No. 108-173, § 1011, 117 Stat. 2066 (codified as amended in scattered sections
of 42 U.S.C.).





n40.  See Ghoshray, supra note 23, at 344-49.





n41.  Moua et al., supra note 26, at 191-93; Seam Park, Note, Substantial
Barriers in Illegal Immigrant Access to Publically-Funded Health Care: Reasons
and Recommendations for Change, 18 Geo. Immigr. L.J. 567, 571-74 (2004); Jeffery
T. Kullgren, Restrictions on Undocumented Immigrants' Access to Health Services:
The Public Health Implications of Welfare Reform, 93 Am. J. Pub. Health 1630,
1630 (2003).





n42.  Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996,
Pub. L. No. 104-193, 110 Stat. 2105. For an account of the intent surrounding
the passage of PRWORA, see Park, supra note 41, at 571-74; Kullgren, supra note
41, at 1630; and The Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act,
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_Responsibility_and_Work_Opportunity_Act
(last visited Apr. 17, 2010).





n43.  The provisions establishing the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families
program, which replaced Aid to Families with Dependent Children, are found in
Title I of PRWORA, 110 Stat. 2105.





n44.  Moua et al., supra note 26, at 191; Park, supra note 41, at 573.





n45.  Moua et al., supra note 26, at 192.





n46.  Id. For the statutory language, see PRWORA § 401, 110 Stat. 2105.





n47.  Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1630-32 (asserting that the immigrant
restrictions in PRWORA have resulted in burdens to health care providers and
threats to public health). See also Park, supra note 41, at 568. Stated goals of
the limitations on immigrant receipt of medical care included creating a
disincentive for immigration to the United States and decreasing federal
spending. Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1360; Park, supra note 41, at 572-73.
Illegal immigration rates are higher now than they were in 2000. See Passel &
Cohn, supra note 16, at 4. Additionally, federal spending on health care has
steadily increased despite the passage of PRWORA. Nat'l Health Expenditure Data,
supra note 16, at tbl.1 (showing that health care costs have increased at rates
between 5.4 percent and 9 percent per year since 1997).





n48.  The exception for emergency medical treatment can be found at PRWORA
section 401. Many have argued that, because preventive care generally is more
cost-effective than emergency care, PRWORA's elimination of funding for routine
and preventive care might actually cost the federal government more money. For
more on the cost-effectiveness of PRWORA, see Kullgren, supra note 41, at
1630-31. In addition to arguing that PRWORA's restrictions on immigrant receipt
of healthcare are not cost effective, some scholars assert that these
restrictions limit the ability of the government to respond to public health
emergencies, undercut policies for healthy children and decreased infant
mortality, and undermine the functioning of the American health system as a
whole. Id. at 1631-32; Janet M. Calvo, The Consequences of Restricted Health
Care Access for Immigrants: Lessons from Medicaid and SCHIP, 17 Annals Health L.
175, 197-204 (2008).





n49.  Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1630.





n50.  The statutory basis for this exception can be found in PRWORA section 401.
The exception also appears in the Code of Federal Regulations. See 42 C.F.R. §
440.255 (2008); see also Sean Elliot, Comment, Staying within the Lines: The
Question of Post-Stabilization Treatment for Illegal Immigrants under Emergency
Medicaid, 24 J. Contemp. Health L. & Pol'y 149, 151 (2007).





n51.  The regulation provides:



   ... aliens who are not lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the
United States or permanently residing in the United States under the color of
law must receive the services necessary to treat the condition defined in
paragraph (1) of this section if - (1) The alien has, after sudden onset, a
medical condition (including emergency labor and delivery) manifesting itself by
acute symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe pain) such that the
absence of immediate medical attention could reasonably be expected to result
in: (i) Placing the patient's health in serious jeopardy; (ii) Serious
impairment to bodily functions; or (iii) Serious dysfunction of any bodily organ
or part, and (2) The alien meets the requirements in§§435.406(c) and 436.406(c)
of this subpart.

 42 C.F.R. § 440.255 (2008).





n52.  Id.





n53.  Elliot, supra note 50, at 152; McKeefery, supra note 12, at 403-04.





n54.  Elliot, supra note 50, at 152. See also McKeefery, supra note 12, at
403-04.





n55.  Greenery Rehab. Group v. Hammon, 150 F.3d 226, 233 (2d Cir. 1998). See
also McKeefery, supra note 12, at 401-03.





n56.  Greenery, 150 F.3d at 232 ("In the medical context, an "emergency' is
generally defined as "a sudden bodily alteration such as is likely to require
immediate medical attention'... emergency medical conditions are sudden, severe,
and short-lived physical injuries or illnesses that require immediate treatment
to prevent further harm.").





n57.  Id. at 232-33 (rejecting a lower court's determination that a patient who
required chronic care for a severe head injury suffered from an emergency
medical condition).





n58.  See Szewczyk v. Dept. of Soc. Servs., 881 A.2d 259, 268-69 (Conn. 2005).
See also Scottsdale Healthcare, Inc. v. Ariz. Health Care Cost Containment Sys.
Admin., 75 P.3d 91, 97-98 (Ariz. 2003).





n59.  Szewczyk, 881 A.2d at 268; Scottsdale Healthcare, Inc., 75 P.3d at 98.
These courts use the regulatory language to find that the likely consequences of
withholding care are determinative. See, e.g., id. For the relevant text of the
regulations, see 42 C.F.R. § 255(c) (2008) (explaining that an emergency medical
condition exists when the patient is in an acute state and "the absence of
immediate medical attention could reasonably be expected to result in: (i)
placing the patient's health in serious jeopardy; (ii) serious impairment to
bodily functions; or (iii) serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part").





n60.  Elliot, supra note 50, at 161. The degree to which a hospital can expect
to be reimbursed for treatment affects the treatment provided to a patient. Id.
at 161-62.





n61.  See id. at 151-52. This does not mean that a hospital will not receive
reimbursement at all, just that it cannot receive payment through the Medicaid
program if the patient is ineligible for Medicaid and does not fall under the
emergency medical exception. One alternate route for a hospital to receive
reimbursement is available in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and
Modernization Act of 2003, Pub. L. No. 108-173, § 1011, 117 Stat. 2066, 2432
(2003) (codified as amended in scattered sections of 42 U.S.C.). It is unclear,
however, to what extent this funding is actually accessible to hospitals. See
Robin Mejia, Emergency Care for the Undocumented: Who Bears the Burden and Where
to Draw the Line?, 50 Annals Emergency Med. 445, 446 (2007).





n62.  The duty to treat patients experiencing medical emergencies was
established as part of EMTALA. Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
("EMTALA"), 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd (2000). The duty to discharge patients to an
appropriate facility emerges from regulations promulgated by the Department of
Health and Human Services's Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. 42 C.F.R.
§ 482.43 (2008).





n63.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd.





n64.  The regulations set forth in EMTALA can be enforced only against a
"participating hospital." 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(d). Participating hospitals are
those that receive reimbursement for treatment of patients insured through
Medicare. 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(e)(2). Congress has the power to promulgate and
enforce regulations against participating hospitals. 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(d).





n65.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(a) provides:



   In the case of a hospital that has a hospital emergency department, if any
individual (whether or not eligible for benefits under this subchapter) comes to
the emergency department and a request is made on the individual's behalf for
examination or treatment for a medical condition, the hospital must provide for
an appropriate medical screening examination ... .

 Id.





n66.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(b). Specifically, this section requires that once a
doctor identifies an emergency medical condition, the hospital must either: "(A)
within the staff and facilities available at the hospital, for such further
medical examination and such treatment as may be required to stabilize the
medical condition, or (B) for transfer of the individual to another medical
facility in accordance with subsection (c) of this section." § 13955dd(b).





n67.  Hyman, supra note 34, at 32-33 (explaining the history behind EMTALA's
enactment).





n68.  42 U.S.C. § 1395cc (2000). See also Morgan Greenspon, Introduction, The
Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act and Sources of Funding, 17
Annals Health L. 309, 311-12 (2008) (explaining that the provision is a de facto
requirement of all hospitals because in order to receive federal funding,
hospitals must participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the
receipt of federal funds is crucial to a hospital's financial viability).





n69.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(a)(2000). A medical screening sufficient under EMTALA
is one that is "within the capacity of the hospital's emergency department." §
1395dd(a). The purpose of the screening is to determine whether an emergency
medical condition exists. Id.





n70.  Under section (e)(1) of EMTALA, "emergency medical condition" means:



   (A) a medical condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of sufficient
severity (including severe pain such that the absence of immediate medical
attention could reasonably be expected to result in -

   (i) placing the health of the individual (or, with respect to a pregnant
woman, the health of the woman or her unborn child) in serious jeopardy, (ii)
serious impairment of bodily functions, or (iii) serious dysfunction of any
bodily organ or part.

 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(e)(1).





n71.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(b). EMTALA defines "to stabilize" as "to provide such
medical treatment of the condition as may be necessary to assure, within
reasonable medical probability, that no material deterioration of the condition
is likely to result from or occur during the transfer of the individual from a
facility" and "stabilized" as meaning "that no material deterioration of the
condition is likely, within reasonable medical probability, to result from or
occur." 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(e)(3)(A),(B). The treatment provided need not
continue indefinitely, but it must last either until the patient stabilizes or
until the patient can be transferred to another facility. 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(c).
EMTALA does not mandate that hospitals provide treatment to patients whose
conditions fall outside the strict definition of emergent, nor does it require
that hospitals treat patients beyond the minimum intervention required to
stabilize their conditions. See § 1395dd.





n72.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(d)(1).





n73.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(a). See also Greenspon, supra note 68, at 312. There is
some potential for hospitals to receive funding for their treatment of
undocumented immigrants in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and
Modernization Act of 2003, Pub. L. No. 108-173, § 1011, 117 Stat. 2066 (2003)
(codified as amended in scattered sections of 42 U.S.C.).





n74.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43 (2008). See Greenspon, supra note 68, at 311-12
(explaining that participation in Medicare and Medicaid is a prerequisite for
receipt of federal funds and, as such, is a financial necessity for hospitals).





n75.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(a) (2008).





n76.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(b). This discharge planning evaluation must include "an
evaluation of the likelihood of a patient needing post-hospital services and of
the availability of the services" and "an evaluation of the likelihood of a
patient's capacity for self-care or the possibility of the patient being cared
for in the environment from which he or she entered the hospital." 42 C.F.R. §
482.43(b).





n77.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(c). Notably, this provision requires that "the patient
and family members or interested persons must be counseled to prepare them for
post-hospital care" and that "the hospital must include in the discharge plan a
list of HHAs [Home Health Aide] or SNFs [Skilled Nursing Facilities] that are
available to the patient." § 482.43(c)(5),(6). This section does not articulate
what should be done when there are no facilities available to the patient due to
his ineligibility for Medicaid. See § 482.43(c).





n78.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(d). Specifically, a hospital is required to "transfer
or refer patients, along with necessary medical information, to appropriate
facilities, agencies, or outpatient services, as needed, for follow up or
ancillary care." Id.





n79.  Each provision in 42 C.F.R. § 482.43 includes the mandatory "must" rather
than a suggestive "should." See § 482.43.





n80.  42 C.F.R. § 482.1 (2008) (detailing requirements that must be met in order
for a hospital to continue to be eligible for the Medicare and Medicaid
programs). It is widely accepted that hospitals must participate in these
programs in order to remain financially solvent. See Greenspon, supra note 68,
at 311.





n81.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(d).





n82.  Principles of Medical Ethics, supra note 18. The preamble to these
principles makes clear that they "are not laws, but standards of conduct which
define the essentials of honorable behavior for the physician." Id.





n83.  Id. The principles include:



   I. A physician shall be dedicated to providing competent medical care, with
compassion and respect for human dignity and rights.

   II. A physician shall uphold the standards of professionalism, be honest in
all professional interactions, and strive to report physicians deficient in
character or competence, or engaging in fraud or deception, to appropriate
entities.

   III. A physician shall respect the law and also recognize a responsibility to
seek changes in those requirements which are contrary to the best interests of
the patient.

   IV. A physician shall respect the rights of patients, colleagues, and other
health professionals, and shall safeguard patient confidences and privacy within
the constraints of the law.

   V. A physician shall continue to study, apply, and advance scientific
knowledge, maintain a commitment to medical education, make relevant information
available to patients, colleagues, and the public, obtain consultation, and use
the talents of other health professionals when indicated.

   VI. A physician shall, in the provision of appropriate patient care, except
in emergencies, be free to choose whom to serve, with whom to associate, and the
environment in which to provide medical care.

   VII. A physician shall recognize a responsibility to participate in
activities contributing to the improvement of the community and the betterment
of public health.

   VIII. A physician shall, while caring for a patient, regard responsibility to
the patient as paramount.

   IX. A physician shall support access to medical care for all people.

 Id.





n84.  Id.





n85.  Id.





n86.  American Medical Association, Principles of Medical Ethics, in Code of
Medical Ethics (1980), available at
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama1/pub/upload/mm/369/1980_principles.pdf; Principles
of Medical Ethics, supra note 18.





n87.  Robert A. Baldor, Ethical Considerations in Disease Management: A Managed
Care Perspective, 11 Disease Mgmt. & Health Outcomes 71, 72 (2003). These
principles mean, respectively, that medical professionals are bound by the
ethics of their profession to respect a patient's informed decisions, to "do no
harm" by not acting in a way that would cause positive injury to a patient, to
do good for the patient by taking action to help him or her, and to treat each
patient fairly. See id. at 72-75; see also Robert N. Swidler, Terese Seastrum &
Wayne Shelton, Difficult Hospital Inpatient Discharge Decisions: Ethical, Legal
and Clinical Practice Issues, 7 Am. J. Bioethics 23, 24-25 (2007).





n88.  Baldor, supra note 87, at 72-73 (discussing the tension between
utilitarianism and principles of social justice in the field of health care
ethics).





n89.  Scott, supra note 25, at 257-58.





n90.  Id. at 257-58. See also Principles of Medical Ethics, supra note 18 ("The
following Principles adopted by the American Medical Association are not laws,
but standards of conduct that define the essentials of honorable behavior for
the physician.").





n91.  Scott, supra note 25, at 257-58.





n92.  Id. at 259.





n93.  Id. at 261-63.





n94.  Id. at 261-63 ("When law pervades ethical inquiry and backs its
resolutions up with the punch of potential liability, people frequently focus
solely on avoiding the punch ... . When law becomes pervasive, we often forget
about the original ethical questions that prompted the legal resolutions.").





n95.  Id. at 260 (explaining that codifying ethical standards in law tends to
dilute them, but that the creation of enforcement mechanisms has its advantages
as well).





n96.  Id. at 273-74.





n97.  Id. at 248 ("Frequently, the law is a reaction to a perceived ethical
wrongdoing in health care."). The codification of these concepts into
legislation such as EMTALA reflected society's recognition that practices such
as patient dumping were ethically wrong, and that life-saving treatment should
be provided to all who arrive at a hospital in emergent need of care. Id. at
251-53.





n98.  See id. at 253-56. The difference between legal and ethical standards in
such cases is not merely one of degree. With ethical standards requiring more of
physicians than the legal "floors" created by federal legislation like EMTALA,
in some cases, legal requirements actually conflict with ethical standards. Mary
Chris Jaklevic, This Side of the Ethical Border: Hospitals Feel Duty of Keeping
Immigrants Healthy Despite Federal Limits, Mod. Healthcare, Sept. 3, 2001, at
52, 52. For an example of how this has played out, consider the case of Texas.
In 2001, Texas Attorney General John Cornyn issued an opinion that under the
state's interpretation of the 1996 Welfare Reform Act it was illegal to use any
public funds to provide non-emergency care for undocumented immigrants. Id. This
was a case in which the legislation enacted was not merely reflective of a
looser standard than the ethical one, but was actually in conflict with an
ethical norm. Id.





n99.  See Scott, supra note 25, at 273-75; Jaklevic, supra note 98, at 52.





n100.  Scott, supra note 25, at 257-58.





n101.  The requirements that hospitals treat patients with emergent conditions
are found in the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act ("EMTALA"), 42
U.S.C. § 1395dd (2000). The ineligibility of undocumented immigrants for most
types of federally funded health care was established by the passage of the
Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, Pub. L.
No. 104-193, 110 Stat. 2105.





n102.  Elliot, supra note 50, at 165. The ban on government-funded medical
assistance for immigrants not only creates incentives for hospitals to discharge
or avoid treating immigrants altogether to avoid the financial responsibility of
their care, though; it also has been found to result in racial profiling by
hospitals, create financial burdens on hospitals, cost more money to taxpayers
in the long run, and create significant public health risks. Kullgren, supra
note 41, at 1630-32. For information regarding the potential for racial
profiling as a result of financial burdens, see Sontag, Deported in a Coma,
supra note 8, at 38 (describing the case of a United States citizen child
assumed to be repatraitable as a result of the undocumented status of his
parents). For a discussion of public health implications of failure to treat
undocumented immigrants, see Mejia, supra note 61, at 447; Okie, supra note 25,
at 528-59; Jaklevic, supra note 98, at 52.





n103.  In some states, the incentive to assist uninsured patients in applying
for Medicaid is not just economic; public hospitals are legally obligated to
assist patients in ascertaining eligibility for public aid programs and
completing necessary paperwork. See, e.g., N.Y. City Health & Hosps. Corp.
Goldwater Mem'l Hosp. v. Gorman, 448 N.Y.S.2d 623 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 1982).





n104.  Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act ("EMTALA"), 42 U.S.C. §
1395dd (2000).





n105.  Id. at 261 ("When law pervades ethical inquiry and backs its resolutions
with the punch of potential liability, people frequently focus solely on
avoiding the punch."); Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38
(describing behavior of a hospital in Arizona).





n106.  Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38 (describing the behavior
of the facility, El Centro Regional Medical Center, that ultimately treated the
patient discussed in Sontag's article).





n107.  Id. (describing the effect of particularly strong anti-immigrant
sentiment in Arizona on the attitudes taken by hospitals). See also Scott, supra
note 25, at 258.





n108.  See Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38 (examining ulterior
motives of some hospitals).





n109.  For a discussion of the "brokenness" of both immigration and health care,
and an analysis of the problems resulting when the two combine, see Okie, supra
note 25.





n110.  For a full discussion of the causes and forces behind the emergence of
medical repatriation, see supra Part II.





n111.  The current definition of "emergency medical condition" may be found at
42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(b). For an analysis advocating a broader definition of
"emergency medical condition," see McKeefery, supra note 12.





n112.  Mr. Jimenez would fit under my proposed broader definition to the extent
that his medical situation is such that if care were discontinued, it would be
expected to result in risks to his health. For proof that his medical condition
was serious at the time of his repatriation, see Montejo v. Martin Mem'l Med.
Ctr., Inc., 874 So. 2d 654, 656 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2004). For proof that the
discontinuation of treatment has resulted in continued risks to Mr. Jimenez's
health, see Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18.





n113.  Because the definition of "emergency medical condition" determines
eligibility under the Medicaid program, an expanded definition would expand the
number of patients and treatments eligible for government funding. This would
alleviate some of the financial pressures on hospitals.





n114.  It is widely accepted that a condition, if left untreated, is more likely
to become life-threatening. See Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1631-32; Park, supra
note 41, at 580-82.





n115.  Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1632; Park, supra note 41, at 581-82.





n116.  Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act
("PRWORA") of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-193, 110 Stat. 2105. PRWORA bans funds from
being provided for health care for immigrants, with few noted exceptions. Id. at
2107.





n117.  Medical repatriation is the term used any time a non-national of a state
is transported to his country of origin for medical treatment. A ban on this
practice would affect anyone from being repatriated for medical treatment - for
example, a Canadian seriously injured in the United States could not repatriate
to Canada for ongoing treatment.





n118.  The discharge requirements with which hospitals must comply are found at
42 C.F.R. § 482.43 (2008).


                              62 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            October 28, 2013 Monday

Mumbai Underground: 'Pretty ethical'

LENGTH: 493  words


While the public and politicians view BMC chief Sitaram Kunte's ethical training
programme for civic employees at Panchgani with scepticism, senior civic
officials swear by the week-long programme. The chief engineer of a valuable
civic department, recounting his experience, said, "Panchgani is so beautiful
and the ethical programme teachings, set amid breathtaking scenery, are so
relaxing. The trip calms our minds and opens it to new ideas; it is a great
initiative by the commissioner." The engineer said the 'chaos of Mumbai' is no
match for the hill station's beauty. "The minute we get out of Panchgani and
make our way back to Mumbai, the pollution and traffic ruins everything. It is
like going back to life in hell," said the engineer.

Bed 'cover'

The redeveloped Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali might flaunt new facilities and
equipment, but not many know that the hospital transferred several beds from the
civic-run Siddharth Hospital in Borivali, just before the inauguration, to cover
the dearth of beds. An official from Siddharth Hospital said 65 beds and cots
from the fourth floor ward were transported in an ambulance to Kandivali. "We
were told that the beds would be returned in a few days, but they have not done
that yet," said the official.

Months away from goal

For the past three years, 'one more month' has been the standard answer one got
from Western India Football Association (WIFA) officials, when asked about the
renovation of Cooperage ground. But now, it seems the ever-optimistic officials
of WIFA, headed by Praful Patel, have accepted that red-tape has got the better
of them. They have been made to run from pillar to post to get the necessary
permissions. But they are yet to get the final go-ahead. Consequently, they have
lost an opportunity to host matches of Indian Super League, an IPL-style
football tournament, in 2014. The matches in Mumbai will be held at D Y Patil
Stadium and this has prompted federation officials to point fingers at Patel.
"If Patel wishes, he can get the work sorted out in a week. But he has shown
little interest in Mumbai football despite being WIFA president. FIFA has spent
$2.5 million on this ground, yet we haven't finished the work. I wouldn't be
surprised if the work remains incomplete even after six months," said an
official.

Problem of plenty

AS Diwali is round the corner, several government employees are looking forward
to head home. A long-time MMRDA employee wanted to go to his native place near
Nagpur, but had given up hope as he was unable to get a confirmed train ticket.
He had casually mentioned this to one of his contacts at the Chief Minister's
Office (CMO), when the latter said he could get the train ticket confirmed
through the CMO. Elated, the employee told some of his counterparts about this.
Now, the CMO has several ticket confirmation requests ahead of Diwali and all
the 'hopefuls' are on tenterhooks about whether their tickets are likely to be
confirmed.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Medical ethical 'challenges' on the rise, report says

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 493  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped by "ethical
challenges" stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who
disagree with the treatment being ordered by medical professionals, says a major
new report.

The report, published Sunday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found that the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict
over how a patient should be treated -- whether it involves something as simple
as prescribing an antibiotic, or as serious as providing life-sustaining
treatment to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and family doctors'
offices.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think-tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors -- provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said he hopes the report draws public attention to the issue --
particularly disagreements over patient care. "It's floating under the surface
like a shark," said Singer.

THE OTHER ETHICAL CHALLENGES:

Waiting lists: Lengthy waits can harm patients' health and contribute to
'psychological distress.'

Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system has
traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment.

Shortage of family physicians: This is a 'significant problem' since our system
is based on the premise that patients deserve 'universal and reasonable access'
to medical services.

Medical error: Ethical considerations include 'under what circumstances and how
medical errors should be disclosed to patients and/or families.'

Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Doctors may want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten death.

Informed consent: Patients may not -- or cannot -- read the forms they must
regarding treatment.

Research: Issues include balancing the need for 'fair compensation' to
participants in medical research without the payments becoming a 'coercive
influence.'

Substitute decision-making: Substitute decision-makers may find the
responsibility onerous.

Surgical innovation and new technologies: Doctors are faced with the question:
Should innovative surgical techniques be considered research and be required to
go through ethics approval before being used on patients?

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Sunday Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            January 25, 2009 Sunday
                        2 - State - Main Country Edition

Doctor's CMC call - Bid to settle heart unit rift

BYLINE: Kay Dibben

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 370  words


A SURGEON who was acting director of Townsville Hospital's cardiac unit when it
was shut down for nine months in 2007, still faces allegations of official
misconduct.

Dr Antonio Xabregas has filed a Supreme Court application calling on the Crime
and Misconduct Commission to step in and make a decision on the allegations by
early next month.

In late 2007, Queensland Health temporarily suspended all services in the
hospital's cardiothoracic unit ``in the interest of public safety'', following
disputes between cardiac surgeons.

There had been several internal investigations into claims and counter-claims of
bullying and improper practice within the unit in the previous 12 months.

Although Queensland Health's Ethical Standards Unit has since reviewed more than
5000 documents and conducted many interviews, investigations are continuing into
disputes among the hospital unit's staff.

Dr Xabregas's claim has asked for the CMC, and not the Ethical Standards Unit,
to make a decision over allegations made against him. However the CMC says it is
monitoring the Ethical Standards Unit's investigations.

Dr Xabregas, the hospital's first cardiothoracic surgeon, was acting director of
the unit working with two other cardiac surgeons and another two doctors when
all services were suspended.

He remains an employee of Queensland Health, but it is believed he no longer
works at Townsville Hospital.

Another former cardiac surgeon, Dr Inderjit Virdi, who has returned to India,
had his contract terminated in October and is fighting an unfair dismissal case
with Queensland Health.

A department spokeswoman said more than 60 allegations had been made by staff
against other staff at the time of the shutdown, and there was a longstanding
history of disputes among cardiac surgeons.

The unit has been fully operational without incident since the appointment of Dr
Robert Tam as director and reopening last October.

It now has a cardiothoracic surgeon, a locum surgeon and another surgeon due to
return next month, as well as two principal house officers.

Between its reopening and the end of December, 102 patients underwent heart
operations in Townsville and last week there were 37 patients on the
cardiothoracic surgery waiting list.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                           January 20, 2007 Saturday
                                 Travel Edition

Unfair criticism overlooks Catholic Church's proud history

BYLINE: FRANCIS SULLIVAN

SECTION: REVIEW; Health; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 804  words


LAST week the AMA federal president, Mukesh Haikerwal, took aim in The
Australian at Catholic public hospitals because they don't provide termination,
sterilisation and IVF services (''Doctors want beliefs out of state hospitals'',
12/01).

Senators Lyn Allison and Kate Lundy toyed with establishing an inquiry, and
suggested that the church should submit its ethics to those of the public
sector. Apart from igniting yet another ''anti-Catholic'' bashing exercise, all
three have weighed in to paint a picture of a harsh and insensitive service
devoid of compassion and decency. Fortunately, the facts reveal otherwise.

Catholic public hospitals have longstanding funding agreements with state and
territory governments. These are regularly monitored and updated. They are
transparent and respectful of the ethical position of the Catholic Church. The
agreements work.

There is no other non-government provider willing and able to conduct public
hospitals in the interests of the common good. Also, in the cut-throat
environment of private health, it is only the Catholic Church that has the major
presence in obstetrics and paediatric care. And all these services are provided
within an ethos that upholds the dignity of people and safeguards the value of
human life.

Not surprisingly, the Queensland Treasurer Anna Bligh and NSW Health Minister
John Hatzistergos last week publicly endorsed the contribution of the church's
hospitals. They know the economic and social benefits that accrue from the
non-government provision of hospital Medicare. The church's reputation for the
prudent and efficient management of public funds is second to none.

State authorities have always respected the fact that Catholic hospitals will
not provide abortion and sterilisation services. Most other public hospitals
don't. The authorities have the responsibility to provide these services if they
so wish. It should not follow that the church carry the blame for what is a
government task. We don't hear Haikerwal accusing other public hospitals of
failing to provide essential services because local authorities determine they
are best located elsewhere.

Equally, the AMA president is curiously silent when hospital specialists
threaten to withdraw public services over salary disputes.

More telling, however, is the AMA's insistence that publicly funded GPs not be
forced to prescribe the morning-after pill or give referrals to abortion
clinics. They readily support the ethical independence of doctors -- why take
cheap shots at Catholic hospitals?

When it comes to rape victims, the Catholic health response is nothing other
than compassionate. The hospital's first ethical duty is to provide for the
immediate clinical and pastoral care of the woman. Her health and safety are
paramount. There are a number of immediate and pressing issues associated with
her care that require sensitive and respectful attention from expert and
competent staff.

As with most other public hospitals, that expertise is located outside the
hospital in specialist clinics. Ethical protocols set standards for staff as
they help women to choose the specialist services they wish to access.

The furore over IVF has been overblown. In two recent private hospital
acquisitions by Catholic Church providers, the fact that IVF services would need
to relocate was known from the start. In the private sector, hospital services
are primarily commercially organised. Most major private hospital companies
don't offer IVF solely on those grounds alone. If there is a market for IVF
services, then specialists will organise to deliver them. It is not incumbent on
any private hospital to conduct any service in the private sector.

This makes it all the more curious that critics would single out the church when
other companies make similar decisions for more base reasons. Unlike other
private operators, the Catholic Church conducts hospitals to meet community
need, not shareholder greed. Its 74 hospitals are spread over urban and regional
Australia. They are enmeshed in local communities and can be relied on to
bolster those employment and service economies. Apart from state governments, it
is only the Catholic Church that provides excellent obstetric teaching and
research hospitals.

This is the same church that actively supports the victims of domestic violence,
provides migrant women with employment skills, provides sanctuary to refugees
and victims of torture and campaigns on behalf of women exploited in the sex
trade.

The shrill criticism about Catholic hospitals fails to appreciate the consistent
ethic that underpins their respect for human life in all its circumstances. This
ethic has produced a quality of service Australians support. That, ultimately,
is the greatest test.

Francis Sullivan is CEO of the industry umbrella group Catholic Health Australia

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can I Hire Someone to Write My Résumé and Cover Letter?

BYLINE: By AMY BLOOM, JACK SHAFER and KENJI YOSHINO.

Amy Bloom is a novelist and had a psychotherapy practice for 25 years. Her most
recent book is ''Lucky Us.'' Jack Shafer is the media columnist for Politico.
Kenji Yoshino is an author and the Chief Justice Earl Warren professor of
constitutional law at the N.Y.U. School of Law.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICISTS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1532 words


I'm looking for a new job in the nonprofit sector and am considering using a
résumé service to write my résumé and cover letter. Part of me feels morally
conflicted about this process. Is it fair to have someone else write the two
materials that show the quality of my writing skills to my future employer? NAME
WITHHELD, WASHINGTON

Kenji Yoshino: To the extent that we are saying this shows the quality of your
writing skills, you are not being transparent or honest about your writing
skills vis-à-vis your future employer if you have somebody else write the
materials that are supposed to reflect those abilities. On the other hand, it's
not obvious to me that résumé writing reflects those skills. So I would actually
drive a wedge between the résumé and the cover letter, if it is a substantive
one.

Amy Bloom: I would have been very grateful earlier in my life to have a résumé
service write my résumé. I don't really consider that to be an example of your
writing skills. It is an example of your organizational skills and probably even
more an example of producing-a-résumé skills, which may or may not be part of
your job. In your own best interest, if you have writing skills, write the cover
letter.

Jack Shafer: As someone who used to sift through hundreds of résumés when I put
jobs up for application, I looked very closely at the quality of a résumé. Are
words spelled correctly? Is the punctuation done intelligently and by the rules?
So I wouldn't dismiss the art and the craft of résumés so quickly.

Bloom: I would certainly rather hire somebody who was smart enough to ask a
friend to proofread a résumé than somebody who turned it in with a bunch of
typos. That's showing common sense.

Yoshino: What if you're not going to have the chance on the job to vet every
single piece that you write with colleagues to make sure that it's perfect? The
principle here is that it's unethical to misrepresent skills relevant to the
potential employer. I think we agree on the principle and disagree only on its
application.

Shafer: No, I don't think so. Who among us has not misrepresented their skills
to an employer when asked, ''How's your French?'' ''My French is pretty good''
-- and you haven't opened a French textbook since high school. The dance of the
employment review in which this résumé is a part is a little bit like poker:
There is ethical leeway.

Yoshino: I don't think it's enough to say we've all done it. The question is,
Have we done it and remained ethical? You've made a case for why you believe
that you can do it and be ethical. I'm less sure.

Bloom: Using a résumé service is entirely ethical. Should somebody come to me
for that kind of help, I am happy to give it. I don't feel that I am helping
them misrepresent themselves; I am helping them produce a better document. I
actually wouldn't do it for somebody who I thought was applying for a job for
which they did not have the skills. A lot of students bring me their résumés and
cover letters, and I am glad to help and feel that I am actually behaving
ethically, because I am giving them assistance, which allows them to approach
gainful employment.

Yoshino: Perhaps I am not giving enough weight here to people's capacity to
learn and grow. You help them with their résumé and their cover letter, then
they go on and do the next one themselves.

Bloom: I like your addition. Maybe it is not unethical to use this service this
time and learn how to do it yourself.

Shafer: That would send it in the direction of, Is it unethical for you to help
your child with their homework? Yes, of course, it's ethical to help them. It's
not ethical -- it's not actually helpful -- for you to complete your children's
homework. The letter writer has enlisted a sort of surrogate parent to help them
complete their homework, and I'm not comfortable with it. I don't think that
behavior is ethical or representational of the skills of the applicant.

My out here would be disclosure: The letter writer would be O.K. saying to the
interviewer, ''Oh, by the way, I had a service write my résumé and also write my
cover letter.'' That would leave everybody with clean hands. But at that point,
the prospective employer would say, ''Take a walk,'' I think.

I am a pediatric intensive-care physician. Recently, a colleague of mine, a very
good doctor, was taking care of an extremely sick child who was expected to
survive at the time of admission but who died. The institution conducted a
root-cause analysis (R.C.A.), which found that the medical team made mistakes in
diagnosis that led to inappropriate treatment and eventual death. The leader of
the team resigned. I feel guilty: I was close to the family and took care of the
child several times; the mother trusted us. After the R.C.A., I thought our
institution had the obligation to tell her the results. I want to tell the
family. I think they will pursue litigation if they get the results of the
R.C.A. I would sue my hospital as well if I found out they made a mistake and my
child died, at least in part because they were not forthright. I think whenever
an R.C.A. is conducted, the results, positive or negative, should be shared with
the family. Many of my colleagues think a physician's ethical obligations to a
child end when the child dies. I argue that this means that whenever there is a
bad, nonfatal outcome because of medical error, logic would mean that the
physician should hope for death in order for self-preservation. I am sure that I
am conflating many pillars of ethics. I want to advocate for my patient even
when she has died. NAME WITHHELD

Shafer: Nowhere in the letter does he allege malpractice. He says mistakes were
made. Mistakes are made everywhere -- are these understandable mistakes? I feel
as if I need some legal advice here.

Yoshino: We would have much more transparency with regard to the results of
R.C.A.s if doctors weren't worried about litigation after they made a mistake --
whether an understandable one or not. In this case, I take it that the mistake
was not ordinary because the team leader resigned. That said, I don't think that
the right remedy is for the letter writer to take justice into his own hands and
notify the parents. Even if a mistake was made by the hospital, the proper step
is to make the strongest case possible internally for disclosure, not to take it
outside the hospital community.

Bloom: I don't think that the letter writer is conflating pillars of ethics but
trying to serve his conscience and be an ethical actor and also see that good is
done. That last goal is where some of the complications arise. One doctor friend
I asked about this said it was probable that if the letter writer went directly
to the family without discussing it further with the hospital, and if that
family did in fact file suit, then it's very possible that that doctor would
never find himself employed again. That also has an impact on all the future
people he would not be able to serve as a doctor.

Because this letter writer was not an actual part of the medical team that
provided the care, there is still some information that he does not have, and so
he may not really be in the best or strongest ethical position to go to the
family and specifically point a finger. His next step should probably be to go
to the hospital's legal counsel or risk-management team or the R.C.A. team and
find out more. He may not be in the best position to assess blame, but he is
certainly in an excellent position to encourage the hospital to share the R.C.A.
findings, for starters.

Yoshino: We have to consider the good-faith reasons that the hospital might not
want to disclose the R.C.A. other than fear of litigation. A famous report from
1999 estimated that 44,000 to 98,000 deaths a year occur because of medical
errors in hospitals, so this is a very widespread phenomenon that they are
obviously trying to minimize. It's quite likely there will be fewer calls for an
R.C.A. if all R.C.A.s are going to be made public. Raising the level of care for
everybody might mean that there has to be a zone of safety for physicians to get
optimal reporting.

In addition, I want to address the letter writer's claim that if you go with the
hospital's reasoning, then logic means that the physician should hope for the
patient's death for the sake of the physician's self-preservation. I can think
of lots of reasons other than the physician's self-preservation for why the
hospital would have greater obligations for disclosure to a surviving patient.
If there's a bad lung and a good lung and you make an error and cut out the good
lung by mistake but the patient survives, then the doctor has an obligation to
go to the patient and say, ''We're sorry we cut out the good lung, not the bad
lung, so therefore you're going to need to take X, Y and Z steps in order to
preserve your health.'' If the patient dies, nondisclosure does not compound the
original mistake in the same way.

This conversation is an edited and condensed version of a podcast in which the
panelists engage in further debate.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/12/magazine/can-i-hire-someone-to-write-my-resume
-and-cover-letter.html

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LA TIGRE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday

NHS investing in booze firms

BYLINE:  natalie murphy

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 726 words


Charity money raised to help Derby hospitals is being invested in drinks brands
such as Smirnoff, Guinness and Dom Pérignon champagne.

Donations totalling £8m have been spent on shares in hundreds of companies
worldwide such as Tesco and Marks and Spencer.

But some of that money has also been invested in companies such as Diageo - a
leading beer, wine and spirits company - and Whitbread - owner of pub chains
Brewers Fayre and Beefeater.

The news has shocked support groups for people with alcohol-related problems.

They believe  it is unwise for hospital charity funds to invest in firms which
make alcoholic drinks.

The company that invests money on behalf of the Derby Hospitals Charity is now
asking whether or not alcohol-related businesses should be excluded as part of
an ethical policy which already bans dealing in arms, tobacco and gambling.

Chris Calkin, the hospitals trust's director of finance, said he thought there
was potentially  a conflict between the aims of the charity and investments in
businesses selling booze.

He said: "We knew that the investment management company invested in
alcohol-related businesses because we have the list of people that they invest
in and they have an ethical policy which we subscribe to.

"The issue came up when they said they were going to review their ethical
policy."

Derby Hospitals Charity receives money through donations, legacies and
fund-raising events and Derby Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust earmarks the money
for projects to benefit patients.

Any charitable funds not  required immediately are invested in the stock market.

The trust's  investment account   stands at £8m,  £2m of which is earmarked for
a new palliative care centre.

The trust aims to spend a minimum of a third of the remaining £6m every year.

Mr Calkin said the policy was to spend and not save but donations were often
made for specific pieces of equipment or wards, which meant that the money could
not be spent straight away.

In the last quarter alone, the £8m investment grew by £250,000 but Mr Calkin
said it was important to balance ethical issues with financial performance.

"There's lots of stuff in the press on binge-drinking and drinking-related liver
disease and we feel that it is important that we have the debate," he said.

"There are two schools of thought.

"One says a glass of red wine a day is good for you, another says it isn't.

"Consultants are debating this issue."

CCLA, the investment management company, buys stocks and shares on behalf of 75
NHS clients which will now be asked to vote on the issue.

Mr Calkin said the trust was   considering which way it would vote.

Whatever it decides, if Derby is in the minority, it is not clear what action it
could take, as it recently signed a five-year deal with CCLA.

"If the vote went against us we would have to consider that and how people felt
around the trustee table,"   said Mr Calkin.

"We have to very carefully balance the responsibility of having an ethical
policy with making sure we get the best return we can."

There were about 2,000 alcohol-related hospital admissions in Derby in 2004-5,
the latest figures available.

These could include anything from a road traffic accident connected to drink to
chronic liver disease.

And, according to the Department of Health, around 16 per cent of  people in
Derby say they binge-drink  - consuming double the daily recommended alcohol
levels in a single session.

Across the East Midlands, alcohol is a factor is an estimated 2,000 deaths
annually.

Nick Tegerdine, executive director of the Alcohol Problems Advisory Service,
was shocked that the hospital had not banned investments in alcohol.

"It seems to me to be totally unwise and, in fact, plain stupid for any
health-related funds to be invested in this way," he said.

Mr Tegerdine added that drinks companies were producing stronger and stronger
products.

"That is contributing to the huge health problems that are being seen in all of
our hospitals," he said.

"People have heard about the problem of binge-drinkers which occur in accident
and emergency on a Friday and Saturday night.

"But there is also the problem of too much, too often,   too long, lifelong
drinking which leads to people seeing the liver and stomach specialists in
hospital.

"Further to that, every week in Derby, there are people who are taken to
hospital as a result of a bottle or glass injury."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

Doctor calls on Australian government to lift threat of imprisonment from
doctors

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 In The BMJ today, a doctor is calling on the Australian government to stop
constraining doctors in the care of asylum seekers and refugees, and to adopt a
humane stance to people seeking asylum.





 David Berger, a doctor at Broome Hospital in Western Australia and a committee
member of Doctors4Refugees, is making these calls following the high profile
case at The Lady Cilento Hospital in Brisbane.



 Paediatricians are refusing to discharge a baby facing deportation to a
detention camp after the girl, a daughter of asylum seekers, suffered serious
burns at an immigration camp on Nauru island. The Lady Cilento Hospital says the
girl will not be released "until a suitable home environment is identified".



 Dr Berger explains that despite seeking to ensure the safety of their patient
and doing nothing more than following their own ethical code, these doctors risk
facing up to two years imprisonment under the 2015 Border Force Act.



 Doctors have an ethical code since the time of the Hippocractic physicians
nearly 2,500 years ago, he explains, yet this new law "compels them to follow
the instructions of the Australian government, even if they believe this might
be to the detriment of their patients."



 He says this case goes to the heart of the question of 'duty of the physician'
versus 'law of the land', but argues that "compliance with the law can not
inoculate the medical practitioner completely against the need to comply with
their ethical code".



 He highlights the 2012 Derek Keilloh case in the UK that shows the "impossible
ethical and legal position doctors now face in Australia...as they are caught
between the profession's ethical code, which places patient welfare at the heart
of their endeavours, and the law of the country which places unacceptable
obstacles in the way of doing so."



 Dr Berger adds that the actions of the Brisbane doctors "are not simply a piece
of political grandstanding, but the courageous stand of professionals seeking to
do the right thing by their patient and to live up to the standards of an
ethical code by which they are morally and legally bound and which places
patient welfare at its pinnacle."



 "They are behaving according to the very highest standards of their
profession," he adds, and calls on the government to repeal the relevant
provisions of the Border Force Act and to adopt a "humane stance" towards people
seeking asylum.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

Doctor calls on Australian government to lift threat of imprisonment from
doctors

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 In The BMJ today, a doctor is calling on the Australian government to stop
constraining doctors in the care of asylum seekers and refugees, and to adopt a
humane stance to people seeking asylum.





 David Berger, a doctor at Broome Hospital in Western Australia and a committee
member of Doctors4Refugees, is making these calls following the high profile
case at The Lady Cilento Hospital in Brisbane.



 Paediatricians are refusing to discharge a baby facing deportation to a
detention camp after the girl, a daughter of asylum seekers, suffered serious
burns at an immigration camp on Nauru island. The Lady Cilento Hospital says the
girl will not be released "until a suitable home environment is identified".



 Dr Berger explains that despite seeking to ensure the safety of their patient
and doing nothing more than following their own ethical code, these doctors risk
facing up to two years imprisonment under the 2015 Border Force Act.



 Doctors have an ethical code since the time of the Hippocractic physicians
nearly 2,500 years ago, he explains, yet this new law "compels them to follow
the instructions of the Australian government, even if they believe this might
be to the detriment of their patients."



 He says this case goes to the heart of the question of 'duty of the physician'
versus 'law of the land', but argues that "compliance with the law can not
inoculate the medical practitioner completely against the need to comply with
their ethical code".



 He highlights the 2012 Derek Keilloh case in the UK that shows the "impossible
ethical and legal position doctors now face in Australia...as they are caught
between the profession's ethical code, which places patient welfare at the heart
of their endeavours, and the law of the country which places unacceptable
obstacles in the way of doing so."



 Dr Berger adds that the actions of the Brisbane doctors "are not simply a piece
of political grandstanding, but the courageous stand of professionals seeking to
do the right thing by their patient and to live up to the standards of an
ethical code by which they are morally and legally bound and which places
patient welfare at its pinnacle."



 "They are behaving according to the very highest standards of their
profession," he adds, and calls on the government to repeal the relevant
provisions of the Border Force Act and to adopt a "humane stance" towards people
seeking asylum.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

Doctor calls on Australian government to lift threat of imprisonment from
doctors

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 In The BMJ today, a doctor is calling on the Australian government to stop
constraining doctors in the care of asylum seekers and refugees, and to adopt a
humane stance to people seeking asylum.





 David Berger, a doctor at Broome Hospital in Western Australia and a committee
member of Doctors4Refugees, is making these calls following the high profile
case at The Lady Cilento Hospital in Brisbane.



 Paediatricians are refusing to discharge a baby facing deportation to a
detention camp after the girl, a daughter of asylum seekers, suffered serious
burns at an immigration camp on Nauru island. The Lady Cilento Hospital says the
girl will not be released "until a suitable home environment is identified".



 Dr Berger explains that despite seeking to ensure the safety of their patient
and doing nothing more than following their own ethical code, these doctors risk
facing up to two years imprisonment under the 2015 Border Force Act.



 Doctors have an ethical code since the time of the Hippocractic physicians
nearly 2,500 years ago, he explains, yet this new law "compels them to follow
the instructions of the Australian government, even if they believe this might
be to the detriment of their patients."



 He says this case goes to the heart of the question of 'duty of the physician'
versus 'law of the land', but argues that "compliance with the law can not
inoculate the medical practitioner completely against the need to comply with
their ethical code".



 He highlights the 2012 Derek Keilloh case in the UK that shows the "impossible
ethical and legal position doctors now face in Australia...as they are caught
between the profession's ethical code, which places patient welfare at the heart
of their endeavours, and the law of the country which places unacceptable
obstacles in the way of doing so."



 Dr Berger adds that the actions of the Brisbane doctors "are not simply a piece
of political grandstanding, but the courageous stand of professionals seeking to
do the right thing by their patient and to live up to the standards of an
ethical code by which they are morally and legally bound and which places
patient welfare at its pinnacle."



 "They are behaving according to the very highest standards of their
profession," he adds, and calls on the government to repeal the relevant
provisions of the Border Force Act and to adopt a "humane stance" towards people
seeking asylum.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Western Times (Queensland)

                                  May 7, 2015

Nurses are most ethical

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 280  words


NURSES have been found to be the most ethical and honest professionals and Nicky
McKellar believes it's because they are needed when their patients are the most
vulnerable.

Ms McKellar is the Nurse Unit Manager at the Charleville Hospital and has been
nursing for the past 20 years.

She said the patients were "completely and utterly reliant" on the nurses to do
what's right by them and their families during tough circumstances.

Ms McKellar said she had openly wept with many patients and families.

"I think people see us as honest and ethical because we are there during
vulnerable periods for the patients," Ms McKellar said.

"Nurses are patient advocates "¦ we will go for the best outcomes and treatments
for the patient and family," she said.

A study by Roy Morgan Research revealed nurses have been voted as the most
honest and ethical professionals for 2015.

Nurses have been voted into the top spot for the past 21 years.

The study found pharmacists to be the second most reliable followed by doctors
and school teachers.

Of the 30 professions surveyed, real estate agents, advertising reps and car
sales people were found to be the least honest and ethical.

Ms McKellar started nursing in 1994 when she undertook a one-year hands-on
training program at the Charleville hospital.

She went on to complete her Bachelor of Nursing and later became an enrolled
nurse.

"I'd always aspired to be a jillaroo on my parents' property," Ms McKellar said.

But after spending time in the hospital, Ms McKellar found her passion for
helping people.

"There's such diversity particularly with rural nursing," Ms McKellar said.

"You can see so many different things and you're not restrained to one area."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TWT


                    Copyright 2015 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MP calls for more ethical hospital food

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 387 words


Hospitals should be forced to serve food that meets higher animal welfare
standards, a Westcountry MP has told ministers. Neil Parish, Conservative MP for
Tiverton and Honiton, said making it mandatory for meals to meet RSPCA
guidelines would end a "postcode lottery" that sees standards vary across the
country. Government buying standards are mandatory only for Whitehall buying
departments, the Ministry of Defence and prisons.

He added that producers who farm to higher welfare standards would be rewarded,
and hospitals would serve food to a level now expected from supermarkets.

Mr Parish cited research published by the RSPCA and the Campaign for Better
Hospital Food that found most eggs, chicken and pork bought by hospitals are
produced from animals that are given just basic welfare standards and live
unhappy lives. The research found that half of eggs bought by hospitals in the
South West are from caged hens.

Mr Parish, a former farmer in Somerset who is also chairman of the parliamentary
group for animal welfare, told MPs: "Our health service does a very good job,
but sometimes - dare I say it - patients might like slightly tastier meals when
in hospital.

It would certainly improve our view of life, even if it does not cure us
instantly. It can have a positive effect."

He added the introduction of mandatory school food standards by the Government
in 2005 led to a dramatic improvement in the quality of school meals.

Mr Parish added: "Hospital food should reflect the ethical concerns of the
British taxpayer.

The introduction of mandatory RSPCA welfare standards for hospital chicken, pork
and cage-free eggs is an affordable way to ensure that chickens, pigs and hens
that have been reared for patients' meals are given a good quality of life."

But in response, Health Minister Daniel Poulter rejected making improved welfare
standards mandatory, arguing it would "stifle" good hospitals that are already
helping raise standards across the NHS.

He said: "The problem with a rigid framework or set of criteria is that it might
stifle local innovation that can improve standards, as we have seen elsewhere in
the NHS."

Dr Poulter also said the Government was looking to link central government
payments to "good, ethical" procurement.

'Patients might like slightly tastier meals when in hospital' Neil Parish, MP

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Japan News

                           November 7, 2015 Saturday
                                   S Edition

Govt to toughen criteria for advanced hospitals

SECTION: SOCIETY; Pg. 2; No. 23374

LENGTH: 481 words


Following a series of fatal medical accidents at advanced treatment hospitals
including Gunma University Hospital, the health ministry decided Thursday to
require such facilities to implement stricter safety management measures. These
include having relevant officials report all fatal cases to a hospital's medical
safety division to share information on such cases throughout the facility.

The Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry will revise the conditions for advanced
treatment hospital certification and make those new conditions obligatory as
early as next year, including for the 84 existing advanced treatment hospitals
across the nation.

Government-authorized advanced treatment hospitals are required to have
high-level techniques and medical safety staff, among other conditions, while
they are given preferential remuneration for medical services. Most advanced
treatment hospitals are university hospitals.

However, when laparoscopic liver operations were performed from 2010 to 2014 at
Gunma University Hospital in Maebashi, which is designated as an advanced
treatment hospital, the operations were not presented to the hospital's ethical
review board in advance. In addition, the deaths of eight patients after the
operations were not reported to senior hospital officials.

With this in mind, the new conditions will require hospitals to report all fatal
cases and present difficult new surgeries to a hospital's ethical review board
before performing them.

Meanwhile, at Tokyo Women's Medical University Hospital in Shinjuku Ward, Tokyo,
a 2-year-old boy died after being given an excessive amount of a sedative
prohibited for children while he was on a ventilator in 2014. The accident
occurred partly because information on drug risks was not shared among hospital
staffers. Consequently, the ministry will require hospitals to appoint a
pharmacist exclusively engaged under a medical safety division as a condition
for certification as an advanced treatment hospital.

Meanwhile, the ministry will also require such hospitals to create an audit
committee comprising external experts and introduce a system under which
advanced treatment hospitals mutually conduct investigations. The ministry
revoked the statuses of Gunma University Hospital and Tokyo Women's Medical
University Hospital as advanced treatment hospital in June this year.

Major safety measures to be made obligatory

Reporting all fatal cases to a hospital's medical safety division

Presenting difficult new surgeries to a hospital's ethical review board before
performing them

Appointing a deputy hospital director in charge of medical safety issues

Appointing doctors, pharmacists and nurses exclusively engaged in medical safety
issues

Creating an audit committee of external experts to check the medical safety
system

Introducing a system under which advanced treatment hospitals mutually conduct
investigations

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             June 19, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

Ethical ruling due on face transplant

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 383 words


Doctors hoping to perform the world's full face transplant in Britain may move a
step closer to carrying out the procedure this week when ethical experts meet to
decide whether to give the go-ahead.

The ethical committee of the Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead, north London, is
meeting on Wednesday to discuss whether to grant permission for the
groundbreaking operation.

No recipients have yet been selected but several possible patients have been
seen by doctors.

Peter Butler, consultant plastic surgeon at the Royal Free, has spent the past
14 years looking at the possibility of carrying out the procedure.

If approval is granted by the hospital's ethical committee, the process to
identify a suitable patient could begin.

Mr Butler's spokesman stressed that even if permission is granted it would not
mean a transplant was imminent.

The patient selection process could take up to a year he said.

"There is a meeting of the ethical committee that will consider the next stage
in the process.

"What they will be discussing is the form of the operation and whether that
operation is right to go ahead.

"After that we have still got to find a panel of four to five patients, before
an operation can be considered," the spokesman said.

Simon Weston, who suffered terrible burns in the Falklands war, is expected to
accompany the medical team to the meeting to explain why he thinks doctors
should be allowed to perform face transplants in Britain.

Mr Weston was initially against the procedure but later changed his mind and has
now come down in favour of it.

Although it has been technically possible to carry out the operation for several
years, ethical concerns have prevented surgeons from doing so.

For the past five years Mr Butler has been researching tissue rejection and
psychological issues as well as concerns surrounding identity.

Last year he was given permission to identify a patient who meets the selection
criteria by a hospital ethics committee. Mr Butler has already spoken to around
30 potential patients.

Last November the world's first partial face transplant took place in France.

A team of surgeons led by Professor Jean-Michel Dubernard carried out the
operation on 38-year-old Isabelle Dinoire. Ms Dinoire received a section of a
nose, lips and chin after being mauled by her pet Labrador.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                          September 15, 1994 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Identification of cancer gene an ethical dilemma

BYLINE: MELISSA SWEET

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 385 words


Isolation of one of the genes responsible for inherited breast cancers had
opened a "Pandora's box" of ethical and medical dilemmas, experts said
yesterday.

They were commenting on reports that American scientists have cloned the gene
BRCA1, paving the way for the development of a blood test to detect it.

The gene, which was first mapped four years ago, causes about 45 per cent of
inherited breast cancers and is also associated with an increased risk of
ovarian and colon cancer.

The latest discovery means that the several thousand Australian women diagnosed
with breast cancer every year are likely to be tested for the gene within a few
years, doctors predict.

But Ms Elaine Henry, executive director of the NSW Cancer Council, said the
test, expected to become available next year, raised huge ethical implications.

"It opens a Pandora's box of ethical issues which haven't even been addressed,
let alone resolved," she said.

"There is the potential to do more harm to the individual and society if we
haven't come to some agreement as a community before we implement genetic
testing."

Ms Henry said she was concerned there would be enormous demand for the test,
although many women might not fully understand the psychological implications of
a positive or negative result.

"It also raises the question of whether it is ethically correct to tell a woman
she is likely to develop breast cancer when there is no appropriate remedy," she
said.

The director of medical oncology at Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Associate
Professor Richard Kefford, said the test raised a "whole host of ethical issues"
and also highlighted the urgent need for more genetic counsellors.

He said he expected women diagnosed with breast cancer would be screened for the
gene, to determine if other women in their family should also be tested. Dr
Katherine Tucker, a clinical geneticist at the Prince of Wales Hospital's
hereditary cancer clinic, said the discovery presented many dilemmas including
whether women with the gene should have their breasts and ovaries removed, and
whether they should be regularly monitored for colon cancer.

Professor Alan Coates, a medical oncologist at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
said the test raised an "ethical minefield" about protecting the confidentiality
of test results. -- Sydney Morning Herald.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo Complex keeps centre at the front line of cancer war: The
Premier, Mr Kennett, opens the Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute's new $65
million complex yesterday, saying it would keep the institute at the forefront
of cancer research and treatment. Mr Kennett said the East Melbourne complex had
the most modern equipment in the world. Work on the new complex began in 1991
after the previous State Government approved plans for the institute to relocate
to the old site of St Andrew's Hospital. More than $50 million of the project's
cost was provided by the State Government, with the rest still being raised
through public donations

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1994 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              June 12, 2006 Monday

C of I group wary of ethical norm of children's hospital

BYLINE: Patsy McGarry, Religious Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 396 words


The Government decision to locate a new national children's hospital at the
Mater hospital in Dublin has been described as a "cart-before-the-horse"
approach by the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Dublin, Dr John Neill.

The archbishop and a delegation from Tallaght hospital with a Protestant ethos
attended a meeting last Wednesday with Tánaiste and Minister for Health Mary
Harney, Minister for Children Brian Lenihan, and Health Service Executive chief
executive Brendan Drumm,

Speaking to The Irish Times last night, Dr Neill said the Ministers and Dr Drumm
"admitted the taskforce report [on locating the new children's hospital] had
been a rushed job". He said also "it was very apparent that no real thought at
all had been given to the issue of governance". The archbishop was commenting
following remarks by Mr Lenihan on RTÉ Radio 1's Marian Finucane programme
yesterday.

He said he had assured the archbishop there was no question of a particular
ethical norm being applied at the new hospital, particularly in the context of a
pluralist Ireland. "Doctors who practise there will have full clinical freedom,"
he said.

Last night Dr Neill said he was not satisfied with the outcome. There remained
"a very particular concern" when it came to ethical guidelines and freedom for
treatments, as well as for genetic research at the new hospital. On the
governance issue, he said it had taken years to resolve the matter when it came
to the amalgamation of the Adelaide, Meath and National Children's Hospital of
Harcourt Street at Tallaght.

Accompanying Archbishop Neill at last week's meeting in Government Buildings
were the chairman of Tallaght hospital Alan Gillis; board member and former
archdeacon of Dublin, the Ven Gordon Linney; hospital chief executive Michael
Lyons; and Prof Ian Graham, chairman of the board's paediatric review
subcommittee.

Last October it emerged that the Mater hospital deferred trials of the cancer
drug Tarceta as tests were deemed contrary to its Catholic ethos. It said a
leaflet for patients involved stated female participants would have to agree to
use birth control since the drug could affect an unborn child. It emerged the
leaflet also advised abstinence from sex as a way of preventing pregnancy.

At the time, trials for the drug were under way at hospitals in Cork and Galway,
as well as at Tallaght, Beaumont and St James's in Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                            January 26, 2016 Tuesday

Kidney racket: Sri Lankan health officials involved

LENGTH: 341  words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, Jan. 26 -- Lacunae in the law related to kidney transplantation in
Sri Lanka helped the kidney racket kingpin Suresh Prajapathi to make fast bucks.

 Suresh, who was arrested by the Nalgonda police after busting the kidney
transplantation racket recently, told his interrogators that gaps in the legal
provisions helped him exploit the kidney donors and recipients. Hailing from
Ahmedabad, the racket mastermind made use of doctors in Ahmedabad and Sri Lanka
to operate the racket by offering money to them.


 As per the law in Sri Lanka, the kidney recipient must convince a three-member
ethical committee of the hospital, where the surgery was to be performed, that
the donor came forward voluntarily to give the organ. The committee comprises a
member from that country's Health Ministry and two doctors from local government
hospital there.
 Investigations by Nalgonda police indicated that the racketeers were paying 500
US dollars (nearly Rs. 33,000 in Indian currency) bribe to the ethical committee
for giving permission to each kidney transplantation surgery. "This comes to
less than one per cent of the money being paid by the kidney recipient to
Suresh," the investigators told The Hindu .
 Many people were going to Sri Lanka for kidney transplantations since the law
was not as strong as in India. Out of Rs. 30 lakh being paid to the conspirator
by the recipient of kidney, nearly Rs. 15 lakh is given to the hospital
management. While Rs. 5 lakh goes to the donor, an equal sum is taken by the
conspirator. Travel expenses of the donors and bribe amounts to the ethical
committee are borne out of the remaining sum.
 A five to ten member team, sent by Suresh Prajapathi to Sri Lanka, roams around
the offices and hospital to find the slots for kidney surgeries in the four
hospitals involved in the racket. The team will provide accommodation to donor
and recipient and will make travel arrangements.
 Enactment of stringent law was the only solution to stop illegal kidney
transplantations in Sri Lanka, the investigators felt.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Medical system wounded by 'challenges': Patient/doctor clashes highlight ethical
woes, study says

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 460  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical
challenges" stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who
disagree with the treatment being ordered by medical professions, says a new
report.

The report, published yesterday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated -- whether it in-volves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive-care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical-ethics think-tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors -- provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Singer.

-- Ottawa Citizen

TOP 10 ETHICAL ISSUES IN CANADIAN HEALTH CARE

1. Patient-care conflict: Examples can range from prescribing an antibiotic to
life-sustaining treatment.

2. Wait lists: Lengthy waits can harm patients' health.

3. Access to care: The system has traditionally marginalized the elderly,
chronically ill or mentally ill.

4. Shortage of family physicians: The Canadian medicare system's based on the
premise that patients deserve "universal and reasonable access."

5. Medical error: Mistakes range from incorrect prescriptions to performing
surgery on the wrong patient.

6. Palliative treatment: Among the ethical issues that doctors grapple with is
appropriate pain medication.

7. Informed consent: Many patients do not -- or cannot -- read the forms they're
asked to sign.

8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for "fair compensation" to
research participants without the payments becoming "coercive."

9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable of making a decision
about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute.

10. Surgical innovations: Should innovative techniques be required to go through
ethics approval?

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Medical ethics committee formed to watch over practice, research

                                 June 19, 1994

Ng Wei Joo


THE Health Ministry has formed a national ethics committee with members drawn
from wide-ranging backgrounds to look into ethical issues in medical practice
and research.

Led by Dr Chew Chin Hin, a former deputy director of medical services, and
comprising doctors, lawyers and community leaders, its tasks include:

Drawing up ethical codes of conduct for doctors,

Advising the ministry on potential ethical issues based on trends in developed
countries, and

Identifying prevailing ethical issues and forming sub-committees to deal with
specific issues.

Announcing this yesterday, Health Minister George Yeo said that his ministry was
also planning to empower the Singapore Medical Council to deal with doctors who
misbehaved. He did not give other details.

Speaking to the medical Alumni Association, he said that the committee will also
look into how medical ethics could be taught to medical students.

It would probably recommend too that all private and public hospitals set up a
formal ethics committee.

These would then give detailed guidelines on areas such as life support of
terminally-ill patients and assisted reproduction.

Hospitals such as the National University Hospital, Tan Tock Seng Hospital,
Mount Elizabeth Hospital and Toa Payoh Hospital already have such committees,
made up of medical staff and others.

In his speech, Brig-Gen (NS) Yeo warned against reducing the practice of
medicine to a trade, and the doctor-patient relationship to a "mere commercial
transaction".

He said: "The doctor-patient relationship and the teacher-pupil relationship are
analogous. Both are fundamental to the well-being of society."

Hence to preserve the relationship, he said, there was a need for sanctions and
safeguards by the Health Ministry and a strong ethical code.

But he added that efforts should also come from within the profession.

Urging the Singapore Medical Association and the Alumni Association to take the
lead, he said that no sanction was more effective than professional peer
pressure.

Promoting a spirit of voluntarism among doctors, he added, would also improve
the ethical tone of the profession and increase public respect.

Although many already gave their services in medical and non-medical areas,
fewer doctors were coming forward to serve in constituency grassroots groups.

"The doctor-to-patient relationship is transformed when doctors are also
recognised by the community at large as leaders, mentors and benefactors."

He concluded by challenging doctors to be prepared for the effect of technology
on medicine and for "an age when ideologies and ideals matter little".

Several doctors yesterday welcomed the move to have the national medical ethics
committee.

A general practitioner in Ang Mo Kio said that clear guidelines would help
doctors decide more confidently in a "50-50 situation", such as whether to
resort to costly equipment and procedures to try to repair a deformed or
abnormal foetus.

Another GP, Dr Wong Wee Nam, who was at the lunch held at the Alumni Association
auditorium in College Road, said that the committee should perform more than a
policing role and help doctors grapple with moral dilemmas.

Citing advanced technology that could prolong life but increase costs and even
suffering, he said: "We, as doctors, are not trained to tell patients to die."

WHO'S ON THE COMMITTEE

CHAIRMAN: Dr Chew Chin Hin -Consultant Chest Physician and former Deputy
Director of Medical Services (Hospitals), Ministry of Health.

MEMBERS: Dr Lawrence Chan, Chairman, Medical Board, Kandang Kerbau Hospital; Dr
James Murugasu, surgeon in private practice; Mr Zainul Abidin Rasheed, Editor,
Berita Harian;

Professor Chao Tzee Cheng, Senior Forensic Pathologist and Medical Director,
Institute of Science & Forensic Medicine; Dr Alfred Loh, President, College of
Family Physicians;

Prof Peter Hwang, Head, Department of Physiology, National University of
Singapore; Miss Roselin Liew, former Chief Nursing Officer; Mr Terry Kaan,
Senior Lecturer, Law Faculty, National University of Singapore;

Assoc Prof John Elliott, psychologist, Department of Social Work and Psychology,
NUS; Dr Chen Ai Ju -Deputy Director of Medical Services (Hospitals), Ministry of
Health;

Dr A. N. Rao, part-time tutor, Botany Department, Faculty of Science, NUS, and
former professor in the same department; Prof Edward Tock, Dean, Faculty of
Medicine, NUS.


SECTION: News Focus; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1147 words

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1994 The Straits Times Press Limited


                              80 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                                  May 14, 2013

Doctors React to Alleged Detention of Patients in Hospitals [interview]

BYLINE: Chioma Obinna

LENGTH: 650 words


In recent times, there have been several reports of Nigerian hospitals holding
patients hostage following inability of the latter to settle their treatment
bills. This practice, which has been observed in public and private hospitals
has elicited concern among health watchers and the populace to a far extent.

Good Health Weekly sought views of medical doctors on professional ethics.
Excerpts

A hospital runs as a business and also as a social service, especially private
hospitals are self sustaining. If that hospital hasn't got provision for social
responsibility, it can work out terms and arrangement. If there is a good social
system, or family support, social workers can actually get in touch with the
family of the patient.

It cannot be called detention but it is keeping the patient for sometime hoping
that relatives will bring money. But to keep a patient for two months is
unwarranted and quite abnormal.

It is not unethical -- Dr. Osahon Enabulele, President, Nigeria Medical
Association

This has nothing to do with ethical conduct, if anything all, the bridge of
ethics would have come into place if a patient came into the facility and was
not attended to, especially if it was an emergency. This is certainly ethical
bridge; the first responsibility is to save life.

It does not bother so much on ethical issues. What I expect the professional to
do as a way of sorting out issues like this is to go the extra mile to inform
local authorities or the state government where the patients come from and put
the case before them or even religious bodies and expect them to come to his
aid. I will not put the blame squarely on the professional but he has done his
duty ethically by saving a life.

Is it lawful for a patient to come into the hospital without paying his bills?
Keeping of the patient is the consequence of an action of the patients which is
failure to pay the Bill of the man who has provided services.

People should also put themselves in the shoes of the providers of care
otherwise what you are going to do is to discourage a lot more Nigerian
professionals from offering free services and you will now come back to the era
where people will now want to demand as a matter of compulsion the payment of
certain fees before they can now allow you into their facilities.

It is a social issue. Is it ethical for a hospital to dispense drug to a patient
in need who does not have money? You see, a patient who is dying and you used
what you have to treat the patient and the patient is not able to pay and you
allow the patient to go and then you have another patient that does the same
thing.

Private hospitals are at liberty to operate in terms of charges and payment.
Whatever they have to do to be able to get their money paid to them, they are
entitled to it. There is nothing unethical about asking a patient to pay about
asking a patient to pay for services rendered and if that patient is not able to
pay, keeping that patient in the hospital until payment is made; there is
nothing unethical about it.

Ordinarily when you look at the social services that we render as doctors or
health personnel in the surface of it, it is not right to detain a patient but
what we normally do is to do a quick social economic assessment of those
patients. There are two categories, those who can afford to pay and simply don't
want to pay and those who in the real sense cannot actually afford to pay.

From the assessment you will discover what the reasons are. At that level the
doctor comes in with oath of professionalism to decide. But remember at the end
of the day, the doctor must pay the health workers and other staff of the
hospital apart from paying for the consumables procured to save the life of that
patient. Ordinarily it is not right.

Once you have performed your own duty as a doctor, it is reasonably expected
that patients should pay as a compensation for what you have done.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

System wrestles with ethical dilemmas

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 689  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical
challenges" stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who
disagree with the treatment being ordered by medical professionals, says a major
new report.

The report, published Sunday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is a growing number of conflicts over how a
patient should be treated -- from something as simple as whether to prescribe an
antibiotic, to whether to provide life-sustaining treatment to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors -- provide a look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Singer.

The report proposes several solutions, including educating health-care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases, and
creating policies for health-care facilities to provide guidance.

The other ethical challenges, ranked by priority, are:

2. Waiting lists: The report observes that the wait lists that now plague the
system create ethical questions because, in some cases, lengthy waits can harm
patients' health, impede their ability to return to work and contribute to
"psychological distress."

3. Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system
has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment -- a discriminatory practice that must be openly acknowledged and
ended.

4. Shortage of family physicians: The shortage has become a "significant
problem" for the Canadian medicare system, especially since it is based on the
premise that patients deserve "universal and reasonable access" to medical
services.

5. Medical error: The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with
experts saying the system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug
prescriptions to performing surgery on the wrong patient. Ethical considerations
include "under what circumstances, and how medical errors should be disclosed to
patients and/or families."

6. Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

7. Informed consent: Patients are supposed to provide their "informed consent"
to a treatment before it is done, but many do not -- or cannot -- read the forms
they're asked to sign.

8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for fair compensation to
participants in medical research with ensuring the payments don't become a
"coercive influence."

9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable of making a decision
about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute, many of whom find
the responsibility onerous. Also, there is sometimes a legal hierarchy that
places the most intimate relationships (such as a spouse) near the bottom of the
list to qualify as the substitute.

10. Surgical innovation and new technologies: Doctors are faced with the
question: Should innovative surgical techniques be considered research and be
required to go through ethics approval before being used on patients?

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2004 Seattle Journal for Social Justice
                       Seattle Journal for Social Justice

                                Fall/Winter 2004

                          3 Seattle J. Soc. Just. 205

LENGTH: 1929 words

CORPORATE ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE IN THE HEALTH CARE MARKETPLACE: Corporate Ethics
and Governance in the Health Care Marketplace: An Introduction

NAME: Annette E. Clark n1

TEXT:
 [*205]  On February 27 and 28, 2004, a distinguished group of scholars,
practitioners, health care providers, industry representatives, and consumer
advocates gathered at Seattle University School of Law to participate in a
conference titled "Corporate Ethics and Governance in the Health Care
Marketplace: An Interdisciplinary Perspective." This conference resulted from a
unique collaboration between the Center on Corporations, Law & Society at
Seattle University School of Law; the University of British Columbia Faculty of
Law; and the Pacific Northwest Center for Health, Law and Policy. n2 The raison
d'etre for the symposium was to explore the intersection of corporate theory and
health care, with a particular focus on issues of health care governance and
ethics in the United States and Canada. By applying the corporate lens to health
care delivery systems, the participants sought to provide an intellectual
framework for understanding such critical and timely issues as access to quality
medical treatment and affordable prescription medicines, the conversion of
hospitals and insurers from nonprofit to for-profit entities, and the growing
problem of Medicare and Medicaid fraud.

   Debacles such as Enron and WorldCom provide a useful background for this
exploration. Scholars within the corporate arena have examined the events that
gave rise to these scandals, and have asserted that they can best be understood
through a careful deconstruction of corporate structure, governance, ethics,
culture, and law. The six articles in this symposium reveal the strength of
corporate governance analytical tools and their  [*206]  relevance across the
full breadth of corporate health care activities--from the relationship between
mission and action in a religiously affiliated hospital to bioethics decision
making within the biotechnology industry, and from corporate governance in the
Canadian health care system to whether a corporate ethic of care can exist
within health care. This symposium is but the beginning of dialogue and
scholarship on the linkage between the critical health care issues of our day
and the corporate form. By asking whether health care might be the next Enron,
we hope to stimulate creative discussion and innovative solutions to ensure that
it is not.

   In Corporate Ethics in the. Health Care Marketplace, n3 Lynne Dallas begins
the work of breaking down the corporate divide. Building on her earlier
scholarship, n4 Professor Dallas focuses on the climate and culture within
organizations that may lead to ethical or unethical decision making. Her thesis
is that individuals who hold positions of leadership within an organization
create, either explicitly or implicitly, an ethical climate and moral tone that
sets the stage for, and determines the outcome of, individual decision making in
the corporate setting. n5 Professor Dallas explores contextual factors within
the work environment that contribute to this ethical climate and emphasizes that
formalistic mechanisms such as ethical codes of conduct are far less important
than more intangible factors such as offering support and encouragement,
modeling, rewarding ethical behavior and decision making, and fostering an
environment that is open to discussing ethical issues within the corporation. n6
By focusing our attention on the importance of corporate ethical climates and
culture, Professor Dallas lays the foundation for the symposium articles that
follow.

   Arthur LaFrance's piece, Merger of Religious and Public Hospitals: Render
unto Caesar..., n7 is a fascinating application of Professor Dallas's thesis.
Although he would undoubtedly agree that leadership sets the moral and ethical
tone for the organization, Professor LaFrance asks unsettling questions about
the potential consequences of importing a private hospital's  [*207]  religious
mission (a particular form of ethical climate) int0 a public hospital through a
de facto merger between the two. n8 In raising these questions, he suggests that
a health care corporation may do everything "right" in Dallas's terms--the
creation of a strong ethical corporate climate that is based on a clearly
articulated and consistently applied set of values--and yet negatively impact
the public good. He does this by focusing particularly on the issue of
governance: to what extent would the Ethical and Religious Directives for Health
Care Services promulgated by the American Catholic Bishops Association dictate
the types of health care services that could (or could not) be provided by the
public hospital should the merger go through? n9 As legal counsel for a group
opposing the merger, Professor LaFrance gives us a bird's-eye view of the
ethical and legal issues raised by a religiously affiliated health care
institution that puts its mission into action. In addition, Professor LaFrance
does us a great service by going beyond theoretical discussions of hospital
corporate governance, ethical climate, and mission to examine the ways in which
a litigator must take legal theories rooted in the First Amendment in order to
develop and prove facts supporting those legal theories. His article shows the
impact on a rural community and its citizens should its public hospital be taken
over by a Catholic health care entity. This kind of scholarship, rooted in
corporate and constitutional theory and grounded in practice and the reality of
people's lives, is precisely what the legal academy needs. n10

   I take a slightly different tack in Ethics2: The Ethics of Bioethics in the
Biotechnology Industry, n11 by utilizing the concept of a corporate ethical
climate to examine whether biotechnology corporations can or should incorporate
bioethics principles and public debate into their decision making regarding the
use of human embryos and stem cells in research. Much of the bioethics
literature assumes that health care decision making takes place at a relational
level--between an individual and his or her health care provider--but the
reality is that health care and the related pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries operate primarily through the  [*208]  corporate form. If an ethical
climate is at heart the meaning attached by employees to organizational
policies, practices, and procedures, n12 how might a biotechnology company
construct an ethical environment in which its researchers value and take into
account bioethics theories and principles, as well as public views, on
controversial issues such as the use of human embryos and stem cells in
for-profit research? The private ethics advisory board is one such mechanism
that I use as a springboard for discussing the benefits and problems associated
with importing bioethics into the corporate boardroom. n13 The central question
in my article--whether the use of private ethics consultation is either a
genuine corporate effort to bring societal values and concerns to bear on
contested areas of scientific research or an attempt to co-opt bioethicists in
the pursuit of corporate profits--is a microcosm of a much larger question:
whether private, for-profit health care entities have any responsibility to
society or the public good that goes beyond maximizing financial return on
investment.

   Providing a highly informative comparative viewpoint, Janis Sarra in
Contemporary Corporate Theory Applied to the Health Care Sector: A Canadian
Perspective n14 essentially turns on its head the question of whether for-profit
health care entities have a social responsibility. Because the goal of the
Canadian health care system is universal access to essential health care
services (i.e., the public good), Canada publicly funds most health care
services, which are provided primarily by not-for-profit entities. n15 Although
this structure substantially limits profit-maximizing behavior that might harm
the public's interest in obtaining services, it raises governance and
accountability issues precisely because the private market is not operating.
According to Dr. Sarra, whether the health care system in question is public,
private, or something in-between, in a world of scarce resources, we can find
common ground in the need for effective governance. n16 She identifies
disclosure of information, oversight, and accountability as the principal
determinants of effective governance, and she details how these challenges
differ in the contrasting American and Canadian health care systems. n17 By
[*209]  the conclusion of Dr. Sarra's article, the reader is left with a sense
of the push-pull between competing models for the delivery of health care
services; each is far from perfect, and both must operate within the reality of
limited resources and seemingly unlimited health care needs.

   Kimberly Baker and Arissa Peterson pick up the corporate governance thread in
Post-Caremark mplications for Health Care Organization Boards of Directors. n18
Their article focuses on the duty of care in the wake of the Caremark decision,
the demise of Enron, and the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As health law
practitioners, the authors are uniquely situated to sound the warning that the
duty of care owed to a health care organization by its board of directors will
come under increasing scrutiny as government expands its efforts to root out
health care industry fraud and abuse. n19 In reviewing the recent case law on
the duty of care in the context of alleged illegal corporate acts, Baker and
Peterson caution that the potential clearly exists for individual director
liability for failure to act to prevent, or to at least identify and put a stop
to, corporate health care fraud. n20 Furthermore, the passage of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which applies to publicly held companies, has added another
layer of board responsibility, including reporting obligations, protecting
whistleblowers, and the possibility of criminal liability for failure to comply.
After describing the perilous legal environment that confronts health care
boards of directors today, the authors detail the necessary elements of an
individually tailored corporate-compliance program aimed at reducing health care
fraud and abuse. n21 Their expert advice on implementing and maintaining
corporate compliance is remarkably congruent with Professor Dallas's description
of the guidance and monitoring factors essential to the creation and maintenance
of an ethical corporate climate. n22

   The final article in this symposium, A Corporate Ethic of 'Care' in Health
Care, n23 authored by Professor Mark Hall, is an ideal bookend to Lynne Dallas's
introductory piece. Hall takes on the philosophical, almost existential,
question of whether a health care entity can really care about the  [*210]
individuals that it serves; he concretizes it by examining the means a health
care corporation might use to promote a "caring culture." n24 He looks to profit
status, ethical codes, compliance programs, and market competition on the basis
of a reputation for caring. Professor Hall concludes that in order to promote a
genuine ethic of caring, we must develop mechanisms to measure caring. So
central, so important, and yet so elusive is the concept of care. Professor
Hall's article reminds us that in this age of corporate delivery of health care
services, we must not lose sight of the "care" in health care, which brings us
full circle to Dailas's thesis that this can best be accomplished by the
deliberate and intentional creation of an ethical corporate climate in which
care is a core value.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Business & Corporate LawCorporationsGeneral OverviewLabor & Employment
LawEmployment RelationshipsEmployment at WillEmployeesPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareGeneral Overview 4T050222SW09A01# #040T050222SW10A01#
#055T050222SW16A01# #033T050222SONTA01# #061T050222SLMMA01# #061T050222SLCTA01#
#025T050222SLPBA01# #025T050222SLCTA01# #LS050214LEmartincx# #LS050222LElilesmx#

 #TMSX050222XPX57XNI# #SUMX050222XPX11XNI# #090715PLXC0020018#
#NSIX060124XPX01XNI#  #NSIX080314XPX01XNI# #NSIX090715XPX01XNI#
#TMSX090715XPX57XNI# #TTIX090715XPX01XNI#  #NSIX090727XPX01XNI#
#NSIX101102XPX01XNI#  #NSIX110224XPX01XNI#  #NSIX111222XPX01XNI#
#NSIX150824XPX01XNI# Constitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental FreedomsGeneral
OverviewEducation LawReligion in SchoolsPublic Assistance to Religious
InstitutionsStudent TuitionLabor & Employment LawEmployment
RelationshipsEmployment at WillEmployees

FOOTNOTES:



n1 Annette E. Clark is Professor of Law at Seattle University School of Law.

n2 The Pacific Northwest Center for Health, Law and Policy is a consortium of
the Seattle University, University of Washington, and Lewis & Clark law schools.

n3 Lynne L. Dallas, Corporate Ethics in the Health Care Marketplace, 3 SEATTLE
J. SOC. JUST. 213 (2004).

n4 See, e.g., Lynne L. Dallas, A Preliminary Inquiry into the Responsibility of
Corporations and Their Officers and Directors for Corporate Climate: The
Psychology of Enron's Demise, 35 RUTGERS L.J. 1 (2003).

n5 Dallas, supra note 3, at 214.

n6 Id. at 215.

n7 Arthur B. LaFrance, Merger of Religious and Public Hospitals: Render Unto
Caesar..., 3 SEATTLE J. SOC. JUST. 229 (2004).

n8 Id. at 230.

n9 Id. at 234.

n10 In a creative melding of scholarship and technology, the Seattle Journal for
Social Justice posted Professor LaFrance's work product as legal counsel in this
case (depositions, briefs, etc.) to the Journal's Web site. It can be accessed
at http://www.law.seattleu.edu/sjsj.

n11 Annette E. Clark, Ethics n2: The Ethics of Bioethics in the Biotechnology
Industry, 3 SEATTLE J. SOC. JUST. 311 (2004).

n12 Dallas, supra note 3, at 214.

n13 Clark, supra note 11, at 317.

n14 Janis Sarra, Contemporary Corporate Theory Applied to the Health Care
Sector: A Canadian Perspective, 3 SEATTLE J. SOC. JUST. 345 (2004).

n15 Id. at 347.

n16 Id. at 361.

n17 Id.

n18 Kimberly D. Baker & Arissa M. Peterson, Post-Caremark Implications for
Health Care Organization Boards of Directors, 3 SEATTLE J. SOC. JUST. 387
(2004).

n19 Id.

n20 Id. at 389.

n21 Id. at 398.

n22 See Dallas, supra note 3, at 224.

n23 Mark A. Hall, A Corporate Ethic of 'Care' in Health Care, 3 SEATTLE J. SOC.
JUST. 417 (2004).

n24 Id. at 420.


                              83 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                  July 7, 2008

AMA meeting: Delegates explore on-call coverage, at-home genetic tests

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jul. 7, 2008

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 28 Vol. 51 No. 25

LENGTH: 881 words



HIGHLIGHT: A shortage of specialists taking call at hospitals sparks debate at
CEJA forum.


  Most hospitals are struggling to find specialists to provide emergency on-call
coverage, and many are paying a stipend to attract them.

But are physicians obligated to take call? Is it OK for hospitals to mandate
medical staff to do so? Should hospitals compensate some doctors for taking call
but not others?

These are some of the questions delegates examined at the Council on Ethical and
Judicial Affairs open forum at the AMA's Annual Meeting in June. Delegates also
discussed the need for guidance from CEJA on ethical issues related to the
explosion of direct-to-consumer genetic testing.

Nearly three-quarters of hospitals say they have inadequate on-call coverage,
according to a 2006 American College of Emergency Physicians report.
Neurosurgeons, orthopedic surgeons, trauma surgeons, ob-gyns, ophthalmologists
and dermatologists are some of the specialists hospitals have trouble getting to
take call. More than a third of hospitals now pay specialists, usually surgeons,
to provide on-call coverage, ACEP says.

Constance Powell, MD, a Portland, Ore., psychiatrist and alternate delegate for
the American Psychiatric Assn., said many physicians used to feel compelled to
take call by the unwritten social contract between doctors and society. In
exchange for working strenuous hours, physicians were rewarded with excellent
pay and high social esteem, Dr. Powell said.

"Now, society has changed the social contract with physicians," she said. "We
feel ambivalent about asking for money for giving care, as though there is
something wrong with that."

Some delegates told CEJA that hospitals often lack the equipment required to
provide specialized care, making it a burden to be on call. Others said that
increasing specialization makes them uncomfortable taking call for other
surgical areas, especially given higher liability risks associated with
emergency care.

Even when doctors taking call get paid, it is often not enough to make up for
the sleepless nights, said Marvin S. Kaplan, MD, a Newport Beach, Calif.,
general surgeon and alternate delegate for the California Medical Assn. The
stipend for physicians in his area turned out to be less than that for on-call
nurses. "Many younger physicians don't feel automatically obliged to be on call
for emergencies and volunteer their services," Dr. Kaplan said."I know when I
address physicians on this subject their minds are made up."

Delegates also examined the ethical implications of direct-to-consumer
mail-order kits that can determine paternity or tell patients whether their DNA
puts them at increased risk of certain diseases.

"Does this constitute a dangerous disturbance of the patient-physician
relationship?" asked Kavita Shah, a medical student member of CEJA. "On one
hand, patients get knowledge. On the other hand, will patients turn to pamphlets
for information rather than their physicians?"

Many delegates said genetic testing often can be misleading and should be
offered only within the context of physician-patient relationships, and when
clinical or family history warrants testing.

The open forum issues CEJA chooses to pursue could be studied for as long as 18
months before the council issues a report on the topic to the House of
Delegates.

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: To better halt the spread of chlamydia and gonorrhea, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention recommends expedited partner therapy, in which
doctors give patients antimicrobials for their sex partners. The practice, while
effective, may undermine informed consent and continuity of care, and violate
state laws.

Proposed action: New ethical policy saying doctors should only use EPT if they
believe a patient's partner would otherwise not seek treatment. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Some hospitals have asked medical staff members to provide personal
financial information as part of conflict-of-interest policies apparently aimed
at shutting out doctors who work for competitors.

Proposed action: A Board of Trustees report recommending that only physicians
seeking to serve in a hospital leadership position be required to disclose
employment, ownership or financial interests, or leadership positions at another
hospital. Also, the information requested should be no different from that
requested of nonphysicians. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Treating peer physicians poses special challenges to clinical objectivity
and confidentiality.

Proposed action: New policy saying doctors should not hesitate to treat peers in
emergencies, but should beware of the risk of biased treatment recommendations,
take care to respect privacy, and share decision-making as they would with other
patients. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Drug- and device-maker funding of graduate and continuing medical
education may undermine physicians' professional integrity and subtly bias
doctors' practice patterns in ways that are not in patients' best interest.

Proposed action: A new ethical opinion calling on doctors, medical schools and
organized medicine groups to end industry funding of residency positions and
clinical fellowships, educational programs and physician speakers' bureaus --
except when new diagnostic or therapeutic devices and techniques are introduced,
as industry representatives may be the only experts available to teach doctors
about them. [ Referred ]

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Canada's health-care system faces 'ethical challenges': Report subjects range
from patient wait times to medical errors

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 692  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical
challenges" stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who
disagree with the treatment being ordered by medical professions, says a major
new report.

The report, published Sunday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated -- whether it involves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic, or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment
to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors -- provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Singer.

The report proposes several solutions, including educating health-care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases and
creating policies for health-care facilities to provide guidance.

The other ethical challenges, ranked by priority, are:

- Waiting lists: The report observes that the wait lists which now plague the
system create ethical questions because, in some cases, the lengthy waits can
harm patients' health, impede their ability to return to work and contribute to
"psychological distress."

- Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system
has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment -- a discriminatory practice which must be openly acknowledged and
ended.

- Shortage of family physicians: The shortage has become a "significant problem"
for the Canadian medicare system, especially since it is based on the premise
that patients deserve "universal and reasonable access" to medical services.

- Medical error: The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with
experts saying the system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug
prescriptions to performing surgery on the wrong patient. Ethical considerations
include "under what circumstances, and how medical errors should be disclosed to
patients and/or families."

- Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

- Informed consent: Patients are supposed to provide their "informed consent" to
a treatment before it is done, but many do not -- or cannot -- read the forms
they're asked to sign.

- Research: Issues include balancing the need for "fair compensation" to
participants in medical research without the payments becoming a "coercive
influence."

- Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable to making a decision
about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute, many of whom find
the responsibility to be onerous. Also, there is sometimes a legal hierarchy
that places the most intimate relationships (such as a spouse) near the bottom
of the list to qualify as the substitute.

- Surgical innovation and new technologies: Doctors are faced with the question:
Should innovative surgical techniques be considered research and be required to
go through ethics approval before being used on patients?

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2015 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                   Fall, 2015

                      Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics

                           43 J.L. Med. & Ethics 661

LENGTH: 4597 words

COLUMN: Ethical Integrity in Health Care Organizations: Currents in Contemporary
Bioethics

NAME: Jessica Mantel

BIO: Jessica Mantel, J.D., M.P.P., is an Assistant Professor at the University
of Houston Law Center and Co-Director of the Health Law and Policy Institute.

TEXT:
 [*661]  About This Column

Mark A. Rothstein serves as the section editor for Currents in Contemporary
Bioethics. Professor Rothstein is the Herbert F. Boehl Chair of Law and Medicine
and the Director of the Institute for Bioethics, Health Policy and Law at the
University of Louisville School of Medicine in Kentucky.
(mark.rothstein@louisville.edu)

The rise of managed care initiated a steady decline in solo and small group
physician practices and the emergence of new delivery models built around large
health care organizations (HCOs). Health care reform has only accelerated this
trend as public and private payors shift to new payment methodologies that
reward clinical and financial integration among providers.  n1 As a result,
patients increasingly receive care from physicians and other health
professionals organized into collaborative partnerships with one another and
institutional providers, such as hospitals. As described below, this new
organizational dynamic profoundly influences the clinical judgment of
physicians. No longer can society simply depend on the professionalism of
individual physicians to ensure ethical integrity in the health care setting.
Rather, ethical integrity in the health care setting also requires a strong
foundation of organizational ethics.

   A robust concept of organizational ethics includes two components: (1)
ethical principles that guide the behavior of HCOs, and (2) an ethics
infrastructure that operationalizes principles of organizational ethics.
Regarding the first component, today's health care climate demands that business
considerations such as efficiency and profitability exist alongside patient care
concerns. HCOs therefore find themselves enmeshed in a complex set of
countervailing pressures and expectations. Reconciling these conflicting values
into widely accepted standards of organizational ethics has proven difficult. In
addition, ethicists have struggled to articulate ethical principles for HCOs
beyond vague, highlevel generalizations. Consequently, HCOs have little guidance
on how to resolve ethical issues that arise in specific contexts. For this
reason, it is crucial that an HCO adopt structures and processes that will
facilitate its striking a fair and reasonable balance among competing values and
priorities. This article therefore focuses on the second component of
organizational ethics -- building an ethics infrastructure -- and makes specific
recommendations for structures and processes that will support an HCO's
management of its ethical challenges across all aspects of its operations.

The Importance of Organizational Culture
People do not make decisions in a vacuum but are influenced by situational
variables. Of particular importance is an organization's culture -- its norms,
values, organizational resources, and internal structures. These include an
organization's financial incentive structures, methods of performance
assessment, mission statement, and code of ethics.  n2 No less influential is an
organization's informal culture -- the "taken for granted beliefs, perceptions,
thoughts and feelings."  n3 Together these factors powerfully shape the
attitude, decisions, and actions of an organization's members. The health care
context is no exception. As I have explained in detail in prior work, HCOs'
organizational cultures profoundly influence clinical decision-making and
patient outcomes.  n4

   Physicians often face uncertainty as to the correct diagnosis and best course
of treatment for a patient.  n5 How physicians navigate this uncertainty is
largely shaped by their professional judgment -- how they perceive a patient's
situation and the thought patterns, attitudes, and values applied when making
clinical decisions. While physicians' professional judgment in part reflects
their  [*662]  personal training, experience, and values, it also is strongly
influenced by an HCO's organizational culture.

   First, the words and deeds of an HCO's leadership shape the over-arching
values and norms that guide physicians. Individuals commonly internalize the
values, norms, attitudes, and behaviors promoted by an organization's
leadership, a process that often occurs subconsciously.  n6 This suggests that
if an HCO's leadership demonstrates a commitment to lowing costs, such as by
voicing support for cost-saving initiatives or endorsing clinical protocols that
favor less costly treatment alternatives, physicians will internalize this norm
and adopt a practice pattern of frugality. In contrast, if an HCO's leadership
espouses "being on the cutting-edge" and "doing everything possible" for
patients, physicians will respond by providing more care of higher intensity.
n7

   Second, organizations shape physicians' professional judgments through
various policies that impact physicians' self-interest. Individuals generally
form subconscious, initial judgments that support decisions serving their own
self-interest.  n8 More conscious deliberations then perform the secondary role
of rationalizing the initial, self-serving judgment.  n9 Physicians therefore
may be subconsciously motivated to make clinical decisions consistent with their
personal self-interest, as shaped by an HCO's policies.  n10 If an HCO provides
monetary rewards or greater prestige to those physicians who generate a large
volume or intensity of care, its physicians will be cognitively motivated to
justify providing more care of higher intensity. For example, a physician may
subconsciously invoke heuristics that favor doing just that, such as "better
safe than sorry" or "more care is better care." In contrast, if the HCO rewards
physicians for lowering costs, the physician will be cognitively motivated to
justify less costly care. For example, when choosing between two treatment
alternatives, a physician may be biased to conclude that the potential clinical
benefits of the more costly treatment are outweighed by its risks or that the
two treatments are of similar efficacy.

   Third, physicians' clinical decisions generally reflect the practice style
and philosophy of organizational role models and peers.  n11 Physicians may
model highly successful peers in order to secure for themselves similar prestige
and professional advancement. When facing clinical uncertainty, following the
practices of role models or peers both provides reassurance that the physician
has made the correct decision and eliminates the need to independently evaluate
treatment alternatives. In addition, physicians also may conform to group
practices in order to secure others' approval.  n12 For these reasons,
physicians may embrace with little hesitation the practice guidelines and
treatment protocols promulgated by their peers within the HCO.

   Fourth, physicians adapt their clinical practices to the available
organizational resources. Researchers at Dartmouth have repeatedly documented a
strong correlation between treatment practices among a hospital's affiliated
physicians and the amount and mix of a hospital's available resources. The more
resources available, the more physicians do for their patients. For example, the
more acute care beds available at a hospital, the more frequently physicians
admit patients to the hospital.  n13 Similarly, greater availability of
resources supporting specialized, technology-driven care encourages physicians
to provide their patients with higher intensity care. For example, the
availability of newer, faster, and more sophisticated imaging machines leads
physicians to order more radiological images,  n14 while an increase in the
availability of catheterization laboratories leads to patients receiving
angioplasty and bypass surgery at higher rates.  n15

   In sum, physicians do not make clinical decisions autonomously. Rather, the
dynamics described above promote a shared practice style among an HCO's
physicians that reflects organizational values and norms.
Ensuring Organizational Integrity through an Ethics Infrastructure
The above discussion reveals that clinical decision-making cannot be separated
from an HCO's organizational culture. Consequently, the integrity of patient
care depends on the integrity of the organization's culture, that is, whether
the decisions and behavior at all levels of the organization align with the
HCO's values and fairly balances business and patient welfare concerns.
Maintaining organizational integrity requires a robust ethics infrastructure --
structures and processes that ensure that an HCO's managers, professionals, and
staff adhere to the HCO's mission and values in their daily clinical and
business practices and long-term planning.  n16 Unfortunately, few HCOs have a
comprehensive ethics program.

   With the emergence of managed care in the 1980s and 90s, health ethics
broadened its focus beyond the physician-patient relationship to include the
organization.  n17 Organizational ethics, however, mirrored the patient-centered
focus of the medical profession's ethics,  n18 focusing largely on ethical
issues arising in the care of individual patients. For example, HCOs such as
hospitals established ethics committees that address matters such as termination
of treatment, patient autonomy, informed consent, patient confidentiality, and
human subjects research.  n19 More recently, organizational ethics has expanded
to include compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, with hospitals and
other HCOs establishing formal compliance programs.  n20 HCOs, however,
generally give little attention to the broader question of whether their
organizational cultures promote a clinical care environment consistent with
their overarching mission and values.

   An HCO's failure to take a more global approach to organizational ethics
risks an organizational dynamic that results in poor quality care, inefficient
care, or the under-treatment of patients. Today's HCOs face a complex set of
countervailing forces and expectations. As part of their medical mission, HCOs
owe  [*663]  allegiance to each patient and must respect their individual needs
and personal autonomy. Payment reforms that hold HCOs accountable for costs and
the overall health of patient populations, however, require HCOs to be prudent
stewards of health care resources. In addition, HCOs must ensure their financial
solvency, with for-profit HCOs also owing share-holders an adequate return on
their investment.  n21 While at times it is possible to both increase efficiency
and provide high quality, patient-centered care,  n22 often these diverse values
conflict. An HCO with a limited ethics program risks minimizing or ignoring one
or more of these values in service to competing values. For example, a manager
concerned with fiscal responsibility may make business decisions without fully
considering the decision's impact on the quality of patient care. Or health
professionals may focus on their individual patients' best interests without
taking into account the community's health.

   In contrast to today's narrow approach to organizational ethics, a more
robust approach would openly acknowledge an HCO's divergent values and ensure
"the fulfillment of these values to the extent possible"  n23 (recognizing that
complete harmony is not always possible). In other words, organizational
integrity requires that "the full scope of values" guide an HCOs decisions,
policies, and behaviors, "and that these values are institutionalized throughout
the organization."  n24 Toward that end, all HCOs should adopt an ethics
infrastructure -- structures and processes that support the organization's
articulation of its core values, internalization of those values among its
members, and integration of the values into both daily operations and long-term
planning.  n25
Components of an Ethics Infrastructure
As its first step in adopting a comprehensive ethics infrastructure, an HCO
should articulate a clear statement of its mission, and values. Doing so is
symbolically important, as it illustrates in a visible way the HCO's commitment
to certain principles. More practically, an HCO's mission and values statement
presents a concrete set of ethical principles to guide the conduct of the HCO's
personnel.  n26 Although many HCOs already have mission statements and codes of
ethics, it is important that each HCO re-examine and clarify its mission and
values given the shifting health care environment. The process for doing so
should be participatory and allow for input from across the HCO. This helps to
ensure that the process for adopting a mission and values statement is not
simply a formal exercise, but involves careful reflection on both business and
clinical concerns. In addition, a participatory process promotes acceptance of
an HCO's final mission and values statement by managers, professionals, and
staff across the organization.  n27

   Because mission and value statements "are too easily displayed as window
dressings that are honored only through lip service,"  n28 HCOs also must
institute structural measures designed to foster a culture that truly reflects
its expressed principles. Of crucial importance is an ethics committee
responsible for ensuring the HCO's organizational integrity. Unlike existing
ethics committee that generally focus on patient-specific ethical concerns, this
new ethics committee would operate at a broader level.  n29 Specifically, the
ethics committee would provide guidance for particular situations and identify
gaps between the HCO's espoused values and actual decisions and behaviors.  n30
For example, to ensure consistency between an HCO's mission and values and its
treatment protocols, the ethics committee (or a subcommittee) could develop
ethical guidelines for treatment protocols and monitor compliance with such
guidelines. Similarly, the ethics committee (or a subcommittee) could review an
HCO's performance appraisal and rewards system to ensure its alignment with the
HCO's mission and values. On example of an ethics committee performing this
function is  [*664]  Sisters of Mercy Health System, St. Louis's Corporate
Ethics Committee, which has developed position papers, policies, and guidelines
on a range of issues, including investing, joint ventures, managed care,
downsizing, employer-employee relations, point-of-service payment collection,
and fund-raising.  n31 In performing this role, of particular importance would
be the ethics committee's responsibility for helping to resolve organizational
policies and decisions that work at cross-purposes and create confusion among
the HCO's professionals and staff.

   The ethics committee also could serve as a forum for thoughtful discussion of
specific issues raising important ethical considerations.  n32 For example, when
Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, a staff-model health maintenance organization
(HMO), established its ethics program, it formed an advisory group to consult
with and support managers facing issues raising conflicting ethical concerns.
n33 The group helped a manager identify which values should be preeminent and
craft a resolution that best protected these values.  n34

   An HCO also should appoint an ethics officer "responsible for ensuring that
ethics is a corporate priority and integrated throughout the organization."  n35
Appointing an ethics officer would send a clear signal to all organizational
members of the importance of ethical integrity.  n36 In addition to working with
an HCO's ethics committee, the ethics officer would oversee ethics training of
managers, health professionals, and staff. Ethics training would enhance
awareness among managers, professionals, and staff of the ethical issues that
arise within the organization and clarify for them the HCO's core values and
priorities.  n37 The ethics officer also would oversee a monitoring and feedback
system that assesses whether the HCO is achieving organizational integrity. This
would include ethics audits that assess the extent to which the HCO consistently
adheres to specific ethical principles, such as any ethical guidelines governing
the development of treatment protocols or employee performance appraisals.  n38
Patient and employee surveys similarly would reveal the extent to which an HCO
stays true to its mission and values, as well as identifying specific ethical
challenges requiring the attention of the HCO's leadership or ethics committee.
n39 For example, the Veterans Administration health care system's ethics program
includes a review process that identifies gaps between existing ethical
practices and the organization's ethical standards.  n40 It then identifies the
cause(s) of any ethical quality gaps and develops and executes a strategy for
closing such gaps.  n41

Conclusion
The growing influence of HCOs over the quality, cost, and setting of patient
care necessitates a robust conceptualization of organizational ethics. The HCOs
that successfully maintain organizational integrity in the face of competing
business and patient welfare concerns will be those that adopt a comprehensive
ethics infrastructure -- structures and processes designed to ensure that an HCO
reasonably balances countervailing values and priorities and that it does so
consistently across the organization. Unfortunately, few HCOs have embraced a
broad ethics program, focusing instead on legal compliance matters and ethical
issues that arise at the bedside of individual patients.

   Accreditation organizations and regulators can change the status quo through
various measures that would encourage HCOs to give greater attention to
organizational ethics. For example, the Joint Commission could incorporate into
its accreditation standards for hospitals a requirement that hospitals adopt the
structures and processes outlined in this article.  n42 Regulators similarly
could require far-reaching ethics programs as a condition of participation in
various government health care programs. For example, the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services could condition eligibility for the Shared Savings Program
on an accountable care organization appointing an ethics officer and maintaining
an ethics committee. Regulators also could link an HCO's payments under Medicare
and Medicaid to adoption of an ethics infrastructure, rewarding those that do so
with higher payments.  n43

   The fundamental changes occurring in the organization and delivery of health
care reopens questions about ethical practices in the health care setting. In
the face of such questions, HCOs -- their leaders, professionals, and staffs --
must engage in a thoughtful examination of their underlying missions and values
and whether they are incorporated into the daily life of the organization. The
structures and processes recommended above will help HCOs in their quest to
ensure an ethical culture throughout their organizations.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
EvidencePrivilegesDoctor-Patient PrivilegeWaiverPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersReimbursementGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:





n1  See J. Mantel, "The Myth of the Independent Physician: Implications for
Health Law, Policy and Ethics," Case Western Reserve Law Review 64, no. 2
(2013): 455-520.





n2  See E. Schein, Organizational Culture and Leadership, 4th ed. (San
Francisco: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2010): at 21.





n3  Id., at Figure 2.1.





n4  See Mantel, supra note 1.





n5  See D. M. Eddy, "Variation in Physician Practice: The Role of Uncertainty,"
Health Affairs 3, no. 2 (1984): 74-89.





n6  See Schein, supra note 2, at 235-258.





n7  See J. Mantel, "Spending Medicare's Dollars Wisely: Taking Aim at Hospitals'
Cultures of Overtreatment" Michigan Journal of Law Reform (forthcoming 2015).





n8  See D. M. Kahan, "The Supreme Court 2010 Term: Forward: Neutral Principles,
Motivated Cognition, and Some Problems for Constitutional Law," Harvard Law
Review 125, no. 1 (2011): 1-77. For example, studies have found that individuals
have faster reaction times when generating and endorsing memories and beliefs
consistent with conclusions that promote an individual's self-interest or
desired ends. See Z. Kunda, "The Case for Motivated Reasoning," Psychology
Bulletin 108, no. 3 (1990): 480-498 (summarizing studies on biased memory
search).





n9  See D. Kahneman, Thinking Fast and Slow (New York: Farrar, Straus and
Giroux, 2011): at 105; ?. C. Regan, Jr., "Moral Institutions and Organizational
Culture," St. Louis University Law Journal 51, no. 4 (2007): 941-987. This does
not mean deliberative reasoning cannot override our initial impressions -- it
can -- but doing so requires mobilizing substantial mental focus, something
individuals do infrequently, particularly when their mental capacity is
otherwise taxed by the complexity of the situation or performing other tasks.
See Kahneman, supra at 81; D. Moore and G. Lowenstein, "Self-Interest,
Automaticity, and the Psychology of Conflict of Interest," Social Justice
Research 17, no. 2 (2004): 189-202.





n10  See Mantel, supra note 1; E. C. Grochowski, "Ethical Issues in Managed
Care: Can the Traditional Physician-Patient Relationship Be Preserved in the Era
of Managed Care or Should It Be Replaced by a Group Ethic," University of
Michigan Journal of Lam Reform 32, no. 4 (1998-1999): 619-660.





n11  R. Mano-Negrin and B. Mittman, "Theorising [sic] the Social Within
Physician Decision Making," Journal of Management in Medicine 15, nos. 4-5
(2001): 259-266; C. Borbas et al., "The Role of Clinical Opinion Leaders in
Guideline Implementation and Quality Improvement," Chest 118, no. 2 (2000): at
24S-32S.





n12  See Mantel, supra note 1.





n13  See J. E. Wennberg et al., Tracking the Care of Patients with Severe
Chronic Illness: The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care, The Dartmouth Institute for
Health Policy and Clinical Practice (2008): at 39, 46-49, 52 (describing the
association between available resources and clinical decision-making). Although
a possible explanation for the positive relationship between supply and
utilization may be that regions with sicker patients acquire more medical
resources because their patients require more care, researchers at the Dartmouth
Atlas Project found that the prevalence and severity of illness accounts for
remarkably little of the variation in utilization rates across hospital regions.
Id., at 9.





n14  See L. Baker et al., "The Relationship between Technology Availability and
Health Care Spending," Health Affairs Web W3-537, W3-542 (2003) (finding that
greater availability of MRIs and CT units is associated with higher use and more
spending). Cf. S. Brownlee, Overtreated (New Toek: Bloomsbury, 2007): at 161-63
(summarizing the comments of a hospital's chair of radiology, who stated that
the availability of newer, faster machines "encourages physician to perform even
more unnecessary tests," thereby bolstering the hospital's revenue).





n15  See Baker, supra note 14.





n16  See generally H. J. Silverman, "Organizational Ethics in Healthcare
Organizations: Proactively Managing the Ethical Climate to Ensure Organizational
Integrity," HEC Forum 12, no. 3 (2000): 202-215; J. Goodstein and R. Lyman
Potter, "Beyond Financial Incentives: Organizational Ethics and Organizational
Integrity," HEC. Forum 11, no. 4 (1999): 293-305; D. O. Renz and W. B. Eddy,
"Organizations, Ethics, and Health Care: Building an Ethics Infrastructure for a
New Era," Bioethics Forum 12, no. 2 (Summer 1996): 29-39.





n17  See C. Zoubul, "Healthcare Institutional I Ethics: Broader than Clinical
Ethics," in Health Care Ethics: Critical Issues for the 21st Century, E. Morris
ed., (Sudbury, Massachusetts: Jones and Bartlett Publishers, 2009): at 237.





n18  See id., at 237-239.





n19  See id.





n20  See D. Guinn, "Corporate Compliance and Integrity Programs: The Uneasy
Alliance between Law and Ethics," HEC Forum 12, no. 4 (2000): 292-302.





n21  See Mantel, supra note 1 (discussing the competing obligations of HCOs).





n22  See J. Mantel, "Accountable Care Organizations: Can We Have Our Cake and
Eat It Too?" Seton Hall Law Review 42, no. 4 (2012): 1392-1442 (explaining the
potential for accountable care organizations to achieve both lower costs and
higher quality care).





n23  Goodstein and Potter, supra note 16, at 298.





n24  Id., at 299.





n25  See Silverman, supra note 16; Renz and Eddy, supra note 16.





n26  See Silverman, supra note 16; Renz and Eddy, supra note 16.





n27  Cf. Renz and Eddy, supra note 16 (stating that building a new ethics
infrastructure should be a "participatory process that involves those who have a
stake in its operation").





n28  . M. A. Hall, "A Corporate Ethic of 'Care' in Health Care," Seattle Journal
for Social Justice 3, no. 1 (2004): 417-428.





n29  Cf. Renz and Eddy, supra note 16 (comparing the narrow focus of hospital
ethics committees to a broader ethics infrastructure).





n30  See Goodstein and Potter, supra note 16; Silverman, supra note 16.





n31  See B. O'Toole, "St. Louis System Has Corporate Ethics Committee," Health
Progress 87, no. 2 (2006): 42-45.





n32  Cf. Silverman, supra note 16 (urging that organizations have "forums that
address ethics issues"); Goodstein and Potter, supra note 16 (same).





n33  See S. D. Pearson et al., No Margin, No Mission: Health Care Organizations
and the Quest for Ethical Excellence (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003):
at 36-37.





n34  See id.





n35  Silverman, supra note 16, at 211.





n36  Silverman, supra note 16.





n37  Id.





n38  Cf. Renz and Eddy, supra note 16 (noting the importance of ethics and
integrity audits that "assess whether the organization has lived up to its
ethical standards").





n39  See Silverman, supra note 16.





n40  See B. Foglia, et al., "Preventive Ethics: Addressing Ethics Quality Gaps
on a Systems Level," The Joint Commission Journal on Quality and Patient Safety
38, no. 3 (2012): 103-111.





n41  See id.





n42  Although current Joint Commission standards for hospitals address
hospitals' organizational culture, they focus on leadership creating "a culture
of safety and quality," ignoring that hospital leaders must balance these
concerns with competing demands. See Joint Commission, 2015 Hospital
Accreditation Standards (Illinois: Joint Commission Resources, Inc., 2015): at
LD-16 to LD-20. The hospital accreditation standards also direct hospital
leadership to address conflicts of interests involving licensed independent
practitioners and/or staff that affects "the safety and quality of care,
treatment, and services" in order to ensure ethical practices at the bedside and
in the hospital's marketing and billing practices. See id., at LD.04.02.03. The
Joint Commission's standards offer few guidelines for hospital leadership on the
specific structures and processes hospitals should adopt in order to ensure
their institution's ethical integrity.





n43  For example, accountable care organizations could be required to adopt an
ethics infrastructure as a condition of participation in the Medicare Shared
Savings Program or analogous state Medicare shared savings programs, and
hospitals and physician groups adopting an ethics infrastructure could be
rewarded with higher payment rates under Medicare and Medicaid value-based
purchasing initiatives.


                              86 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            October 28, 2016 Friday

Medical students admit performing operations on themselves

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 343 words


Medical students have admitted to performing surgical procedures on themselves
and their peers, according to The New Zealand Medical Journal.

In a survey of 284 students at the Otago University medical school, 15 students
- seven male and eight female - had admitted to performing procedures on
themselves.

Of those procedures 11 were unsupervised and included cyst removal, puncturing
veins, cannulation, arterial blood gas sampling and stitching up wounds.

Students reported that the technical aspect of performing the procedures was the
most difficult part of self-practising, followed by the pain of the procedure
and anxiety performing it.

Ethical issues that were most concerning to students were the use of hospital
supplies and the safety of the procedure.

One student reported no ethical concerns, saying "[the procedure] was done at
home with non-medical instruments outside of the hospital context, with no other
involved, no equipment was taken from the hospital. Thus I see no ethical
issues."

Most students, 92 per cent, had practised medical procedures on their peers.

Peer-practised procedures included intravenous cannulation, puncturing veins,
arterial blood sampling and inserting tubes through the nose, past the throat
and down into the stomach.

Of the 264 students who reported performing on peers, 173 said they were
unsupervised.

Students listed the difficulties they experienced performing on peers as
inflicting unnecessary harm or pain, and a quarter said issues with technique,
equipment and skill as a barrier.

Four per cent said performing on peers was not an authentic experience as young,
healthy individuals with good veins were uncommon on the wards.

Other comments included one student who expressed guilt for pilfering resources.

One student said "we felt bad taking IV lines from a nursing station once. They
had four. We took all four. I"m so sorry."

The study was developed as a result of information gathered from interviews
during a television documentary, Practising Medicine, which followed medical
students at Otago University.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Offaly Express

                               November 24, 2010

Nurses get to grips with Palliative Care

BYLINE: grace o'dea

LENGTH: 474 words



HIGHLIGHT: IN a joint collaboration between the Midlands Regional Hospital,
Tullamore and the Community Specialist Palliative Care Team in Laois/Offaly, a
Palliative Care an End of Life Conference entitled 'Getting to Grips with
Palliative Care - A Nursing Perspective' took place last week in Tullamore.


Over 85 delegates attended, representing mainly nurses from the Acute Hospitals,
Care of the Older Persons and Public Health Services within the region of
Laois/Offaly and Longford/Westmeath.

The purpose of the conference was to provide delegates with a forum in which to
explore best practice initiatives in Palliative and End of Life Care and an
opportunity to enhance greater awareness regarding death and dying together with
the needs of patients and families.

The collaborative nature of the conference also provided the opportunity for
nursing staff from both the Acute Hospital Services and Primary Community and
Continuing Care to network and build on the integration of services as outlined
within the HSE Transformation Programme (2007-2010).

Speakers included Dr Joan McCarthy, Lecturer in Healthcare Ethics from the
School of Nursing and Midwifery, University College Cork who addressed the
conference on developments from an ethical perspective including the recently
published 'Ethical Framework for End-of-Life Care' (www.hospice
friendlyhospitals.net/ethics). Dr McCarthy also discussed the subject of making
good decisions with regard to Palliative and End of Life Care. Ethical
considerations regarding communication with patients and families were very much
apparent from the discussion that followed.

Other speakers and their respective topics included Dr Susan Delaney (Irish
Hospice Foundation) on 'Providing Effective Bereavement Support' and Mervyn
Taylor (Hospice Friendly Hospitals (HfH) Programme Manager, Irish Hospice
Foundation), 'HfH National Audit of End-of-Life Care in Hospitals in Ireland
(2008/9) and Quality Standards for End-of-Life Care in Hospitals'
(www.hospicefriendlyhospitals.net).

From a clinical perspective, Dr Michael Cushen (Consultant in Palliative
Medicine - Laois/Offaly & Longford/Westmeath) and Frances Neville (Clinical
Nurse Specialist in Palliative Care, Laois/Offaly) spoke about Patient
Assessment and Symptom Control. This was followed up by workshops where
delegates worked through clinical scenarios in order to consolidate the
knowledge gained from the lectures.

The conference started with Anne Tan, CNM3 Laois-Offaly Palliative Care Team,
presenting a very moving narrative which demonstrated where good palliative care
can make a difference, and concluded with Christine Moran who spoke about how we
as professionals can use Mindfulness to look after ourselves.

Speaking on the day, Michael Cushen, Consultant in Palliative Medicine -
Laois/Offaly and Longford/Westmeath said, "The conference was very successful.
It is hoped that this knowledge will provide delegates with the opportunity to
return to their respective areas of practice to enhance quality palliative and
end of life care for patients and families alike."

In addition, the feedback from the delegates was very positive.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OFFA


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            November 2, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital staff bring family to workplace vaccine clinic; 'Do we turn them
away?': Officials confront ethical dilemma

BYLINE: Pauline Tam, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 969  words


Officially, the weekend vaccination clinic at The Ottawa Hospital was aimed at
the 13,000 staff who work at the region's largest health-care provider -- and
are among those at the front of the line for the H1N1 flu shot.

After all, if the hospital's doctors, nurses, support staff and administrators
fall sick during a pandemic, it could hobble the entire system.

But when word of the weekend clinic got out, some hospital employees brought
along their family members, many of whom had been turned away from long lineups
at the vaccination clinics run by the city's public-health department.

The situation created a dilemma for the hospital.

"We knew ... that we were probably going to be confronted with situations of
people showing up at the door of our clinic, not only with themselves but with
their family members," said Nicolas Ruszkowski, The Ottawa Hospital's
vice-president of communications and outreach.

"The ethical question you ask yourself is: Do we turn them away or do we take
them? And the ethical decision that we made was we're not going to turn anybody
away as long as we know that we're covering our staff."

Ruszkowski said he doesn't know how many of the 8,495 people who got their
pandemic flu shot over the weekend were relatives of hospital staffers. But he
said the hospital carefully weighed the benefits of extending the vaccine to
employees' families before making the decision.

"You can reduce absenteeism among your health-care workforce if they're coming
to work instead of being at home, caring for their sick husband, sick wife, sick
children," said Ruszkowski.

And so while Ottawa's six H1N1 clinics struggled to inoculate 6,800 people on
Saturday, The Ottawa Hospital quietly vaccinated nearly 3,400 -- the result of a
mass effort by up to 600 hospital employees, who volunteered to run a workplace
vaccination clinic at the hospital's Riverside campus.

Among them were nurses giving flu shots, support staff and administrators
handling paperwork and pharmacists loading syringes with vaccine -- all of whom
formed a briskly efficient assembly line.

By Sunday, the hospital had immunized another 5,000 -- a pace that rivals that
of the six public clinics on their better days. "We have a built-in
infrastructure and advantage at the hospital. It's probably not fair to compare
us to public health," said Ruszkowski.

Yet as the public vaccination clinics head into their second week, with little
sign that demand will let up, the city's public-health department is scrambling
to find more people to give the pandemic flu shot.

The long lineups outside clinics that characterized the first week have been a
mixed blessing for officials, who are gratified that people are taking their
flu-prevention message to heart.

But the unexpected surge in demand has also pushed public-health workers to the
limit. Even with almost all of the department's 475 employees reassigned to the
vaccination effort, the clinics are still perpetually short-staffed.

The staffing crunch is one reason health officials say they are hampered from
opening more clinics. In particular, school-based clinics are not considered
practical given that they require more staff than is available, yet target only
a small portion of those considered at high risk of getting swine flu.

"We've already exceeded capacity," Dr. Isra Levy, the city's medical officer of
health, said in a weekend interview. "I mean, we've already redeployed the
entire workforce now, even deeper than the original plan of 70 per cent."

To bulk up the workforce, Levy has hired more temporary nurses and redeployed
"every available vaccinator we have found in the city," including those
paramedics who are, for whatever reason, on leave from frontline duty.

Up to a dozen paramedics have been assigned at each of the bigger clinics to
augment the 15 or so nurses giving the shots. As a result, the city's six
clinics have been vaccinating between 4,200 to 8,550 people a day. On Sunday,
the clinics gave 8,500 vaccinations.

"In order to vaccinate more people, our clinics need more trained professionals
to work as vaccinators," Levy said in a memo to city staff issued on Saturday.

"We have also put out a call for trained personnel to work as vaccinators -- a
call that many have answered. However, we continue to see a lack of capacity
that makes it impossible to vaccinate more people than are already being served
through our clinics."

Since the vaccination program began last Monday, the total number of immunizers
has doubled from 70 to 140. For every frontline nurse, paramedic or doctor
giving the needle, an additional two or three support workers are needed to
triage patients and enter computer data about who is getting the shots.

Over the weekend, dozens of staff from the city's parks and recreation
department were brought in to help manage crowds at the clinics, freeing up more
public-health staff to handle other duties.

But with the clinics running seven days a week and staff needing some days off,
officials are finding it a challenge to set up shift schedules for weeks at a
time, Levy said.

"We only have about a 24-hour ability to predict and forecast staffing. And we
have a lot of holes in our scheduling because there are just so many people
available, many of them are staying late to get as many people vaccinated as
possible and people are starting to get tired."

At the Kanata Recreation Complex, one of the city's busiest clinics, about 16
vaccinators were on hand to inoculate 1,200 people on Sunday. Over the past
week, many of the clinic's staff have stayed until 11 p.m., well past the 8:30
p.m. closing time, to finish their vaccinations.

- - -

Online

Complete guide to H1N1 flu vaccine clinics

Download a vaccine form ahead of your visit

Receive a Twitter feed of the latest on the pandemic

Stay up to date at ottawacitizen.com/flu

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2009 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

Nurses are faced with ethical dilemma

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 160 words


FOR five days nurses at Tembisa Hospital faced an ethical dilemma whether to let
patients go home or treat them in overflowing wards.


 Gauteng health department spokesman Simon Zwane said from Sunday all 840 beds
were occupied. He said the influx of patients was caused by the temporary
closure of other hospitals in Ekurhuleni.
  "The situation presented us with an ethical dilemma whether to send patients
home or keep them in the hospital while they got the required treatment and wait
for beds to be available."
 He said they kept psychiatric patients for only 72 hours.
 But the national director of the SA Federation for Mental Health, Bharti Patel,
said according to the Mental Health Care Act, any establishment that provides
treatment or care for mentally ill patients "may not continue to provide care,
treatment and rehabilitation services to the user for longer than 24 hours
unless an application is made (to the provincial review board) within 24 hours".

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2013 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                         December 1, 1994, CITY EDITION

Church defends ethical code for hospitals

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 302 words


THE Archbishop of Dublin, Dr Connell, has said that on the question of laying
down codes of ethical medical conduct, the Catholic Church is competent to
respond not only on behalf of its own hospitals "but in the interest of the
common good of society."

At the Mater Hospital's annual general meeting, Dr Connell said Catholic
hospitals were increasingly coming under attack for seeking to "impose on staff
and patients alike a code of ethical conduct that restricts their freedom of
choice". They were compared unfavourably to those "who are content to leave the
moral question to be determined between consultant and patient alone".

However, the weakness of this endorsement of individual choice as to what was
morally good was beginning to reveal itself, and would do so more dramatically
in the future, "as technological advances present greater opportunities for
experimentation and medical engineering".

Even when the civil law imposes limits on medical ethical conduct, it is not
enough to leave moral questions to be decided solely between consultant and
patient within that legal framework, Dr Connell said.

"This assumes without question that there is no such thing as an immoral law, an
assumption that is refuted, for example, by laws that permit abortion. The
question is where the limits are to be set and in virtue of what authority. To
these questions the church claims the competence to reply not only on behalf of
her own institutions but in the interest of the common good of society."

He emphasised that the responsibility of the public authorities to promote the
secular well being of the Irish people was "not to be confused with the
promotion of a purely secular society". He warned that Catholic hospitals had
the right to exist and to be supported by public funds.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1994 The Irish Times


                              91 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                               Townsville Edition

No funds for kids study

BYLINE: JOSH ALSTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 353  words


A WORLD-FIRST baby study at James Cook University has been stalled because of a
lack of funding.

As revealed in the Townsville Bulletin in October last year, the university is
planning a TropiKids longitudinal study which will track Townsville and Cairns
babies' development from birth to age 30.

It will be similar to a Mater-University of Queensland study of pregnancy which
was conducted from 1981 and involved 4000 people.

The study had originally been planned to commence this year, but a lack of
funding becuase of government cutbacks to the university and Townsville Hospital
has -prevented the project from getting started.

JCU Professor Linda Shields, from the School of Nursing, Midwifery and
Nutrition, said the university was now seeking ethical approval from the
Townsville Hospital and Health Service Human Research Ethics Committee to
"legitimise" the study and attract funding grants.

"We are keen to continue with it, we want to do it," she said. "But in this day
and age with government cuts, grants are becoming extremely difficult (to
secure).

"As a team we decided not to apply for any more grants.

"We will wait for ethical approval, it's a process that we have to go through.
"Once we have got ethical approval, government bodies will know that we are fair
-dinkum.

"Up until now we have been trying really hard to convince them that we are fair
dinkum.

"This will give some -legitimacy to the whole thing when we are applying for big
grants." One of the first things JCU plans to do once funding is secured is to
employ a project manager.

Prof Shields said the university was working with the hospital to ensure that
became a reality in the future.

"The whole hospital has been really helpful," she said.

"It's just how things go in research. We just have to keep trying and we will
keep trying." Townsville Hospital and Health Service chief executive Julia
Squire said the TropiKids researchers had been advised on how to submit an
ethics application.

"The process for ethics approval can commence whenever an application is made,"
she said."We are not aware of any funding concerns for the TropiKids project."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                               Townsville Edition

No funds for kids study

BYLINE: JOSH ALSTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 353  words


A WORLD-FIRST baby study at James Cook University has been stalled because of a
lack of funding.

As revealed in the Townsville Bulletin in October last year, the university is
planning a TropiKids longitudinal study which will track Townsville and Cairns
babies' development from birth to age 30.

It will be similar to a Mater-University of Queensland study of pregnancy which
was conducted from 1981 and involved 4000 people.

The study had originally been planned to commence this year, but a lack of
funding becuase of government cutbacks to the university and Townsville Hospital
has -prevented the project from getting started.

JCU Professor Linda Shields, from the School of Nursing, Midwifery and
Nutrition, said the university was now seeking ethical approval from the
Townsville Hospital and Health Service Human Research Ethics Committee to
"legitimise" the study and attract funding grants.

"We are keen to continue with it, we want to do it," she said. "But in this day
and age with government cuts, grants are becoming extremely difficult (to
secure).

"As a team we decided not to apply for any more grants.

"We will wait for ethical approval, it's a process that we have to go through.
"Once we have got ethical approval, government bodies will know that we are fair
-dinkum.

"Up until now we have been trying really hard to convince them that we are fair
dinkum.

"This will give some -legitimacy to the whole thing when we are applying for big
grants." One of the first things JCU plans to do once funding is secured is to
employ a project manager.

Prof Shields said the university was working with the hospital to ensure that
became a reality in the future.

"The whole hospital has been really helpful," she said.

"It's just how things go in research. We just have to keep trying and we will
keep trying." Townsville Hospital and Health Service chief executive Julia
Squire said the TropiKids researchers had been advised on how to submit an
ethics application.

"The process for ethics approval can commence whenever an application is made,"
she said."We are not aware of any funding concerns for the TropiKids project."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 20, 2004, Tuesday

BORN WITH A HEART OUTSIDE HER BODY;
 CHARLI BEATS ODDS TO LIVE

BYLINE: FRANK THORNE IN SYDNEY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 400 words

HIGHLIGHT: WORRY: Charli's heart pokes out of abdomen shortly after her birth;
LIFE-SAVER: The Brisbane hospital


THIS is tiny Charli Southern who survived against all the odds after being born
with her heart outside her body.

Doctors gave the tot just a two million to one chance of living when she was
delivered by emergency caesarean section seven weeks early.

But she came through two operations - one to put her heart back in the right
place - kidney failure and a potentially fatal chest infection and is now
expected to make a full recovery.

Mum Peta Steedman called her daughter "a little miracle".

The 29-year-old said: "It was touch and go at times and I shed plenty of tears.
She's had some good luck. The doctors say her heart is perfect despite being
outside her body when born.

"Most babies born with this condition have lots of abnormalities but she
doesn't."

After a spell on a ventilator at the Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital where
she was born, six-week-old Charli can now breathe unaided. She is breast-feeding
and gaining weight so rapidly doctors said she could soon be going home to
nearby St George.

Obstetrician Dr Carol Portman said: "We don't see many babies with this problem
get this far."

Charli, who has a two-year-old brother Max, was delivered early when medical
staff spotted on a scan she had ectopia cordis - a rare condition in which the
chest wall fails to close properly.

Dr Portman added: "We weren't expecting what we found. It was easy to see
something protruding through the chest wall. It was Charli's heart. At the time
her survival chances were one in a couple of million, we'd say."

When she was delivered doctors saw the full extent of the problem.

Charli's heart was poking out through a hole in her abdomen just under her rib
cage.

Within hours surgeons operated to put the tiny organ back inside her chest.

The gap left was closed over with existing skin and protective Gore-Tex. The
surgeons then covered the area with clingfilm to keep infection at bay.

Heart specialist Dr Mark Davis, who did Charli's operation, said: "Her recovery
has been startling."

Dr Portman added: "We expect her to run around like a normal child when she gets
older."

Charli's dad Peter Southern put her survival down to a fighting spirit inherited
from her family.

Peta's grandfather was Len Waters, Australia's first Aboriginal fighter pilot in
World War ll.

Peter's dad was a tough sheep shearer in the Outback.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.


                              94 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Alberni Valley Times (British Columbia)

                            January 26, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Mayor doesn't want hospital run by church

BYLINE: Canadian Press

SECTION: FAITH; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 181  words

DATELINE: HUMBOLDT, Sask.


HUMBOLDT, Sask. (CP) -- A southern Saskatchewan mayor wants the provincial
government to ensure that the Roman Catholic church isn't involved in running a
new hospital being built in his city.

"The message council has received from the community is that there is a clear
desire for a public hospital," said Humboldt Mayor Malcolm Eaton. "In order to
have a hospital that doesn't get into Catholic ethical issues, we need a public
hospital."

Other communities in the area have also expressed support for a publicly
operated hospital instead of a faith-based facility, Eaton said.

Construction is to start on the new hospital this spring.

The current hospital, St. Elizabeth's, serves about 35,000 people in the region
and is owned by the Saskatchewan Catholic Health Corp. The Catholic-run board
receives operating money from the Saskatoon Health Region.

The hospital made the news last year when its board prohibited elective tubal
ligations to prevent pregnancies. That decision sparked ethical debate in and
around Humboldt, about 100 kilometres east of Saskatoon, about faith-based
hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Alberni Valley Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday

US body accredits two hospitals for standard practices in research

SECTION: MANGALORE

LENGTH: 266 words


MANGALORE: Manipal Hospital (Bangalore) and Kasturba Hospital (Manipal) are the
first Indian hospitals to be accredited by Association for Accreditation for
Human Research Protection Programme (AAHRPP).

The accreditation endorses that the hospitals follow ethical and international
quality standards in their clinical research activities and are committed to
protect the safety of research participants.The accreditation process is said to
be rigorous and intense, which ensures safety and health of those who
participate in research.

R R Pulgaonkar, medical superintendent, said: "For accreditation, organizations
must demonstrate that they have built extensive safeguards in every level of
their research operation and that they adhere to high ethical standards, both of
which are complied with by the two hospitals."Dr Nagendraswamy, president and
chairman of quality council of Manipal Health Enterprises, and Dr K L Bairy
worked under the guidance of Dr Pulgaonkar, medical superintendent, Kasturba
Hospital for K H Manipal, for the accreditation.

The team was assisted by principal investigators and support staff of the
hospitals. Independent, non-profit accrediting body AAHRPP, situated at
Washington (USA), uses a voluntary, peer-driven, educational model to ensure
that HRPPs meet rigorous standards for quality and protection. To earn
accreditation, organizations must provide tangible evidence through policies,
procedures, and practices of their commitment to scientifically and ethically
sound research and to continuous improvement, the release added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            February 2, 1999 Tuesday

AEC caught in ethical quagmire

BYLINE: MATHEW INGRAM

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS COLUMN; BUSINESS WEST; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: Calgary


When the details of the case against accused terrorist Wiebo Ludwig first
started filtering out of the courtroom last week, the argument advanced by Mr.
Ludwig's defence lawyer seemed outlandish -- the kind of thing only a
conspiracy-loving devotee of the X-Files TV show might come up with. What
sensible person would believe the RCMP and Alberta Energy Co. actually hatched a
plot to blow up an AEC pipeline equipment shed?

The following day, the prosecutor in the case admitted that this was in fact
exactly what happened after AEC officials were contacted by a neighbour of Mr.
Ludwig's in the Hythe area of northwestern Alberta -- someone who said they
might be prepared to act as an informant for the RCMP. The ostensible reason for
the RCMP-planted bomb, it seems, was to build up the credibility of this
informant, known in James Bond-style as Agent K4029.

The farcical nature of this supposed plan has led to all sorts of examples of
gallows humour: For example, a sign in downtown Calgary yesterday referred to
the recently demolished General Hospital and asked "The General Hospital --
obsolete facility, or RCMP training mission?" But beneath all the jokes about
James Bond movies lies a serious ethical issue.

Unfortunately for AEC CEO Gwyn Morgan, his company is up to its knees, and
perhaps even its waist, in the middle of this ethical quagmire. Mr. Morgan -- a
well-respected executive with a reputation for hard-nosed attention to detail
and a devotion to personal and corporate fitness -- took the moral high ground
early on in the battle against corporate terrorism. That stand, however, has now
been irrevocably compromised.

The RCMP's so-called dirty tricks project, which was code-named Operation
Kabriole (although why it was called that isn't clear), has gotten ink in
newspapers as far away as the South China Morning Post, which said the
uncovering of the plan meant "the faces of some Royal Canadian Mounted Police
officers are almost as red as their famous tunics."

Mr. Morgan assured his employees in a memo last week that their company would
never do anything illegal and said his only concern was their safety -- and this
is no doubt true. Legally, AEC apparently did nothing wrong in allowing its own
equipment to be blown up by the RCMP explosives squad. The company has also
denied a defence accusation that AEC bought the property belonging to its
informant, Agent K4029.

But that is part of the point: Even if AEC did not hatch the plan, just by being
involved in that campaign it has lost most -- if not all -- of whatever moral
authority it may once have held. For example, environmentalists have alleged for
some time that AEC paid off residents rather than answer claims that sour gas
wells cause health problems. How much faith can those critics, or anyone else,
now have in the company's repeated denials?

It's easy to sympathize with the frustration felt by both AEC and the RCMP in
the wake of a wave of attacks on oil field sites last year. Mr. Ludwig and
members of his religious commune were arrested in connection with the attacks
last fall but were released for lack of evidence -- after which Mr. Morgan gave
a speech that, among other things, called for the introduction of "broader
investigative powers" for police.

Did Mr. Morgan mean investigators should be allowed to blow things up and then
claim that terrorists did it? Probably not. But all his comments are now likely
to be interpreted in light of that rigged explosion. After his speech, the AEC
chief executive was hailed for his courageous stand against terrorism which he
called "a societal cancer." The force of those statements, however, has now been
undercut by the RCMP's covert operation.

Perhaps AEC felt that nabbing whoever was responsible for the attacks justified
using extraordinary means. But did it? If someone has been killed, many might
argue that the police should be able to use whatever methods they think are
necessary. But all the attacks involved nothing more than property damage -- no
loss of life or even injury.

The worst part of the affair is that conspiracy theorists and camouflage-wearing
environmentalist fringe groups will be even more adamant that AEC is the enemy
-- how could it not be, if it is willing to take part in such a plan? It will be
easier for critics to see AEC and the so-called environmental terrorists as
morally equivalent.

In his speech, Mr. Morgan said: "People who carry out planned acts of violence
for a cause they believe in are simply terrorizing innocent people without
regard for the laws of the land." Before, AEC made a credible case that it was
the good guy, suffering attacks on its assets by holier-than-thou criminals.
Now, it seems as though the company is just as willing as its opponents to use
any means to bring about the result it wants. So what now differentiates the two
sides?

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1999 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             May 13, 1998 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Ethics unit puts hospital to the fore

BYLINE: GARETH BOREHAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 199 words


The Murdoch Institute at the Royal Children's Hospital has become the first
genetic research body in the world to set up an ethics unit to monitor
gene-technology developments.

The head of the unit will be Professor Julian Savulescu, who has worked as a
clinical ethicist at Oxford's Radcliffe hospital in Britain and helped set up an
Oxford ethical institute for health care.

Speaking at the opening of a new ward, the institute's director, Professor Bob
Williamson, said it was crucial that genetic research was carried out with
ethical scrutiny. "If we do not carry out our research and our services
ethically we should not be carrying them out at all," he said.

The institute, which carries out research into birth defects, yesterday opened a
refurbished clinical and research wing. At the opening, Mr Lachlan Murdoch, News
Limited's executive chairman, announced an endowment of $15 million to the
institute.

Professor Savulescu said the ethical unit would ensure new technologies and the
distribution of resources to medical research were ethically justifiable. He
said there was "very little role" for controversial gene cloning techniques when
there were so many other areas that needed funding.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1998 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                    March 29, 2000 Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Animal rights advocates have God on their sign

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; WORCESTER DIARY; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 997 words



People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is launching a billboard campaign to
coincide with the observance of Easter by local Christians.

PETA signs will go up in Worcester, Providence and Boston urging folks to Go
Vegetarian.''

The billboards feature an actor in God garb telling passing motorists, I said,
Thou shalt not kill.' '' Actually, the guy on the billboard looks more like
Moses parting the waters.

The signs also provide a Web site (www.JesusVeg.com) for those who might want
more information.

We picked Rhode Island and Massachusetts because they have the highest
proportion of Catholics (63 percent and 48 percent, respectively) in the
country, and, of course, Easter is upon us,'' Bruce G. Friedrich, PETA's
vegetarian campaign coordinator, noted in a press release.

The three billboards in Worcester will be on Chandler and Stafford streets and
just off Grafton Street near Interstate 290.

Robert E. Maher Jr. admits that he is not the most popular individual in many
quarters at St. Vincent Hospital these days.

Mr. Maher, the hospital's chief executive officer, has found himself at odds
with nurses who have threatened to strike if they don't land their first
contract by Friday.

Still, Mr. Maher scored some points by allowing Dunkin' Donuts to open up shop
in the new Worcester Medical Center.

We polled people on what kind of food services they'd like to see, and Dunkin'
Donuts was number one on the list,'' Mr. Maher said.  At least we did something
to make employees happy.''

The families of some students at St. Stephen's School on Grafton Hill got a
taste of Japanese culture this month.

Eight students from the land of the rising sun stayed with the families so they
could work on their English. The kids- high school seniors- returned home late
last week.

There was a lot of hand-gesturing in our house,'' said Colleen G. Foisy, whose
family hosted one of the visitors.

Despite some communication problems caused by the language barrier, Mrs. Foisy
said, 16-year-old Ayano Nakasone fit right in with the family.

Mrs. Foisy said her seven children were greatly enriched by the stay, learning
origami and other aspects of Japanese culture.

It was just like having another kid in the house,'' she said.

Now that the plan to renovate the David Burwick Co. building at Main and Madison
streets is yesterday's news, art boosters are seeking another locale for an
artists' colony.

Although the area is a bit removed from the newly established arts district,
don't be surprised if some serious consideration is given to converting those
nearly empty buildings on Pleasant Street near Harrington Corner into lofts and
galleries.

Some City Hall insiders were surprised those buildings were bypassed in favor of
the Burwick building.

The Pleasant Street properties make a lot of sense now, given some recent
developments.

There's an effort by the city's Development Office, for example, to boost arts
and cultural activities along Main Street, from Wheaton Square to Federal
Square. The buildings would be smack in the middle of such a corridor.

Additionally, the buildings could benefit from students living downtown and
attending the soon-to-be-opened Massachusetts College of Pharmacy.

The structures are also located much closer to the Worcester Art Museum and the
Showcase Cinemas building, which a private developer is considering converting
into some sort of art-use mix.

The weather aside, this year's St. Patrick's Parade went off without any serious
problems.

Still, organizers were hoping more folks would volunteer to help on the day of
the event.

About 55 people lent a hand. In comparison, organizers of Holyoke's parade had
about 200 people at their disposal.

We have a good corps of people helping us throughout the year, but we really
need some extra help on the day of the parade,'' said Wayne Griffin, a spokesman
for the St. Patrick's Parade Committee.

To drum up some additional support, the committee is already putting out the
call for help. Anyone interested can send e-mail to
stpatricksparade@mailroom.com.

The 2001 parade will be held on Sunday, March 11.

Its theme, An Irish Odyssey,'' is a takeoff on Stanley Kubrick's science fiction
movie classic, 2001: A Space Odyssey.''

William J. Short, the outgoing chief of the Worcester Area Chamber of Commerce,
will be honored at the April 8 Worcester IceCats game against the Providence
Bruins.

The event is one of many expected over the next few months recognizing Mr.
Short's 25 years of leadership service to the chamber.

For example, the chamber itself will be sponsoring a dinner April 12 at the
Worcester Centrum Centre. Naturally, business attire'' is in order.

The chamber is also setting up a scholarship award in Mr. Short's name that will
benefit area students pursing business education.

Besides academic standing, financial need and civic involvement, chamber
officials said, scholarship recipients will have to possess some of Mr. Short's
qualities, notably patience, inspiration and integrity.''

That's one tall order.

The Worcester Municipal Research Bureau will hold its second forum on the
neighborhoods on April 13 at Assumption College.

The program will focus on businesses and will feature Lawrence Abramoff,
president of Tatnuck Bookseller and Sons; Robin Ahlquist of the Highland Street
Business Association; William Braley of the North Worcester Business
Association; Charlie Grigaitis of the Grafton Hill Business Association;
Christos Liazos of the Webster Square Business Association, and Ralph Rick''
Spokis of the Madison North Business Association.

Earlier this month, leaders of some of the neighborhood groups got together at
the College of the Holy Cross to discuss a host of issues, including community
policing, housing and absentee landlords. Bronislaus B. Kush wrote this week's
edition of the Worcester Diary. Readers with suggestions for the diary should
call (508) 793-9464.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              99 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Prince Rupert Daily News (British Columbia)

                           October 15, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital staff have ethical responsibility to get flu shots: Health officer

BYLINE: Vancouver Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 285  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER (CP) -- Public health officials are telling health care workers they
have an "ethical responsibility" to get an influenza vaccination.

Only about 30 per cent of hospital staff in B.C. are vaccinated, Patricia Daly,
Vancouver coastal medical health officer, said Tuesday.

The vaccination rate for B.C. health care workers overall is only 56 per cent.

"It really is an ethical obligation" that health care workers owe to their
patients, Daly told a press conference to publicize the Nov. 1 availability of
this season's flu shots.

"We remain disappointed with our coverage rate of only about 30 per cent in
acute-care facilities."

Health Planning Minister Sindi Hawkins said the overall health staff vaccination
rate should be 80 per cent.

Health Services Minister Colin Hansen said the province would appeal to workers
to do the right thing before looking at what the can be required to do by law.

B.C. Nurses' union president Debra McPherson said, "we encourage our members to
get a flu shot."

Almost 200,000 work days are lost each year in B.C. to the flu, said provincial
health officer Dr. Perry Kendall. Along with related pneumonias, the flu kills
1,400 annually, and up to 2,500 in a bad season.

B.C. has increased its purchase of vaccine this year by 100,000 to 900,000
doses.

The vaccine, which has an effectiveness range in healthy people of from 70 to 90
per cent, covers the same strains as 2002: Panama, New Caledonia and Hong Kong.
Health officials said a new shot is needed every year.

The shots are available free to anyone over 65, health care workers, adults and
children with a chronic illness, informal caregivers for those at high risk,
home care workers, paramedics, police and firefighters.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2003 Prince Rupert Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                National Edition

T.O. patients increasingly at odds with physicians: Bioethics report

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 920  words


The health care system is increasingly gripped by ''ethical challenges'' created
by clashes between patients, their families and the medical professionals
treating them, a major new report on Toronto hospitals says.

Such disagreements over treatments are most common in a hospital's
intensive-care unit, but they occur virtually everywhere in the system -- from
palliative care to mental health, and even in a family physician's office.

''It's floating under the surface like a shark,'' said Dr. Peter Singer,
director of the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics, and one of
the report's co-authors.

''These conflicts can be as serious as an emotionally charged fight over a
decision to withdraw aggressive treatment from a terminally ill patient in the
intensive care unit, or as mundane as a family physician refusing to acquiesce
to a patient's request for antibiotics for a viral infection."

The centre's report was published yesterday in the British journal BMC Medical
Ethics.

It says the ''end-of-life critical-care cases'' tend to be the most emotionally
charged and intractable, and often follow a pattern: A patient, perhaps with
cancer, is in the late stages of terminal illness and is hooked up to a
breathing ventilator in the ICU. The family is demanding ''everything'' be done
to maintain the patient's life, while the health professionals feel such
''aggressive interventions would amount to torture.''

''Emotions run high, conflict ensues, and communication inevitably breaks
down,'' the report says.

The health workers cannot understand the families' position and label them
''irrational'' or ''unreasonable,'' it says, while the families view the medical
staff as ''insensitive'' and ''disrespectful.''

''Sometimes families will go so far as to accuse the health care team of wanting
to withdraw treatment to save money or to give the resources to another
patient.''

The authors of the report surveyed 12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto
hospitals to rank the ''Top 10'' ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from waiting times to
medical errors -- provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Along with No.1, the patient-doctor conflicts, other issues cited include
waiting lists, access to care, a shortage of family doctors, and medical errors.

Dr. Singer said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

According to the report, very few members of the public are aware of the extent
to which there are conflicts between patients or their families and health care
professionals.

The report proposes several solutions, including educating health care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases, and
creating policies for health care facilities to provide guidance.

ETHICAL ISSUES:

The University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics has prepared a ''top 10''
ethical issues faced by the Canadian public and health-care professionals today.
Clashes between patients or their families and medical professionals rank at the
top of the list. The other ethical challenges, ranked by priority, are:

- 2. Waiting lists: The report observes that the wait lists that now plague the
system create ethical questions because, in some cases, the lengthy waits can
harm patients' health, impede their ability to return to work and contribute to
''psychological distress.''

- 3. Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system
has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment -- a discriminatory practice which must be openly acknowledged and
ended.

- 4. Shortage of family physicians: The shortage has become a ''significant
problem'' for the Canadian medicare system, especially since it is based on the
premise that patients deserve ''universal and reasonable access'' to medical
services.

- 5. Medical error: The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with
experts saying the system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug
prescriptions to performing surgery on the wrong patient. Ethical considerations
include ''under what circumstances, and how medical errors should be disclosed
to patients and/or families.''

- 6. Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

- 7. Informed consent: Patients are supposed to provide their ''informed
consent'' to a treatment before it is done, but many do not -- or cannot -- read
the forms they're asked to sign.

- 8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for ''fair compensation'' to
participants in medical research without the payments becoming a ''coercive
influence.''

- 9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable of making a
decision about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute, many of
whom find the responsibility onerous. As well, there is a legal hierarchy that
sometimes places the most intimate relationships (such as a spouse) near the
bottom of the list to qualify as the substitute.

- 10. Surgical innovation and new technologies: Doctors are faced with the
question: Should innovative surgical techniques be considered research and be
required to go through ethics approval before being used on patients?

Source: CanWest News Service

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White
Photo: A stethoscope.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2005 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Business Times Singapore

                            September 5, 2011 Monday

Chronically ill face healthcare paradox: study;
Subsidised acute hospital care may be cheaper than community and home care

BYLINE: Teh Shi Ning

SECTION: THE NEWS; Singapore

LENGTH: 497 words


DOCTORS here say the current healthcare set-up's financing system may not fit
well with the needs of the chronically ill, a study on end-of-life care
commissioned by Lien Foundation and conducted by the National University of
Singapore's Centre for Biomedical Ethics has found.

The study, based on qualitative interviews of 78 general practitioners and
specialists from a range of practices in both the private and public sectors, is
the first local study of ethical, legal and social issues in medicine.

One of the key observations that principal researchers Jacqueline Chin and
Jacinta Tan reported is that Singapore's 'current healthcare system is
ill-suited to patients who want to die at home because of the lack of financial,
social and physical support'.

At present, the system of pricing and subsidies for healthcare creates a
paradoxical situation - pricier acute hospital care, being most subsidised,
becomes relatively cheaper than community and home care.

Some patients with protracted illnesses requiring long-term care after being
discharged from hospitals, also find that they have exhausted their funds by
then.

One of the doctors surveyed said: 'A lot of our current subventions (government
subsidies) are geared towards inpatient care. While they can gain financial
support much more easily for treatments in the hospital, when it comes to
patients spending time at home or in the community hospitals, the funding dries
up, because funding is directed to the hospital itself.'

Some doctors were also of the view that while Singapore's healthcare system is
highly developed in tertiary, hospital-based specialist care, general
rehabilitative or supportive care based in the community, remains relatively
underdeveloped.

But the imbalance here is being addressed, with increased resources for
home-based medical and nursing care, and voluntary welfare organisations running
community hospitals, hospices, day-care centres and ambulatory care services.

Lien Foundation commissioned this study as there is currently little research to
guide the development of policy and practice of end-of-life care. It chose to
interview doctors to 'surface their collective voice on the clinical, policy and
ethical quandaries they encounter in their care of the dying', says chief
executive Lee Poh Wah.

For instance, some doctors observed that the Western principles of patient
autonomy which undergird laws here, are frequently at odds with the Asian
collective decision-making in families practised.

Specifically, doctors say that one common ethical issue faced is that of
withholding diagnosis from patients at their family's requests.

The report also raised the question of whether current laws should be reviewed,
given that scenarios of collective family decisions and 'collusion' between
doctors and families frequently arise in end-of-life situations. In Japan for
instance, patient autonomy is respected by a patient's advanced directive for
disclosure, the report said.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday

US body accredits two hospitals for standard practices in research

SECTION: MANGALORE

LENGTH: 278 words


MANGALORE: Manipal Hospital (Bangalore) and Kasturba Hospital (Manipal) are the
first Indian hospitals to be accredited by Association for Accreditation for
Human Research Protection Programme (AAHRPP).

<br/><br/>

The accreditation endorses that the hospitals follow ethical and international
quality standards in their clinical research activities and are committed to
protect the safety of research participants.The accreditation process is said to
be rigorous and intense, which ensures safety and health of those who
participate in research.

<br/><br/>

R R Pulgaonkar, medical superintendent, said: "For accreditation, organizations
must demonstrate that they have built extensive safeguards in every level of
their research operation and that they adhere to high ethical standards, both of
which are complied with by the two hospitals."Dr Nagendraswamy, president and
chairman of quality council of Manipal Health Enterprises, and Dr K L Bairy
worked under the guidance of Dr Pulgaonkar, medical superintendent, Kasturba
Hospital for K H Manipal, for the accreditation.

<br/><br/>

The team was assisted by principal investigators and support staff of the
hospitals. Independent, non-profit accrediting body AAHRPP, situated at
Washington (USA), uses a voluntary, peer-driven, educational model to ensure
that HRPPs meet rigorous standards for quality and protection. To earn
accreditation, organizations must provide tangible evidence through policies,
procedures, and practices of their commitment to scientifically and ethically
sound research and to continuous improvement, the release added.

<meta content="cms.next" name="cmsei"/>

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)

                            April 26, 2008 Saturday

Hospital acquisition to preserve Catholic health care

BYLINE: The Tribune-Review

LENGTH: 296 words


A new group has been formed to honor and preserve the longstanding tradition of
Catholic health care services at a Jeannette hospital.

The committee has been created in anticipation of Excela Health's acquisition of
Mercy Jeannette Hospital on May 1.

The Committee on Ethical and Religious Health Care Directives at Jeannette is
comprised of members of the Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill, Catholic Health
East, the Diocese of Greensburg and Excela Health.

"Creating this group is the first step in fulfilling Excela Health's commitment
to the Jeannette community, the Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill and Catholic
Health East," said Dr. Ralph Capone, chief medical officer of Excela Health and
chairman of the committee. "We are honored to inherit a long, cherished
tradition of Catholic health care and will maintain the ethical and religious
directives in place at the Jeannette campus."

The committee will provide oversight for the adherence to all ethical and
religious directives at the Jeannette campus, which will become an extension of
Excela Health's Westmoreland Hospital in Greensburg

Pastoral care services and a daily Mass, which is celebrated in the chapel of
the Holy Spirit on the fourth floor, will continue at the Jeannette campus.

Joining Capone on the committee will be Phillip Boyle, vice-president of mission
and ethics at Catholic Health East; Peggy Hayden, chief nursing officer of
Excela Health; Sister Vivien Linkhauer, president of U.S. Province Sisters of
Charity of Seton Hill and Monsignor Raymond Riffle, managing director of
Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Greensburg.

The committee is expected to have its first meeting May 8.

Mercy Jeannette Hospital and Excela Health announced plans for an acquisition of
the hospital in October 2007.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             August 9, 2013 Friday

Abortion and ethos of Mater hospital

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 500 words


Sir, - Conor Graham suggests "Better to leave hospital protocol to people who
act on evidence" (August 8th) with regard to Fr Kevin Doran's raising of
questions on how ethical the Protection of Life during Pregnancy Act  is and
whether the Mater can comply with it. In fact, aspects of the Act are not
supported by evidence, and that is why the ethical issues arise. - Is mise,

AONGHUS ^" hALMHAIN,

P^oirc na Seilbhe,

Baile an Chinnidigh,

Co Chill Mhant^oin.

Sir, - If the Catholic Church wishes to retain effective control of certain
hospitals against State policy, it should immediately announce how it is going
to fund these hospitals. The church should be billed by the State in the
meantime for the costs of Catholic hospitals which will not comply with State
legislation and HSE national policy.This will free up the State funds for
transfer  to hospitals which can be run for medical necessity rather than
religious "ethos". This should be the true direction of any hospital.

Alternatively, the church may consider ending this anachronism by transferring
lands and full control of medical institutions under its control towards part of
its unpaid "contribution" to the State and taxpayers'  bills for redress. This
would go so some towards resolving the recent "can't pay" claim by religious
institutions and free them from the burden of being involved in medical
procedures (such as saving women's lives) that go against their "ethos". -
Yours, etc,

ANDREW DOYLE,

Lislevane,

Bandon, Co Cork.

A chara, - Conor D Graham states, "Better to leave hospital protocol to people
who act on evidence" (August 8th). If this debate was about evidence-based
actions, the threat of suicide as justification for an abortion would not have
been included in the new Act. - Is mise,

Rev  Fr PATRICK G

BURKE,

Castlecomer,

Co Kilkenny.

Sir, - The Taoiseach has explicitly declared that he stands with the Republic
and against theocracy. The main Irish hospitals should follow suit. - Yours,
etc,

GEORGE LAIRD,

Rue de la Petite Colline,

Mallemort,

France.

Sir, - Vincent Kelly believes that if a particular hospital were to be entirely
funded by the State, then its ethos (and presumably the ethos of those who work
in it) should be the "law of the land" (August 8th). I would respectfully remind
Mr Kelly that just because a law is passed does not make something just, ethical
or moral. In Nazi Germany, was seizing Jewish property and taking Jewish lives
the right thing to do just because the law of the land said so?

Because such actions were legal according to the laws of that land at the time,
did it absolve those who carried out those crimes that were permissible, and
even obligated, according to the "laws of the land"? No, it did not. At the
subsequent Nuremberg Trials it was found that if legal requirements and actions
were unjust, the defence of "I was only follows orders" on the part of those who
carried out the unjust acts would be no excuse. - Yours, etc,

JOHN B REID,

Knapton Road,

Monkstown,

Co Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday

UNCERTAINTIES CLOUD HOSPITAL MERGER

BYLINE: NATALIE STOREY

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 451 words


Temple members say ethical and religious directives of Catholic partner are
worrisome

Merger: Separate nonprofit set up to handle procedures

At a meeting with members of Temple Beth Shalom Friday night, hospital officials
continued to insist that care at St. Vincent Regional Medical Center will remain
the same after the hospital finalizes a partnership with a Catholic health-care
company.

But temple members, some of whom asked to see copies of the contract with
Christus Health before it is signed, said there are still too many
uncertainties.

"I think they are playing with a lot of unknowns," said Don Goldman. "The
ethical and religious directives -- they bother me."

Goldman asked hospital administrators how the partnership will cope with medical
and scientific advances in the future, many of which might not be sanctioned by
the Catholic church.

Dave Gunderson, chairman of the St. Vincent board, responded by saying many new
procedures are being handled by out-patient facilities. He also said the
contract contains provisions that allow Christus and St. Vincent to try to
"cure" any disputes that might occur in the future. Disputed procedures can be
carried out for a period of six months. If the dispute cannot be fixed, St.
Vincent can

buy back its share of the hospital, Gunderson said.

The deal with Christus Health could be finalized in February. The partnership,
which is 50-50, will remove $37 million of debt St. Vincent is currently
carrying and allow Christus, which has hospitals in Texas, Louisiana and Mexico,
to expand into New Mexico. Christus is governed by ethical and religious
directives of the Catholic church, directives which many worry might put some
services, such as emergency contraception and sterilization, in jeopardy.
Hospital officials have said a separate nonprofit has been set up to handle the
financing and carrying out of those procedures.

Dan Yohalem asked chief executive Alex Valdez if members of the community could
see the contract with Christus before it was signed, but Valdez denied the
request. "At this point, it is between the two private entities," he said. "We
are not going to be able to publish that information."

Yohalem questioned whether St. Vincent would have money to buy back its share of
the hospital if a dispute arose in the future. "Some of us are deeply concerned
that this is the first step in turning a community hospital into a faith-based
hospital," he said. "What protects this community?"

But Gunderson said monies have been set aside and, he added, St. Vincent could
always borrow money.

"There is a track record that Christus has where it hasn't had train wrecks," he
said.

Contact Natalie Storey

at 986-3026 or nstorey@sfnewmexican.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The New Mexican


                              106 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             October 5, 1990 Friday

Horse-and-cart-laws fail to cater for life and death;
decisions

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 474 words


South Australia had horse-and-cart laws for space age medicine, a prominent
Adelaide legal consultant, Mr Ian Bidmeade, said yesterday.

Mr Bidmeade is the author of a Health Commission report which looks at the
ethical and legal issues relating to treatment of severley disabled and
estremely low weight newborn infants in South Australian hospirals.

Whether a severley disabled or very premature baby lived or died often depended
on the individual approach of the particular intensive care doctor, he said.

"Without wishing to exaggerate or be melodramatic about the differences, one
could conclude that in some cases a baby's chance at life will depend on the
individual approach of the particular intensivist," he said.

The report, "The ethical and legal issues concerning disabled and extremely low
weight newborn infants", is being circulated by the Health Commission to
professional and community groups, seeking guidance about the community's views.

Mr Bidmeade says the current practice in Adelaide hospitals of withdrawing
treatment from very low weight infants or severley disabled newborns in
"questionable legally, yet regarded as ethical in some circumstances".

He said the Queen Victoria Hospital tended to take an "interventionist approach"
but intensive care specialists at Flinders Medical Centre (FMC) tended to hold
different theoretical opinions about starting treatment, although their
practices were generally consistent.

As a result of the report, the Health Commission has established a task force to
look at all the issues relating to life support for such infants and has
appointed Mr Vidmeade to chair it.

The Health Commission's special committee of eight includes intensive care
specialists, an obstretician, ethicist and a senior nurse consultant from the
Adelaide children's and Queen Elizabeth hospitals and the FMC.

It was only in the case of premature infants born weighing less than 1000 grams
that ethical dilemmas existed.

Above 1000 grams, survival and quality of survival was good.

Medical technology and advances in skills had enabled low birth weight and
severely disabled newborns to survive.

However, because of the extreme fragility of immature organs, medical
intervention may inadvertently lead to permanent damage or a life that was
"demonstrably awful".

The frequency of complications increased with the degree of prematurity.

Mr Bidmeade said 95 per cent of infants of 22 weeks gestation (about 16 weeks
premature) did not survive and of those who did, 30 per cent developed severe
disability.

The dilemmas in life and death decisions over administering or withdrawing care
were the same for the severley disabled as for low birth weight infants.

There had been considerable discussion between doctors about guidelines but
little practical application, Mr Bidmeade said.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: ian bidmeade; Mr Bidmeade: looking at ethical and legal issues.

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              107 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             October 5, 1990 Friday

Horse-and-cart-laws fail to cater for life and death;
decisions

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 474 words


South Australia had horse-and-cart laws for space age medicine, a prominent
Adelaide legal consultant, Mr Ian Bidmeade, said yesterday.

Mr Bidmeade is the author of a Health Commission report which looks at the
ethical and legal issues relating to treatment of severley disabled and
estremely low weight newborn infants in South Australian hospirals.

Whether a severley disabled or very premature baby lived or died often depended
on the individual approach of the particular intensive care doctor, he said.

"Without wishing to exaggerate or be melodramatic about the differences, one
could conclude that in some cases a baby's chance at life will depend on the
individual approach of the particular intensivist," he said.

The report, "The ethical and legal issues concerning disabled and extremely low
weight newborn infants", is being circulated by the Health Commission to
professional and community groups, seeking guidance about the community's views.

Mr Bidmeade says the current practice in Adelaide hospitals of withdrawing
treatment from very low weight infants or severley disabled newborns in
"questionable legally, yet regarded as ethical in some circumstances".

He said the Queen Victoria Hospital tended to take an "interventionist approach"
but intensive care specialists at Flinders Medical Centre (FMC) tended to hold
different theoretical opinions about starting treatment, although their
practices were generally consistent.

As a result of the report, the Health Commission has established a task force to
look at all the issues relating to life support for such infants and has
appointed Mr Vidmeade to chair it.

The Health Commission's special committee of eight includes intensive care
specialists, an obstretician, ethicist and a senior nurse consultant from the
Adelaide children's and Queen Elizabeth hospitals and the FMC.

It was only in the case of premature infants born weighing less than 1000 grams
that ethical dilemmas existed.

Above 1000 grams, survival and quality of survival was good.

Medical technology and advances in skills had enabled low birth weight and
severely disabled newborns to survive.

However, because of the extreme fragility of immature organs, medical
intervention may inadvertently lead to permanent damage or a life that was
"demonstrably awful".

The frequency of complications increased with the degree of prematurity.

Mr Bidmeade said 95 per cent of infants of 22 weeks gestation (about 16 weeks
premature) did not survive and of those who did, 30 per cent developed severe
disability.

The dilemmas in life and death decisions over administering or withdrawing care
were the same for the severley disabled as for low birth weight infants.

There had been considerable discussion between doctors about guidelines but
little practical application, Mr Bidmeade said.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: ian bidmeade; Mr Bidmeade: looking at ethical and legal issues.

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              108 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     North Shore Times (Friday) (Australia)

                            December 6, 2013 Friday
                             NorthShore310 Edition

Ethical gifts have twice the impact

BYLINE: Lisa Herbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 307  words


With Christmas approaching and presents to buy, many shoppers are jumping on
board the idea of ethical giving and the opportunity to give twice when buying a
gift.

Not only can shoppers buy something special for a loved one, but with proceeds
from sales going to charity they have the opportunity to double their giving
power.

Staff at Turramurra's Hamlin Fistula Ethiopia (Australia) store said there had
been a noticeable increase in shoppers in recent weeks looking to give ethically
this Christmas.

The store's merchandise manager Tanya Seabrook said the store raised funds and
awareness for the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, its regional centres, and the
Hamlin College of Midwives in Ethiopia. And shoppers, especially at Christmas,
liked the idea of ethical giving and helping those less fortunate.

"What we're seeing is a growing trend towards ethical giving and people know
that when they make a purchase their money is going towards helping others," she
said.

"Proceeds from the sale of items in our Turramurra gift shop, and our online
store, go to support the work in Ethiopia." Dr Catherine Hamlin and her late
husband Dr Reg Hamlin, co-founded the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, to treat
women with childbirth injuries - obstetric fistula and patients are treated,
free of charge.

The store, which opened in April on Pacific Highway, has seen people from across
Sydney visit to buy handmade Ethiopian products and other ethical gifts for
loved ones. "We also have a fantastic crew who volunteer their time here at the
store, and they have been great, particularly in the lead-up to Christmas," Ms
Seabrook said.

AT A GLANCE â-  The Hamlin Fistula Ethiopa (Australia) store is at 1396 Pacific
Highway Turramurra â-  You can also buy online at hamlin.org.auâ-  Funds are
raised through the store for the Ababa Fistula Hospital in Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: North Shore Times - Gloss 310


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     North Shore Times (Friday) (Australia)

                            December 6, 2013 Friday
                             NorthShore310 Edition

Ethical gifts have twice the impact

BYLINE: Lisa Herbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 307  words


With Christmas approaching and presents to buy, many shoppers are jumping on
board the idea of ethical giving and the opportunity to give twice when buying a
gift.

Not only can shoppers buy something special for a loved one, but with proceeds
from sales going to charity they have the opportunity to double their giving
power.

Staff at Turramurra's Hamlin Fistula Ethiopia (Australia) store said there had
been a noticeable increase in shoppers in recent weeks looking to give ethically
this Christmas.

The store's merchandise manager Tanya Seabrook said the store raised funds and
awareness for the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, its regional centres, and the
Hamlin College of Midwives in Ethiopia. And shoppers, especially at Christmas,
liked the idea of ethical giving and helping those less fortunate.

"What we're seeing is a growing trend towards ethical giving and people know
that when they make a purchase their money is going towards helping others," she
said.

"Proceeds from the sale of items in our Turramurra gift shop, and our online
store, go to support the work in Ethiopia." Dr Catherine Hamlin and her late
husband Dr Reg Hamlin, co-founded the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, to treat
women with childbirth injuries - obstetric fistula and patients are treated,
free of charge.

The store, which opened in April on Pacific Highway, has seen people from across
Sydney visit to buy handmade Ethiopian products and other ethical gifts for
loved ones. "We also have a fantastic crew who volunteer their time here at the
store, and they have been great, particularly in the lead-up to Christmas," Ms
Seabrook said.

AT A GLANCE â-  The Hamlin Fistula Ethiopa (Australia) store is at 1396 Pacific
Highway Turramurra â-  You can also buy online at hamlin.org.auâ-  Funds are
raised through the store for the Ababa Fistula Hospital in Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: North Shore Times - Gloss 310


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     North Shore Times (Friday) (Australia)

                            December 6, 2013 Friday
                             NorthShore310 Edition

Ethical gifts have twice the impact

BYLINE: Lisa Herbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 307  words


With Christmas approaching and presents to buy, many shoppers are jumping on
board the idea of ethical giving and the opportunity to give twice when buying a
gift.

Not only can shoppers buy something special for a loved one, but with proceeds
from sales going to charity they have the opportunity to double their giving
power.

Staff at Turramurra's Hamlin Fistula Ethiopia (Australia) store said there had
been a noticeable increase in shoppers in recent weeks looking to give ethically
this Christmas.

The store's merchandise manager Tanya Seabrook said the store raised funds and
awareness for the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, its regional centres, and the
Hamlin College of Midwives in Ethiopia. And shoppers, especially at Christmas,
liked the idea of ethical giving and helping those less fortunate.

"What we're seeing is a growing trend towards ethical giving and people know
that when they make a purchase their money is going towards helping others," she
said.

"Proceeds from the sale of items in our Turramurra gift shop, and our online
store, go to support the work in Ethiopia." Dr Catherine Hamlin and her late
husband Dr Reg Hamlin, co-founded the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, to treat
women with childbirth injuries - obstetric fistula and patients are treated,
free of charge.

The store, which opened in April on Pacific Highway, has seen people from across
Sydney visit to buy handmade Ethiopian products and other ethical gifts for
loved ones. "We also have a fantastic crew who volunteer their time here at the
store, and they have been great, particularly in the lead-up to Christmas," Ms
Seabrook said.

AT A GLANCE â-  The Hamlin Fistula Ethiopa (Australia) store is at 1396 Pacific
Highway Turramurra â-  You can also buy online at hamlin.org.auâ-  Funds are
raised through the store for the Ababa Fistula Hospital in Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: North Shore Times - Gloss 310


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     North Shore Times (Friday) (Australia)

                            December 6, 2013 Friday
                             NorthShore310 Edition

Ethical gifts have twice the impact

BYLINE: Lisa Herbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 307  words


With Christmas approaching and presents to buy, many shoppers are jumping on
board the idea of ethical giving and the opportunity to give twice when buying a
gift.

Not only can shoppers buy something special for a loved one, but with proceeds
from sales going to charity they have the opportunity to double their giving
power.

Staff at Turramurra's Hamlin Fistula Ethiopia (Australia) store said there had
been a noticeable increase in shoppers in recent weeks looking to give ethically
this Christmas.

The store's merchandise manager Tanya Seabrook said the store raised funds and
awareness for the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, its regional centres, and the
Hamlin College of Midwives in Ethiopia. And shoppers, especially at Christmas,
liked the idea of ethical giving and helping those less fortunate.

"What we're seeing is a growing trend towards ethical giving and people know
that when they make a purchase their money is going towards helping others," she
said.

"Proceeds from the sale of items in our Turramurra gift shop, and our online
store, go to support the work in Ethiopia." Dr Catherine Hamlin and her late
husband Dr Reg Hamlin, co-founded the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, to treat
women with childbirth injuries - obstetric fistula and patients are treated,
free of charge.

The store, which opened in April on Pacific Highway, has seen people from across
Sydney visit to buy handmade Ethiopian products and other ethical gifts for
loved ones. "We also have a fantastic crew who volunteer their time here at the
store, and they have been great, particularly in the lead-up to Christmas," Ms
Seabrook said.

AT A GLANCE â-  The Hamlin Fistula Ethiopa (Australia) store is at 1396 Pacific
Highway Turramurra â-  You can also buy online at hamlin.org.auâ-  Funds are
raised through the store for the Ababa Fistula Hospital in Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: North Shore Times - Gloss 310


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     North Shore Times (Friday) (Australia)

                            December 6, 2013 Friday
                             NorthShore310 Edition

Ethical gifts have twice the impact

BYLINE: Lisa Herbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 307  words


With Christmas approaching and presents to buy, many shoppers are jumping on
board the idea of ethical giving and the opportunity to give twice when buying a
gift.

Not only can shoppers buy something special for a loved one, but with proceeds
from sales going to charity they have the opportunity to double their giving
power.

Staff at Turramurra's Hamlin Fistula Ethiopia (Australia) store said there had
been a noticeable increase in shoppers in recent weeks looking to give ethically
this Christmas.

The store's merchandise manager Tanya Seabrook said the store raised funds and
awareness for the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, its regional centres, and the
Hamlin College of Midwives in Ethiopia. And shoppers, especially at Christmas,
liked the idea of ethical giving and helping those less fortunate.

"What we're seeing is a growing trend towards ethical giving and people know
that when they make a purchase their money is going towards helping others," she
said.

"Proceeds from the sale of items in our Turramurra gift shop, and our online
store, go to support the work in Ethiopia." Dr Catherine Hamlin and her late
husband Dr Reg Hamlin, co-founded the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, to treat
women with childbirth injuries - obstetric fistula and patients are treated,
free of charge.

The store, which opened in April on Pacific Highway, has seen people from across
Sydney visit to buy handmade Ethiopian products and other ethical gifts for
loved ones. "We also have a fantastic crew who volunteer their time here at the
store, and they have been great, particularly in the lead-up to Christmas," Ms
Seabrook said.

AT A GLANCE â-  The Hamlin Fistula Ethiopa (Australia) store is at 1396 Pacific
Highway Turramurra â-  You can also buy online at hamlin.org.auâ-  Funds are
raised through the store for the Ababa Fistula Hospital in Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: North Shore Times - Gloss 310


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     North Shore Times (Friday) (Australia)

                            December 6, 2013 Friday
                             NorthShore310 Edition

Ethical gifts have twice the impact

BYLINE: Lisa Herbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 307  words


With Christmas approaching and presents to buy, many shoppers are jumping on
board the idea of ethical giving and the opportunity to give twice when buying a
gift.

Not only can shoppers buy something special for a loved one, but with proceeds
from sales going to charity they have the opportunity to double their giving
power.

Staff at Turramurra's Hamlin Fistula Ethiopia (Australia) store said there had
been a noticeable increase in shoppers in recent weeks looking to give ethically
this Christmas.

The store's merchandise manager Tanya Seabrook said the store raised funds and
awareness for the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, its regional centres, and the
Hamlin College of Midwives in Ethiopia. And shoppers, especially at Christmas,
liked the idea of ethical giving and helping those less fortunate.

"What we're seeing is a growing trend towards ethical giving and people know
that when they make a purchase their money is going towards helping others," she
said.

"Proceeds from the sale of items in our Turramurra gift shop, and our online
store, go to support the work in Ethiopia." Dr Catherine Hamlin and her late
husband Dr Reg Hamlin, co-founded the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, to treat
women with childbirth injuries - obstetric fistula and patients are treated,
free of charge.

The store, which opened in April on Pacific Highway, has seen people from across
Sydney visit to buy handmade Ethiopian products and other ethical gifts for
loved ones. "We also have a fantastic crew who volunteer their time here at the
store, and they have been great, particularly in the lead-up to Christmas," Ms
Seabrook said.

AT A GLANCE â-  The Hamlin Fistula Ethiopa (Australia) store is at 1396 Pacific
Highway Turramurra â-  You can also buy online at hamlin.org.auâ-  Funds are
raised through the store for the Ababa Fistula Hospital in Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: North Shore Times - Gloss 310


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday

Law to change so kidney donors can be compensated;
Amount won't be so big that it is seen as an inducement but may be at least a
five-figure sum

BYLINE: Salma Khalik, Health Correspondent

LENGTH: 646  words


The law will be changed early next year to allow people who donate their kidneys
to get monetary compensation from the recipient or a voluntary organisation.

The amount should not be so large that it is seen as an inducement, said Health
Minister Khaw Boon Wan when he announced this yesterday.

He hinted that the sum will be at least five figures, possibly six. The actual
amount of compensation will be left to a committee which will be set up by the
Ministry of Health to look into this.

Mr Khaw pointed out that the World Health Organisation and countries like the
United States believe it is ethical to compensate donors so they do not suffer
for their act of altruism.

He said the amount of compensation is not 'hard-wired' into the legislation of
countries that allow it, such as the US, Britain and Australia. Singapore will
follow suit.

'The ethical community, including the World Health Organisation, has clarified
that it is ethical to compensate, so long as the compensation amount is not so
big as to induce,' he said.

Mr Khaw plans to amend the Human Organ Transplant Act to allow this change.

More than 1,000 people face organ failure here each year.

It is currently against the law for kidney or liver donors to be compensated.
Both donor and recipient can be fined up to $10,000 and jailed for up to a year
or both.

The upcoming change comes on the heels of a high-profile case involving former
retail magnate Tang Wee Sung.

In September, he was jailed for a day and fined $17,000 for organ trading and
for lying under oath that a proposed donor was a relative.

Earlier in July, an Indonesian who failed to sell his organ to Mr Tang was
jailed for two weeks and fined $1,000. He was to have received $23,700 for his
kidney from the $300,000 Mr Tang paid an agent.

Another Indonesian who received almost $30,000 for selling his kidney here was
jailed for 14 weeks and fined $2,000.

The case sparked a national debate on whether it was ethical to buy an organ.

Yesterday, Mr Khaw reiterated that it was not ethical to do so. But he added
that Singapore, like countries all over the world, faces a severe shortage in
organs for transplants. As a result, many people die each year.

Asked how the compensation scheme is likely to work, he said the idea is for the
recipient to provide the compensation to the donor.

But if the recipient is poor, voluntary welfare organisations like the National
Kidney Foundation could step in to help, said Mr Khaw, who spoke to reporters at
VivoCity after launching the Live On campaign to encourage organ donation.

He said the details would have to be worked out, but a recipient could find his
own donor. It would be up to the hospital's ethics committee to agree to the
transplants, as is the case now.

He said the law will allow compensation 'so long as it's done within an ethical
framework, and you convince the ethics committee that you are not pressuring him
or giving under-the-table inducement'.

Both the chief executive officers of the Singapore General Hospital (SGH) and
Changi General Hospital (CGH), who were at the event, felt that compensating a
donor was fair.

Professor Ang Chong Lye of SGH said kidney donors now either have to pay higher
insurance premiums or have their remaining kidney excluded from health
insurance. So, they do suffer a loss.

Mr T.K. Udairam of CGH warned that while it was fair to compensate donors,
Singapore has to ensure that it stays away from 'the slippery slope' that veers
towards inducing the poor to sell their organs.

The minister himself touched on this when he said that a suitable compensation
for a Singaporean might be considered a huge amount for someone from a poorer
country.

These problems will hopefully be thrashed out during the weeks of public
consultation ahead.

salma@sph.com.sg

Should the laws be changed to allow compensation for live kidney donors? Have
your say at straitstimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Three Hospitals Blamed for Breaching Research Ethics

LENGTH: 405 words


By Park Chung-a

Staff Reporter

Three major hospitals have recently begun research on the harmful effects of
smoking at the request of a multinational tobacco company.

Seoul National University (SNU) Hospital, Chonnam National University Hospital
and Catholic University Hospital are now recruiting 540 people for clinical
tests for evaluating harmfulness of cigarettes at the request of Philip Morris
International. Kyungpook National University Hospital, which was to originally
conduct the research, withdrew from the project last month.

The research is conducted both in South Korea and Japan.

However, civil organizations including Korean Association of Smoking & Health
have urged the hospitals to withdraw from the research project, saying that the
research funded by tobacco company is "unethical" and it will only help tobacco
company flourish further.

Jang In-jin, a medical professor at the pharmacology department of SNU who is in
charge of the research, said it is part of a basic research aimed at finding out
how harmful factors of smokers and non-smokers in Asia are different. "Philip
Morris had done the same kind of research to thousands of people in Western
countries in the past and is currently conducting the research in South Korea
and Japan. It is expected to cost about 1 billion won in total," said Jang.

Jang also said that SNU decided to undertake the research after getting a ruling
from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) that the research is ethical enough.

"We will complete the research by the end of this year," said Jang.

Research funded by tobacco companies is mostly banned in major universities in
Western countries for ethical reasons.

In the case of Japan, university hospitals are not allowed to perform the
research.

In the United States, major universities like Harvard University and Columbia
University are banned from getting their research funded by tobacco companies.
Also professors at California State University last year decided not to receive
research funds from tobacco companies saying that it suppresses academic freedom
as the research results cannot be free from the influence of tobacco companies.

"If you want to raise ethical questions regarding this research, you should
first question ethics of South Korean government which promotes sales of
cigarettes through the state-run tobacco maker KT&G but is not active in
conducting research on harmfulness of cigarettes," said Jang.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            December 3, 2010 Friday

Pakistan: Harassment of women at workplace: Law yet to be implemented

LENGTH: 744  words

DATELINE: PESHAWAR


PESHAWAR, Dec. 03 -- The Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace Act
2010 has yet to bring a solace to workingwomen, as the law could not be
implemented in its letter and spirit.

The law passed in March 2010 is aimed at creating a working environment for
women free from harassment, abuse and intimidation.

Government officials said women workers having direct interaction with male
colleagues usually have complaints about their unpleasant remarks and sometime
sexual harassment. But, the officials said, the workingwomen often kept silent
or got frustrated because of the lack of proper place where they could go and
lodge their complaints.

According to the officials, under the law all government institutions where
women work with male colleagues were required to constitute inquiry or ethical
committees in their respective organisations for redressing women's complaints.

"It is failure of the federal as well as provincial law departments to ensure
formation of inquiry or ethical committees in institutions of the public and
private sector," said a senior doctor at the Khyber Teaching Hospital (KTH) in
Peshawar.

Pleading anonymity, he said the government had received appreciation from
international community for enacting the law but failed to constitute committees
in the institutions for redressing women's complaints.

Two major sectors where males and females are working together are the health
and education departments. The government officials argued that it was
responsibility of the head of every institution having women and men employees
to constitute ethical committee for addressing complaints of the aggrieved
women.

"Women will certainly appear and complain against their male colleagues in
health and education departments if independent ethical committees are
established there," the official said.

Sources in the three tertiary care hospitals of the provincial metropolis - Lady
Reading Hospital (LRH), Khyber Teaching Hospital (KTH) and Hayatabad Medical
Complex (HMC) - disclosed that female doctors and nurses usually faced negative
attitude.

"This is nothing new. There are good and bad people everywhere in the world. We
do have some bad people who trouble their junior female staff," said a senior
doctor serving at the KTH.

Requesting anonymity, he blamed some senior doctors, especially consultants, for
leaving their junior female doctors to suffer at the hands of others.

"Some of these senior consultants do not have enough time for their respective
wards and subordinate staff as they are too busy with their private clinics,
seminars and foreign trips and delegated their responsibilities to their
juniors. It is now on disposal of these doctors how they handle their junior
colleagues. In some cases, they exploit their powers and force their junior
female doctors to obey their orders, sometime extremely undue demands,"
explained a doctor, saying his wife was also serving in one of Peshawar's
tertiary care hospitals.

The doctor said nobody would dare to sexually harass female workers if there
were forums in departments with men and women staff for redressing complaints.
Similarly, after assurances by this scribe to keep their identity secret, a
number of nurses serving in the public sector hospitals complained of negative
attitude of some of the staff and attendants of patients.

"We are being considered the weakest human beings on earth and less respectable
in the eyes of the doctors, paramedics and even male patients and their
attendants. Sometimes when you do not obey what they want you to do, they will
change your shift and will put your name in midnight shift and create many
problems," explained a group of nurses at the LRH.

According to nurses, it was one of the reasons people were reluctant to send
their daughters and sisters to this noble profession because of certain black
sheep in some hospitals.

Interestingly, it was announced that each organisation should have an inquiry
committee within 30 days after the enactment of the law. The committee in every
organisation is supposed to comprise three members with one of them being a
woman. In case a complaint is lodged against one of the members of the inquiry
committee, another person should replace the accused member for that particular
cas Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 14, 1983 Thursday

Helping decide medical treatment

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 1852 words


By  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
    DESPITE BEING healthy, a woman in her 30s with a family history of
 breast cancer decided with her physician to have both breasts removed.

In the operating room at St. Joseph's Hospital in London, Ont., a nurse
 assigned to her case was deeply troubled by so radical a procedure on a
 woman who did not have breast cancer. After the operation, the nurse
 appealed to the hospital's bioethics committee.

The hospital is a Roman Catholic institution, the nurse wrote the
 committee. Did the mutilation of a healthy body offend the teachings of
 the church? Was the surgery justified?
    "We brought in a cancer surgeon to review the facts of the case and we
 decided the surgery was proper," recalled Sister Mary Doyle, executive
 director of St. Joseph's and a member of the committee.

The patient's great fear of getting cancer and the high hereditary
 possibility "make for strong reasons" to condone the operation, the
 committee's annual report concluded.

The forum that St. Joseph's provides for its medical staff to deal with
 ethical dilemmas is not unique. A growing number of hospitals across
 Canada have established - or are in the process of setting up - ethics
 consultation services for staff, patients and their families.

The rapid explosion of medical technology in the past decade - notably
 the growing ability to keep people alive on life-support systems - is
 responsible for many of the thorny questions that daily confront
 physicians.

Increasingly, they are tormented by opposing forces: trained to keep
 people alive and equipped with the technology to do so, they must judge
 the cost in pain and suffering to a patient with little hope of recovery.
 And they must gauge the price of extended treatment to an overburdened
 health care system straining for dollars.
    "Society is asking us to be the arbiter, but we cannot make these
 decisions alone. It's progressively more difficult," Dr. Graham Chance, a
 pediatrician with the neo-natal intensive care unit at St. Joseph's, said.
 "Society tells us 'you're costing too much' and parents say 'do the best
 for my aby.' "
    Agencies more powerful than ethics committees - the courts - are being
 drawn into fray, as in the case of Stephen Dawson. (The parents of Stephen
 Dawson, a 6-year-old Vancouver boy with severe brain damage, refused
 permission for surgery needed to relieve pressure on his brain. A court
 ordered the surgery to proceed.)
    Many physicians would prefer the courts not be involved; they would
 welcome independent advice from an ethics group, especially when hospital
 policy on an issue is unclear.

For example, at the Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care in Toronto, "we
 keep getting feedback from the interns - who do they resuscitate and who
 do they not resuscitate," said Dr. Anne Birt, a staff physician at the
 Baycrest.

The hospital realizes ethical problems like this can no longer be
 handled informally and have decided to set up an ethics committee.

Ethics committees now working function in one of two ways: they either
 review individual cases before and sometimes after medical treatment (as
 at Calgary's Foot-hills Hospital) or they resolve policy issues for the
 hospital (Hamilton's McMaster Medical Centre). But their objective is
 clear: to act in the best interests of the patient.

The diversity of opinion on the committees ensures that. Members are
 usually appointed by the hospital's administration and are chosen from
 many disciplines: theology, philosophy, nursing, medicine, social work,
 law and pastoral care.

Some physicians believe ethics committees will, in about 10 years,
 control life and death decisions on which hang shrinking health care
 dollars. "That's the way we're headed," said Dr. Arthur Parsons of
 Halifax, chairman of the Canadian Medical Association's ethics committee.

For now, ethics consultants are wrestling with issues that include:
   .  The use of untested drugs on cancer patients;
   .  Cardiac resuscitation of the elderly and terminally ill. Do you
 revive a gravely ill 90-year-old woman or let her slip away peacefully?
   .  Sterilization of the mentally retarded;
   .  The patient's right to refuse or discontinue medical treatment.
 Should a 55-year-old man fed up with being on kidney dialysis be allowed
 to withdraw from treatment?
   .  Defective newborns. Who decides to stop the care of an infant with
 extensive brain damage?
   .  In vitro fertilization and artificial insemination;
   .  Tube feeding of the elderly. How long should a comatose elderly
 patient be kept alive on stomach feedings, which can go on for years?
   .  Criteria for brain death;
   .  Admission to intensive care units. Should it be on a first-come,
 first-serve basis or are more selective criteria necessary?
   .  Who chooses the patient to get the next cardiac bypass, the next
 organ transplant?
    It's not just physicians who benefit from the wisdom of ethical
 expertise. The impartial atmosphere of an ethics consultation "gives
 patients and their families a greater perspective on a problem; families
 can't always make an informed decision because of their emotional state,"
 said Rev. Stephen Overall, who is setting up an ethics consultation
 service at the Children's Hospital in Edmonton.

Advice from an ethics group also strengthens a physician's legal
 position if he is later sued. "Ethical decisions are often made out of
 fear of legal reprisal. That creates a paranoid medical system" which
 doesn't always work for the benefit of the patient, said Rev. John Swift,
 a member of the ethics service at the Foothills Hospital.

In-house ethics groups also help defuse conflict between physicians and
 nurses, as nurses become more vocal in decision-making.
    "You get a better sense of where a doctor is coming from," Judy
 Romeney, a nurse who uses the Foothills service, said. "Sometimes you get
 tunnel vision. Because you're the one at the patient's bedside 24 hours a
 day, you don't understand why a doctor has ordered a certain treatment.
 (At the consultation) you forget the emotion and are made to realize the
 facts."
    The rule of thumb of the Foothills service is: no decisions. The
 committee will turn a case inside out but only issue recommmendations.
 While they are not binding, they do carry considerable weight.

David and Margaret Gilchrist, a couple from Innesville, Alta.,
 unsuccessfully fought a lengthy court battle for the right to sterilize
 their 14-year-old mentally retarded daughter, Sylvia.
    "With nowhere else to turn," Mrs. Gilchrist said, they accepted a
 social agency worker's suggestion and approached the Foothills Hospital.

A gynecologist there was willing to do the surgery but wanted the
 ethics service to review the medical and legal implications.
    "We sat around a table for 1 1/2 hours, discussing it with the ethics
 group," Mrs. Gilchrist said in a telephone interview. "We were certainly
 made to defend our point of view. But for the first time, we felt we were
 being listened to as parents, what we felt was best for Sylvia.
    "They looked at our fears for her if she became pregnant and listened
 to us in human terms. I didn't come away from the court feeling that way."
    The committee debated long and hard with the Gilchrists, who are the
 parents of four other children. How do Sylvia's brothers and sisters feel
 about the sterilization, they wanted to know. And how will their
 parishioners react to it (Mr. Gilchrist is a United Church minister).

The committee also considered sticky legal problems: What were the
 chances of Sylvia suing the hospital? If she did, what was her chance of
 success in court?
    "They decided the chances of a lawsuit were slight," Mrs. Gilchrist
 said. The sterilization was approved (it won't be done until Sylvia starts
 menstruating).

The Foothills program, which is being copied by other hospitals,
 evolved from brown-bag lunch meetings of physicians and nurses discussing
 ethical questions.

That was almost eight years ago. As their reputation spread and more
 colleagues sought their advice, they became a consultation network
 available to "anyone who darkens the Foothills' doorstep," said Dr. Bruce
 Hatfield, one of its originators.

The hospital board gave the committee official status in 1981 and
 maintains an arm's length relationship with it, although the committee
 must report to it.

Noting that the service has the trust and respect of the staff, Rev.
 Swift said: "We don't police and we don't go out looking for ethical
 situations to get involved in."
    He screens requests for consultations, weeding out those in which he
 can intervene to resolve the problem.
    "More than half the cases that get to the committee have to do with
 beginning treatment that will prolong life, withdrawal of treatment that
 prolongs dying or not sustaining life," he said.

Yet, as they have become more common (Vancouver General and the Jewish
 General in Montreal are considering them) the committees have practical
 ethical questions of their own:
   .  To whom are they accessible?
   .  Who is legally liable for a medical decision based on their advice?
   .  Who speaks on behalf of an incompetent patient?
   .  How is the confidentiality of patient records protected?
   .  Who should sit on a committee? Should members be elected or
 appointed?
   .  How does a committee protect itself from becoming a policing agency
 that looks over physicians' shoulders?
    Dr. John Watts, chairman of the ethics group at McMaster Medical
 Centre, does not believe ethics committees should be concerned with
 specific patients.
    "There's a very real danger that this would tamper with the patient-
 doctor relationship," he said. "There's also the risk of making ethics
 appear to apply only to the most difficult cases, like the Stephen
 Dawsons."
    The McMaster ethics group, which meets monthly, has been responsible
 for many changes in the hospital's practices. It was the architect of a
 comprehensive statement on Do Not Resuscitate orders (one of the few
 hospitals in Canada to clarify staff conduct on this confusing issue); it
 eliminated the requirement of spousal consent for tubal ligations in women
 and vasectomies in men; it issued guidelines for admission to intensive
 care units.

And it has seen to it that a grounding in ethics starts before doctors
 ever get to a patient's bedside. At McMaster University's medical school,
 courses in ethics are no longer optional and ethical issues are routinely
 raised during rounds, Dr. Watts said.

Some hospitals that don't have an in-house ethics service - the
 Montreal Children's Hospital, for instance - retain a professional
 ethicist for consultation. Or they seek counsel from such well-known
 ethicists as David Roy at the Centre for Bioethics in Montreal and
 Benjamin Friedman at the Westminister Institute for Ethics and Human
 Values in London, Ont.

Dr. Paul Harding, a member of the St. Joseph's ethics committee, said  "a health
care professional can no longer afford to make decisions in  isolation.
"There's more and more need to have access to ethical forums that are  not a
rubber-stamp but backed by authority. To break (ethical) principles  is to do so
at one's own peril."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1983 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Child hearts could be used again minutes after death

BYLINE: Sarah-Kate Templeton

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 692 words


TIME is running out for 16-month-old Jack Morris. Suffering from dilated
cardiomyopathy, a condition in which the heart muscle becomes thin and
stretched, he is in desperate need of a new heart.

Jack is far from alone. With a chronic shortage of donated hearts, British
surgeons have begun discussions with the transplant ethics committee for the
right to remove the hearts of children just five minutes after they are
pronounced dead. Those organs would then be implanted into other youngsters and
restarted.

Surgically, the practice is comparatively straightforward. Ethically, however,
it presents the medical world with a conundrum: how can the donor be pronounced
dead on the grounds that his or her heart has stopped beating when the organ can
be restarted inside the recipient's chest?

Such ethical questions brought a similar trial in America to a halt. Between
2004 and 2008, surgeons in Denver removed the hearts from dead children 75
seconds after they stopped beating and implanted and restarted them in three
babies.

Surgeons from the Freeman hospital in Newcastle upon Tyne and Great Ormond
Street hospital in London believe a simple alteration to the US scheme -
removing the hearts after five minutes rather than 75 seconds - would allow the
technique, used only after parental consent is granted, to be employed again.

Their case is based on a near-universal acceptance among doctors that a person
whose heart has failed to beat for five minutes is dead. Yet even after that
period, it is possible for the organ to be restarted in another body.

Asif Hasan, a child heart transplant surgeon at the Freeman hospital and one of
those behind the proposal, acknowledged the ethical concerns. "You take the
hearts, resuscitate the hearts and then use them again. That is an ethical
minefield at the moment," he said. "That is because one of the definitions of
death is that the heart should have stopped beating and that circulation should
have stopped. Now, if you restart the heart then it will mean [in the minds of
some] that the patient was never dead in the first place."

Dr Joe Brierley, intensive care consultant at Great Ormond Street hospital, said
changing views about the nature of death offered the scope to revisit the issue
and potentially save lives.

"As death was being certified using cardiorespiratory criteria, it troubled some
that the heart and/or lungs could then be restarted in another person," he said.
"Current ethical thinking, however, suggests that death is the complete death of
the individual person as a whole."

Brierley said the new transplants would save the lives of children, and babies
in particular, who would otherwise die waiting for an organ.

The problem that faces Jack's mother, Laura Campbell, 25, and countless other
families is that surgeons can use hearts only from those pronounced brain dead.
These donors must have no activity in their brain stem, no potential for
consciousness, and their hearts must be kept beating only by a ventilator.

There is a shortage of such donors, meaning that a fifth of children on the
waiting list die before they receive a heart.

Agonisingly for Campbell, the ethical wrangling affects only hearts. Over the
past decade surgeons have been transplanting other organs, including kidneys,
livers and lungs, from patients diagnosed as dead on the basis that their hearts
had stopped beating.

"Families of dead children are in a terrible situation but I would just ask them
to consider organ donation because it does save lives," said Campbell, from
Liverpool.

"If their child passes away, it would be fantastic if they could consider giving
a child like Jack the life they deserve."

The device keeping Jack alive is also slowly sapping his strength. A Berlin
heart, an artificial organ, has caused him to suffer a stroke and there is a
limit to how long he can use it.

Dr Richard Kirk , his paediatric cardiologist at the Freeman, has become
accustomed to lengthy, and sometimes fruitless, waits for donor hearts. He hopes
the proposal will be accepted and such delays become infrequent. "At the moment
there are a lot of families who have to wait an extraordinarily long time."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Laura Campbell with son Jack, who needs a new heart
PAUL VICENTE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

AKU holds hospital ethics symposium

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 295

LENGTH: 321  words


Traditional ethics committees in healthcare organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns.

They fail to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
healthcare organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics, explained Dr Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor, AKU.  She was
speaking in her capacity as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium
held at Aga Khan University.

Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.  Dr Melissa Bottrell of the National Centre for Ethics in
Healthcare in the United States identified the major limitations of traditional
ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a paradigm
shift that remedies most of these defects.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising
the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational
culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an
integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital,  Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

AKU holds hospital ethics symposium

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 295

LENGTH: 321  words


Traditional ethics committees in healthcare organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns.

They fail to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
healthcare organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics, explained Dr Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor, AKU.  She was
speaking in her capacity as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium
held at Aga Khan University.

Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.  Dr Melissa Bottrell of the National Centre for Ethics in
Healthcare in the United States identified the major limitations of traditional
ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a paradigm
shift that remedies most of these defects.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising
the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational
culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an
integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital,  Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Inoculations ethical

BYLINE: The Gazette

SECTION: EDITORIAL / OP-ED; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 169  words


Re: "Jewish General inoculates its top 200 donors" (Gazette, Nov. 7).

Aaron Derfel's article highlights the delusional state of many
normally-intelligent people when health care is concerned.

Volunteers and committee members give their time to attend those thrilling and
exciting hospital-board meetings. They are present and exposed to the same H1N1
risks in a hospital as many physicians or other health-care workers. It is not
out of line to vaccinate these individuals. It is as ethical or unethical as
physicians bypassing the waiting room or waiting lists to access care or tests
for family members. This is the way it is, unethical or ethical, depending where
you are perched.

Physicians, their extended families and friends, volunteers, the wealthy,
politicians, judges, and donors have been receiving care on a priority basis
unrelated to medical need for years.

Not good, not bad, just the way it is. Kudos to the Jewish General Hospital for
looking after all their employees and volunteers.

Jeff Brock

Baie dÙrfe

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    December 2, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Doctor calls for guidelines for MDs, drug firms: Dr. Penny Ballem sees a need
for disclosure of exactly what is involved in industry sponsorship.

BYLINE: MARGARET MUNRO, SUN SCIENCE REPORTER; VANCOUVER SUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 598 words


Canadian doctors and biomedical researchers need an ethical framework and
conflict-of-interest guidelines to govern their lucrative relations with the
pharmaceutical industry, says the doctor leading B.C.'s new Centre of Excellence
in Women's Health.

"It's desperately needed," says Dr. Penny Ballem, vice-president of B.C. Women's
Hospital and board chair of the centre of excellence, which opens next week.

Ballem says she'd like to see the centre devise guidelines that can be adopted
across Canada.

"I believe that drug company funding and the insidious way that it is basically
overwhelming our biomedical research is a grave threat to our health care
system," says Ballem, referring to the fact that pharmaceutical dollars are now
the biggest source of medical research funds in Canada.

"I think the issue of conflict of interest and who's driving the agenda for what
purpose is of paramount concern for women and their health," says Ballem, who
would like to see more money going into prevention of women's health problems
like osteoporosis and less into questionable testing and treatments.

"As far as I'm concerned, the agenda for drug company-funded research is to move
their bottom line," she said, adding that hospitals and universities should
establish a process so research projects are assessed by people with no vested
interest in the projects.

Ballem said clearer disclosure policies are also needed so the public and
volunteers participating in studies know who is funding the research. Names of
companies involved and the amount of money they've contributed are not now
spelled out on consent forms.

She says she also has trouble with the industry sponsorship of medical
conferences and educational events, and the way doctors participate in
industry-sponsored media events.

"There needs to be really clear conflict-of-interest guidelines for physicians
doing drug company research so that they know that they should not be going to
drug company press conferences," Ballem said.

Earlier this year, Ballem refused to host a company news conference to promote a
new osteoporosis drug at B.C. Women's Hospital. The media conference, where Dr.
David Kendler attested to the benefit of the new drug marketed by Merck Frosst
Canada, was held at Vancouver Hospital instead. Ballem is well aware her ideas
about an ethical framework aren't going to be popular in many quarters.

Most doctors and university officials are "so desperately grubbing for money
that the whole issue of conflict-of-interest is going to be seen as a barrier to
them surviving and attracting funding," she says.

Dr. David McLean, vice-president of research at Vancouver Hospital and assistant
dean of medicine at the University of B.C., agrees ethical guidelines are "a
very good idea." But he says there are already plenty of rules to govern the
ethical behavior of doctors and their relations with drug makers.

He says he is not convinced there is a big problem and suggested Ballem look at
the "model" guidelines used at Vancouver Hospital to ensure industry work is
thoroughly reviewed.

McLean also says the hospital has clear guidelines about press conferences and
shies away from helping industry launch new drugs. He says he was not aware that
Merck Frosst held a news conference promoting its new osteoporosis drug Fosamax
at his hospital in January.

He also expresses concern that cumbersome, time-consuming conflict-of-interest
rules and ethical reviews for industry-financed research might drive much-needed
research out of the province and country.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

Hospital lotto ethics questioned; Institutions are blinded by the attraction of
easy revenue, argues CMAJ editorial

BYLINE: Joanne Laucius, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 852 words


It is "contradictory" to ban hospitals from selling tobacco but not another
addictive product - their own lottery tickets - says an editorial in the
Canadian Medical Association Journal.

"Gambling can be addictive and has the potential to harm vulnerable people,"
says the editorial by CMAJ editor-inchief Dr. John Fletcher.

"For this reason, gambling is an area in which health professionals and
hospitals should take a lead. Have we lost our moral compass to such an extent
that we are blinded to our duty to 'do no harm' by the attraction of easy
revenue?"

Fletcher doesn't propose banning hospital lotteries, but argues hospitals should
be good corporate citizens and protect vulnerable players via measures such as
banning bulk discounts for buying large numbers of tickets and asking players to
specify their spending limits, an option already in place in the U.K.'s national
lottery.

"Just as there are ethical investment funds, there are ethical ways to run
lotteries." Lotteries can raise significant amounts of money for health care.
Since the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto held its first lottery in 1996,
some of Canada's larger hospitals now raise $10 million or more annually from
lotteries, says Fletcher.

The Canadian Cancer Society has held lotteries since 2001, generating $54
million in net revenue. CHEO's Dream of A Lifetime has generated a net profit of
$40 million since it was introduced in 1991.

CHEO Foundation president and CEO Kevin Keohane agrees that gambling addiction
is a serious problem, but doesn't see addiction presenting an ethical dilemma
for the lotteries operated by the children's hospital.

Hospital lottery ticket-buyers are people who would donate anyway. They just
find the possibility of winning something a little more fun, he says.

"To me, this is like applying the same scrutiny to the office 50/50 draw as
going to the casino four nights a week," says Keohane.

"Yes, (purchasers) want to win prizes. That's natural. But it's not like 6/49 or
Lotto Max."

About 70 per cent of ticket buyers for CHEO's lottery purchase a single ticket,
and when the foundation sees orders for 10 tickets or more, a representative
calls the buyer to verify the purchase.

There's also not the immediate gratification association with going to the
casino to play blackjack or the slot machines, says Keohane. In hospital
lotteries, months often elapse between the purchase of a ticket and the draw.

Daniel Brunette, president of the Ottawa Association of Fundraising
Professionals, says good fundraising practices include making sure fundraisers
are in line with the charity's mission and mandate.

It's not easy money - some lotteries have lost money. "Lotteries are a
tremendous lot of work," he says.

For charities, lotteries are one way to diversify.

"People may not give to the foundation. But they'll take their chances with a
ticket," says Brunette.

Lotteries are on the low end of the addictive range when it comes to gambling,
says Nigel Turner, a gambling researcher with the Centre of Addiction and Mental
Health in Toronto.

Problem gambling is more common than heroin addiction and less common than
alcoholism or depression, he says. Just over half of Ontario residents buy
lottery tickets, but only about five per cent of those who call helplines with
gambling problems are lottery players, he says.

"I wouldn't say they're benign. I think the advertising is a little misleading,"
says Turner.

In Turner's lottery research, the most he has heard of one person spending on
hospital lotteries was $3,500. "If you're going to get upset about something,
slot machines are much more of a problem."

Good social causes often use lotteries as a way to raise money, says Dr. Jeffrey
Derevensky, a professor of child psychology at McGill University and a gambling
researcher.

Lottery ticket buyers are a notoriously hard market to capture. Even if the
prize is $20 million and a ticket only $2, lottery players are likely to wait
until the prize money climbs to $30 million before plunking down a toonie.

This isn't the first time the CMAJ has tackled the question of hospital
lotteries. In June 2008, the journal pointed to a 2005 research project that
looked at the gambling practices and policies of hospitals and their
foundations. Of the 97 that responded to the survey, funded by the Ontario
Problem Gambling Research Centre, 59 hospitals and foundations said they raised
funds through gambling activities. Only five had guidance policies.

"It could be argued that Canadian hospitals have become dependent, if not
addicted, to gambling revenues," said the CMAJ, which said some researchers are
concerned that hospital lotteries "blur the line between gambling and
philanthropy," while the prevalence of ads for these lotteries helps build a
culture that normalizes gambling.

"Of greater concern, however, is the ethical quagmire hospitals can find
themselves in if they become too dependent on gambling revenues," the journal
said.

jlaucius@ottawacitizen.com twitter.com/joannelaucius Q&A: Joanne Laucius talks
with CHEO Foundation president Kevin Keohane about its lottery at
ottawacitizen.com/city

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / An editorial in the Canadian Medical Association Journal suggests
hospital lotteries, such as CHEO 's fundraiser, should do more to protect
vulnerable players.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            October 21, 1996 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Hospitals claim use of dead patients in doctor training 'ethical'

BYLINE: MELISSA SWEET Medical Writer

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 495 words


Dead patients are being used to train doctors in emergency procedures without
the knowledge or consent of relatives, a new study has revealed.

Doctors say the survey, of Australian and New Zealand hospital emergency
departments, has brought to light a longstanding practice of which the public
had been unaware.

Of 48 departments accredited to train doctors in emergency medicine, 46 per cent
had used the bodies of newly deceased patients in teaching resuscitation skills,
such as inserting a tube through the mouth into the airways.

None had obtained consent from relatives, and only one of the hospitals which
responded to the survey had a written policy addressing the issue.

About three-quarters of respondents believed the practice was ethical, the
researchers report today in the Medical Journal of Australia.

The study's authors, doctors Corinne Ginifer and AnneMaree Kelly , of the
Western Hospital in Melbourne, said there were no laws to stop the practice on
patients whose deaths did not have to be reported to the coroner.

However, they said debate about whether its benefits in training doctors
outweighed any potential harm to individuals or society had been slow, "perhaps
because of a reluctance to seek guidance from the community about a practice
that has been occurring covertly for many years".

The researchers noted that previous studies had found up to 40 per cent of
United States hospitals engaged in the practice, although objections had been
raised there on religious, ethical and legal grounds.

"Many members of staff, particularly nurses, find the practice distressing
because it appears to conflict with their primary duty of care," they said.

Some medical and nursing groups had strongly rejected the routine use of
recently deceased patients for teaching, except in exceptional circumstances
such as in patients with major accident injuries who provided experience not
obtainable in any other

way.

In an accompanying editorial in the journal, the director of the Royal Brisbane
Hospital's emergency department, Dr Richard Ashby , urged hospitals to address
the issue. "Teaching resuscitation on the newly deceased is an important
educational tool in medicine, but there are complex social issues involved," he
wrote. "It is therefore inappropriate and unnecessary for the practice to be
hidden from public scrutiny and debate. It is equally inappropriate for the
practice to occur other than in the context of strict institutional guidelines
and review."

* Two years ago, a Herald investigation revealed that surgeons, medical
researchers and forensic scientists had systematically and secretly removed the
organs and bones of bodies taken to the City Morgue at Glebe.

The body parts - from knees to spinal cords and internal organ samples - were
used for a variety of purposes, from genetic research to practice for plastic
surgery. Brains were also removed from corpses at the morgue and secretly
retained without the knowledge or consent of relatives.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1996 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            August 26, 2014 Tuesday

Private hospital charges not under MOH's purview

SECTION: FORUM LETTERS

LENGTH: 316 words


MR TAN Jiak Hong ("Rein in medicine charges at private hospitals"; Forum Online,
last Thursday) quoted staff at a private hospital as saying that the charges at
the private hospital "had been reviewed by the hospital's management committee
and were supported by the Ministry of Health".

Private hospital charges do not fall under the Ministry of Health's (MOH)
purview; private hospitals set their fees independently.

According to the Singapore Medical Council's Ethical Code and Ethical
Guidelines, a doctor cannot abuse the doctor-patient relationship for personal
gain. This means a doctor shall not let financial considerations imposed by his
own practice, investments or financial arrangements influence the objectivity of
his clinical judgment in the treatment of his patients.

A doctor shall refrain from improperly obtaining fees from patients, improperly
prescribing drugs or appliances in which he has a financial interest, and
fee-sharing or obtaining commissions from referral of patients.

To increase transparency and enable patients to make more informed choices, the
total hospital bill sizes of 80 procedures in public and private hospitals are
published on MOH's website. This will help Singaporeans make more informed
choices.

From next month, MOH will also publish the "total operation fees", which is a
component of the total hospital bill comprising the "surgeon fee", "anaesthetist
fee" and "facility fee" in our public hospitals.

Publishing such data for both unsubsidised and subsidised patients in our public
hospitals will serve as a useful point of reference on procedure-related
professional fees, which are applicable to both public and private sector
health-care providers.

MOH will continue to work to extend transparency of health-care charges to
facilitate informed decision-making by patients.

Lim Bee Khim (Ms)

Director, Corporate Communications

Ministry of Health

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                           September 5, 2013 Thursday

Violation of ethics

LENGTH: 960 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Sept. 5 -- The sight of the couple is very familiar to us now, from their
exposure in print media and television. The female is a motherly woman in a
spotted blouse, and the male a haggard-looking man with unkempt beard and hair.
A deep sadness pervades these images. After nearly nine years of silent and
personal struggle in search of justice, our society has been finally introduced
to Ganga Maya Adhikari and Nanda Prasad Adhikari, who are now over 40 days into
fast-unto-death.

This couple's story is heart-wrenching. Their 18-year-old son was abducted and
killed by Maoists in 2004. From what media tells, even after their son's murder,
the Maoists and the state had pestered this family. Because they had registered
an FIR against the suspected murderers, they were repeatedly threatened by
Maoists, their livestock were killed, and they were ultimately chased out from
their home. Despite these threats, they persevered in their search for justice,
which largely remained elusive. When the usual channels of justice offered no
recourse, they started a hunger strike in front of the Prime Minister's Office
early this year. They were allegedly detained at a police station for 48 days
and then taken to Gorkha, handcuffed, to be dumped. But they returned and staged
a hunger strike.

According to Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC)'s appeal, they were arrested
in mid-June and taken to Bir Hospital. The appeal says, "The doctors there
recommended their transfer to a mental hospital. They were transferred to the
Mental Hospital in Lagankhel, Lalitpur where they were diagnosed with mental
illness, and it was decided that they should stay in the mental hospital." They
were forced to stay in the mental hospital for 35 days. On discharge, the
doctors apparently revised their initial diagnosis as wrong. Now the couple is
back in Bir Hospital, but this time with a pledge to fast-unto-death until
justice is served. They are in the intensive care unit in dire straits. On
Tuesday, we learned that the Supreme Court has ordered the government "to either
coax them into breaking fast, or force-feed them."

As a citizen of this country, it is chilling to learn about the fate of this
couple. A son was murdered and his grieving parents seek justice. That is not
too much to ask for, but instead, those who hold power persecute this couple
with all the force they possess. What kind of society are we living in? As a
physician practicing in this country, however, I would like to focus on the
involvement of my profession in this injustice, based on reports from media and
AHRC.

By identifying this couple (not just a single person) as mentally ill
(concomitantly) amidst a political protest, the doctors from Bir Hospital and
the Mental Hospital used their creed and institutions to help detain patients
against their will. If indeed this was the case, it is a serious violation of
medical ethics. The medical profession's stance is quite clear on this. The code
of ethics of Nepal Medical Council, to which all doctors registered to the
council are signatories, mandates the doctors to declare before they are
registered, "Even under threat and duress, I will not use my knowledge contrary
to the norms of humanity." Furthermore, in its 2003 Resolution on the
Responsibility of Physicians in the Denunciation of Acts of Torture or Cruel or
Degrading Treatment of which They are Aware, the World Medical Association
provides specific guidance to physicians who are in this situation: "Physicians
should report to the appropriate authorities any unjustified interference in the
care of their patients, especially if fundamental human rights are being
denied."

Another recent development is the Supreme Court order to force-feed the couple
if they do not comply. Again, the global stance of the medical profession is
clear. World Medical Association Declaration categorically says: "Where a
prisoner refuses nourishment and is considered by the physician as capable of
forming an unimpaired and rational judgment concerning the consequences of such
a voluntary refusal of nourishment, he or she shall not be fed artificially. The
decision as to the capacity of the prisoner to form such a judgment should be
confirmed by at least one other independent physician." Jeremy Lazarus, the
President of American Medical Association, had paraphrased the exact same
declaration in a letter that clarified the Association's position that the
forced feeding of detainees on hunger strike at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base
violated the core ethical values of the medical profession. As a profession, we
should not comply in force-feeding the Adhikari couple if we are to maintain our
ethical integrity.

Several questions surface about the handling of Adhikari couple in these medical
facilities. Did these doctors make decisions under pressure or political
influence? Did they debate their ethical obligations? Did they seek help if they
felt pressured? These are questions that the authority tasked with ensuring
ethical practice of medicine should be asking. Since the registered doctors are
signatories to the Nepal Medical Council's declaration, the Council should be
taking the lead to investigate the involvement of medical profession in this
injustice. However, we have yet to hear from the council. The medical profession
should be clear that it will not comply with force-feeding the Adhikari couple
who are using hunger strike as the last measure to seek justice in an unjust
power structure. Otherwise, we should be prepared to bear the shame of a
disgraceful deed.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 19, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

YOUNGSTERS VENTURE INTO THE UNKNOWN: A HOSPITAL VISIT

SECTION: Section 11WC; Page 22, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 273 words


Marcy Busch had a cast put on her arm the other day. But 4-year-old Mary didn't
have any broken bones. She was visiting the White Plains Hospital Medical Center
with her nursery-school class and learning about making casts was part of the
tour.

''This visit is like an immunization,'' said Audrey Rosen, Marcy's teacher at
the Nursery School of the Westchester Ethical Humanist Society in White Plains,
who accompanied her class on the trip. ''By seeing the hospital under optimum,
happy circumstances -- with their friends and teachers and in good health -- the
children's fears may be allayed if ever they or a member of their families have
to go to the hospital. They will know what to expect, rather than fear the
unknown.''

A tour of selected hospital facilities is offered each week during most of the
school year to groups of elementary or nursery-school children by volunteers
from the Scarsdale Auxillary of the Medical Center.

Claudia Palmer, coordinator of the tours, guided Marcy's class though the halls,
frequently reminding the group to make way for wheelchairs and stretchers (''It
must be Wednesday,'' a hospital staff member said as the diminutive procesion
passed by.) Highlights of the visit included the department of physical medicine
where the children hopped on ''pretend'' broken ankles along the parallel bars,;
peditrics, where they saw a bby in an oxygen tent and watched theselves on the
nurses' television monitors, and the blood bank, with its special refrigertor.

But the favorite spot of the morning amng most of the chilren was the nursery,
where a nurse held up a newborn infant for all to see.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of children at the White Plains Medical Center

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           February 18, 2012 Saturday

Pakistan: Intl' symposium on 'Ethical Transparency in Medical Practices' starts
today

LENGTH: 408 words

DATELINE: LARKANA


LARKANA, Feb. 18 -- The 5th International Symposium 2012 on "Ethical

Transparency in Medical Practices" would start on Friday (17 Feb) in Chandka
Medical College, Larkana.

Sindh Chief Minister Syed Qaim Ali Shah will chair the symposium while the
symposium will continue till Saturday told the Vice Chancellor Shaheed Muhtarma
Benazir Bhutto Medical University (SMBBMU) Larkana.

International speakers of Canada, UK and different medical varsities will also
spoke high on ethical and non-ethical medical practices by SMBBMU Larkana.

Talking to the media men at CMC SMBBMU vice chancellor Prof. Akbar Hyder Soomro
said that different new ethical and non ethical techniques about medical
negligence will be discussed and in this regard 120 research papers on different
illnesses as well as 8 state of art lectures will also be delivered by the
experts he said.

Soomro further said that such symposium will open new avenues in medical
research and positive impact would be on patients' lives and health standards he
said.

He said for the better services PC-I cost Rs. 1 billion projects have been
submitted to the HEC for SMBBMU further grants, added that for the health sector
development and services an ambulance service 119 in the name of Benazir Bhutto
will be started soon in Larkana he told.

Vice Chancellor told that for the symposium 5 different Halls/spaces spare for
these activities.

On the occasion, three sessions will be held in 5th International two days
symposium from 17 and 18th February in Larkana.

Meanwhile, Paramedical staff of the Chandka Medical College Hospital, Larkana
continued their protest for two hours against the CMC administration on
Thursday.

On the occasion, OPD and other hospital units and laboratories were closed for
few hours and took out rally to Larkana Press Club.

They also burnt tires and raised slogans against the Medical Superintendent and
other administration for registering fake FIR against the CMC employees Zulfiqar
Sahto, Shahi Khan Jagirani, Khalil Jatoi, Barkat Khoso, Noor Kumbhar and others
for disrupting peaceful atmosphere of the hospital due to which poor patients
are suffering.

They demanded removal of MS and warned the authorities will be responsible for
consequences; they also demanded a high level inquiry against them and alleged a
high level corruption in awarding contracts for civil works and procurement of
drugs they told Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision
News.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Bury Free Press

                             April 15, 2016 Friday

Patient food at Suffolk hospital wins national prize

LENGTH: 469  words


West Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust has received a prized national accolade for
its dedication to serving fresh, ethical and sustainable food to patients,
visitors and staff.

The hospital has been presented with the Soil Association's Food for Life
Catering Mark bronze award for the meals it serves on the wards and in the
Courtyard Café and Time Out restaurant.

Every day the hospital freshly prepares around 350 breakfasts, 500 lunches and
500 suppers for patients, along with 60 sandwiches and snacks.

The award shows that the hospital uses fresh ingredients which meet nutritional
guidelines and are free from additives and harmful trans-fats. All of the meat
used by the hospital conforms with UK animal welfare standards and has earned
the Red Tractor' farm assurance quality mark, while fish is certified by the
Marine Stewardship Council and eggs are free range.

To achieve the award, the hospital's catering team reviewed its recipes and
changed some of its ingredients, such as swapping milk powder for fresh milk in
its cauliflower cheese. They also worked with their butcher to change the
seasoning in their sausages, while increasing the meat content of the sausage
rolls which are sold to staff so that they now contain over 80% pork.

Brodrick Pooley, catering manager at the hospital, said: "We are delighted to
have achieved this bronze award, which recognises our dedication to serving
fresh, ethical and sustainable food across our wards and in our restaurants.

"We use local suppliers for our ingredients wherever possible, which means we
can trace all of the meat we use from the farm right to the plate. As well as
being better for the environment and more sustainable, we believe this also
gives us higher quality products, which means we can create tastier, more
nutritious meals which help our patients' recovery.

"We regularly receive excellent feedback about the quality of food we offer at
West Suffolk Hospital, but are always looking for ways to improve still further.
We are now planning to build on the success of this bronze award by working
towards a gold accolade in the near future."

The latest award comes shortly after the hospital became the first organisation
to receive a gold "Eat Out, Eat Well" accolade from St Edmundsbury Borough
Council in recognition of the healthier choices it offers.

Rich Watts, senior catering mark manager, Soil Association Certification, said:
"The Catering Mark is the result of lots of dedicated effort by the team at West
Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust. Receiving this endorsement is an exceptional
achievement in the healthcare sector and a demonstration of the hospital's
dedication to serving fresh, ethical, sustainable food that meets nutritional
guidelines. Healthy places must be serving food that is good for the environment
and good for us."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MBFP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Diss Express

                             April 15, 2016 Friday

Patient food at Suffolk hospital wins national prize

LENGTH: 469  words


West Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust has received a prized national accolade for
its dedication to serving fresh, ethical and sustainable food to patients,
visitors and staff.

The hospital has been presented with the Soil Association's Food for Life
Catering Mark bronze award for the meals it serves on the wards and in the
Courtyard Café and Time Out restaurant.

Every day the hospital freshly prepares around 350 breakfasts, 500 lunches and
500 suppers for patients, along with 60 sandwiches and snacks.

The award shows that the hospital uses fresh ingredients which meet nutritional
guidelines and are free from additives and harmful trans-fats. All of the meat
used by the hospital conforms with UK animal welfare standards and has earned
the Red Tractor' farm assurance quality mark, while fish is certified by the
Marine Stewardship Council and eggs are free range.

To achieve the award, the hospital's catering team reviewed its recipes and
changed some of its ingredients, such as swapping milk powder for fresh milk in
its cauliflower cheese. They also worked with their butcher to change the
seasoning in their sausages, while increasing the meat content of the sausage
rolls which are sold to staff so that they now contain over 80% pork.

Brodrick Pooley, catering manager at the hospital, said: "We are delighted to
have achieved this bronze award, which recognises our dedication to serving
fresh, ethical and sustainable food across our wards and in our restaurants.

"We use local suppliers for our ingredients wherever possible, which means we
can trace all of the meat we use from the farm right to the plate. As well as
being better for the environment and more sustainable, we believe this also
gives us higher quality products, which means we can create tastier, more
nutritious meals which help our patients' recovery.

"We regularly receive excellent feedback about the quality of food we offer at
West Suffolk Hospital, but are always looking for ways to improve still further.
We are now planning to build on the success of this bronze award by working
towards a gold accolade in the near future."

The latest award comes shortly after the hospital became the first organisation
to receive a gold "Eat Out, Eat Well" accolade from St Edmundsbury Borough
Council in recognition of the healthier choices it offers.

Rich Watts, senior catering mark manager, Soil Association Certification, said:
"The Catering Mark is the result of lots of dedicated effort by the team at West
Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust. Receiving this endorsement is an exceptional
achievement in the healthcare sector and a demonstration of the hospital's
dedication to serving fresh, ethical, sustainable food that meets nutritional
guidelines. Healthy places must be serving food that is good for the environment
and good for us."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MDEP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Haverhill Echo

                             April 15, 2016 Friday

Patient food at Suffolk hospital wins national prize

LENGTH: 469  words


West Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust has received a prized national accolade for
its dedication to serving fresh, ethical and sustainable food to patients,
visitors and staff.

The hospital has been presented with the Soil Association's Food for Life
Catering Mark bronze award for the meals it serves on the wards and in the
Courtyard Café and Time Out restaurant.

Every day the hospital freshly prepares around 350 breakfasts, 500 lunches and
500 suppers for patients, along with 60 sandwiches and snacks.

The award shows that the hospital uses fresh ingredients which meet nutritional
guidelines and are free from additives and harmful trans-fats. All of the meat
used by the hospital conforms with UK animal welfare standards and has earned
the Red Tractor' farm assurance quality mark, while fish is certified by the
Marine Stewardship Council and eggs are free range.

To achieve the award, the hospital's catering team reviewed its recipes and
changed some of its ingredients, such as swapping milk powder for fresh milk in
its cauliflower cheese. They also worked with their butcher to change the
seasoning in their sausages, while increasing the meat content of the sausage
rolls which are sold to staff so that they now contain over 80% pork.

Brodrick Pooley, catering manager at the hospital, said: "We are delighted to
have achieved this bronze award, which recognises our dedication to serving
fresh, ethical and sustainable food across our wards and in our restaurants.

"We use local suppliers for our ingredients wherever possible, which means we
can trace all of the meat we use from the farm right to the plate. As well as
being better for the environment and more sustainable, we believe this also
gives us higher quality products, which means we can create tastier, more
nutritious meals which help our patients' recovery.

"We regularly receive excellent feedback about the quality of food we offer at
West Suffolk Hospital, but are always looking for ways to improve still further.
We are now planning to build on the success of this bronze award by working
towards a gold accolade in the near future."

The latest award comes shortly after the hospital became the first organisation
to receive a gold "Eat Out, Eat Well" accolade from St Edmundsbury Borough
Council in recognition of the healthier choices it offers.

Rich Watts, senior catering mark manager, Soil Association Certification, said:
"The Catering Mark is the result of lots of dedicated effort by the team at West
Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust. Receiving this endorsement is an exceptional
achievement in the healthcare sector and a demonstration of the hospital's
dedication to serving fresh, ethical, sustainable food that meets nutritional
guidelines. Healthy places must be serving food that is good for the environment
and good for us."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MHEP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Newmarket Journal

                             April 15, 2016 Friday

Patient food at Suffolk hospital wins national prize

LENGTH: 469  words


West Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust has received a prized national accolade for
its dedication to serving fresh, ethical and sustainable food to patients,
visitors and staff.

The hospital has been presented with the Soil Association's Food for Life
Catering Mark bronze award for the meals it serves on the wards and in the
Courtyard Café and Time Out restaurant.

Every day the hospital freshly prepares around 350 breakfasts, 500 lunches and
500 suppers for patients, along with 60 sandwiches and snacks.

The award shows that the hospital uses fresh ingredients which meet nutritional
guidelines and are free from additives and harmful trans-fats. All of the meat
used by the hospital conforms with UK animal welfare standards and has earned
the Red Tractor' farm assurance quality mark, while fish is certified by the
Marine Stewardship Council and eggs are free range.

To achieve the award, the hospital's catering team reviewed its recipes and
changed some of its ingredients, such as swapping milk powder for fresh milk in
its cauliflower cheese. They also worked with their butcher to change the
seasoning in their sausages, while increasing the meat content of the sausage
rolls which are sold to staff so that they now contain over 80% pork.

Brodrick Pooley, catering manager at the hospital, said: "We are delighted to
have achieved this bronze award, which recognises our dedication to serving
fresh, ethical and sustainable food across our wards and in our restaurants.

"We use local suppliers for our ingredients wherever possible, which means we
can trace all of the meat we use from the farm right to the plate. As well as
being better for the environment and more sustainable, we believe this also
gives us higher quality products, which means we can create tastier, more
nutritious meals which help our patients' recovery.

"We regularly receive excellent feedback about the quality of food we offer at
West Suffolk Hospital, but are always looking for ways to improve still further.
We are now planning to build on the success of this bronze award by working
towards a gold accolade in the near future."

The latest award comes shortly after the hospital became the first organisation
to receive a gold "Eat Out, Eat Well" accolade from St Edmundsbury Borough
Council in recognition of the healthier choices it offers.

Rich Watts, senior catering mark manager, Soil Association Certification, said:
"The Catering Mark is the result of lots of dedicated effort by the team at West
Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust. Receiving this endorsement is an exceptional
achievement in the healthcare sector and a demonstration of the hospital's
dedication to serving fresh, ethical, sustainable food that meets nutritional
guidelines. Healthy places must be serving food that is good for the environment
and good for us."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MNJP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Suffolk Free Press

                             April 15, 2016 Friday

Patient food at Suffolk hospital wins national prize

LENGTH: 469  words


West Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust has received a prized national accolade for
its dedication to serving fresh, ethical and sustainable food to patients,
visitors and staff.

The hospital has been presented with the Soil Association's Food for Life
Catering Mark bronze award for the meals it serves on the wards and in the
Courtyard Café and Time Out restaurant.

Every day the hospital freshly prepares around 350 breakfasts, 500 lunches and
500 suppers for patients, along with 60 sandwiches and snacks.

The award shows that the hospital uses fresh ingredients which meet nutritional
guidelines and are free from additives and harmful trans-fats. All of the meat
used by the hospital conforms with UK animal welfare standards and has earned
the Red Tractor' farm assurance quality mark, while fish is certified by the
Marine Stewardship Council and eggs are free range.

To achieve the award, the hospital's catering team reviewed its recipes and
changed some of its ingredients, such as swapping milk powder for fresh milk in
its cauliflower cheese. They also worked with their butcher to change the
seasoning in their sausages, while increasing the meat content of the sausage
rolls which are sold to staff so that they now contain over 80% pork.

Brodrick Pooley, catering manager at the hospital, said: "We are delighted to
have achieved this bronze award, which recognises our dedication to serving
fresh, ethical and sustainable food across our wards and in our restaurants.

"We use local suppliers for our ingredients wherever possible, which means we
can trace all of the meat we use from the farm right to the plate. As well as
being better for the environment and more sustainable, we believe this also
gives us higher quality products, which means we can create tastier, more
nutritious meals which help our patients' recovery.

"We regularly receive excellent feedback about the quality of food we offer at
West Suffolk Hospital, but are always looking for ways to improve still further.
We are now planning to build on the success of this bronze award by working
towards a gold accolade in the near future."

The latest award comes shortly after the hospital became the first organisation
to receive a gold "Eat Out, Eat Well" accolade from St Edmundsbury Borough
Council in recognition of the healthier choices it offers.

Rich Watts, senior catering mark manager, Soil Association Certification, said:
"The Catering Mark is the result of lots of dedicated effort by the team at West
Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust. Receiving this endorsement is an exceptional
achievement in the healthcare sector and a demonstration of the hospital's
dedication to serving fresh, ethical, sustainable food that meets nutritional
guidelines. Healthy places must be serving food that is good for the environment
and good for us."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MSFP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Kentish Gazette

                                October 14, 2010

Home-grown produce puts patients on road to recovery

LENGTH: 162 words


FOOD from local farmers and suppliers is now being used in meals for patients
and staff in hospitals in east Kent.

A series of events have taken place at which suppliers, ethical organisations
and dieticians have shown off their produce.

The groups held tasting sessions and answered questions from staff, patients and
visitors in the hospitals'  Spice of Life restaurants.

The Fairtrade Foundation, an apple grower and sausage producer from Kent, a
dietician and others have visited the hospitals to show how catering company
Medirest supports local, sustainable and ethical products, as well as promoting
health and wellbeing.

Medirest will be using local produce in the dishes served in the hospitals'
on-site restaurants.

The programme started on September 28 to coincide with British Food Fortnight,
and last week suppliers of fish were in the restaurant at Kent and Canterbury
Hospital.

More 'meet the grower' visits are planned at the hospital on Wednesdays from
11am-2pm.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                          September 17, 2014 Wednesday

Private hospitals under no obligation to charge fairly

SECTION: FORUM LETTERS

LENGTH: 329 words


IN HIS letter ("Pricing: Medication no different from other goods"; Sept 3), Dr
Yik Keng Yeong expressed the view that the prices of medication and medical
services are subject to market forces.

While doctors are subject to professional obligations and are under ethical
obligations to charge fair and reasonable fees for services rendered, there does
not appear to be any similar professional or ethical obligations on the part of
private hospitals ("Private hospital charges not under MOH's purview" by the
Health Ministry; Aug 26).

Unlike other contracts, there is no prior agreement on the prices of medication
and supplies.

A restaurant customer is given a menu with the prices clearly stated, and he
decides what to order. But a patient, upon admission, is given only an estimate
of the bill size based on past statistics.

Not only is there no indication of the price payable for each item, but charges
for items bearing the same service code and description can also vary.

Unlike the restaurant customer, a patient does not have the necessary
information to determine if the charges are reasonable. The lack of detailed
records (apart from medication) also makes it difficult to verify the charges.

Private hospitals operating in an oligopoly cannot be compared to businesses
operating in a fully competitive market.

In my letter ("Huge mark-ups for basic medication and supplies"; Aug 21), I gave
several examples of actual charges, including that of a safety pin that cost
$4.54 before goods and services tax. Apart from a mark-up of almost 50 times,
the pin was something I had not asked for. It caused me great discomfort and was
completely unnecessary.

I doubt any restaurant can get away with serving the supermarket variety of
peanuts at a mark-up of 50 times, without making the price known to the customer
beforehand. The issue of professional and ethical obligations to which hospitals
should be subject to certainly merits further discussion.

Charis Mun (Mrs)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

UN: It's ethical to try untested Ebola medicines

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 526 words


MADRID (AP) -- The World Health Organization declared Tuesday that it's ethical
to use unproven Ebola drugs and vaccines in the outbreak in West Africa provided
the right conditions are met.

The statement from the U.N. health agency came amid a worldwide debate over the
medical ethnics surrounding the Ebola outbreak, which it has called an
international health emergency. However the agency sidestepped the key questions
of who should get the limited drugs and how that should be decided.

The statement came after the agency held a teleconference with experts Monday to
discuss the issue.

WHO says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and
authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected or confirmed cases. The killer virus
was detected in Guinea in March and has since spread to Sierra Leone, Liberia
and possibly Nigeria.

Two Americans and reportedly a Spanish priest have gotten an experimental Ebola
treatment never tested in humans and two more Ebola treatments were said to be
on their way to treat two doctors in Liberia. The vast majority of Ebola victims
are Africans, and some nations have protested that their citizens are not
getting access to the experimental drugs.

The Spanish missionary priest, 75-year-old Miguel Parajes, died Tuesday in a
Madrid hospital, the hospital and his order said. The hospital would not confirm
that he had been treated with the drug, but his order and Spain's Health
Ministry said earlier that he would be.

WHO decided it is ethical to use experimental treatments and vaccines in an
ongoing outbreak. There is no evidence yet that these experimental drugs can
actually help fight Ebola -- and it is possible they could be harmful. Still,
this outbreak has had about a 50 percent death rate, according to the U.N.,
adding urgency to the search for a treatment.

"In the particular circumstances of this outbreak and provided certain
conditions are met, the panel reached consensus that it is ethical to offer
unproven interventions with as yet unknown efficacy and adverse effects, as
potential treatment or prevention," the agency said in a statement.

The panel said "more detailed analysis and discussion" are needed to decide how
to achieve fair distribution in communities and among countries, since there is
an extremely limited supply of the experimental drugs and vaccines.

Pajares had been helping to treat people with Ebola at the San Jose de Monrovia
Hospital in Liberia when he became ill, and was evacuated to Spain. He worked
for the San Juan de Dios hospital order, a Spain-based Catholic humanitarian
group that runs hospitals around the world.

Also Tuesday, Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf suspended all travel by
executive branch officials for one month. She also ordered those already abroad
to return home within a week "or be considered as abandoning their jobs,"
according to a statement from her press secretary.

Most airlines flying in and out of the Liberian capital of Monrovia have
suspended flights amid the unprecedented health crisis.

------

Associated Press writers Ciaran Giles in Madrid and Jonathan Paye-Layleh in
Monrovia, Liberia contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this photo taken Monday, Aug. 11, 2014, a health worker examines
patients for Ebola inside a screening tent, at the Kenema Government Hospital
situated in the Eastern Province around 300 km, (186 miles), from the capital
city of Freetown in Kenema, Sierra Leone. Over the decades, Ebola cases have
been confirmed in 10 African countries, including Congo where the disease was
first reported in 1976. But until this year, Ebola had never come to West
Africa. (AP Photo/ Michael Duff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            April 27, 2017 Thursday

Will best practice be possible given Catholic ethos?;
Ethical environment will differ in various parts of campus

BYLINE: Paul Cullen

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 501 words


Picture the scenario, say a decade hence: a pregnant woman with diabetes is told
by her doctors that giving birth may threaten her health, even her life. The
woman is entitled to terminate her pregnancy under legislation, should her
doctors decide this is necessary.

But where should this termination take place, if the woman is being treated for
her diabetes in St Vincent's hospital and is due to deliver her baby in the new
national maternity hospital to be located there?

Best practice suggests the procedure should take place close to where adult
medicine is being practised in St Vincent's, in case something untoward happens.
But will this be possible given the Catholic ethos in force in the hospital?

This is the kind of real-life scenario which can be teased out endlessly as part
of the debate over moving the National Maternity Hospital (NMH) to St Vincent's,
where the site will be owned by the Sisters of Charity.

Legally available

The ethos of the NMH will prevail in the relocated maternity hospital, both
institutions insist, and all legally available services will be provided.

However, in St Vincent's - accessible down a corridor - the ethos or ethical
code of the Sisters of Charity will apply. In the interest of patients, services
across both hospitals will be provided in a "seamless" manner, according to the
agreement drawn up by mediator Kieran Mulvey, yet the ethical environment will
differ on either end of the interconnecting corridor.

The agreement reached between the two hospitals last November, which was only
published on Tuesday, provides some comfort on ethos issues but is couched in
general terms.

The document, which is framed as a report to Minister for Health Simon Harris
rather than a legal text, says services in the new hospital would be provided
"without religious or ethnic or other distinction". However, the addition of the
qualifier "as much as possible" to this commitment has raised concerns.

The clinical governance structure that will apply is illustrated in the document
with a diagram, which appears to show the NMH master reporting to the board and
chief executive of St Vincent's.

In contrast, the diagram illustrating the corporate governance structure shows
St Vincent's and the NMH operating at equal level.

Concerns have also been raised about the composition of the board of the new
hospital, which Dr Peter Boylan has described as "a recipe for conflict". This
will comprise four directors nominated by the NMH, four by St Vincent's and an
"independent international expert" in obstetrics and gynaecology.

This expert will be assessed by a selection committee chaired by a St Vincent's
representative, and containing one other representative from the two hospitals.
Effectively, St Vincent's will have a controlling majority for the selection of
this person and could therefore deliver a majority on the hospital board.

A more detailed legal agreement will have to be drawn up before the NMH is
relocated and this will have to address these concerns.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 March 3, 2000

A blind eye was turned to organs sacrilege

BYLINE: By FINTAN O'TOOLE

SECTION: CITY EDITION; OPINION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1035 words


Just after my first son was born, I was standing, dazed, in the hospital
corridor, my mind still struggling to catch up with the events of the previous
hours. A friendly nurse who had assisted at the birth came out of the delivery
ward and beckoned me over to a deep freeze. She had the placenta and was putting
it with the others. When she opened the door of the freezer there were rows and
rows of frozen placentas winking out at me.

They kept them, she said, for a pharmaceutical company.

In the circumstances, it didn't occur to me to ask any questions. Only recently
did I ask my wife whether she had been asked for permission to dispose of her
tissue in this way. She hadn't, of course.

What prompted the question, naturally, were the much more significant and
disturbing revelations of the widespread hospital practice of keeping the organs
of dead children and adults without seeking the permission of their next-of-kin.
It is already clear that this has been going on for a long time and has involved
very large numbers of people. The Parents for Justice group has so far received
more than 2,000 complaints about the practice.

It is clear, too, that this was not an accidental or occasional occurrence but a
systematic routine. At least two hospitals, Limerick Regional and Our Lady's in
Dublin, sent pituitary glands to a commercial pharmaceutical company, Pharmacia
and Upjohn.

It is also clear that the practice had little medical justification. This week,
for example, the Coombe maternity hospital in Dublin announced that it carried
out perfectly rigorous post-mortems without having to take whole organs. If the
Coombe could manage by taking biopsy samples from organs, there is no obvious
reason why other hospitals could not have done likewise.

And as all of this unfolds, to the immense distress of many parents, another
question arises. Where were the ethics committees of these hospitals? Many of
the hospitals involved are voluntary Catholic hospitals. All of them have
powerful ethics committees. So how could something so obviously at odds with
basic ethical standards have gone on for so long?

Let me stress that I am not suggesting that the abuse of human tissue is somehow
a product of the Catholic nature of much of the Irish hospital system. This
story, on the contrary, started in England with the revelation of what had been
going on in state-owned hospitals that have no Catholic ownership or tradition.
Far worse breaches of medical ethics have emerged from the "progressive" culture
of Sweden, where the state ran a hideous programme of eugenic sterilisation.

There remains, nevertheless, a need to understand how, in Ireland, medical
institutions dominated by a Catholic ethos and policed by ethics committees
could have treated human remains with such a fundamentally irreligious lack of
any sense of the sacred. How could a religious culture have displayed such a
callous disregard for the rituals of mourning and the burial of the dead?

THE answer lies, surely, in the way a religious and ethical tradition has been
distorted into an obsession with a few specific issues of reproductive morality
to the exclusion of almost everything else. If the ethics committees didn't see
the organ scandal in front of their eyes, it was almost certainly because that
wasn't where they were looking.

The action was elsewhere - abortion, contraception, sterilisation. Huge medical
scandals, such as the infection of thousands of women with hepatitis C, could
unfold with virtual impunity, but a mother with a heart condition could be
denied a sterilisation operation by an ethics committee because that would be
unethical.

It's not just that a concern with one set of issues blinded the system to
everything else, but that it could actually foster the most unethical kind of
behaviour. One of the things that is slowly emerging from the medical
undergrowth is the degree to which the conservative obsession with those very
issues could actually encourage the most grotesque practices.

Recent research by Jacqueline Morrissey, for example, has begun to lay bare the
hair-raising practices at the National Maternity Hospital in Dublin in the
period between the late 1940s and the mid-1960s.

Catholic obstetricians, concerned that women who had babies delivered by
Caesarean section might feel the need to use contraception or be sterilised,
tried to establish as an alternative a violent and dangerous operation called
symphysiotomy in which the pelvis is opened like a hinge. This resulted, in some
cases, in injury to the mother and in the death of healthy babies. But risking
the life of a real baby was more ethical than risking the possible failure to
conceive some putative future baby.

Equally, as recently as last year, there was the case of an obstetrician in Our
Lady of Lourdes Hospital in Co Louth, who performed an extraordinary number of
hysterectomies in conditions where they seemed medically unnecessary.

He told a medical review group investigating this: "Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital
was run by a religious order. . . and sterilisation would not have been
allowed." He felt his job would have been in jeopardy if he had carried out
tubal ligations rather than a hysterectomy for the purposes of sterilisation.

Taking out women's wombs, in other words, was, in his mind, more "ethical" than
tying up their tubes.

These are extreme examples, and it would be foolish to suggest that this kind of
behaviour has been prevalent in the Irish hospital system. But they are extreme
manifestations of a mentality that has been all too deeply rooted. By turning a
few issues into the essential markers of ethical medical behaviour, the church
created a culture in which doctors could do the most extraordinary things and
still be considered ethically sound.

It's important now that the promised public inquiry into the taking of human
organs be used as an opportunity to reflect on all of this. It should, of
course, give parents the answers they deserve to the haunting questions of what
happened and why. But it should also try to explain what went wrong with an
ethical tradition that seemed blind to the sacrilege under its nose.

fotoole(at)irish-times.ie

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2000 The Irish Times


                              139 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Panel: Swedish hospital should never have hired 'star surgeon'

LENGTH: 747  words

DATELINE: New York



 Rome: Food and Agricalture Organization has issued the following news release:



 The Karolinska University Hospital and the Karolinska Institute (KI) in
Stockholm ignored warning signs when they hired surgeon Paolo Macchiarini in
2010, an independent panel concluded this week. The investigation was
commissioned by the hospital's director in the wake of an ongoing misconduct
scandal surrounding Macchiarini and the artificial tracheae he implanted in
three patients at the hospital. Two of the patients died, and a third has been
hospitalized since receiving an implant in 2012. "Macchiarini's transplant
activities have damaged clinical research not only at Karolinska University
Hospital, but also in Sweden in general," the panel noted.





 The procedures did not have proper ethical approval, were not based on adequate
science, and failed to follow Swedish regulations regarding new medical
products, the panel says in its 31 August report. (An English summary is here.
The full report in Swedish is here.) The investigation was led by Kjell Asplund,
professor emeritus in medicine at Umea[#x30a] University in Sweden, chairman of
the Swedish National Council on Medical Ethics in Stockholm, and former director
general of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, also in Stockholm.



 The report highlights mistakes made during Macchiarini's tenure at the
hospital. But it also notes that the hospital terminated Macchiarini's
employment in late 2013, successfully resisting pressure from KI, where
Macchiarini remained a senior researcher until March. Whistleblowers raised
questions about Macchiarini's work in 2014, but KI stood by the surgeon,
extending his contract even after an independent investigator found that the
allegations had merit. He was dismissed after a television documentary in
January raised additional questions about the surgeon and his work.



 Managers from KI and the hospital recruited Macchiarini, according to the
report, based on favorable publicity surrounding his work on trachea transplants
and the technical skills he demonstrated during a "test operation" in Stockholm.
KI managers took the lead, and the hospital did not collect independent
information on Macchiarini's clinical qualifications until late in the
recruitment process. "The warning signs that arose then were suppressed," the
panel writes.



 Once Macchiarini took up the dual appointments, the report says, it was not
always clear who was supervising his activities. At the hospital, he was
officially part of the ear-nose-throat clinic, but he performed the surgeries in
the thoracic clinic, located at a different campus. The report says this left
ambiguous who was responsible for the "independent" and "difficult-to-manage"
Macchiarini and gave him "an opportunity to move between the two clinics too
freely." Macchiarini also failed to provide adequate follow-up care when the
implant recipients developed complications, the report says.



 The hospital and Macchiarini have argued that the surgeries did not require
ethical review because they were not clinical research but were performed as
life-saving measures on patients with no other treatment options. But the panel
said the patients who received the transplants did not have life-threatening
conditions and that the surgeries should have been subject to ethical review as
clinical research. There were no animal studies that had tested the specific
combination of materials Macchiarini used on the patients at the time of the
transplants, the report says.



 "We find it to be very unlikely that the transplants would have been approved
by an ethical review board based on the scientific information that was
available in 2011," the panel writes. The panel warns that continuing to argue
that the surgeries were not clinical research risks undermining future research
at the hospital.



 The report recommends that the hospital implement a range of measures to
address the problems the panel identified. It notes that the hospital has
already set up a procedure for whistleblowers to express concerns and
established a task force to address the overlap between patient care and
clinical research. It calls for the hospital to be more independent from KI,
especially in hiring decisions, and recommends additional training for staff on
regulations surrounding ethics approval and new medical products.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                              May 03, 2016 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Judge overturns HPCSA accreditation move

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 564 words


NETCARE hospitals across the country were accredited to employ registered
medical physicists and radiotherapists, where oncology health care services were
provided.

In a groundbreaking victory for the private hospitals in the high court in
Pretoria, Acting Judge MP Canca overturned a decision by the Health Professions
Council of SA (HPCSA) to refuse Netcare accreditation to employ medical
physicists and radiotherapists at its oncology units. Judge Nicolene Janse van
Nieuwenhuizen concurred with the judgment.

The medical watchdog had recommended that Netcare instead outsourced the
services of these practitioners, but the court found that this did not make
sense.

The court was told that all medical institutions were subjected to the HPCSA's
ethical rules. Rule 18 stipulated that an employer, such as Netcare, should
obtain accreditation from the medical body to employ healthcare professionals.

The HPCSA also issued a policy document on undesirable business practices,
stating that if the motive for the proposed employment was to generate income to
the employer or to remunerate the employee on a fee-sharing basis, accreditation
should not be approved.

Netcare said it owned 54 private hospitals around the country, of which seven
had oncology units. It has for a long time employed medical physicists and
radiotherapists at those hospitals.

Adhering to the recent policy document, it applied for accreditation to employ
these professions. Netcare, in its application to the HPCSA, explained in detail
that patients at its oncology units were treated by a team led by an oncologist.
The radiotherapists and medical physicists did not determine whether a patient
received treatment and what the treatment should be, but merely assisted with
the treatment.

Netcare could not manipulate these professions to gain any financial advantage
for itself, and these professions did not receive commission or volume-based
bonuses, the HPCSA was told.

But the watchdog refused permission to accredit these professions, stating that
it was against its ethical framework. One of the reasons stated for the refusal
was that private hospitals should not be allowed to employ practitioners because
of their profit motive.

It recommended Netcare enter into a service agreement with these practitioners
and handed over a copy of the agreement for approval.

"The committee's stance with respect to private hospitals and practitioners in
private practice given that both are in business to make a profit defies logic.

"The criterion that private hospitals should not employ practitioners because of
their profit motive, save where the practitioners were employed to undertake
emergency services, was possibly unconstitutional as it unfairly discriminated
against private hospitals merely because they are profit-driven organisations,"
the judge said.

Judge Canca added that, yet, practitioners in private practice, who were also
profit driven, were allowed to employ other healthcare professionals registered
with the HPCSA.

"I doubt whether it could ever have been the legislature's intention to clothe
the HPCSA with the power to deny private hospitals the right to employ
practitioners merely because such hospitals are profit driven." Theere was no
evidence that the practitioners' ethical or professional responsibilities and
duties would be compromised by their employment with Netcare, the judge said.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Ethical Issues Surrounding the Medical Treatment of Transgender Youth - Rebecca
Harris

LENGTH: 192  words

DATELINE: New York



  Evenston: Northwestern University has issued has the following news release:



   Friday, January 13, 2017

 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM



 Where: Prentice Women's Hospital, 2nd floor - classroom K

 250 E. Superior

 Chicago, IL 60611 map it



 Audience: Faculty/Staff - Student - Public - Post Docs/Docs - Graduate Students




 Contact: Bryan Morrison   (312) 503-1927

 bryan-morrison@northwestern.edu



 Group: Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities Events



 Category: Lectures  & Meetings



 More Info

 Description:





 The Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities presents:



 A Works in Progress Meeting



 with



 Rebecca M. Harris, MD, PhD, MA

 Fellow in the Division of Academic General Pediatrics

 Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago



 Ethical Issues Surrounding the Medical Treatment of Transgender Youth



 This talk will discuss a pilot study to investigate ethical issues involving
medical treatment of transgender youth--specifically, issues including informed
consent, medical decision-making, and fertility preservation.





   In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Ethical Issues Surrounding the Medical Treatment of Transgender Youth - Rebecca
Harris

LENGTH: 192  words

DATELINE: New York



  Evenston: Northwestern University has issued has the following news release:



   Friday, January 13, 2017

 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM



 Where: Prentice Women's Hospital, 2nd floor - classroom K

 250 E. Superior

 Chicago, IL 60611 map it



 Audience: Faculty/Staff - Student - Public - Post Docs/Docs - Graduate Students




 Contact: Bryan Morrison   (312) 503-1927

 bryan-morrison@northwestern.edu



 Group: Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities Events



 Category: Lectures  & Meetings



 More Info

 Description:





 The Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities presents:



 A Works in Progress Meeting



 with



 Rebecca M. Harris, MD, PhD, MA

 Fellow in the Division of Academic General Pediatrics

 Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago



 Ethical Issues Surrounding the Medical Treatment of Transgender Youth



 This talk will discuss a pilot study to investigate ethical issues involving
medical treatment of transgender youth--specifically, issues including informed
consent, medical decision-making, and fertility preservation.





   In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Ethical Issues Surrounding the Medical Treatment of Transgender Youth - Rebecca
Harris

LENGTH: 192  words

DATELINE: New York



  Evenston: Northwestern University has issued has the following news release:



   Friday, January 13, 2017

 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM



 Where: Prentice Women's Hospital, 2nd floor - classroom K

 250 E. Superior

 Chicago, IL 60611 map it



 Audience: Faculty/Staff - Student - Public - Post Docs/Docs - Graduate Students




 Contact: Bryan Morrison   (312) 503-1927

 bryan-morrison@northwestern.edu



 Group: Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities Events



 Category: Lectures  & Meetings



 More Info

 Description:





 The Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities presents:



 A Works in Progress Meeting



 with



 Rebecca M. Harris, MD, PhD, MA

 Fellow in the Division of Academic General Pediatrics

 Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago



 Ethical Issues Surrounding the Medical Treatment of Transgender Youth



 This talk will discuss a pilot study to investigate ethical issues involving
medical treatment of transgender youth--specifically, issues including informed
consent, medical decision-making, and fertility preservation.





   In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Ethical Issues Surrounding the Medical Treatment of Transgender Youth - Rebecca
Harris

LENGTH: 192  words

DATELINE: New York



  Evenston: Northwestern University has issued has the following news release:



   Friday, January 13, 2017

 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM



 Where: Prentice Women's Hospital, 2nd floor - classroom K

 250 E. Superior

 Chicago, IL 60611 map it



 Audience: Faculty/Staff - Student - Public - Post Docs/Docs - Graduate Students




 Contact: Bryan Morrison   (312) 503-1927

 bryan-morrison@northwestern.edu



 Group: Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities Events



 Category: Lectures  & Meetings



 More Info

 Description:





 The Center for Bioethics and Medical Humanities presents:



 A Works in Progress Meeting



 with



 Rebecca M. Harris, MD, PhD, MA

 Fellow in the Division of Academic General Pediatrics

 Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago



 Ethical Issues Surrounding the Medical Treatment of Transgender Youth



 This talk will discuss a pilot study to investigate ethical issues involving
medical treatment of transgender youth--specifically, issues including informed
consent, medical decision-making, and fertility preservation.





   In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            September 2, 2016 Friday

Panel: Swedish hospital should never have hired 'star surgeon'

LENGTH: 751  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 The Karolinska University Hospital and the Karolinska Institute (KI) in
Stockholm ignored warning signs when they hired surgeon Paolo Macchiarini in
2010, an independent panel concluded this week. The investigation was
commissioned by the hospital's director in the wake of an ongoing misconduct
scandal surrounding Macchiarini and the artificial tracheae he implanted in
three patients at the hospital. Two of the patients died, and a third has been
hospitalized since receiving an implant in 2012. "Macchiarini's transplant
activities have damaged clinical research not only at Karolinska University
Hospital, but also in Sweden in general," the panel noted.





 The procedures did not have proper ethical approval, were not based on adequate
science, and failed to follow Swedish regulations regarding new medical
products, the panel says in its 31 August report. (An English summary is here.
The full report in Swedish is here.) The investigation was led by Kjell Asplund,
professor emeritus in medicine at Umea[#x30a] University in Sweden, chairman of
the Swedish National Council on Medical Ethics in Stockholm, and former director
general of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, also in Stockholm.



 The report highlights mistakes made during Macchiarini's tenure at the
hospital. But it also notes that the hospital terminated Macchiarini's
employment in late 2013, successfully resisting pressure from KI, where
Macchiarini remained a senior researcher until March. Whistleblowers raised
questions about Macchiarini's work in 2014, but KI stood by the surgeon,
extending his contract even after an independent investigator found that the
allegations had merit. He was dismissed after a television documentary in
January raised additional questions about the surgeon and his work.



 Managers from KI and the hospital recruited Macchiarini, according to the
report, based on favorable publicity surrounding his work on trachea transplants
and the technical skills he demonstrated during a "test operation" in Stockholm.
KI managers took the lead, and the hospital did not collect independent
information on Macchiarini's clinical qualifications until late in the
recruitment process. "The warning signs that arose then were suppressed," the
panel writes.



 Once Macchiarini took up the dual appointments, the report says, it was not
always clear who was supervising his activities. At the hospital, he was
officially part of the ear-nose-throat clinic, but he performed the surgeries in
the thoracic clinic, located at a different campus. The report says this left
ambiguous who was responsible for the "independent" and "difficult-to-manage"
Macchiarini and gave him "an opportunity to move between the two clinics too
freely." Macchiarini also failed to provide adequate follow-up care when the
implant recipients developed complications, the report says.



 The hospital and Macchiarini have argued that the surgeries did not require
ethical review because they were not clinical research but were performed as
life-saving measures on patients with no other treatment options. But the panel
said the patients who received the transplants did not have life-threatening
conditions and that the surgeries should have been subject to ethical review as
clinical research. There were no animal studies that had tested the specific
combination of materials Macchiarini used on the patients at the time of the
transplants, the report says.



 "We find it to be very unlikely that the transplants would have been approved
by an ethical review board based on the scientific information that was
available in 2011," the panel writes. The panel warns that continuing to argue
that the surgeries were not clinical research risks undermining future research
at the hospital.



 The report recommends that the hospital implement a range of measures to
address the problems the panel identified. It notes that the hospital has
already set up a procedure for whistleblowers to express concerns and
established a task force to address the overlap between patient care and
clinical research. It calls for the hospital to be more independent from KI,
especially in hiring decisions, and recommends additional training for staff on
regulations surrounding ethics approval and new medical products.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

Eight Chinese quarantined as panic grips Ebola-hit west Africa

BYLINE: AFP

LENGTH: 472 words


Eight Chinese medical workers who treated Ebola patients have been quarantined
in Sierra Leone, as health experts grapple with ethical questions over the use
of experimental drugs to combat the killer virus.



Gripped by panic, west African nations battling the tropical disease ramped up
drastic containment measures that have caused transport chaos, price hikes and
food shortages.

The World Health Organization has scrambled to draft guidelines for the use of
experimental medicines at a meeting in Geneva as the death toll from the worst
Ebola outbreak in history neared 1,000. It is to present its conclusions on
Tuesday.

Liberia meanwhile said it had requested samples of an experimental drug and that
supplies would be brought in the country "by a representative of the US
government" later this week.

There is currently no available cure or vaccine for Ebola, which the WHO has
declared a global public health emergency.

The disease has hit doctors hard in the ill-equipped and fragile health systems
of the worst-hit west African nations of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

China's ambassador to Sierra Leone Zhao Yanbo said that seven doctors and one
nurse who treated Ebola patients had been placed under quarantine, but would not
be drawn on whether they were displaying symptoms of the disease.

In addition 24 nurses in Sierra Leone, most from the military hospital in the
capital, have also been quarantined, according to Yanbo and hospital director
Sahr Foday.

Foday said a senior physician at Freetown's Connaught Hospital had contracted
Ebola but was responding well to treatment. The nation's sole virologist, who
was at the forefront of its battle against the epidemic, died from Ebola last
month.

Ethical thing to do?
The use of an experimental drug called ZMapp on two Americans and a Spanish
priest infected with the virus while working in Africa has opened up an intense
ethical debate.

The drug, made by private US company Mapp Pharmaceuticals, has shown promising
results but is still in an early phase of development and had only been tested
previously on monkeys.

ZMapp is in very short supply, but its use on Western aid workers has sparked
controversy and demands that it be made available in Africa.

"Is it ethical to use unregistered medicines to treat people, and if so, what
criteria should they meet, and what conditions, and who should be treated?" said
WHO assistant director-general Marie-Paule Kieny ahead of Monday's meeting.


"What is the ethical thing to do?"

Mapp Pharmaceuticals said it had sent all its available supplies to West Africa.


"In responding to the request received this weekend from a West African nation,
the available supply of ZMapp is exhausted," it said in a statement.

"Any decision to use ZMapp must be made by the patients' medical team," it said,
adding that the drug was "

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2014 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            November 28, 2005 Monday

The flu as ethical dilemma

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1063 words


As you read the latest news about sick and dying chickens or ducks around the
globe, you might ask yourself questions like these:

In the event a bird-flu pandemic hits the human population, should we force
doctors and nurses to stand on the front lines and fight the disease, or let
them seek safer ground?

Who should we treat with available medicines and who should do without?

Who should we quarantine, ban, turn away or jail?

Who should we save and who let die?

A global flu outbreak - avian or otherwise - would not only stretch the world's
health-care apparatus past all normal limits, most experts concede, but it would
test our ethical frameworks to their very core.

And yet as the word pandemic becomes part of our daily discourse, we are
watching, waiting and worrying in a near ethical vacuum, says a group of medical
ethicists from the University of Toronto.

Even as we feverishly prepare medical and public health strategies to combat an
outbreak, ethical questions that could help structure optimal responses, and
create a public willingness to accept them, have yet to be discussed, let alone
answered, says a report from U of T's Joint Centre for Bioethics.

That might begin to change with last week's release of the group's 26-page "
Ethical Considerations in Preparedness Planning for Pandemic Influenza," which
is meant to inform discussions on such outbreaks both here and around the world.

"It's not going to be the individual ... technical (public health) decisions
that are going to hold our society together in the face of an immense struggle
with an influenza pandemic," says Dr. Peter Singer, a U of T bioethicist and one
of the report's key authors.

"It's going to be a shared set of values, a shared ethical framework that's
going to be the glue that will hold together societies struggling with
enormously difficult choices."

Singer points to Toronto's harrowing experience with severe acute respiratory
syndrome in 2003 as an example of where the lack of ethical underpinnings to the
overall response lead to the greatest public and professional dissatisfaction.

"In the first week or so, everything was technical, people were making decisions
about masks and drugs and stuff like that," he says. These technical concerns,
however, soon gave way to pressing ethical worries.

"By week two of SARS, it started to have more and more to do with ethics," he
says. "Should that public official have identified that person on the train who
may have had SARS was just one ... example."

With its SARS experience, Singer says, Ontario has taken a global lead in
formulating ethical plans and responses to pandemics - something the World
Health Organization just this month directed all countries and jurisdictions to
consider.

The report generally refrains from offering hard and fast answers to inevitable
pandemic dilemmas, preferring instead to provide a broad set of guidelines with
which governments, public health officials, medical associations and citizens
might formulate ethical rules.

But it does identify four key ethical issues that must be addressed in any
pandemic planning exercise and lays out some of the major arguments likely to
arise under each category.

The key categories include:

The duty of health workers to provide care in the face of a lethal infectious
disease.

The extent to which normal rights and liberties of a population can be
suspended.

The allocation of scarce medical supplies and hospital space.

The global implications of such things as international travel advisories.

In each of these instances, the report's main goal is to guide serious
conversations among stakeholder groups.

"On the duty to care issue, for example, we're recommending that organizations
like nurses associations, medical associations and hospitals get absolutely
clear on what the minimum expectations are," says report author Dr. Ross Upshur,
director of primary care research at Sunnybrook and Women's College Health
Sciences Centre.

"But we have neither the authority nor the capacity to make strict normative
recommendations for what individual health-care providers should do. We're
trying to promote discussion."

Those discussions, however, would surely include such topics as the extent to
which doctors and nurses are bound to treat patients during a virulent crisis,
the report says.

"Some believe that under dire circumstances, professionals should have minimal
self-regard and pursue their duties at potential cost to their own lives," it
says. "By analogy, firefighters do not have the freedom to choose whether or not
they have to face a particularly bad fire, and police do not get to select which
dark alleys they walk down."

On the other hand, many health-care workers would deny they're bound by the same
kinds of "heroic" expectations and that they did not sign up for such dangerous
duties.

In terms of prioritizing patients, still harder judgments might have to be made.

Some of the decisions, like which groups should be the first to receive
vaccinations and antiviral medicines, would be largely based on epidemiological
evidence and medical knowledge from past outbreaks, the report says.

There is general agreement, for example that front-line health-care workers
should have first access to protective medications, so that they can continue to
treat the sick.

Children over 2 years old, on the other hand, could be placed well down the
priority list, given that they are best able to survive bouts with the disease.

Despite the guidelines, a consensus on some of the most difficult problems a
pandemic would raise will be hard to achieve, many experts say.

Nurses, for example, have a duty in Canada to treat patients, regardless of
race, sex, income or the severity of their condition, says Deborah Tamlyn,
president of the Canadian Nurses Association.

But that duty is contingent on governments, hospitals and other employers being
able to guarantee protection for the caregivers, she says, adding that's
something that cannot be guaranteed during a pandemic.

Dr. Michael Gardam, director of infection control for the University Health
Network, says pandemic debates might also rage over who will live and die -
decisions that would be wrenching no matter what ethical frameworks had been
agreed upon.

Both Gardam and Tamlyn agree, however, that ethical debates are necessary to
properly respond to pandemic conditions and the time to have those debates is
now.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Lucas Oleniuk Toronto Star Employees at Scarborough's Centenary
hospital prepare to leave the building during the SARS outbreak in 2003. Out of
its experience with severe acute respiratory syndrome, Ontario has taken the
global lead in formulating ethical plans and responses to pandemics.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2005 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              148 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                      May 25, 2002 Saturday Final Edition

Stop escalation, College asks MDs

SOURCE: Vancouver Sun

BYLINE: P.A.M. Mitenko, MD, FRCPC

SECTION: News; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 656 words

Following is a statement issued Friday by the professional body that polices
doctors in B.C.:

The College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia has watched with
growing concern the escalating dispute and disagreement between physicians and
the government. We are not an advocate for the profession or the government and
like many, we hope that, in the interest of timely, comprehensive, and optimum
patient care, negotiation and discussions will eventually result in a resolution
to the existing situation. The College has a statutory obligation to act in the
public interest and for the benefit of public safety where physicians and their
professional practices are involved. On several previous occasions, we have
communicated our expectations to all physicians in the province in terms of
their ethical and professional obligations. However, given recent developments
and the understandable public concern regarding ongoing and increasing
interruption in medical services, the College considers it appropriate to again
inform the public and the profession of those expectations. Further, we wish to
assure the public that the College will be continuing to monitor compliance with
those expectations and will take action if compliance does not occur.

The College's expectations of physicians include the following:

Physicians who choose to become involved in withdrawal of medical services must
still, if contacted individually or through call groups, be available to assess
and treat seriously ill patients where the absence of such care may result in
serious harm to the patient.

Physicians must continue to provide care for currently ill or recovering
patients for whom they have a responsibility or see that such care is provided.
Ill patients cannot simply be abandoned.

In each situation where a physician withdraws services, there must be a review
of the ethical principles and expectations established by the College and an
assessment of whether the action to be taken may result in serious harm to
patients.

In situations where the proposed job action will involve a hospital or entire
specialty departments within a hospital or community, fulfilling the College's
ethical expectations will include compliance with established guidelines,
including appropriate notice to medical directors and others involved in the
delivery of hospital services, the establishment of appropriate contingency
plans for patient care, recognition of the adequacy or inadequacy of alternative
resources, and the implementation of appropriate measures to again ensure that
serious harm to patients does not result from the proposed job action.

It is not appropriate for an entire group of physicians or an entire department
at a hospital to withdraw services en masse without ensuring that the College's
guidelines are met. All individual physicians participating in job action
continue to have professional and ethical responsibilities to their patients.

The College has, in previous statements (www.cpsbc.ca
/news/2002-03-15-letter-to-all.htm) acknowledged the constraints and
difficulties which have confronted its members over the last several years, but
asks and expects that physicians will continue to observe the ethical principles
that have defined the medical profession, as they have in the past.

The College is today asking the medical profession not to further escalate
action involving hospitals, emergency care, or specialty departments until it
has had the opportunity to provide appropriate guidance to its members and to
further delineate its expectations in those circumstances.

For that purpose, the College has today established a special committee, headed
by its president and its registrar, which will be directly responsible for
providing guidance to physicians or groups of physicians, and for monitoring the
situation in the public interest.

P.A.M. Mitenko, MD, FRCPC

President

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Excerpt

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               December 27, 2001

Commission set up to provide medical, ethical, legal expertise to prepare report

BYLINE: By CAROL COULTER, Legal Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; SUBMISSION ON ASSISTED HUMAN REPRODUCTION; Pg.
6

LENGTH: 473 words


The Commission on Assisted Human Reproduction was set up by the Government in
March 2000 to prepare a report on all aspects of this subject. Its chairwoman is
Prof Dervilla Donnelly, emeritus professor of organic chemistry in UCD.

Its terms of reference are "to prepare a report on the possible approaches to
the regulation of all aspects of assisted human reproduction and the social,
ethical and legal factors to be taken into account in determining public policy
in this area."

Announcing the commission, the Minister for Health, Mr Martin, said: "Major
advances have taken place in recent years in the capacity of medical science to
intervene in the process of human reproduction. Techniques such as in-vitro
fertilisation, the freezing and storage of sperm and artificial insemination by
donor are available in Ireland and have enabled many couples to conceive
children despite impaired fertility."

He pointed out that while many countries had legislation in this area, there was
no such legislation in Ireland. Medical practice was governed by the ethical
guidelines of the Medical Council, but these did not extend to any service
operated by other people. There was growing public concern that complex and
controversial procedures were being practised without any legislative controls.

The establishment of a commission was intended to serve two purposes: to provide
the medical, ethical and legal expertise necessary for a detailed examination of
the possible approaches; and to prepare a report which would provide the basis
for an informed public debate before the finalisation of any proposals.

The members of the commission are, as well as Prof Donnelly: Dr Carol Barry
Kinsella, an obstetrician from the Rotunda Hospital; Dr Aonghus Nolan, of the
Fertility Unit, University College Hospital, Galway; Prof Andrew Green,
geneticist in Our Lady's Hospital, Crumlin, and professor of genetics in UCD;

Dr Marina Lynch, Department of Physiology, TCD; Prof Tom Cotter, Department of
Biochemistry, UCC; Dr Deirdre Madden, lecturer in law, UCC; Mr Gerry Whyte,
senior lecturer in law, TCD; Ms Mary Cooke from the Attorney General's office;
Dr Alpha Connolly from the Department of Foreign Affairs; Dr Paul McCarthy, a
child psychiatrist in St James's Hospital; Ms N ir n Hayes, head of Social
Sciences in DIT;

Dr Tony Ryan, a paediatrician in Erinville Hospital, Cork; Ms Caroline Harrison,
a counsellor in the human assisted reproduction unit in the Rotunda Hospital; Ms
Nora Geary, a midwife in the Erinville Hospital, Cork;

Dr Miriam McCarthy of the Northern Ireland Department of Health and Social
Services; Ms Helen Browne of the Information Infertility and Support Group in
Cork; Ms Geraldine Luddy, director of the Women's Health Council, and Mr Brian
Mullen of the Department of Health and Children.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


                              150 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                  July 7, 2008

AMA tool kit helps doctors measure, boost patient comprehension

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jul. 7, 2008

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 13 Vol. 51 No. 25

LENGTH: 1004 words



HIGHLIGHT: The program assists physicians and hospitals in gauging if their
message is getting through to patients with poor English and reading skills.


Nine hospitals and physician practices around the country are testing a set of
surveys to help them assess how well they communicate with patients, especially
those with limited English proficiency or low health literacy. The surveys are
part of an American Medical Association tool kit launched publicly in late
April.

The communication problem appears grave: More than 95 million Americans do not
read well enough to understand a prescription label. More than 34 million
patients were born in other countries, and more than 22 million do not speak
English "very well," according to a 2006 report from the AMA's Ethical Force
Program, which created the tool kit.

These patients, studies show, obtain preventive care services less often, are
more likely not to take medication as directed, and have worse health outcomes.
Yet the challenge for physician practices and hospitals is to determine how well
they care for these patients who often are too embarrassed to admit that they do
not understand forms or that they struggle to communicate with doctors, nurses
and receptionists.

The tool kit -- funded by a four-year, $688,000 grant from the California
Endowment -- features short, easy-to-understand patient surveys as well as
surveys intended for executive leadership and clinical and nonclinical staff.

Patients are asked to rate experiences in understanding receptionists, signage,
educational materials and forms, and communication with doctors and other health
care professionals. The staff surveys focus on how well the hospital or practice
provides interpreter services and training.

While doctors do their best to speak in terms patients understand, that may not
be enough, physicians said.

"It's important that the clinic as a whole sees how it communicates with
patients," said Kelly S. Bossenbroek, MD, a family physician at a Meriden,
Conn., health center that is part of the 11-clinic Community Health Center Inc.
involved in field testing the tool kit.

"Unless you have actual data, you can't tell if you're getting better and you
don't necessarily know where your problem areas are. That makes it difficult to
make improvements."

Nearly 1,400 patients, 80 clinical staff and more than 100 nonclinical staff
have filled out surveys. The process has been a learning experience, said Debbie
Ward, a nurse manager and member of CHC's quality improvement committee. When
administering surveys to patients in waiting rooms, Ward discovered that some
patients were illiterate.

The clinics already have a language phone line available in each exam room for
interpretation services and are working to implement the so-called teach-back
method, in which patients are asked to say in their own words the message a
doctor has just given. Because physicians may be too busy to go through
teach-back with patients, CHC clinics often delegate the job to nurses.

Another group that is using the communication tool kit is the Mount Pocono, Pa.,
physician practice that is owned by Geisinger Health System. Between 30% and 40%
of the practice's patients speak English as a second language or come from
culturally diverse backgrounds, said Wenda Hartzell, a Geisinger Health System
administrator. Hartzell said the surveys helped bring about change.

"What we realized is there are certain things you need to have in place for
sites serving diverse populations," she said. "We are looking at providing
signage and sign-ins in Spanish and other languages." Hartzell said Geisinger
plans to test whether the changes improve patient perceptions and health
outcomes.

The AMA welcomed use of the tool kit. "These experiences demonstrate how the
Ethical Force tool kit brings together communication and quality improvement in
a unique and valuable way," said AMA trustee Edward L. Langston, MD.

More broadly, measuring the caliber of communication helps translate the ethical
imperative to share decision-making with patients into action, said Paul M.
Schyve, MD, senior vice president of the Joint Commission and chair of the
Ethical Force Program's oversight body.

"When we talk about ethical issues, often they feel more amorphous and not as
clearly defined as other things we think about in the science of medicine," Dr.
Schyve said. "[The tool kit] is an attempt to try to say, can we first agree on
what is the basic principle, then can we start to become concrete about whether
that principle's being played out in my clinic, my practice, my hospital."

The surveys can be downloaded for free
(www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/category/18225.html).

The tool kit, including promotional materials and data templates, costs $250.
More extensive services run up to $5,500.

Failure to communicate?

The first step toward improving communication with patients, especially those
with low health literacy or limited English proficiency, is to assess current
performance, experts say. Surveys included as part of the AMA's new
patient-centered communication tool kit ask patients how well they understood a
hospital's or clinic's signage, receptionists, forms and educational materials.
Patients are asked how well their physicians communicated with them in the last
six months. Patients can answer "never," "sometimes," "always" or "not sure" to
the following questions:

     ·     Did doctors listen to you?
     ·     Did doctors respect what you had to say?
     ·     Did doctors explain things in a way you could understand?
     ·     Did doctors ask you to repeat their instructions?
     ·     Did doctors involve you in decisions about your health care?
     ·     Did doctors at the hospital/clinic try to understand your culture?
     ·     Could you talk to your doctors about home remedies?
     ·     Did doctors ask if you had any questions?
     ·     Did you have enough time to talk with your doctor?


Source: "The AMA Ethical Force Program toolkit: improving communication --
improving care," adult patient survey, April

Weblink

"AMA Ethical Force Program toolkit: improving communication -- improving care,"
April   (www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/category/18225.html)

AMA Foundation health literacy videos
(www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/category/8035.html)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

Spanish priest with Ebola dies

LENGTH: 513  words


A Spanish missionary priest being treated for Ebola died Tuesday in a Madrid
hospital amid a worldwide ethical debate over who should get an experimental
Ebola drug.

MADRID -- A Spanish missionary priest being treated for Ebola died Tuesday in a
Madrid hospital amid a worldwide ethical debate over who should get an
experimental Ebola drug.

Spain's Health Ministry said Monday it had obtained a course of the US-made
experimental Ebola drug ZMapp to treat Father Miguel Pajares, 75.

Pajares died Tuesday at Carlos III Hospital, the hospital and his order said.
The hospital would not confirm that he had been treated with the drug, but his
order said earlier that he would be.

He is one of only three Ebola patients thought to have received the experimental
treatment. The others are two Americans evacuated to Atlanta. The vast majority
of those sickened by the virus have been Africans.

The World Health Organization says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola
outbreak in West Africa and authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected, probable
or confirmed cases of the killer virus. The virus was detected in Guinea in
March and has since spread to Sierra Leone, Liberia and possibly Nigeria.

Pajares had been treating people with Ebola at the San Jose de Monrovia Hospital
in Liberia when he became ill, and was evacuated to Spain on Thursday. He worked
for the San Juan de Dios hospital order, a Spain-based Catholic humanitarian
group that runs hospitals around the world.

On Tuesday, the UN health agency denied reports from Liberia that it had
authorized the experimental Ebola drug for that hard-hit nation.

"We were not involved in transferring the serum and we will not be involved in
any future transfers of it," said Gregory Hartl, a WHO spokesman. "WHO doesn't
have any role in handing out the serum or any other experimental medicines."

WHO was holding a news conference later Tuesday to discuss the ethical issues
surrounding unproven Ebola drugs and vaccines.

Liberia also backed away from its earlier claim that President Barack Obama had
approved the use of experimental Ebola drugs for two Liberian doctors.

In a statement Tuesday, a UK-based public relations firm representing the
Liberian government said the experimental Ebola treatment would be arriving
within the next 48 hours.

"The two doctors gave their consent, themselves being medical professionals, for
the drug to be administered," the statement said. "The drugmaker has agreed to
supply a sufficient amount of this drug only for these two patients."

Also Tuesday, Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf suspended all travel by
executive branch officials for one month. She also ordered those already abroad
to return home within a week "or be considered as abandoning their jobs,"
according to a statement from her press secretary.

Most airlines flying in and out of the Liberian capital of Monrovia have
suspended flights amid the unprecedented health crisis.

Related stories:

Spanish Ebola patient gets experimental drug

US OKs use of experimental Ebola drug

No Chinese quarantined in Ebola-hit Sierra Leone

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Clashes about care No. 1 'ethical issue'

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 777  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical
challenges" stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who
disagree with the treatment being ordered by medical professionals, says a major
new report.

The report, published Sunday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the"top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated -- whether it involves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic, or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment
to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors -- provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Singer.

According to the report, very few members of the public are aware of the extent
to which there are conflicts between patients or their families and health-care
professionals.

"These conflicts can be as serious as an emotionally charged fight over a
decision to withdraw aggressive treatment from a terminally ill patient in the
intensive care unit, or as mundane as a family physician refusing to acquiesce
to a patient's request for antibiotics for a viral infection."

The report proposes several solutions, including: educating health-care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases; creating
policies for health-care facilities to provide guidance.

The other ethical challenges, ranked by priority, are:

- 2. Waiting lists: The report observes that the wait lists which now plague the
system create ethical questions because, in some cases, the lengthy waits can
harm patients' health, impede their ability to return to work and contribute to
"psychological distress."

- 3. Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system
has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment -- a discriminatory practice which must be openly acknowledged and
ended.

- 4. Shortage of family physicians: The shortage has become a "significant
problem" for the Canadian medicare system, especially since it is based on the
premise that patients deserve "universal and reasonable access" to medical
services.

- 5. Medical error: The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with
experts saying the system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug
prescriptions to performing surgery on the wrong patient. Ethical considerations
include "under what circumstances, and how medical errors should be disclosed to
patients and/or families."

- 6. Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

- 7. Informed consent: Patients are supposed to provide their "informed consent"
to a treatment before it is done, but many do not -- or cannot -- read the forms
they're asked to sign.

- 8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for "fair compensation" to
participants in medical research without the payments becoming a "coercive
influence."

- 9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable to making a
decision about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute, many of
whom find the responsibility to be onerous. Also, there is sometimes a legal
hierarchy that places the most intimate relationships (such as a spouse) near
the bottom of the list to qualify as the substitute.

- 10. Surgical innovation and new technologies: Doctors are faced with the
question: Should innovative surgical techniques be considered research and be
required to go through ethics approval before being used on patients?

Ottawa Citizen

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            March 20, 2003 Thursday
                                  1 - Edition

Seminar will look at health-related ethical issues

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 808

LENGTH: 281  words


AN education program canvassing the principles and concepts of ethics and
ethical standards in health and aged care will be staged in Townsville for the
first time tomorrow.

The Catholic Health Australia (CHA) seminar, to be held at the Mater Hospital
from 9am - 4pm, will cover a broad curriculum of subjects including decision
making in health care, death and dying, respect for bodily integrity and people
with special needs.

Mater Hospital employee services manager Ian Stephens said the program would
focus mainly on the practical application and the theoretical concepts behind
CHA's Code of Ethical Standards for health and aged care.

``It's an interactive program incorporating presenters and quite a bit of case
study work focusing on ethics and ethical situations,'' he said.

``It teaches participants how to recognise ethical issues and how to deal with
those issues effectively.''

In addition to professional and clinical ethics, Mr Stephens said the program
would deal with organisational and business ethics, providing participants with
the valuable framework and tools for decision making.

``Decision making processes within the work environment will be guided by the
principles espoused in the code, so the code is a starting point for initiating
an educational process,'' he said.

Mr Stephens said the aim of the seminar was to improve participants'
understanding of the respect for life in situations of conflict and help them
identify the difference between Christian-based ethics as opposed to
utilitarian-based ethics.

``The program will outline the process of ethical decision making and allow
participants to develop associated protocols relevant to their own
organisations.''

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            February 1, 2015 Sunday
                               Bangalore Edition

Showcase ethical bizmen: Sri Sri

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 246 words


The Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar said it's necessary to create
visible role models of those engaging in ethical business and still making a
profit, thus demonstrating how ethics can become an important competitive
advantage.

"We have seen many dotcoms and Satyams going the unethical way and crashing
down. It has become a lesson to our young people. But it's appalling to see how
smartness got linked to unethical ways of doing business. When I was talking to
young business people, entrepreneurs thought ethics is something na\xEFve. They
felt if you want to be successful, you need to be smart.We need to showcase to
the world those doing ethical business," said Sri Sri Ravi Shankar.

He was speaking at the Corporate Culture and Spirituality conference organized
by The Art of Living in association with the World Forum for Ethics in Business
in Bengaluru on Saturday .

Ravi Shankar said ethical behaviour makes good business sense. "It's smart to be
ethical and serviceoriented. One thing with ethics is you can have a good sleep
and smile from your heart."

Governor Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala, Juan Carlos Losada, youngest member of
Parliament, Columbia, South African high commissioner to India F K Morule,
Daljit Singh, president of Fortis Healthcare, Soumitra Bhattacharya, joint MD of
Bosch India, and other corporate bigwigs partic

ipated in the event.

Losada said following ethics in business not only increases profits, but also
weans youth away from violence.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            February 28, 2011 Monday
                                  1 - Edition

Townsille Hospital in poor health Minister downplays probe urgency

BYLINE: Roanne Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 266  words


NEW Health Minister Geoff Wilson has vowed to get to the bottom of the
Townsville Hospital debacle which has sparked three independent probes but he
won't be jumping on a plane this week to sort it out.

``I expect the highest standards of our staff, and I expect any complaint to be
rigorously investigated,'' Mr Wilson said.

``I intend to visit as many areas of the state as soon as I can in my new role
and I look forward to getting to Townsville.''

There are three independent hospital investigations taking place, two by the
Health Ethical Standards Unit and one by the Crime and Misconduct Commission,
looking into recent misconduct claims.

The minister downplayed the ratio of complaints made about the hospital when
compared to the thousands of staff the health department employs across North
Queensland.

``I am advised complaint levels in Townsville are not extraordinarily high,'' Mr
Wilson said.

``It has to be remembered there are two ethical standards unit investigations
being undertaken from more than 5200 staff in the district.''

Mr Wilson pointed to the new acting Chief Executive Officer Dr Andrew Johnson as
a fresh start to guide the hospital.

The well-respected medical professional with extensive experience in the public
hospital system is already focused on reform following the release of Queensland
Health's Public Hospitals Performance Report for the December quarter.

The report showed some Townsville Hospital patients, such as those suffering
from cancer, are waiting up to a week longer than what is recommended by experts
for life saving treatments such as radiation therapy.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 30, 2017 Tuesday

Surprise move recognises more diverse Ireland;
Media reports and congregation's age profile contributed to reversal

BYLINE: Patsy McGarry

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 690 words


The agreement reached last November between St Vincent's Healthcare Group and
the National Maternity Hospital was clear that when the maternity hospital moved
from Holles Street, in central Dublin, to the Elm Park campus it would be owned
by a new subsidiary of St Vincent's Healthcare Group.

That group, comprising St Vincent's University Hospital and St Vincent's Private
Hospital, at Elm Park, and St Michael's Hospital, in Dún Laoghaire, was owned by
the Sisters of Charity.

Under the November agreement ownership of the new maternity hospital would also
rest with St Vincent's Healthcare Group, which is to say the sisters, a fact
that nobody remarked on at the time.

It was further agreed that four of the nine directors at the new hospital would
be nominated by St Vincent's Healthcare Group, and four by the National
Maternity Hospital.

Significantly, the remaining director would be an independent expert selected by
a subcommittee of three, two of whom would represent St Vincent's Healthcare
Group. So in fact the Sisters of Charity would control the new maternity
hospital, too.

Ethical code

As ownership was already agreed this structure assured compliance with "the
requirement set out in the SVHG Constitution, to conduct and maintain the SVHG
facilities in accordance with The Religious Sisters of Charity Health Service
Philosophy and Ethical Code", as it was described in yesterday's statement.

This was the Sisters' right - and, indeed, their duty as a Catholic religious
congregation. As owners of the new hospital they had no choice.

But they were not blind to the situation this placed them in when it came to
compliance with the increasingly liberal laws of the State surrounding
reproductive health in a publicly funded context.

It presented them with another ethical issue: the legitimacy of denying legal
treatments at a publicly funded hospital. It was expected that, to remove
themselves from this dilemma, they would agree a long-term lease with the State
for the site of the new maternity hospital at Elm Park. Over recent weeks it
emerged they could not sell the site, as it is collateral for money borrowed to
build St Vincent's Private Hospital. A lease seemed the only option available.

Now they have gone a radical step further. Their complete withdrawal from St
Vincent's Healthcare Group is recognition of a more diverse Ireland but also an
acknowledgment of their own critical situation.

Elderly colleagues

With just over 200 members and an average age of 76, they are today most acutely
concerned, like other religious congregations, with the care of elderly
colleagues. It has also been the case for some time, as they pointed out
yesterday, that they "no longer have any direct involvement in the provision of
healthcare services". It was also why "for the last two years we have been
actively working to find the best way to relinquish our shareholding of the St
Vincent's Healthcare Group".

There can be little doubt this decision was hastened by the strongly negative
public reaction to reports last month that the order would own the new National
Maternity Hospital.

It should be made clear, though, that most clergy and religious accept, as it
was put by the Association of Catholic Priests, "the principle that a national
maternity hospital must be in full compliance with the laws of the land, and
that no particular group or religious affiliation can dictate what is or is not
permissible therein".

It was also difficult not to agree with the association when it said "some of
the language and expressions" used about the Sisters, and nuns in general,
during the controversy were "both distasteful and unfair". The Religious Sisters
of Charity "contributed greatly to our society over the past 200 years,
especially in the areas of education and healthcare", and "the vast majority of
them served church and country selflessly", it recalled.

Such hostility towards the nuns prompted the theologian Fr Gabriel Daly to
observe that "Irish ex-Catholic atheists sometimes seem to be as uncritical in
their religious unbelief as their forebears were in their religious beliefs". It
is hard to disagree.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            February 2, 2015 Monday

Showcase ethical business: Sri Sri Ravi Shankar

SECTION: BENGALURU

LENGTH: 254 words


BENGALURU: The Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar said it's necessary to
create visible role models of those engaging in ethical business and still
making a profit, thus demonstrating how ethics can become an important
competitive advantage.

"We have seen many dotcoms and Satyams going the unethical way and crashing
down. It has become a lesson to our young people. But it's appalling to see how
smartness got linked to unethical ways of doing business. When I was talking to
young business people, entrepreneurs thought ethics is something na\xEFve. They
felt if you want to be successful, you need to be smart. We need to showcase to
the world those doing ethical business," said Sri Sri Ravi Shankar.

He was speaking at the Corporate Culture and Spirituality conference organized
by The Art of Living in association with the World Forum for Ethics in Business
in Bengaluru on Saturday.

Ravi Shankar said ethical behaviour makes good business sense. "It's smart to be
ethical and service-oriented. One thing with ethics is you can have a good sleep
and smile from your heart."

Governor Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala, Juan Carlos Losada, youngest member of
Parliament, Columbia, South African high commissioner to India F K Morule,
Daljit Singh, president of Fortis Healthcare, Soumitra Bhattacharya, joint MD of
Bosch India, and other corporate bigwigs participated in the event.

Losada said following ethics in business not only increases profits, but also
weans youth away from violence.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               London Free Press

                             June 30, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LHSC boss fires back; In email to staff, exec who fired nurse challenges
'factually inaccurate' reports

BYLINE: Jonathan Sher, The London Free Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 701  words


Accused of firing his chief nurse to silence concerns about patient safety at
Ontario hospitals, the head of London Health Science Centre has launched a
campaign within hospital walls to defend his record and accuse detractors of
spreading falsehoods.

Murray Glendining has said next to nothing in public about why he fired chief
nursing executive Vanessa Burkoski, only writing he does not comment on "any
personnel matters."

But Glendining has sent emails to staff at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC)
that fire a shot across the bow of Burkoski and her supporters who have
criticized him and the hospital in the media.

"When the (chief nursing executive) lead recently changed at LHSC, there was
little we could say about it as we are committed to maintaining the
confidentiality of staff personnel issues. In living by that principle, a very
one-sided and factually inaccurate account of events formed the public record on
the matter," Glendining wrote in an email this week that was obtained by The
Free Press.

A week earlier, Glendining sent a similar message to staff: "I do feel compelled
to address the comments made in the media questioning LHSC's commitment to
safety. I would like to convey to you, on behalf of the entire senior leadership
team, that staff and patient safety has been - and remains - an overriding
priority at LHSC and this commitment is unwavering. Allegations to the contrary
are completely inaccurate and disappointing."

Safety Gap that showed Ontario hospitals were putting patients in harm's way by
replacing registered nurses with cheaper and less-educated health-care workers.
Staff at the London hospital don't buy Glendining's explanation, said Grinspun,
who said the CEO's emails boil down to this: "You don't know the real truth but
we can't tell you."

Before comingto London in 2011, Burkoski was the longest-serving provincial
chief nursing officer, advising three Ontario health ministers. Before she was
fired, she was asked three times to quietly resign Safety Gap that showed
Ontario hospitals were putting patients in harm's way by replacing registered
nurses with cheaper and less-educated health-care workers. Staff at the London
hospital don't buy Glendining's explanation, said Grinspun, who said the CEO's
emails boil down to this: "You don't know the real truth but we can't tell you."

Before comingto London in 2011, Burkoski was the longest-serving provincial
chief nursing officer, advising three Ontario health ministers. Before she was
fired, she was asked three times to quietly resign with a payout, Burkoski said.

Replacing Burkoski as chief nurse at LHSC will be Carol Young-Ritchie, a 20-year
veteran at the hospital whose duties include clinical operations in medicine,
family medicine and critical care.

"I feel sorryfor (Young-Ritchie). Obviously, it's not her fault (and) we'll
support her," Grinspun said.

The change in head nurses is not the only one at the hospital.

Glendining announced to staff that he and Young-Ritchie would look after ethical
practices.

"Reflective of the high priority placed on ethical practice at LHSC, with a
payout, Burkoski said.

Replacing Burkoski as chief nurse at LHSC will be Carol Young-Ritchie, a 20-year
veteran at the hospital whose duties include clinical operations in medicine,
family medicine and critical care.

"I feel sorryfor (Young-Ritchie). Obviously, it's not her fault (and) we'll
support her," Grinspun said.

The change in head nurses is not the only one at the hospital.

Glendining announced to staff that he and Young-Ritchie would look after ethical
practices.

"Reflective of the high priority placed on ethical practice at LHSC, I will
assume strategic oversight of LHSC's corporate ethics, and Carol Young-Ritchie
will provide operational oversight of the ethics activity," he wrote.

The London hospital is restructuring the roles and responsibilities of senior
management, part of a three-year plan that began this year. "The changes we are
making are designed to reinforce our unrelentingcommitmentto continuous
improvement of safety, quality and the patient experience," Glendining wrote.

jsher@postmedia.com twitter. com/JSHERatLFPress !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Sun Media
Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo);

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 London Free Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 14, 2016 Thursday 10:52 PM GMT

Judge sides with Catholic hospital in fight over contraceptive healthcare;
The California hospital cited 'ethical and religious directives' and refused to
allow a doctor to tie the woman's tubes immediately following childbirth

BYLINE: Ronnie Cohen in San Francisco

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 997 words


A San Francisco judge on Thursday refused to order a Catholic hospital to allow
an obstetrician to use its facility to sterilize a woman just after the birth of
her third child.

In denying the American Civil Liberties Union's emergency request, superior
court judge Ernest Goldsmith recognized the right of a Catholic hospital to
adhere to its ethical and religious dictates.

"The religious beliefs reflected in their operation are not to be interfered
with by courts," Goldsmith said during an hour-long hearing in San Francisco.
"There's no law that says that hospitals are mandated to perform
sterilizations."

The case, brought by the ACLU, spotlights increasing tension over women's rights
to contraceptive healthcare in Catholic institutions.

Rebecca Chamorro plans to deliver her baby by cesarean section in Redding,
California, at the end of the month and would like her physician to tie her
tubes immediately following the birth.

But Mercy Medical Center Redding, a Catholic hospital with the only delivery
room in a 70-mile radius of Chamorro's home in the rural northern reaches of the
state, cited "ethical and religious directives" and refused to allow her doctor
to perform the tubal ligation. In 2009, the United States Conference of Catholic
Bishops issued orders that generally prohibit sterilization in Catholic
hospitals and call it "intrinsically evil".

Goldsmith ruled that the ACLU is unlikely to win its discrimination case because
the hospital's sterilization policy applies equally to men and women. The judge
also found that Chamorro could have the elective procedure in another hospital.
In addition, he found insufficient evidence that the hospital allowed other
tubal ligations solely for contraceptive purposes.

The ACLU challenged the use of religious directives to deny tubal ligations in a
lawsuit it filed last month on behalf of Chamorro and Physicians for
Reproductive Health, a nonprofit, and against the hospital and its parent,
Dignity Health of San Francisco - California's largest hospital provider. The
suit alleges sex discrimination because the prohibition against sterilization
disproportionately impacts women. The ACLU also contends that the hospital
arbitrarily allowed some women to have the common surgical procedure while
refusing it to others.

"It's unbelievable that the hospital where my doctor has admitting privileges is
denying him the ability to provide a safe, legal and common procedure,
especially considering that Mercy is my only real option," Chamorro said in an
email.

Following the hearing, Elizabeth Gill, an ACLU attorney, said she disagreed with
the judge's ruling and was considering whether to appeal it. "Catholic hospitals
have been aggressively expanding over the past 15 years, and as our client is
experiencing, they're the only option for care in a lot of cases," she said.

Barry Landsberg, Dignity Health's attorney, told the judge: "This is a request
for a Catholic hospital to forsake ethical and religious directives. This is a
private Catholic hospital. It's not the public library. It can make decisions
about the services it provides."

The judge's ruling on the emergency motion to permit Dr Samuel Van Kirk to tie
Chamorro's tubes is just the first ruling in a dispute over the rights of women
to get tubal ligations following childbirth in Catholic hospitals in California.

The ultimate outcome of the lawsuit could have repercussions for women
throughout the state and the nation. Dignity Health claims to be the fifth
largest health system in the United States. It owns 39 hospitals, 22 of them
Catholic.

"I'd have blinders on if I ignored the essence of this lawsuit," Goldsmith said
on Thursday. "It's about church and state. It's about exercise of religion and
to what extent it can be regulated by a court."

About 20% of American women rely on tubal ligations for contraception, making it
the second most common form of birth control, according to the US Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.

A tubal ligation immediately following a C-section delivery takes two minutes,
Gill said. A separate surgery requires the additional time and expense of
another trip to the hospital and carries another set of medical risks.

Chamarro, 33, a pharmacist with two sons, is scheduled for a C-section on 28
January. When Van Kirk first told her that the hospital refused to allow her to
have a tubal ligation, she was confused because she could not imagine that the
medical center would stand in her way, she said in court papers.

But, Landsberg said, Van Kirk should have expected the denial because he agreed
to be bound by the Catholic ethical and religious directives when he applied to
the hospital for privileges. In a court declaration, Van Kirk estimated that
Mercy denied his request to tie the tubes of women 50 times in the past eight
years.

Mercy recently denied the surgery to Lynsie Brushett, who dropped out of the
ACLU case after she miscarried. Van Kirk did perform a tubal ligation on Rachel
Miller at Mercy in Redding following the birth of her second child in September.
The hospital granted permission for Miller's sterilization after the ACLU
threatened to sue.

"I think it is totally wrong that a hospital is using religion to deny standard
medical care for an entire community," said Miller, 32, a criminal-defense
attorney.

The hospital ultimately agreed to allow Miller's tubal ligation based on her
need for antibiotics to combat a fever during her first delivery, she said. But
she believes her tubal ligation was no more medically necessary than Chamorro's.

The hospital's policy says: "Tubal ligation or other procedures that induce
sterility for the purpose of contraception are not acceptable in Catholic moral
teaching even when performed with the intent of avoiding further medical
problems associated with a future pregnancy."

The ACLU has also filed a complaint on behalf of Jessica Mann, who has brain
tumors and was denied a postpartum tubal ligation at a Catholic hospital in
Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                              May 03, 2016 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Private hospitals score major accreditation victory

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 598 words


NETCARE hospitals around the country were accredited to employ registered
medical physicists and radiotherapists, where oncology health care services were
provided.

In a groundbreaking victory for the private hospitals in the Pretoria High
Court, acting Judge MP Canca overturned a decision by the Health Professions
Council of South Africa to refuse Netcare accreditation to employ medical
physicists and radiotherapists at its oncology units.

Judge Nicolene Janse van Nieuwenhuizen concurred with the judgment.

The medical watchdog had recommended that Netcare instead outsource the services
of these practitioners, but the court found that this did not make sense. The
court was told that all medical institutions were subject to the ethical rules
of the Health Professions Council. Rule 18 stipulated that an unregistered
employer, such as Netcare, should obtain accreditation from the medical body to
employ healthcare professionals.

The Council also issued a policy document relating to undesirable business
practices, in which it is stated, among others, that if the motive for the
proposed employment was to generate income to the employer or to remunerate the
employee on a fee-sharing basis, accreditation should not be approved.

Netcare said it owned 54 private hospitals around the country, of which seven
had oncology units. It had for a long time employed medical physicists and
radiotherapists at those hospitals. In adhering to the recent policy document,
it applied for accreditation to employ these professions.

Netcare, in its application to the Council, explained in detail that patients at
its onÂ­cology units were treated by a team led by an oncologist.

Merely assisted

The radiotherapists and medical physicists did not determine whether a patient
received treatment or what the treatment should be, but merely assisted with the
treatment. Netcare could not manipulate these professions to gain any financial
advantage for itself, and these professions did not receive commission or
volume-based bonuses, the Council was told.

The Council, however, refused permission to accredit these professions, stating
that it was against its ethical framework. One of the reasons stated for the
refusal was that private hospitals should not be allowed to employ practitioners
because of their profit motive.

It recommended that Netcare enter into a service agreement with these
practitioners and handed over a copy of the agreement for approval.

The judge said the committee's stance with respect to private hospitals and
practitioners in private practice, given that both were in business to make a
profit, defied logic.

"The criterion that private hospitals should not employ practitioners because of
their profit motive, save where the practitioners were employed to undertake
emergency services, was possibly unconstitutional as it unfairly discriminated
against private hospitals merely because they are profit-driven organisations,"
the judge said.

Judge Canca added that, yet, practitioners in private practice, who were also
profit-driven, were allowed to employ other healthcare professionals registered
with the Council.

"I doubt whether it could ever have been the legislature's intention to clothe
the HPCSA with the power to deny private hospitals the right to employ
practitioners such as medical physicists and radiotherapists merely because such
hospitals are profit-driven."

The judge concluded that there was no evidence that the practitioners' clinical
independence, ethical or professional responsibilities and duties would be
compromised by their employment with Netcare.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 5, 2003 Wednesday

WORKPLACE ETHICS 101

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: GLOBE CAREERS; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 700 words


Every day, people are faced with moral dilemmas at work. Now, here's a chance to
put your two cents into the ethical pot. Each week, one respondent will be
chosen to receive a Millennium Edition of Scruples, the game of moral dilemmas.

This week's question

A reader asks:

There are several hospitals in your region that share workloads in several
departments, but not the laboratory work. Now, all hospitals in the province
have to meet new lab accreditation standards.

The lab staff at the smallest hospital has spent months working through the new
standards and updating their policies, and is close to meeting them all. The
largest hospital has done next to no work on the issue. When the largest learns
that it will be inspected first, its lab manager asks his counterpart at the
smallest hospital to share their work. This is not the first time such an
imbalance has occurred, and the smaller lab has always been agreeable.

Is it ethical to finally say no, even though they risk retribution in other
departments, which need the help of the larger hospital? Should they agree, but
charge for the information? Do they have other options?

To submit an answer, or a dilemma:

bizethics@globeandmail.ca

Fax: 416-585-5705

Last week's question

You have a new boss, who is learning his way around the department. He's been
taking the staff out for lunch individually. When your turn comes, he tells you
how impressed he is with your work and asks you for the lowdown on your
colleagues. There is one person you can't stand and who doesn't do a
particularly good job, at least by your estimation, and several others you think
are slacking off. Do you tell the boss?

Our choice

Absolutely not! First of all, one person's "slacking off" may be another's
"working smart." Second, the Golden Rule applies here, and not the one that
states whoever has the gold gets to make the rules. I wouldn't want any
co-worker ratting me out, giving the new boss the "truth" about my work habits.
But the warning flag  is, this person wouldn't be the boss if he/she needed to
ask employees to assess other employees. The boss is most likely scoping me out
to see how likely I am to slag a co-worker, which would give an idea of whether
I'm likely to blame someone else or assume responsibility in a crisis - and
which also gives an idea of my own loyalty to the company. I'd probably respond
that we all have our strengths and weaknesses, and I can't think of anyone who
isn't willing to step up to the plate if someone's having an "off" day.

Drew Snider, Victoria

Honourable mention

So your new boss is learning his way around the department by pulling employees
aside and encouraging them to gossip about each other to him. Sounds like the
beginning of a poisoned work environment to me. Tell the boss you believe
talking about people behind their backs would not be conducive to a co-operative
and productive work environment, and start looking for another job. Working for
such a slimeball will eventually become stressful and unbearable.

Helen Thompson, London, Ont.

Your new boss is hoping his flattery will encourage you to confide in him: For
all you know, he used the same technique on everyone he took to lunch. Point out
that on the whole, the work has been getting done, and it's really not for you
to judge how someone else is doing his or her job - what's important to you is
your own job performance. Thank him for his kind words and steer the
conversation in another direction. And be wary of him in the future.

N. Bencsics, Toronto

The opposing view

If the boss picks up the lunch tab, you owe him at least 30 minutes of honesty.
That being said, you should tell your boss your opinions frankly and honestly.
Tell him that this is your impression and that you will continue to work to the
best of your abilities no matter what decisions he may make. Any reasonably
competent manager will be able to verify whether your impression of the work
environment is accurate in short order. Disguising or misrepresenting the work
environment will impact directly on him first and foremost, but it will reflect
back on you shortly thereafter. Trust lost is extremely difficult to win back.

Raymond A. Ives, Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2003 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 26, 2005

The road to ethics

LENGTH: 959 words



HIGHLIGHT: Want an ethical career? While Society Live can help you find a job in
the public sector, where your conscience will be healthier than your bank
balance, you'll want to be sure it's what you want.


You will spend around 70,000 hours at work in your lifetime. Now that's quite a
lot, all in all, so it makes sense to find a career that you can live with. One
perhaps that makes you feel as though you are adding to, not subtracting from
the sum of human happiness.

The vast majority of job-seeking graduates rate ethical standards as imperative
when seeking a new job. Obviously, some are lying, but for those who aren't
you've got to ask yourself just what you consider to matter. Do you want to
change the lives of individuals or do you want to change the world? Do you want
to work with people or with the processes that affect them? And if the reality
of your ethical stance means a lower salary and standard of living, will you be
happy with an inner warmth rather than a winter holiday in sunny climes?

There's an obvious starting point for an ethical career: the so-called "caring"
professions. There's an obvious difference to be made to people's lives if you
become a teacher, or a nurse, or doctor or social worker ... The entry points,
at least, into such careers are obvious and the link between working, and making
a difference is obvious, but what of the rest of capitalist society? You don't
have to be a teacher to work in an ethical profession. A lawyer can work for
human rights organisations, an architect can specialise in affordable housing, a
City trader can make sure his or her investments avoid arms manufacturers,
tobacco companies or companies with a selection of sweatshops in the Far East.
In almost any job you have, you can make ethical choices somewhere along the
way, by checking the provenance of the raw materials you use, by making sure you
pay fair wages to any who work under you or by using recyclable materials.

Remember too that an ethical stance is a state of mind, that the skills you have
are almost always transferable to a more ethical setting. Fair trading companies
still need IT, companies producing renewable energy still need someone to
organise their human resources department. There are thousands of jobs in
companies set up with ethics and making a difference in mind - it's an
entrepenuerial a sector as any other, though, as with all ethical choices it
requires a balancing of your priorities - your personal values, your practical
needs and your interests. They are not always mutually exclusive.

But what qualities will you need?

If we stick to the obviously more ethical professions, such as teaching, social
work or healthcare, then you will need the academic and vocational training to
get into those careers - a medical or social work degree or a PGCE teaching
qualification. That's the entry ticket, but once you're there, you have to
remember that many ethical careers can make extraordinary demands in terms of
the hours and dedication you'll have to put in. Hospitals, schools, and social
care departments are not noted for being over-resourced and the shortfalls in
funding are usually plastered over by the willingness of staff to go the extra
mile.

You will need to be patient with others (both colleagues and charges), tolerant
of the fact you may be seeing people at their most vulnerable and perhaps
irrational whether that's a patient in a hospital, an asylum seeker desparate to
stay or a bullied child in a playground. Yet you need too to be able make
logical decisions in those stressful situations. You'll need to retain enormous
amounts of technical knowledge having good communication skills - the ability to
listen as well as talk. And you need to inspire trust in those around you. Still
convinced?

If you're outside those "obvious" professions, you'll still need the technical
skills relevant to whichever job you're doing in your sector - a human resources
officer in a charity needs to be just as qualified as an HR officer in a
multinational. Don't think that an ethical workplace is going to lower its
recruiting standards and should be grateful that you'll work for them at all.
While the endgame may be different and money not the motivating factor for your
ethical institution, that doesn't mean they will recruit at a lower level.

Whatever the sector you end up in, you'll need to see the bigger picture, to
realise that your actions make a difference beyond your workplace and your
responsibilities are correspondingly wider.

And, finally, will you like it? There's no doubt that there's enormous amounts
of self-satisfaction to be gained from an ethical career choice - whether its
from setting a child on the right road in life, getting a well in an African
village or, less dramatically, making sure your company recycles its ink
canisters from its printers. Whatever difference you are making, the chances are
it will help you sleep better at night.

Which may be handy if that job is also a stressful one. Many ethical careers
involve demanding situations - in hospitals or care home perhaps and that can be
wearing. It's not for everyone and there's no shame in thinking "sod that, I
want an easier life". Not least because the financial rewards aren't always
ample recompense with the caring professions, again, not top of many salary
leagues (although it has improved). And those salaries often don't match the
responsibility levels you have. True, they may match your reporting lines - you
may get more money if you have responsibility for other staff but they often
don't reflect the responsibility you have on the lives of others. If you work in
social care or for a charity for example, then the work you do or don't do will
directly affect the quality of life of a number of people. That can be deeply
rewarding but also rather daunting. It's a question of balance you may be a bit
knackered and a bit skint, but isn't that a fair price for a clean conscience?

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved


                              163 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                             June 27, 2004, Sunday

More bite needed to ensure clinical trials meet high ethical standards

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 481 words


SCIENCE and Technology Minister Datuk Jamaludin Jarjis announced last week
that pharmaceutical companies in the US are interested in conducting their
clinical trials in Malaysia.

And Malaysia, in return, has offered these companies excellent
facilities at competitive rates.

Clinical trials have always been plagued with issues relating to
unethical and illegal trials, especially in countries without ethical
approval or where legislation may either be inadequate or not implemented.

In India, for example, an independent pharmaceutical journal, Monthly
index of Medical Specialities in India, reported that last year local
generic drug firm, Sun Pharmaceuticals, had tested an anti-cancer drug on
400 women without their knowledge, to see if it induced ovulation.

The drug, a copy of Novartis' patented drug Letrozole, was prescribed to
women who were trying in vain to have children.

The Letrozole trial is one of the many shocking examples of the extent
drug companies would go to.

A survey by the US National Bio Ethics Advisory Commission of more than
200 health researchers found that about 25 per cent of clinical trials
conducted in developing countries do not undergo ethical review.

The findings of the survey were published in the February edition of the
Journal of Medical Ethics.

In Malaysia, though there is no legislation governing clinical trials in
Malaysia, there is, however, the Guidelines For The Application to Conduct
Drug-Related Clinical Trials in Malaysia.

Under the guidelines, principal researchers must have Good Clinical
Practice Certificate approved by the National Committee for Clinical
Research, says deputy director-general of Health Datuk Dr Ismail Merican.

Dr Ismail, who also heads the Ministry of Health's Medical Research
Ethic Committees, says the ministry is also trying to establish National
Ethics Board to especially look into clinical trials on human subjects.

"Clinical trials are getting more complicated and there is an urgent
need to not only safeguard the rights of human subjects, but also to
ensure that trial data is credible and valid."

The ethical committee of the ministry monitors clinical trials in
government hospitals.

Private hospitals, on the other hand, need to have their own committees
for clinical trials in their hospitals.

"The private hospitals, however, must disclose the composition of their
ethical committees to ensure that there is some one to safeguard the
interest of the human subjects."

Nevertheless, Dr Ismail says, the guidelines alone aren't sufficient
without the means to enforce them.

"If researchers were to breach the guidelines, the most we can do is to
blacklist them."

He calls for legislation to regulate clinical trials conducted by
foreign companies in Malaysia.

"The current regulations do not have the bite," says Dr Ismail.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              164 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            December 20, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Kudos

BYLINE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: BUSINESSBC; Keeping Track; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 632  words


As a result of its Holiday Linen Drive held at the Sutton Place Hotel, Les Clefs
d'Or filled a one-ton truck to the rim with linens, bedding, bathrobes and
towels for the St. James Community Service Society which assists people in
Vancouver's Downtown Eastside. The association of hotel concierges also donated
$1,000, raised at its 2004 trade show, to the society.

Dairy company Natrel donated $5,000 to each of Delta Hospital, Eagle Ridge
Hospital, MSA Hospital Abbotsford and Chilliwack General Hospital. The money was
raised through sales of four litre jugs of Sealtest Milk during the fall Gift of
Caring campaign.

Zlotnik Lamb presented $15,000, raised at its Charity Foundation Golf
Tournament, to the B.C. Sports Hall of Fame and Museum.

B.C. Children's Hospital has honoured B.C.'s mining community for raising
$700,000 to build an improved and expanded cardiac centre. A dedication plaque
now hangs in the Children's Heart Centre recognizing the contributions of Placer
Dome, Teck Cominco, Barrick Gold, Finning International, NVI Mining-Myra Falls
Operations, Arrow Transportation Systems, Fluor Canada, Highland Valley Copper,
P&H MinePro Services, Princeton Mining Group, Procon Mining & Tunnelling and
Viceroy Resources.

Guildford Town Centre's SpinMaster Toys and HIT Entertainment donated 100 toys
and videos to the Salvation Army's Toy Drive.

The Directors Guild of Canada (B.C. District), the Union of B.C. Performers, the
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees Local 891 and 669, and
Teamsters Local 155 donated $10,000 to the Vancouver AIDS Memorial Society.

At the 2004 Canadian Investment Awards, the Canadian Centre for Philanthropy's
Imagine Initiative presented Coast Capital Savings Credit Union with the
Corporate Citizenship Award and the Ethical Funds Company's Ethical Canadian
Dividend Fund with the Industry Award for a Socially Responsible Investment
Fund.

For the second consecutive year, the UBC Department of Computer Science
Programming team came first in the Pacific Northwest Division of the ACM
Intercollegiate Programming Competition. They will now compete at the World
Finals in Shanghai in April.

Entrepreneurship 12 students at L.A. Matheson Secondary put their learned skills
to the test by opening a company to raise funds for Canuck Place. Their
business, to put on a basketball tournament, raised over $2,000 for the
children's hospice.

UBC Computer Science professors Gail Murphy and Joel Friedman received Killam
Faculty Research Fellowships and Anne Condon was awarded the $700,000 Chair for
Women in Science and Engineering from the Natural Sciences and Engineering
Research Council of Canada and General Motors of Canada.

TELUS Mobility helped bring Christmas to homeless young people living at
Covenant House Vancouver with a donation of 20 turkeys, 50 hoodies and gift
cards.

Three Vancouver companies achieved Platinum status for their continued
excellence for at least six years in Canada's 50 Best Managed Companies awards
program. They are Boston Pizza International and Deeley Harley-Davidson Canada
of Richmond and Canadian Securities Registration Systems of Burnaby. The program
is sponsored by Deloitte & Touche, CIBC Commercial Banking, the National Post,
and Queen's School of Business.

Vancouver recipients of Canadian Architect's 2004 Awards of Excellence are:
Patkau Architects for the University of Pennsylvania New College House; Patkau
Architects with LM Architectural Group of Winnipeg for the Winnipeg Centennial
Library; Acton Ostry Architects for the Vancouver Chinese Evangelical Free
Church; and BattersbyHowat for the North Bend Residence in North Bend, WA. The
annual awards are given to architects and architectural graduates for buildings
in the design stage.

See Wednesday's paper for more Kudos announcements.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: Andrea Messent and Viwaan Opanukij of the Sutton Place
concierge team with linens collected by Les Clefs d'Or.;
Color Photo: Sandy Rakic (left) and Martha Fast of Telus Mobility with Christmas
packages for Covenant House Vancouver.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              July 18, 2004 Sunday

Canada's duty to an Afghan boy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 537 words


Canadians have been touched by the plight of Djamshid Popal, the 9-year-old
Afghan boy who came here for what physicians thought would be relatively routine
heart surgery. We could, we thought, do as we have done with so many other sick
children from poor countries: Give him medical care he could never get at home,
and a good shot at a normal life.

But Djamshid is much sicker than the Canadian army doctor who first saw him in
Afghanistan originally suspected.

And that has raised an ethical dilemma: What if this fragile, 48-pound boy needs
a heart transplant? So do Canadian children. How are medical authorities to
decide who gets priority, if it comes to that?

It's an ethical dilemma that has had the talk shows burning up the airwaves this
past week. And with reason.

The Canadian and other allied military doctors who treated Djamshid back in
Afghanistan believed he was suffering from a relatively easily treatable birth
defect - a hole in his heart. But they were working with simple diagnostic
equipment. After Djamshid arrived in this country July 2, further medical tests
told a different story.

Three of the boy's four heart valves are damaged, likely the result of rheumatic
fever that was never properly treated in his poverty-stricken, isolated mountain
village. This is not so easily fixed.

The boy is very ill, hooked up to a ventilator in the Children's Hospital of
Eastern Ontario in Ottawa. Doctors are concentrating on building his strength.
They say that when he is ready, which could be days or even weeks, they will
move him to the Hospital for Sick Children here in Toronto for the life-saving
surgery he needs.

That has left some speculating that Djamshid is in line for a heart transplant.
However, a spokeswoman for the Ottawa hospital dismissed these reports as a
"myth." Physicians have made no such recommendation, and there are no such plans
in place, she reported.

That said, it's impossible to know what treatment Djamshid may yet need,
especially if planned surgery does not succeed.

And that raises the ethical issue of how Canada's health-care system should
weigh Djamshid's need, against that of a citizen of this country.

Heartbreaking as any decision would be, the way forward is clear.

Having accepted Djamshid into our health system, we now have a moral commitment
to him and his family to give him every life-saving care.

We can't turn our back on him because his need is bigger and more fraught with
ethical dilemmas than we thought it would be.

We are obligated to give him the same chance at life, the same treatment, we
would give any child.

We employ a triage system to decide which children need to be helped first. And
the sickest are generally at the top of the list. Djamshid should be judged by
the same criteria as any other child.

Should Canada be more selective in admitting people from abroad for help, when
we have people here lining up for care? Perhaps.

Should Djamshid have been subjected to tougher scrutiny in his homeland? Again,
perhaps.

But these are side issues. He's here. We owe him a debt of care.

The Canadian army doctor who was the first of many to extend a hand to this
child acted with a compassion and generosity that does this country credit.
Let's follow through.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2004 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              166 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2008 University of the Pacific, McGeorge
                                 School of Law
                              McGeorge Law Review

                                      2008

                              McGeorge Law Review

                            39 McGeorge L. Rev. 719

LENGTH: 8853 words

Symposium: Ethics Across the Professions: Professional Ethics and Corporate
Conduct: Addressing Ethical Commitments When Professionals Partner with
Organizations

NAME: Donna T. Chen and Ann E. Mills*

BIO: *Donna T. Chen, M.D., M.P.H. and Ann E. Mills, M.B.A., M.sc.(Econ) are
Assistant Professors in the Center for Bioethics and Humanities at the
University of Virginia. Both authors contributed equally to the development of
this article. We are grateful to Margaret Mohrmann, director of the Program for
Biomedical Ethics at the University of Virginia School of Medicine, as well as
participants of the Professional Ethics and Corporate Conduct symposium at the
McGeorge School of Law in September 2007, particularly Eugene Schlossberger, for
comments on a previous version of this article.

TEXT:
 [*719]

   I. Introduction

 Professionals, whether doctors, nurses, engineers, lawyers, accountants,
scientists, or others, define themselves, in part, by their ethical commitments.
These ethical commitments are reflected in codes of ethics, charters, and other
statements articulated by the professional organizations to which professionals
belong and which represent the public face of professions. n1 Professional
ethical commitments generally reflect values society endorses. For instance,
society expects that doctors and nurses will put a patient's welfare before
their own, n2 that engineers will ensure the products they design are safe, n3
that lawyers will advocate for their clients to the best of their abilities, n4
that journalists will seek truth and create fair and honest reports, n5 and that
accountants and scientists will approach their tasks with integrity so the
financial statements n6 or the research they produce can be trusted. n7

   Moreover, society entrusts the professions with the responsibility of
sanctioning wayward members when necessary. Ideally, when professionals  [*720]
ignore or violate widely agreed upon core professional ethical commitments, they
are reprimanded by their professional societies. Some professional ethical
obligations are further enforced through public laws and regulations. n8 Other
ethical commitments have engendered neither legal requirements nor the threat of
professional sanction but rather encourage professionals to aspire to some
higher good or virtue. n9

   In today's complex society, most professionals form partnerships of sorts
with organizations. This allows both professionals and organizations to
accomplish their goals, including fulfilling their ethical commitments. These
partnership relationships take on many forms. For example, some physicians rely
on hospitals to accomplish their goals; similarly, some journalists rely on
media organizations to accomplish theirs. In turn, these organizations, like
hospitals and newspapers, rely on professionals as a core resource in the
delivery of their product or service. Short of relying on professionals as a
resource for fulfilling core missions, most organizations, large or small, at
some point will hire an accountant, an auditor, or a lawyer to perform some
specific tasks. Some organizations, especially larger ones, will hire a variety
of professionals - some core to their primary mission and some not. For
instance, a large pharmaceutical company will hire or contract with scientists,
lawyers, physicians, accountants, and auditors.

   Most organizations or companies also make ethical commitments that reflect
values society expects of organizations, depending in part on the products or
services the organizations offer. For instance, society expects manufacturing
companies to commit to achieving product safety, newspapers to commit to
accurate reporting, and hospitals to commit to compassionate care. The ethical
commitments of an organization are associated with the goals and values of the
organization and are often publicly articulated in its mission and values
statements, and reflected in its code of ethics. n10

   Neither professionals nor organizations are protected from ethical conflict
by their publicly stated ethical commitments. A busy doctor knows that her bonus
may be affected if she orders expensive diagnostic tests for her patient; a
lawyer knows that successful advocacy means more time with a client, but also
knows that her client does not have deep pockets; an accountant knows that she
owes a fiduciary obligation to the firm for which she works and also knows that
the financial statements she presents at the annual meeting will cause a drop in
the value of the firm - all of these professionals face ethical conflict. But by
appealing to a higher good or virtue, such as the welfare of the patient or
client, or honesty and transparency, the ethical commitments professionals are
expected to honor generally offer guidance when conflicts of interest or
conflicts of  [*721]  commitment arise. Although conflicts of commitment usually
cannot be avoided in daily practice, the busy professional must decide how to
allocate time between competing commitments, such as when commitments to the
patient and the hospital, or the client and the firm conflict. Nevertheless,
professionals are expected to make these decisions with integrity. n11

   Organizations also face conflicts of interest and commitment. The multiple
goals and values organizations endorse contribute to these conflicts. For
instance, one commitment of for-profit organizations is to maximize shareholder
wealth, n12 but this commitment can conflict with other values, such as employee
development. n13 Consider that most hospitals commit to values associated with
excellence as well as values associated with good stewardship of resources.
These commitments can cause conflict for hospitals as they do for physicians.
n14 For instance, a hospitalized patient might require expensive diagnostic
tests and treatment to receive excellent care, but reimbursement might cover
only a fraction of the cost. Hospitals are not the only organizations prone to
such conflicts; consider the controversy that can arise around a proposed news
story that will reflect negatively on a newspaper's largest and most consistent
advertiser. These particular examples illustrate the sorts of ethical conflicts
that can occur between professionals and organizations, and among various
professionals within an organization. It is physicians who order expensive tests
and treatment regimens; it is journalists who uncover troublesome stories. But
both healthcare organizations and news organizations must remain financially
viable, and, in each kind of organization, managers are charged with, and
frequently feel ethically committed to, maintaining that viability. Thus,
situations like these can present significant ethical challenges to an
organization and its professionals. The more varied the types of professionals
that make up or partner with an organization, the greater the potential is for
conflicts among their particular ethical commitments.

   There is always one solution to a situation in which ethical commitments of
professionals' conflict with one another or with the organizations in which they
work: professionals can exit the troubling situation. At times, a specific
situation may require the professional to exit if she is to retain her sense of
professional integrity, but we must start with the assumption that this is not
the optimal solution, particularly for professionals that are core to an
organization's mission.  [*722]  We assume, rather, that it is in the best
interests of both the organization and the professionals it partners with, and
indeed in the best interests of society at large, that these situations are
resolved so that the professionals can retain their sense of professional
ethical integrity and help the organization achieve its goals while upholding
the values associated with those goals, which should be precisely why the
organization partnered with its professionals in the first place.

   Although it is common knowledge, especially after the scandals of the last
decade, that some organizations pay no attention to their articulated ethical
commitments, n15 we, the authors, also assume - although this may be a
controversial assumption - that the publicly articulated ethical commitments of
most organizations are not simply window dressing. We assume that, in the same
way that the articulated ethical commitments of professionals offer guidance to
them, the organization likewise intends its articulated ethical commitments -
its mission, values statements, and codes of ethics - to offer guidance to
itself and its stakeholders, including its professional employees. But, if it is
the case that organizations intend for their articulated ethical commitments to
be meaningful to all stakeholders, what mechanisms are available to help
translate these commitments into daily practice? What mechanisms are available
when the professional or the organization faces competing ethical commitments
and is unsure of the decision(s) that should be made? What mechanisms are
available when professionals feel that their professional ethical commitments
are at stake in a decision faced by the organization and that they should have a
voice in that decision?

   In what follows, we discuss how ethical conflict within organizations can
occur among professionals or between professionals and the organization. We
leave it to others to discuss the important issue of mismatch between personal
ethical commitments and ethical commitments that derive from either professional
or organizational affiliation. In Part II we discuss the conflicts that arise.
In Part III we describe mechanisms commonly discussed in corporate ethics
literature as being available to address situations characterized by conflicting
ethical commitments, and we describe their short-comings. In Part IV we look at
some of the recent changes in addressing ethical conflicts among professionals
and the organizations they partner with in the healthcare industry, and in Part
V we suggest that mechanisms proposed for that industry can be more widely
applied in other industries. We conclude by noting that, despite incentives not
to establish these kinds of programmatic activities, many firms in this
post-Enron era are paying serious attention to their ethical commitments, so it
may not be entirely unrealistic to hope that such activities will become more
common.

[*723]

   II. Conflict Between and Among Professionals and the Organizations with which
They Partner

 One of the perennial problems organizations face is having to choose between
competing commitments. n16 This is certainly true of an organization's ethical
commitments. Conflict among competing ethical commitments can arise internally
and/or result from external causes. This distinction is important because an
organization may have more influence over competing ethical commitments that
arise from internal rather than external causes. For instance, conflict in
ethical commitments may occur because choices about what capital expenditures
the organization should undertake in order to realize its goals force the
organization to prioritize its ethical commitment to one stakeholder over
another. Or it may be that a tightened regulatory or competitive environment
makes some products or services obsolete or too expensive to continue offering,
thus placing the organization in the position of breaching a commitment to some
stakeholders. n17

   Additionally, the choices organizations make in responding to competing
commitments can impinge on the ethical commitments of professionals who partner
with the organization. Consider the choices a pharmaceutical company must make
in creating a research agenda. What population of patients will it choose to
serve? Should the decision be based on market-share considerations or on other
criteria? How should its scientists respond if the company's decisions are based
purely on market-share considerations and involve only the creation of "me too"
drugs and therapies, but the scientists were hired with the promise that they
would be working to develop innovative treatments to fill unmet clinical needs?
Or consider the capital investment choices a hospital must make. Should the
hospital invest in equipment and personnel for which high reimbursement is
guaranteed or in equipment and personnel that will better serve the needs of the
community but are not likely to generate such high returns? How should the
hospital's physicians respond if decisions are made on criteria that do not
include community needs and undermine their ability to serve the needs of many
of their patients in the community?

   We do not deny that organizations make and should make such decisions on the
basis of numerous factors, both internal and external. However, these decisions
affect the roles and responsibilities of the organization's professionals, and
so they affect professionals' ability to fulfill their own ethical commitments.
How, then, should an organization move forward when such difficult decisions
must be made? How can professionals have a voice in an organization's decision
[*724]  that impinges on their ethical commitments, and where can they turn when
they feel their voice is not heard? What mechanisms are available to help both
the organization and its professionals in such situations?

   III. Addressing Ethical Commitments and Conflicts Through Corporate
Compliance Programs?

   A. Background

 A great deal of attention is being given to legal and regulatory organizational
compliance programs, which are perceived by organizations as an effective means
of managing employee behaviors. n18 Compliance programs are mechanisms initially
created and implemented internally by organizations to detect and prevent
criminal conduct. n19

   Compliance programs have gained popularity since the adoption in 1991 of the
Organizational Sentencing Guidelines, which state that organizations, unions,
non-profits, trusts, governmental agencies, and other organizational types can
be held liable for criminal misconduct. n20 Although organizations cannot be
imprisoned, they can be fined or punished in some other way, such as being
ordered to pay restitution. However, the Sentencing Guidelines also stipulate
that fines may be reduced if the organization has in place an "effective"
compliance program. n21 Since the punishment for an organization's wrong-doing
can be substantial, it was thought that offering such an incentive would
encourage organizations to self-regulate. n22

   "Effective" compliance programs contain features outlined in the Guidelines,
such as a corporate code of conduct, the involvement of a high ranking corporate
compliance officer, hotlines, and the like. n23 In 2004, an amendment to the
Guidelines further clarified the intent of these programs by stating that a
compliance program will be considered effective only if it "promotes an
organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct and a commitment to
compliance with the law." n24

    [*725]  An organization, through its mission, goals, and constituent
collective activities, creates an "organizational culture," which can be
"defined as a complex set of [shared] values, beliefs, assumptions, and symbols
that define the way in which [an organization] conducts its business." n25 Thus,
the culture of an organization encompasses both behaviors and decision-making in
the organization.

   If an effective compliance program is one that, in fact, promotes an
organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct, can it then serve as a
mechanism by which ethical commitments of both professionals and organizations
can be vetted and by which ethical conflicts can be resolved? There are good
reasons to look to a compliance program for help with these issues, but there
are also good reasons to suppose that compliance programs will be ineffective in
that role.

   B. Addressing the Ethics Needs of Professionals and Organizations

 If an organization is serious about instituting a compliance program, then the
organization will have to commit valuable resources to establish a truly
effective corporate compliance program. A high level officer of the organization
must be given explicit responsibility for the program, and persons with various
skills, depending on the scope and purpose of the program, must be identified,
hired, or appointed. Reporting functions must be agreed upon, procedures for
detecting wrong-doing must be designed and instituted, education and training
programs must be designed and implemented, and the program should have some
means to evaluate itself. Moreover, enforcement authority must be agreed upon.

   If a compliance program is in place, then resources have been devoted to the
program. n26 If the compliance program already has a values orientation, n27
then its members may see the role that ethical values play in managing conflict.
If this is the case, it may be relatively straightforward for the compliance
program to broaden its mandate to accommodate conflicts that arise when
professional ethical commitments conflict with organizational ethical
commitments or when the ethical commitments of the organization's various
professionals conflict. But there are good reasons to believe that a compliance
program is unlikely to be effective in this role.

    [*726]  First, the more effective the compliance program is in detecting
wrongdoing, the more likely it is that it will generate information that can be
used against the organization either by the government or in civil suits. n28
This creates an incentive for those involved in compliance activities to avoid
investigating or analyzing issues associated with conflict from any source.
Clearly, this not only may keep compliance programs from being proactive, but it
also may impair their ability to ensure compliance.

   Second, these programs originated to detect and deter criminal wrong-doing
and, thus, tend to be designed and implemented by legal personnel working in the
area of compliance. n29 However, a legal focus is of limited help in resolving
issues associated with competing ethical commitments. n30

   Third, managers tend to have a bias towards "command and control" rather than
a focus on internal motivations and values. n31 The command and control approach
links employee motivation to following the rules and avoiding sanctions, which
are applied when they break the rules. An approach which focuses on internal
motivations and values emphasizes the role employees' ethical values play in
motivating appropriate behavior, including professional ethical values. And
although the change in the organizational sentencing guidelines mentioned above
may seem to force management's attention to values, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, n32 passed in response to the accounting scandals of the prior decade, is
also mandatory for all Security and Exchange Commission registrants and may
serve to counteract a values approach. n33 Because section 404 of the Act
requires management to evaluate an organization's internal controls, n34 it
seems to reinforce management bias toward a command and control approach to
motivation and behavior of organization employees. n35 These legal and
managerial incentives against expanding the activities of a compliance program
to issues related to ethical commitments (as opposed to legal ones) lead  [*727]
us to conclude that compliance programs are unlikely to be an effective
mechanism for identifying and addressing issues related to promoting ethics or
resolving conflicts among differing ethical commitments.

   IV. Lessons Learned from the Healthcare Industry: Institutionalizing an
Explicit Focus on Ethics

 Hospitals and other healthcare organizations seeking reimbursement from
Medicare and Medicaid for healthcare services they deliver must be accredited by
the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO). n36
In 1991, responding to the controversy and attention surrounding such issues as
foregoing life sustaining treatment n37 and recognizing that patients and their
families have legitimate moral standing in decisions concerning their care, as
do other members of a patient's healthcare team in many cases, the JCAHO
mandated that the organizations it accredits offer "various strategies,
activities or processes" to examine ethical issues arising in the care of
patients. n38 These early activities evolved into clinical ethics programs whose
presence in today's healthcare organizations are almost ubiquitous, despite the
resistance of some physicians who recognized them (and sometimes still see them)
as a challenge to their prestige and authority. This challenge occurs, in part,
because such programs insist that the perspectives of others be considered. n39
There is controversy over how well clinical ethics programs function, n40 but
their existence testifies to the recognition of the importance of an explicit
program committed to addressing ethical issues and facilitating the resolution
of ethical conflicts as an important value in the way patient care is delivered,
as well as the importance of including multiple perspectives when addressing
ethical issues.

   More recently, this explicit attention towards ethics has moved from the
clinical realm to the organizational realm. Realizing that turmoil in the
healthcare market was negatively affecting healthcare organizations' abilities
to act ethically, and perhaps realizing that quality of care may be more than a
simple  [*728]  resource issue, n41 the JCAHO, in 1995, introduced a mandate
that requires healthcare organizations to follow ethical behavior in their
business and patient care practices. The JCAHO called this requirement
"organization ethics." n42

   Since the business of healthcare delivery organizations is healthcare and,
ultimately, many types of professionals play important roles in ensuring the
delivery of this care, organization ethics is a directive that affects all of
the functions, activities, and relationships of healthcare organizations and
their stakeholders, including its professionals. This mandate compels, or should
compel, attention to the mission and values of the organization and how they are
implemented in daily practice and long-term planning, covering both content and
process. Since healthcare professionals are so central to the delivery of
healthcare, the mandate also draws attention to the ethical commitments of these
professionals, as well as those of the organization that relies on them.
Programs designed to fulfill the JCAHO's organization ethics mandate should
ultimately facilitate the resolution of conflicts among ethical commitments
associated with professional and clinical practices, as well as with business
practices. These programs are called "organization ethics programs." The idea of
an explicit organization ethics program holds promise for serving as a formal,
explicit mechanism for recognizing the importance of organizational ethical
commitments of healthcare organizations and for addressing organizational ethics
conflicts, including those conflicts that arise because of conflicting
professional ethical conflicts. Thus, it serves as the organizational correlate
to the clinical ethics program, which serves as a mechanism for recognizing the
importance of ethics in the clinical arena and for addressing ethical conflicts
arising there.

   The JCAHO recognized the need for something called organization ethics in
healthcare delivery organizations, and organization ethics programs followed. We
look more closely at the goals, effectiveness, and approach of organization
ethics programs in healthcare delivery organizations to ascertain whether they
ought to be developed in other industries. We suggest that with appropriate
modifications, similar programs can be useful in other industries, and other
types of organizations seeking to fulfill the recent mandates for attention to
organizational ethics across a broader range of organizations.

   A. The Goal of Organization Ethics Programs in Healthcare Delivery
Organizations

 Earlier we referred to the idea of "organizational culture" as the complex set
of shared values and beliefs that define the way in which an organization
conducts its business. A central component of an organization's culture is what
[*729]  some organizational theorists call the "ethical climate" of the
organization. n43 The ethical climate of an organization is the functional
analogue of the character of an individual. Just as a person's character is a
group of relatively stable traits connected with practical choice and action, so
an organization's ethical climate refers to the relatively stable shared
perceptions and commitments that determine, among other things, how ethical
issues should be addressed and what constitutes ethically acceptable behavior.
Just as personal ethics affect what an individual will do when faced with moral
dilemmas or competing ethical commitments, the corporate ethical climate guides
what an organization and its constituents will do when faced with conflicting
ethical commitments.

   Obviously, one could create or perpetuate a negative as well as a positive
ethical climate in any organization. Recognition of ethics as an important value
is critical to any organization's ability to create a positive ethical climate.
Further, a positive ethical climate has at least two important characteristics.
First, there is internal consistency, that is, the organizational culture is one
in which both the goals of the organization, as they are actually practiced, and
expectations for professional and managerial performance are consistent with the
mission and values of the organization. Second, there is external
accountability: the organizational culture embodies a set of values that reflect
societal norms for what such an organization should value, how it should
prioritize its mission, vision and goals, and how it and its professionals and
managers should behave.

   Healthcare is fundamentally an ethical enterprise. The goal of organization
ethics activities in healthcare organizations is to produce a culture in which
the business of healthcare is recognized as such and is carried out in an
honest, decent, and proper manner. This requires organizational ethics programs
to foster "a positive ethical climate where the organizational policies,
activities, and self-evaluation mechanisms integrate business, clinical, and
professional perspectives in consistent and positive" ventures that articulate,
apply, and reinforce its mission in value-creating activities throughout the
organization. n44 Because the ethical climate is a crucial component of
organizational culture, the ethical climate will influence all behaviors,
decisions, and relationships within the organization, not just those involving
explicitly ethical issues. Just as clinical ethics activities, including
consultation, education, research, and policy-making, inform the behaviors and
clinical decision-making of clinicians, patients, and families, organization
ethics activities, which also can encompass consultation, education, research,
and policy-making activities, should inform the behaviors and decision-making of
all stakeholders in the organization as to what the organization does and how it
does it.

[*730]

   B. Envisioning Effective Organization Ethics Programs

 Organization ethics activities in healthcare delivery organizations take
different forms. Some healthcare systems have coupled organization ethics with
clinical ethics in a single joint program, n45 and others have established a
separate program. n46 In either format, the role of an organization ethics
program is to articulate and promote the healthcare organization's mission and
values - synthesized from its professional, clinical, and business ethics
commitments - through its activities. Such a program would clearly benefit any
organization that commits to ethics as an important value.

   Although there are many issues to consider in starting or strengthening any
organization ethics activity, we mention four that we believe to be necessary,
though by no means sufficient, for creating a legitimate and effective
organiza-tion ethics program. First, it must be openly endorsed by an
organization's top leadership. Otherwise, in the same way that compliance
programs can be looked upon cynically, an organization ethics program will be
received cynically without this endorsement. Similarly, just as compliance
programs are required to report to top leadership, an organization ethics
program should report to top leadership, preferably at the board level. Second,
one of the single most important reasons that programmatic activities fail is
that sufficient resources have not been allocated to ensure that programmatic
mandates can be achieved, including ensuring the program is visible within the
organization. Third, an organization's leadership must determine the level of
authority the program is to have. Is it intended to be advisory only, or should
it have more decision-making authority? And should it have the authority to
ensure enforcement of its decisions? The answers to these issues will be
addressed differently by different organizations, but, in setting up such a
program, they must be clearly addressed if the organization intends to have a
legitimate program. The fourth issue fundamental to the effectiveness of an
organization ethics program is its approach to ethical conflict. The approach
the program takes to facilitating resolution of problems involving conflicting
ethical commitments is critical to determining its success. And, to be blunt, an
organization ethics program will not be effective if it does not take a "systems
approach" - an approach that may be quite different from one aimed at capturing
and eliminating individual wrongdoing.

[*731]

   V. A "Systems Approach" to Ethics in Organizations

 We said earlier that in order to be legitimate, clinical ethics programs must
take a multi-perspective approach to clinical ethics conflicts. In other words,
they must develop a mechanism to ensure that the voices of important
stakeholders are heard. This is because the perspective of patients and their
families, as well as other clinicians, have legitimate moral standing in
clinical decision-making. In the same way that clinical ethics programs must
take a multi-perspective approach to facilitate decision-making, organization
ethics programs also must take a multi-perspective approach to facilitate
decision-making because ethical conflict necessarily involves competing
perspectives. However, a multi-perspective approach is just one part of a much
broader approach to decision-making. We call this broader approach a "systems
approach."

   A systems approach to improving the delivery of healthcare has been
recommended by the Institute of Medicine (IOM). n47 The IOM's advocacy of a
systems approach to improving quality in the healthcare delivery system stems
from the recognition that healthcare is rarely delivered by individuals. n48
Rather, healthcare is delivered by individuals creating systems through which
care is delivered. n49 In fact, most organizations reflect several levels of
systems: systems composed of collections of micro-systems. n50 Ideally, these
micro-systems consist of persons working together or in tandem to achieve an
organization's goals. n51 For instance, a patient in a hospital interacts with
various micro-systems, such as the team in a critical care unit, a micro-system
composed of doctors, nurses, nursing aides, nutritionists, and perhaps social
workers, physical therapists, and chaplains, all working together to deliver
care to the patient. n52 Moreover, micro-systems interact with one another. For
instance, once a critical care patient has achieved a certain level of medical
stability, she will be transferred to another micro-system, such as a non-urgent
medical unit. At this point, all her records will be transferred to the medical
unit, and her doctors, nurses, and other caregivers will exchange information
about her. And the patient will interact with a new micro-system. Thus, focusing
on individuals will neither uncover nor adequately address their real needs
unless attention is also paid to the systems created. In a similar way, a
systems approach to ethics is critical.

    [*732]  Just as in healthcare organizations, organizations in other
industries also can be viewed as individuals creating multiple levels of systems
to achieve certain goals. Organizations may have micro-systems that are called
billing, marketing and sales, product development, or auditing and accounting,
among others. These micro-systems and their interactions, either within the
micro-system itself or between micro-systems, can also be the root cause of an
ethical conflict. For instance, an engineer in a product development
micro-system may experience ethical conflict if a problem concerning product
safety is minimized by others in the micro-system in which she works.
Alternatively, the engineer could experience ethical conflict because safety
issues are minimized by a sales and marketing micro-system with which the
product development micro-system interacts.

   Earlier we said that ethical conflict could arise internally or externally.
While an organization might have little influence over ethical conflict arising
from external causes, it has more influence over conflict arising internally.
But often organizations do not pay sufficient attention to the internal
organizational effect that micro-systems have on each other. Consider, for
example, our earlier example of the type of internal conflict that can arise if
a healthcare organization decides to purchase capital equipment that would lead
to higher reimbursement rather than capital equipment more suited to a
community's needs. If we view the conflict through a system's lens, we can see
how a decision made in one micro-system (financing) of an organization might
affect those people working in another micro-system of an organization (clinical
care). And the effect of the decision may be to prevent clinicians from
fulfilling what they consider an important professional ethical commitment or
obligation. Therefore, in trying to facilitate a solution to a problem which
involves conflicting ethical commitments, it is useful to look not only at the
perspectives of those individual persons involved in the conflict but also to
broaden the approach to include the characteristics of the micro-systems and/or
the environment in which the conflict is occurring. Moreover, it might be
necessary to further explore how decisions made in one micro-system affect other
micro-systems. In order to take this approach, we suggest that when confronted
with an ethical conflict, organization ethics programs should address a series
of questions that reflect a systems approach to conflict resolution. For
example, as part of the process for working through a conflict between
organization activities and professional ethics commitments, the following
questions could be addressed:



   . What are the relevant mission and values of the organization at stake? What
are the relevant professional ethical commitments at stake?

  [*733]

. Is this conflict arising because of the external environment? If yes, ask:



How could the mission and values of the organization be affected, and how could
the organization and the professionals respond to mitigate any negative effect
on its mission and values?



Similarly, how could professional ethical commitments be affected, and how could
the organization and the professional respond to mitigate any negative effect on
these commitments?



. If no, and the conflict is arising internally, ask:



. What is the micro-system in which an ethical conflict is occurring? What is
the purpose of the micro-system? How does this purpose take into consideration
the ethical commitments of the organization and the professionals involved? Are
the roles and responsibilities of the professionals in the micro-system being
affected?



. Are the interactions of the micro-system consistent with the organization's
values? If not, what are the interactions of the micro-system, and how are they
inconsistent with the organization's values?



. Are these interactions consistent with the values of the professionals working
within the micro-system? If not, what are the interactions of those people in
the micro-system, and how are they inconsistent with the values of the
professionals working in that micro-system?



. Are the outcomes being produced by the micro-system consistent with the
organization's mission and values? If not, what are the outcomes, and how are
they inconsistent with the organization's mission and values? Are resources
sufficient to ensure outcomes consistent with the organization's mission and
values?



. Are the outcomes being produced by the micro-system consistent with the
outcomes that are compatible with the ethical commitments of the professionals
working in the micro-system? If not, what are the outcomes of the micro-system,
and how are they incompatible with the ethical commitments of professionals
working in the micro-system?



. Are decisions and interactions of other micro-systems affecting this
micro-system? Are the decisions and interactions of this micro-system affecting
other micro-systems? If yes, are these decisions and interactions compatible
with the organization's mission and values?

  [*734]  One way of ensuring that such an approach can be taken by the
organization ethics program is to include members whose roles in the
organization represent important micro-systems, as well as the diverse
professional ethical commitments represented in the organization. For instance,
the organization ethics program of a manufacturing firm should include engineers
as well as operation managers, and a news organization should include
journalists as well as administrators in its organization ethics program.

   VI. Conclusion

 The activities of an organization ethics program involve articulating,
interpreting, and promoting public statements of the organization's ethical
commitments, including its mission and values statements and code of conduct.
This ensures the organization is in a position to help the organization's
leadership prioritize conflicting ethical commitments when difficult decisions
must be made in an organizational context.

   Professionals and groups that represent them within the organization are
guided by specific standards of practice and seek to retain various prerogatives
of access to practice, discipline, task allocation, and self-regulation. The
more important professionals are to the organization's primary activities and
reputation, the closer the articulated ethical commitments of the organization
should be to those of its professionals and, thus, the more important it is to
ensure that the perspectives of the organization's professionals are represented
when there are ethical conflicts, especially ones affecting the ethical
commitments of both the organization and its professionals. Examples include
conflicts involving an organization's decisions, structures, strategies,
policies, or contracts which members of professional groups judge to be threats
to their ethical practice, situations in which professional standards are not
met or managerial prerogatives are not exercised responsibly, as well as issues
that arise because of the competing ethical commitments among professionals or
between professionals and the organization. If taken seriously, an organization
ethics program is the logical site for resolving issues associated with
conflicting ethical commitments among the organization's professionals or
between professionals and the organization.

   The idea of a formal ethics program within which ethical reflection and
deliberation can occur, that is separate from other core activities of an
organization, yet which critically informs those activities, has been promoted,
debated, and, in part, institutionalized in the healthcare delivery industry.
Such programs are widely institutionalized in the area of clinical ethics and
are being implemented in the organization ethics realm as well. Organization
ethics programs were conceived as a way of realigning the ethical commitments of
professionals and of the organizations within which they work so that the
traditional mission and values of healthcare could be reflected in daily
practice. Because professionals are a core resource for healthcare
organizations,  [*735]  organization ethics within healthcare necessarily pays
attention to the role of professionals in the organization and offers guidance
when professionals and their organizations face conflicting ethical commitments.
Just as with clinical ethics programs, the ultimate acceptability of
organization ethics programs will depend on how much ethics is valued and
whether these programs add to the organization. Nevertheless, regulatory
insistence on their existence forces an organization's leaders and managers to
face the fact that working through ethical conflicts and deliberating over
ethical commitments should have an important structural presence, and it should
include perspectives of important stakeholders. Of course, moving in this
direction challenges the perceived and, in some cases, real authority and
decision-making traditions that many organizations' leaders and managers are
used to, just as clinical ethics programs challenge the authority and
decision-making traditions of physicians. But this challenge is exactly why
these programs are needed.

   How likely is organization ethics to be embraced by other industries? There
are certainly good reasons for organizations in other industries to pause before
embracing these sorts of activities. Program activities can be costly, and
organization leaders naturally hesitate to set up activities that may challenge
or appear to challenge their decision-making authority. Moreover, there is the
legitimate concern that these activities may divert attention and resources from
other core activities of the organization. But recent surveys and studies
indicate that organizations are paying more attention to the role of ethical
values in organizational life. n53 Moreover, most empirical studies on the topic
suggest a positive link between an organization's core values that reflect
ethical commitments and the organization's success, financially and otherwise.
n54 So even though incentives are against the establishment of such activities,
once organizations understand that empirical evidence suggests a link between
the importance of core values to the organization and the success of an
organization in achieving its mission, the hope organizations will pay more
attention to these issues may not be entirely unrealistic.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Business & Corporate LawProfessional Associations & CorporationsCriminal Law &
ProcedureSentencingGuidelinesAdjustments & EnhancementsAggravating
RoleHealthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationAccreditation

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See, e.g., Am. Coll. of Physicians, Ethics and Professionalism,
http://www.acponline.org/ethics/ policy statements.htm (last visited Apr. 7,
2008) (on file with the McGeorge Law Review) (posting a number of different
charters and codes aimed at enhancing the professionalism of physicians); Ctr.
for Nursing Advocacy, Codes of Ethics for Nurses,
http://www.nursingadvocacy.org/research/codes of ethics.html (last visited Apr.
7, 2008) (on file with the McGeorge Law Review) (posting various nursing codes
of ethics).





n2.  See, e.g., Am. Med. Ass'n, Principles of Medical Ethics, http://www.
ama-assn.org/ama/pub/category/ 2512.html (last visited Apr. 7, 2008)
[hereinafter AMA, Medical Ethics] (on file with the McGeorge Law Review); Am.
Nurses Ass'n, Code of Ethics for Nurses with Interpretative Statements,
http://nursingworld.org/ethics/code/ protected nwcoe813.htm (last visited Apr.
7, 2008) (on file with the McGeorge Law Review).





n3.  See, e.g., Nat'l Soc'y of Prof'l Eng'rs, Code of Ethics for Engineers
(2007), available at
http://www.nspe.org/resources/pdfs/Ethics/CodeofEthics/Code-2007-July.pdf.





n4.  See, e.g., ABA Comm. on Ethics & Prof'l Responsibility, Formal Op. 06-411
(2006), available at http://www.abanet.org/cpr/06 441.pdf.





n5.  See, e.g., Soc'y of Prof'l Journalists, Code of Ethics (1996), available at
http://www.spj.org/ ethicscode.asp.





n6.  See, e.g., Am. Inst. of Certified Public Accountants, Code of Professional
Conduct § 52-54, http://www.aicpa.org/about/code/sec50.htm (last visited Apr. 7,
2008) (on file with the McGeorge Law Review).





n7.  See, e.g., U.S. Dep't of Health & Human Servs., Office of Research
Integrity, http://ori.dhhs.gov (last visited Apr. 7, 2008) (on file with the
McGeorge Law Review).





n8.  See, e.g., Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 6068 (West 2007).





n9.  See, e.g., AMA, Medical Ethics, supra note 2.





n10.  See, e.g., Johnson & Johnson, Our Credo, http://www.jnj.com/our
company/our credo/index.htm (last visited Apr. 15, 2008) (on file with the
McGeorge Law Review).





n11.  See generally Patricia Werhane & Jeffrey Doering, Conflicts of Interest
and Conflicts of Commitment, 4 Prof. Ethics 47 (1995) (discussing conflicts of
interest and commitment).





n12.  See generally C.A. Harwell Wells, The Cycles of Corporate Social
Responsibility: An Historical Retrospective for the Twenty-First Century, 51 U.
Kan. L. Rev. 77 (2002) (providing an excellent discussion on the controversial
"shareholder primacy principle").





n13.  See generally Robert S. Kaplan & David P. Norton, The Balanced Scorecard:
Trans-lating Strategy into Action (1996) (elucidating the major goals of most
organizations).





n14.  See generally Mark Repenshek, Stewardship and Organizational Ethics: How
Can Hospitals and Physicians Balance Scarce Resources, on One Hand, With Their
Duty to Serve the Poor, on the Other?, Health Progress, May-June 2004, at 31,
31-35, 56.





n15.  See generally Ronald R. Sims & Johannes Brinkmann, Enron Ethics (Or:
Culture Matters More than Codes), 45 J. Bus. Ethics 243 (2003).





n16.  See generally R. Edward Freeman, Strategic Management: A Stakeholder
Approach (1984) (discussing how management can balance competing commitments and
why it should consider these competing commitments in its decision-making).





n17.  We refer here to those breaches that involve ethical commitments, not
merely contractual issues. We do also recognize that honoring contractual
agreements in and of itself reflects an ethical commitment.





n18.  See Chris Kelly et al., Deriving Value From Corporate Values 6 (2005),
http://extfile. bah.com/livelink/livelink/145534/?func=dOc.Fetch&nodeid=145 534
(on file with the McGeorge Law Review). Ninety-three percent of the public
financial leaders surveyed considered legal and regulatory compliance as
"considerably or very effective" in managing behaviors among employees. Id.





n19.  See generally Michael Viano & Jenny R. Arnold, Corporate Criminal
Liability, 43 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 311 (2006) (discussing corporate compliance
programs).





n20.  See U.S. Sentencing Guidelines Manual § 8A1.1 (2007).





n21.  See id. §§8B2.1, 8C2.5.





n22.  See Diana E. Murphy, The Federal Sentencing Guidelines for Organizations:
A Decade of Promoting Compliance and Ethics, 87 Iowa L. Rev. 697, 710-11 (2002)
(suggesting that the Sentencing Guidelines, by giving a reduction in sentence to
a corporation that has an effective compliance program, has encouraged companies
to adopt effective compliance systems). At the time the article was written,
Judge Murphy was the chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission.  Id. at 697.





n23.  See U.S. Sentencing Guidelines Manual § 8B2.1.





n24.  Id. § 8B2.1(a).





n25.  Jay B. Barney, Organizational Culture: Can It Be a Source of Sustained
Competitive Advantage?, 11 Acad. Mgmt. Rev. 656, 657 (1986).





n26.  See generally Ann E. Mills & Edward M. Spencer, Organization Ethics or
Compliance: Which Will Articulate Values for the United States' Healthcare
System?, 13 HEC Forum 329 (2001) (providing a detailed discussion of why
compliance programs could form the basis for a program designed to enhance the
culture of an organization).





n27.  See generally Gary R. Weaver & Linda Klebe Trevino, Compliance and Values
Oriented Ethics Programs: Influences on Employees' Attitudes and Behavior, 9
Bus. Ethics Q. 315 (1999) (noting that values based programs produce more
employer desired outcomes than programs that are more focused on avoiding
wrongdoing).





n28.  This is referred to as the "litigation dilemma." See Richard Bednar et
al., U.S. Sentencing Comm'n, Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Group on the
Organizational Sentencing Guidelines 6-7 (2003),
http://www.ussc.gov/corp/advgrprpt/AG FINAL.pdf (on file with the McGeorge Law
Review).





n29.  Philip A. Wellner, Note, Effective Compliance Programs and Corporate
Criminal Prosecutions, 27 Cardozo L. Rev. 497, 513-14 (2005).





n30.  Anthony V. Alfieri, The Fall of Legal Ethics and the Rise of Risk
Management, 94 Geo. L.J. 1909, 1910 (2006). Alfieri argues that "the widespread
adoption of risk management mechanisms (for example, in-house advisors and
internal controls, outside consultants and external audits, conflicts of
interest protocols, and continuing legal education training) actually diminishes
the appreciation of the moral choices facing lawyers in practice and the
other-regarding obligations of lawyers in society." Id.





n31.  Tom R. Tyler, Promoting Employee Policy Adherence and Rule Following in
Work Settings: The Value of Self-Regulatory Approaches, 70 Brook. L. Rev. 1287,
1289-91 (2005).





n32.  Pub. L. No. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (codified in scattered sections of 15
and 18 U.S.C.).





n33.  See Tosha Huffman, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Where the Knee
Jerk Bruises Shareholders and Lifts the External Auditor, 43 Brandeis L.J. 239,
240 (2004) (recommending the repeal of section 404).





n34.  15 U.S.C.A. § 7262 (West 2007); see also Huffman, supra note 33, at 250.





n35.  David Hess, A Business Ethics Perspective on Sarbanes-Oxley and the
Organizational Sentencing Guidelines, 105 Mich. L. Rev. 1781, 1806 (2007).





n36.  JCAHO's website states that its mission is "to continuously improve the
safety and quality of care provided to the public through the provision of
health care accreditation and related services that support performance
improvement in health care organizations." Joint Comm'n, About Us,
http://www.joint commission.org/AboutUs/ (last visited Apr. 9, 2008) (on file
with the McGeorge Law Review).





n37.  For example, the case of Karen Ann Quinlan who lapsed into a persistent
vegetative state and whose parents fought to discontinue active care and allow
her to die. See In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647 (N.J. 1976).





n38.  Joint Comm'n on Accreditation of Healthcare Orgs., Comprehensive
Accreditation Manual for Hospitals R1-2 (2007) [hereinafter Manual for Hospitals
].





n39.  See John C. Fletcher & Edward M. Spencer, Ethics Services in Healthcare
Organizations, in Fletcher's Introduction to Clinical Ethics 310 (John C.
Fletcher, Edward M. Spencer & Paul A. Lombardo eds., 3d ed. 2005).





n40.  See generally Ellen Fox et al., Ethics Consultation in United States
Hospitals: A National Survey, Am J. Bioethics, Feb. 2007, at 13, 13-25
(discussing the controversy). The American Journal of Bioethics also provides
numerous open commentaries on this issue.





n41.  See Mark R. Chassin et al., The Urgent Need to Improve Health Care
Quality, 280 JAMA 1000, 1001 (1998).





n42.  Manual for Hospitals, supra note 38, at R1-2.





n43.  See generally Edward MSpencer, Ann E. Mills, Mary V. Rorty & Patricia H.
Werhane, Organization Ethics in Health Care (2000) (discussing the ethical
climate of healthcare organizations and processes that can be used to achieve a
positive ethical climate).





n44.  Id. at 6.





n45.  See Julia Milner West & Earl D. White, II, The Development of the Sentara
Healthcare System's Ethics Program, in Developing Organization Ethics in
Healthcare: A Case-Based Approach to Policy, Practice, and Compliance 149 app. C
(Ann E. Mills, Edward M. Spencer & Patricia H. Werhane eds., 2001) [hereinafter
Developing Organization Ethics].





n46.  See Catherine Myser, Patricia Donehower & Cathy Frank, Making the Most of
Disequilibrium: Bridging the Gap Between Clinical and Organizational Ethics in a
Newly Merged Healthcare Organization, reprinted in Developing Organization
Ethics, supra note 45, at 157 app. D.





n47.  See generally Comm. on Quality of Health Care in Am., Inst. of Med.,
Crossing the Quality Chasm: A New Health System for the 21st Century (2001).





n48.  Id. at 43-46.





n49.  Id.





n50.  Id. at 63-64 (discussing systems and their connections and interactions).





n51.  Id. at 118 (outlining the outcomes that each component in the healthcare
system will strive for in the future).





n52.  See generally Donna T. Chen, Patricia H. Werhane & Ann E. Mills, Role of
Organization Ethics in Critical Care Medicine, 35 Critical Care Med. S11 (2007)
(discussing how a system's approach is helpful in managing clinical and
organization ethics dilemmas).





n53.  See generally Kelly et al., supra note 18.





n54.  See generally Jim Collins & Jerry I. Porras, Built to Last: Successful
Habits of Visionary Companies (1994); Joshua Margolis et al., Bus. Roundtable
Inst. for Corporate Ethics, Building the Business Case for Ethics (2006),
http://www.darden.edu/corporate-ethics/pdf/business case.pdf (on file with the
McGeorge Law Review); Joshua D. Margolis & James P. Walsh, Misery Loves
Companies: Rethinking Social Initiatives by Business, 48 Admin. Sci. Q. 268
(2003). Each of these sources provides empirical studies assessing the
relationship between corporate financial performance and attention to core
values and ethical commitments, many expressed in the form of various corporate
social performance measures.


                              167 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                             July 27, 1998, Monday,

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 1A, THE LAST WORD

LENGTH: 237 words


Nonprofit status best for Jackson Brook

Thank you for your June 27 editorial in favor of making Jackson Brook Institute
nonprofit. The Physicians for a National Health Program would agree. They make
three arguments for nonprofit hospitals (in the publication, "For Our Patients,
Not for Profits," $ 10. To obtain a copy, write 332 South Michigan, Suite 500,
Chicago IL 60604).

In comparison to for-profit hospitals, nonprofits cost less, provide much more
charity care and help create a more ethical health care system.

Nonprofit psychiatric hospitals provide four times as much charity care than
for-profits.

Nonprofit hospitals help create a health care system with higher ethical
standards than the system proposed by for-profits.

As for-profit hospitals and HMOs have increased their influence, fraud has
increased. From 1992 to 1996, FBI convictions for health-care fraud increased
340 percent.

Making Jackson Brook Institute nonprofit is one step toward a more financially
efficient, fair and ethical health care system for all citizens.

There will be a public hearing on these issues on Aug. 19. Please call your
legislators and Speaker of the House Elizabeth Mitchell. Please urge them to
hold the hearing in Portland.

It was recently proposed that the location of the hearing would be moved to
Augusta, which would prevent many people from attending.

Duncan Wright, M.D.

Portland

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1998 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                              168 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Virginia Lawyers Weekly

                                 March 23, 2009

Researchers at Eastern State Hospital in Williamsburg win $2M defamation award

BYLINE: Alan Cooper

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 486  words


A jury has returned verdicts totaling $2 million for two former psychologists at
Eastern State Hospital in Williamsburg who contended that two top officials at
the hospital defamed them.

The plaintiffs are Douglas M. Gross, director of psychology at the hospital when
the alleged defamation occurred in 2004, and Sarah W. Bisconer, a staff
psychologist then.

Gross and Bisconer were conducting a research project at the time in
collaboration with Eastern Virginia Medical School on the Minnesota Multiphasic
Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2), one of the most frequently used personality
tests.

They alleged that Deborah J. Mazzarella, another staff psychologist at the
hospital, filed a complaint with the American Psychological Association
contending Gross and Bisconer had violated the association's ethical principles
during the research.

John M. Favret, director of the hospital, was aware that Mazzarella had filed
the complaint and had provided her with a confidential report prepared by
consultants who had concluded that "Gross and Bisconer failed to provide on-site
supervision coordination of the project" and that they "should be restricted
from participation in any future research activities until they have
successfully completed the defined re-training series including research,
methodology, ethical standards, and human rights," the plaintiffs alleged.

After the report of alleged misconduct, Gross was forced to retire as director
of psychology and Mazzarella was named acting director, according to Jeremiah A.
Denton III, the Virginia Beach attorney who represented the plaintiffs.

Bisconer also has left the hospital and now works for a community services
board, Denton said.

Gross and Bisconer incurred $43,069 in legal expenses opposing the allegations
filed with the APA, which dismissed them without filing a formal complaint after
considering them for two years.

Denton called as expert witnesses a former general counsel for the APA and
Robert P. Archer, the chairman of the department of psychiatry and behavioral
sciences at EVMS.

They testified there were no shortcomings in the conduct of the plaintiffs, and
"even if there had been, they wouldn't have been ethical violations," Denton
said.

The defendants contended that their allegations were true and that Mazzarella's
complaint to the APA was based on her concern for the welfare of the patients at
the hospital.

The jury returned awards on Tuesday of $600,000 in compensatory damages and
$400,000 in punitive damages for each plaintiff.

Retired Hampton Circuit Judge Walter J. Ford presided over the trial. He did not
instruct the jury that the defendants had a qualified privilege in alleging
misconduct because the allegations were made outside the hospital, Denton said.

Assistant Attorney General Paul Kugelman Jr. represented the defendants. A
spokesman for the AG's office said it is disappointed with the outcome and is
reviewing its options.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

Doctors urge ethics review

BYLINE: BY JOANNE LOWRY Health Correspondent j.lowry@newsletter.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 348 words


TWO Belfast anaesthetists have urged an ethical review of patients' "living
wills' to protect doctors from accusations of euthanasia.

Writing in the medical journal Anaesthesia, Dr Michael McBrien and Dr Gary
Heyburn said hospital staff faced an ethical dilemma when having to resuscitate
people with a Do Not Attempt Resuscitation order.

The doctors, based at the Royal Victoria Hospital, said it was becoming
increasingly common for DNAR patients to be referred for anaesthesia and
surgery.

They fear a change in legislation could leave doctors open to being sued when
the Mental Capacity Act " which gives legal recognition to a patient's right to
make advance decisions about their treatment " becomes law next April.

Dr McBrien and Dr Heyburn write: "A review of the basic ethical principles
involved is needed to decide how individual anaesthetists and anaesthetic
departments in the UK should manage the situation.

"It is not difficult to see the dilemma facing the anaesthetist and surgeon who
are involved in the care of a patient who has a written record of a wish not to
receive any of these resuscitative measures even though they are likely to be
needed as a natural consequence of providing anaesthesia and surgery.

"If the anaesthetist was to proceed and strictly obey the general understanding
of a DNAR order under such circumstances, it could possibly be construed as an
act of euthanasia or assisted suicide.

"The European Convention on Human Rights is now enshrined in UK law and the
Mental Capacity Act is expected to come into force on April 1, 2007.

"If we are to face litigation in the future we must read, understand and
implement what the law requires of us in this area.'

Automatically suspending a DNAR order during surgery may in future no longer be
an option.

On the other hand, sticking rigidly to the letter of an instruction not to
resuscitate could result in a patient's death, the doctors said.

They also point out the need for clear guidance on how to handle requests made
by the parents of sick children or relatives of patients not thought to be
legally competent.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Century Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            January 25, 2004 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

O'Farrell demands inquiry;
HOSPITALS IN CRISIS

BYLINE: ALEX MITCHELL, STATE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 238 words


STATE Parliament's upper house will be asked to conduct a full inquiry into the
way the Children's Hospital at Westmead used funds from public donations to pay
for the salaries of cleaners, security staff and doctors.

This follows last week's revelations in The Sun-Herald that the cash-strapped
hospital diverted $2.5 million in donated funds to operational costs.

Shadow health minister Barry O'Farrell said yesterday the Opposition would call
for the inquiry when Parliament resumed on February 17.

It would have the power to call Westmead administrators, including chief
executive Professor Kim Oates, and Health Department bureaucrats.

Mr O'Farrell has also written to anti-corruption commissioner Irene Moss asking
her to investigate the use of donated funds when cash-squeezed hospitals are
under-funded by the NSW Government.

Westmead's board of directors passed a motion on Wednesday backing the
administration as "caring, ethical and financially sound".

The motion said: "The board confirmed that the decision previously taken to use
untagged donations was legal, ethical and taken in the best interests of the
hospital's patients, staff and donors, as well as other stakeholders such as
Government and Health [Department]."

The board's former treasurer David Say, who resigned in protest against the
allocation of donations to hospital running costs, said he hoped his resignation
had put hospital under-funding on the agenda.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 15, 1994 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

DILEMMAS ON BREAST CANCER

BYLINE: MELISSA SWEET Medical Writer

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 510 words


The isolation of one of the genes responsible for inherited breast cancers has
opened a "Pandora's box" of ethical and medical dilemmas, cancer experts warned
yesterday.

They were commenting on reports that American scientists have cloned the gene
BRCA1, paving the way for the development of a blood test to detect it.

The gene, which was first mapped four years ago, causes about 45 per cent of
inherited breast cancers and is also associated with an increased risk of
ovarian and colon cancer.

The latest discovery means that the several thousand Australian women diagnosed
with breast cancer every year are likely to be tested for the gene within a few
years, doctors predict.

But Ms Elaine Henry, executive director of the NSW Cancer Council, said the
test's expected introduction raised huge ethical implications which should not
be taken lightly.

"It opens a Pandora's box of ethical issues which haven't even been addressed,
let alone resolved," she said.

"There is the potential to do more harm to the individual and society if we
haven't come to some agreement as a community before we implement genetic
testing."

Ms Henry said she was concerned that there would be enormous demand for the
test, although many women might not fully understand the psychological
implications of a positive or negative result.

"It also raises the question of whether it is ethically correct to tell a woman
she is likely to develop breast cancer when there is no appropriate remedy," she
said.

Associate Professor Richard Kefford, director of medical oncology at Westmead
Hospital, said the test raised a "whole host of ethical issues" and also
highlighted the urgent need for more genetic counsellors.

"Clearly the technological advances are outstripping our preparation for this at
every level," he said.

"It is a real quagmire of issues. We need a very carefully planned national
approach to the whole issue."

Professor Kefford said he expected women diagnosed with breast cancer would be
screened for the gene, to determine if other women in their family should also
be tested.

Dr Katherine Tucker, a clinical geneticist at the Prince of Wales Hospital's
hereditary cancer clinic, said the discovery was exciting, but presented many
dilemmas.

These included whether women found to have the gene should have their breasts
and ovaries removed, and whether they should be regularly monitored for colon
cancer.

Even if women had a negative test result, they could still develop breast
cancer.

Nor would all women with a positive result develop breast cancer, she said

Professor Alan Coates, a medical oncologist at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
said the test raised an "ethical minefield" about protecting the confidentiality
of test results from employers and insurance companies.

Dr David Gillett, a breast surgeon and head of breast cancer services at Concord
Hospital, said he expected the screening test to become available by next year.

It would have tremendous benefits by showing many worried young women with a
family history of breast cancer that they did not have the gene.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1994 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                             May 04, 2016 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

HPCSA loses bid to stop Netcare hiring specialists

BYLINE:  Zelda Venter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 485 words


PRETORIA: Netcare hospitals around the country were accredited to employ
registered medical physicists and radiotherapists where oncology health-care
services were provided.

In a groundbreaking victory for the private hospitals in the high court in
Pretoria, Acting Judge MP Canca overturned a decision by the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) to refuse Netcare accreditation to employ
medical physicists and radiotherapists at its oncology units. Judge Nicolene
Janse van Nieuwenhuizen concurred with the judgment.

The medical watchdog had recommended that Netcare instead outsource the services
of these practitioners, but the court found this did not make sense.

The court was told that all medical institutions were subjected to the ethical
rules of the HPCSA. Rule 18 stipulated that an unregistered employer such as
Netcare should obtain accreditation from the medical body to employ health-care
professionals.

The HPCSA also issued a policy document relating to undesirable business
practices, in which it is stated, among other things, that if the motive for the
proposed employment was to generate income to the employer or to remunerate the
employee on a fee-sharing basis, accreditation should not be approved.

In adhering to the recent policy document, Netcare applied for accreditation to
employ the practitioners in question. Netcare, in its application to the HPCSA,
explained in detail that patients at its oncology units were treated by a team
led by an oncologist.

The radiotherapists and medical physicists did not determine whether a patient
received treatment and what |the treatment should be, but merely assisted with
the treatment, HPCSA was told.

The watchdog, however, refused permission to accredit these professions, stating
that it was against its ethical framework.

One of the reasons stated for the refusal was that private hospitals should not
be allowed to employ practitioners because of their profit motive.

It recommended that Netcare enter into a service agreement with these
practitioners and hand over said copy of the agreement for approval.

"The committee's stance with respect to private hospitals and practitioners in
private practice, given that both are in business to make a profit, defies
logic.

"The criterion that private hospitals should not employ practitioners because of
their profit motive, save where the practitioners were employed to undertake
emergency services, was possibly unconstitutional as it unfairly discriminated
against private hospitals merely because they are profit-driven organisations,"
the judge said.

"Yet, practitioners in private practice who were also profit-driven |were
allowed to employ other health-care professionals registered with the HPCSA."

The judge concluded there was no evidence the practitioners' clinical
independence, ethical or professional responsibilities would be compromised by
their employment with Netcare.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           November 27, 1986 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

IS IT RIGHT OR WRONG?

SECTION: NORTHERN HERALD; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 449 words


THE Sydney Adventist Hospital plans to hold a second national bioethics
conference in April next year. The aim of the conferences is to look at
bioethical issues from a Christian perspective.

The positive support and interest in this year's conference, which attracted
delegates from nearly all the States, resulted in the decision to make it an
annual event.

The purpose of the conference is to help professionals in medical and related
fields find answers to the difficult ethical questions they face frequently.

Bioethical concerns have become increasingly topical as technology increases.
Scientists ask the question: can they do it? And the researchers often answer:
yes, they can. But it falls to the family, doctor, nurse, social worker or
minister to ask, should we do it? Is it right or wrong? As ethical questions are
associated with medical practice they become bioethical issues.

The first national bioethics conference, held in April, fulfilled a dream for Dr
Bert Clifford, the hospital's general superintendent. He has had a long-standing
interest in the field of bioethics and felt that the hospital was well qualified
to stage such a conference.

The senior chaplain at the hospital, Dr T.H. Ludowici, helped to make Dr
Clifford's dream a reality.

Dr Jack Provonsha, chairman of the Centre for Christian Bioethics at Loma Linda
University in California, gave the opening address entitled What Is Human? He
also spoke about euthanasia.

Professor Gareth Jones, the chairman of the Department of Anatomy at Otago
University in Dunedin, New Zealand, was another guest speaker who addressed the
conference on the quality of life. Other speakers came from interstate.

The 1987 conference will deal with issues such as Australia's pioneer work on
frozen embryos and the question of organ transplants. It will also take a
critical look at Mrs Elizabeth Kubler-Ross's book On Death and Dying.

An important aspect of the conference will be the group discussion periods that
will focus on the principles involved in the making of ethical decisions

Several overseas guests are expected to attend, and participants will be able to
talk to these experts during the panel discussion periods. According to Dr
Clifford, the conference is already shaping up to be a challenging and
stimulating occasion.

It is expected that the conference will attract interest among members of the
public who have a personal interest in ethics, legal and medical practitioners,
clergy, hospital staff, social workers, counsellors and medical and theology
students.

The conference will be held at the Sydney Adventist Hospital at Wahroonga.
Anyone interested in attending should contact the chaplain's department at the
hospital.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: The Sydney Adventist Hospital, where the second national
bioethics conference will be held in April.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1986 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            December 9, 1986 Tuesday

Are hospital ethicists doing a worthwhile job?

BYLINE: ARTHUR SCHAFER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 912 words


Several Canadian hospitals, following close on the heels of a recent
 U.S. trend, now employ a "hospital ethicist." The hospital ethicist is
 available to be consulted when an ethical problem arises, ready to rush to
 the patient's bedside in an ethical emergency.

Skeptics may question whether philosophers have any legitimate business
 plying their trade in hospitals. (Such doubts are especially widespread
 among academic philosophers.)

The first question to be pondered is: why might hospitals wish to
 employ or consult professional ethicists? Are philosophers really able to
 do anything useful in hospitals?

Those of a cynical bent may speculate that some hospitals employ ethics
 consultants primarily in the hope of saving money in medical malpractice
 lawsuits. (Will judges reduce malpractice awards in cases where an ethics
 "expert" has given his/her "seal of approval"?)

Whatever the motives of hospital administrators, the fact is that
 hospital ethicists underake a wide range of tasks: they serve on ethics
 committees, offer advice on such key policies as when to discontinue
 resuscitation efforts or how to allocate scarce medical resources, attend
 hospital rounds and, most controversially, participate in life-and-death
 decisions at the patient's bedside.

At some hospitals, the role assigned to the hospital ethicist might be
 described as that of "moral firefighter." They are prepared to solve moral
 dilemmas or resolve ethical disputes. Such a function is seen as similar
 to that of other hospital consultants. Just as the pediatric cardiologist
 has a special scientific expertise, so the hospital ethicist is expected
 to possess expertise in ethical decision-making. Moreover, the ethicists
 are expected to record their recommendations in the patient's medical
 chart.

But are there really "experts" in ethics? Are there special skills,
 possessed exclusively by philosophers, that may be helpful to patients,
 doctors, or hospitals?

Traditional liberal theory has refused to acknowledge that there could
 be a class of moral experts. Individuals are held to be the best judge and
 guardian of their own interests. The notion that there exists a class of
 moral experts seems almost anti- democratic.

One possible reply to this objection, offered by Australian philosopher
 Peter Singer, points to the philosopher's training in conceptual analysis.
 Philosophers are professionally trained to think clearly, to reason
 cogently, to recognize fallacious arguments and to understand moral
 concepts and theories. Because of this training, philosophers are well-
 suited to assist doctors and patients in analyzing key moral issues.

The philosopher, as an impartial onlooker, can help others sort out the
 relevant issues and arguments. Philosophers are, after all, trained to
 assess the relative strength of competing arguments and conflicting
 values. Ethicists also have considerably more "leisure time" than the
 harried physician, time in which to contemplate the enormously complex
 issues of medical ethics.

Thus when the medical team, or the patient or the patient's family,
 requires assistance in resolving a moral dilemma, the ethicist may be able
 to contribute.

There are dangers, however, if proper safeguards are not in place.

Since hospital ethicists are employees of the hospital, there is a risk
 that they will, inadvertently perhaps, serve to reinforce the power of the
 institution over the patient and the patient's family. It would be wrong,
 of course, for the ethicist to serve merely as a "hired pen" for the
 institution against the patient. The proper role for a hospital ethicist
 should be as an agent of the primary decision-maker - the patient, and
 sometimes the patient's family.

There is an even greater danger: that the ethicist may succumb to the
 allure of inappropriate expectations.

Moral philosophy is much more than mere technique. It would be quite
 wrong and dangerously misleading for philosophers to hold themselves out
 (or to allow others to use them) as "moral engineers." There simply does
 not exist an ethics decision-making machine that can crank out instant,
 ready-made solutions to difficult moral problems.

Much more than conceptual skill will be needed if philosophers are to
 make a genuine contribution in the hospital, or in any practical setting.
 Moral judgment, for example, is needed in addition to skill in logical
 thinking. And moral judgment cannot get a grip on any practical issue
 without some background knowledge of human psychology, politics and
 economics. The hospital ethicist will also need some knowledge of medicine
 (in order to comprehend the alternatives). Even more, the ethicist will
 need a sense of humility. The ethicist may be expert as a conceptual
 policeman, but he/she possesses no monopoly of moral wisdom.

As one prominent moral philosopher has skeptically admitted, "the
 greatest contribution of moral philosophers to practical affairs seems to
 be not the provision of answers but the discovery of problems where none
 was previously thought to exist."

In sum, hospital ethicists ought to resist any temptation to usurp the
 right of patients to make their own decisions. It may not be too much to
 hope that philosophers, like physicians, will see their principal role as
 the empowerment of patients rather than as surrogate decision-makers. If
 moral philosophers do no more than pose the right questions and clarify
 the difficult choices that need to be made, their value in the hospital
 may become firmly established.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1986 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            February 27, 2017 Monday

'Best doc knows when not to prescribe drugs'

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: Chandigarh


Chandigarh, Feb. 27 -- In a hard hitting reflection on the medical system and
the society, veteran cardiologist Dr BM Hegde on Sunday said It is not that the
doctors who have become corrupt but it is the society which has become corrupt.

"Doctors are not falling from heaven and are a part of the society so same
number of corrupt people are in medical profession also", said the Padma Bhushan
awardee, a leading cardiologist and a recipient of numerous national and
international awards,

Speaking at the annual conference and award function of Society for Promotion of
Ethical and Affordable Healthcare (SPEAK), which was attended by senior doctors
from across the country here, Dr. Hegde said, "Today drugs are like a laundry
list and I always say a good doctor always knows how to prescribe, a better
doctor knows when to prescribe, but the best doctor knows when not to prescribe.
We over-treat patients, over-diagnose patie-

nts, maltreat patients, mistreat patients but don't treat patients",

The veteran said, "But we must look at the core issue which is that we have
changed the education system which was earlier to make an authentic human being
but today we make a wealthy career in education."

The first 15 years of education are very important and if we change that I think
we will make this world a good place. In corporate hospitals bills are in lakhs
and if you don't pay that even the body of the patient is not returned.

He cited the example of Cuba where cash is given to the patient when he leaves
the hospital. This is the only country in the world which has a cash counter
which gives cash to the patients, adding the hospitals were indulging in 10,000
per cent profits and this can't go on.

Dr. Ram Kumar, President of SPEAK) said, "The government should enact a law to
reduce prices of stents, joint replacement devices and common medicines. Further
there should be a law to put a cap of 20 per cent profit on medicines, and
eliminating all cuts and commissions in healthcare sector".

He informed SPEAK has also approached the PMO with these recommendations, and
several others, prominent of which include MBBS admissions should not only be on
marks but also on care, empathy and healthy lifestyle teaching curriculum, while
primary healthcare needs to be boosted, prices of stents be brought down.

Dr Kumar also laid stress on several factors which are essential in
strengthening the doctor-patient relationship, and said compassion was the most
important quality a doctor must possess while dealing with patients.

Ajit Chatha, former Chief Secretary, Punjab said, doctors have a vital role to
play so that a few black sheep should not tarnish the image of this noble
profession and to make healthcare practices more ethical and cost effective.

Dr. Rajeev Singh of Jeevanshree Radiology and Diagnostic Centre, Jaipur, a
crusader against cuts and commissions besides spearheading campaigns against
female foeticide, while addressing the audience said, the greed of the doctors
is because of short-sightedness.

SPEAK had earlier during the week released a book, 'Ethical Healthcare in
India'. The book was written by Dr Kumar. SPEAK high level jury, comprising Ajit
Chatha, former Chief Secretary Punjab Govt, L.M. Goyal, former Chief Secretary
Haryana, M.G. Devsahayam, former Deputy commissioner Chandigarh, R.N. Parashar,
former Principal Secretary Haryana Government, Dr Raj Bahadur, former Director
PGI, Dr. Amod Gupta, Padma Shri awardee, Dr. S.K. Jindal & Dr. SK. Prabhakar
former HODs at PGI, and Dalip Sharma, Director ASSOCHAM) had selected the
topmost doctors and hospitals from all over the country for SPEAK India awards
of excellence.

Meanwhile, in public hospitals category PGI Chandigarh has been selected as the
most patient friendly hospital. In the corporate hospital category Narayana
Hridalaya, Banglore has been chosen as most ethical and affordable hospital in
the country.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              April 6, 2014 Sunday

Medical students to learn from dummies

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 562  words


Bangalore: Auto industry has, for long, been using replicas of human bodies for
their crash tests. Now, health industry too is making use of the dummies-called
simulators-to help medical students acquire that fine craft called surgeon's
precision.

In this regard, Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI), in
coordination with IIT Madras and National Institute of Design (NID), is planning
to produce simulators. The simulators will act as a replica of human bodies.
These will help medical students for their training said, said Dr Devi Shetty,
chairman, Narayana Health.

At the launch of 'Patient-Friendly' standards for hospitals at a workshop
conducted by ACME on Saturday, Dr Shetty said these simulators have a great
utility for medical students and professionals as the dummies perfectly
replicate the human anatomy, something that will prevent those practising on
them to take the practice lightly. This, he said will keep the students on their
toes and will avoid complications when they get into the real world.

Dr Shetty said that once the patient-friendly standard is implemented, it will
surely help hospitals and bring in the idea of being polite, friendly and
empathetic towards patients.

The patient-friendly standards is divided into seven broad sections, covering
structure, process, outcome, safety, legal and ethical aspects of patient
friendliness. The standards define the structural requirements within which the
patient care amenities are organised, keeping in mind the care requirements and
safety requirements, right from the point of entry into a healthcare setting to
covering all process aspects of registration, admission, clinical care, stay
amenities and leading up to the point of discharge and post-discharge care. The
critical activities that are required to be put in place to meet up with the
legal and regulatory requirements that bind on the safety and the ethical
aspects of care are also given due representation.

The patient-friendly standards is divided into seven broad sections, covering
structure, process, outcome, safety, legal and ethical aspects of patient
friendliness. The standards define the structural requirements within which the
patient care amenities are organised, keeping in mind the care requirements and
safety requirements, right from the point of entry into a healthcare setting to
covering all process aspects of registration, admission, clinical care, stay
amenities and leading up to the point of discharge and post-discharge care. The
critical activities that are required to be put in place to meet up with the
legal and regulatory requirements that bind on the safety and the ethical
aspects of care are also given due representation.

Dr Giridhar Gyani, founder-director general, AHPI, said, "Patients are the most
important visitor in the hospitals. Like the other norms, that we introduced,
the patient-friendly standards are also devised keeping in mind the long-term
benefits for the hospitals. We are confident that hospitals will experience a
positive transformation."

Dr VL Sateesh, medical superintendent, Nimhans, observed that medical technology
is drastically improving and healthcare is becoming a big business, amid which
many a time the patient-friendliness aspect is getting lost. The expectations of
the patients are increasing, hence coming up with these kind of standards is
essential.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday

Doctor not a transplant society member

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: MATSUYAMA


A doctor who transplanted an allegedly illegally purchased kidney has never been
a member of the Japan Society for Transplantation, which sets ethical guidelines
for transplants, it was learned Monday.

The 59-year-old man who received the kidney and his 59-year-old common-law wife
were arrested Sunday on suspicion of violating the Organ Transplant Law.

Makoto Mannami, head of the urology department of Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital in
Uwajima, Ehime Prefecture, told The Yomiuri Shimbun that he had never taken any
measures other than checking health insurance certificates to confirm the
identities of donors.

The society is the only organization that stipulates the eligibility of donors
and the procedures for conducting organ transplants. Since the illegal
transplant was conducted by a nonmember doctor, the society is facing problems
on how to conduct investigations and how to take measures.

The society's secretariat confirmed that Mannami, 65, and other doctors at
Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital never belonged to the society.

Mannami, however, is a renowned figure who has conducted a substantial number of
kidney transplants in Uwajima.

After graduating from Yamaguchi University in 1969, Mannami began working at
Uwajima Municipal Hospital. He conducted 545 kidney transplants from living
donors from 1977 to 2004, when he retired from the city hospital.

In 2000 alone, the hospital conducted 36 kidney transplants from living donors--
the second-largest number in the nation--and 35 transplants in 2001, which was
ranked third in the nation, according to the society.

After he moved to Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital, which opened in April 2004,
Mannami conducted 82 transplants.

His research focused on kidney transplants between patients and donors with
different blood types, as well as ways to treat patients with new medicines, but
Mannami reportedly did not present his findings at academic society meetings.

Mannami was the only doctor in charge of kidney transplants from living donors
conducted at the Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital. Concerning the identification of
donors, he told The Yomiuri Shimbun, "I confirmed it by seeing a health
insurance certificate, but there's no other way to confirm it, aside from
believing what the person says." He also said he did not take any other forms of
identification from the donors.

Mannami used the same method to confirm the identities of donors at the
municipal hospital. Mikio Ichikawa, director of the Uwajima Hospital, said:
"Although almost all the transplant cases were conducted by Dr. Mannami, he
managed to establish a rapport with patients and their families. So we didn't
conduct any particular inspections [to confirm the donors' identity]."

The society's ethical guidelines do not specify concrete procedures to confirm
the identities of organ donors and the kinship between donors and patients. Such
procedures are generally left to the discretion of individual hospitals.

"We have never thought about how to apply the ethical guidelines to a nonmember
doctor," said society president Koichi Tanaka. Because the guidelines are
nonbinding, Tanaka said the best option would be for the hospital to voluntarily
set up its own investigation committee and the society could provide
professional assistance.

"Basically, the hospital has a problem... because it has no ethical committee
and has not obtained any written consent from the patient about the transplant,"
he said.

Couple explored other options

The common-law couple in Uwajima arrested on suspicion of violating the Organ
Transplant Law, tried to persuade a male relative of the husband to donate his
kidney, it has been learned.

According to the police and Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital, Suzuo Yamashita, a
59-year-old director of a fishery firm, suffered from diabetes. His condition
worsened two or three years ago and a transplant became his only option.
Yamashita's common-law wife, Tomoko Matsushita, 59, offered to donate her
kidney.

In April 2005, the couple visited Makoto Mannami, the head of urology at the
hospital and the doctor who later performed the operation for Yamashita. But the
couple's blood types did not match.

They later brought Yamashita's relative to see Mannami at the hospital as a
possible donor. However, the relative was reluctant to donate his kidney and
eventually refused.

Police suspect Matsushita was so desperate to help Yamashita that she offered
money and a car to a woman if she would donate her kidney.

She falsely introduced the woman as her sister to Mannami at the hospital,
saying she could be a potential donor.

The couple asked Mannami to perform tests to see if the woman could donate a
kidney for Yamashita. After confirming the blood types were a match, they asked
the woman to go through with the transplant several times since August 2005.

The woman agreed, and the transplant was conducted in September 2005.

The police sent the couple to the public prosecutor's office Monday afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               September 20, 2010

Consultations on ethics are not limited to the curbside

BYLINE: Ethics Forum. Posted Sept. 20, 2010.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Ethics Forum; Pg. 18 Vol. 53 No. 38

LENGTH: 1256 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


Where can physicians seek help when they have ethical dilemmas?

Scenario: Where can physicians seek help when they have ethical dilemmas?

The author polled several local practice environments to see what is available
to doctors and who took advantage of these resources.

Reply:

I offer the medical environment of small- to mid-sized group practices in my
community of Greeley, Colo., to discover how smaller clinics and practices here
managed ethics concerns. I queried the Greeley Medical Clinic, the one large
multispecialty clinic in town (about 80 physicians); Family Physicians of
Greeley, the largest family practice group (21 physicians at three locations); a
cardiologist from the Cardiovascular Institute (22 cardiologists and
cardiovascular surgeons); and residents and attending physicians in the North
Colorado Family Medicine training program -- a three-year fully accredited
family practice residency program with 24 residents and 10 attending physicians.

Our nonprofit 398-bed hospital serves the town's population of about 100,000, as
well as northern and eastern Colorado, southern Wyoming and western Nebraska and
Kansas, for a referral population of about 250,000. It has 220 staff physicians,
including all 22 members of the Cardiovascular Institute and 12 hospitalists.

I asked these medical professionals the following questions: How does your
practice deal with ethical dilemmas -- both those involving patients and those
involving problems with physician behavior or performance? Are there any typical
ethical questions you encounter? Are you satisfied with the mechanisms you have
for resolving such conflicts?

Not surprisingly, the hospital had the most formal arrangement, having
established an ethics committee about 20 years ago. The committee meets monthly,
is chaired by a university philosophy professor and is composed of 12 to 20
volunteer members of the medical and lay communities. The committee hears ethics
consults (perhaps half a dozen a year) and provides a forum for ethics education
and discussion. Consult requests may be brought to the committee by patients,
families or any member of the health care team.

Responses to the question about management of patient care dilemmas were
similar. Nearly all said they "curbside" other docs -- usually within the
practice, but sometimes outside. All said they were aware of the option of using
the hospital ethics committee, and none would hesitate to use it, although
almost none had.

Each practice has a slightly different mechanism for dealing with
physician-related ethical issues such as behavior problems. At the Greeley
Medical Clinic, questions about a doctor's conduct are referred to the medical
director. If the director cannot resolve the problem alone, it goes to the
seven-member clinic board elected by the shareholders, which can sanction,
dismiss or order the physician to take corrective measures.

The Family Physicians of Greeley convenes a group of two or three doctors, with
one physician designated to address physician issues for that year, then
investigate and decide on a course of action. If the group believes dismissal is
in order, it must bring the recommendation to the entire practice group for
approval.

Members of the Cardiology Institute, because they are all employed by the
hospital, refer physician concerns to the hospital chief medical officer, who
proceeds with an investigation following hospital protocol. If the physician
matter relates to quality of care, it is addressed by quality improvement
mechanisms.

The most common ethical issue cited by the doctors was financial -- most
pressingly how to take care of uninsured and underinsured patients. It also was
cited as the most difficult to resolve. The region has a substantial population
of patients who are uninsured and underinsured and a number of people who are
not legal residents, complicating availability of nonemergency services.

Interestingly, many physicians, particularly older doctors, felt they had
adequate resources to deal with ethical issues and that doctors should be able
to handle most such problems alone or with a curbside consult. Many of the
younger physicians said they would prefer more options and training. The younger
doctors tended to curbside their older colleagues.

It is difficult to know whether these physicians do not need and would not use
additional ethics resources if they became available. None of the physicians I
spoke with reported any formal ethics training, and none had ever practiced in a
setting that had such resources -- an active in-house consult service, for
example, regular ethics grand rounds or an easily obtainable outpatient ethics
consult.

Sometimes services are not perceived as useful when and where they don't exist.
Before our hospitalist program started 18 months ago, for example, most doctors
saw no need for hospitalists; now most local physicians consider them
indispensable. These same physicians may be living without ethics services
simply because they are not available.

Although mechanisms for resolving patient care questions seem to be adequate for
many physicians, it is not clear that mechanisms to address "doctor problems"
are. A recent article by The Associated Press suggested that many doctors don't
report troubled colleagues, and I suspect my region is no exception.

The mechanisms for reporting are cumbersome and not at all user-friendly.
Through the years, we have all seen episodes of physician behavior reported in
the regional and national media and wondered, "Who knew what? And when? Was
anything was reported? And, if so, was anything done about it?"

Many years ago, I reported a physician in a neighboring area for using a
dangerous off-label treatment that clearly endangered a patient. I learned only
years later that a letter of admonition was issued four years after the fact,
and the physician was still practicing. My experience makes me think that the
procedure itself discourages reporting, and the evidence for the effectiveness
of self-regulating in medicine has not been encouraging. An article and
editorial in the July 14 issue of The Journal of the American Medical
Association tend to bear this out.

Of the two types of ethics issues identified by colleagues in my town --
patient-related and physician-related -- most physicians seemed satisfied with
available mechanisms for resolving the former, though I continue to suspect they
might find more extensive ethics services useful were such services available.
Less comfort surrounds concerns about physicians' ethical violations. Although
each of us must take responsibility for confronting doctors who violate
professional norms, such responsibility should be supported by practical, useful
mechanisms both for reporting and for helping such doctors improve their
practices or behaviors.

Patricia A Mayer, MD, medical director, Hospice and Palliative Care of Northern
Colorado; associate professor, Bioethics Program of Union Graduate College/The
Mount Sinai School of Medicine

Weblink

American Medical Association Ethics Resource Center (www.ama-assn.org/go/erc)

"The Role of Professionalism and Self-Regulation in Detecting Impaired or
Incompetent Physicians," The Journal of the American Medical Association, July
14 (jama.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/short/304/2/210/)

"Physicians' Perceptions, Preparedness for Reporting, and Experiences Related to
Impaired and Incompetent Colleagues," abstract, The Journal of the American
Medical Association, July 14 (jama.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/abstract/304/2/187/)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          December 31, 2014 Wednesday

Where now for doctors after life support case?;
Legal issues are clearly important but must not trump good medicine

BYLINE: Muiris Houston

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 523 words


The burial of the brain-dead pregnant woman marks a closure of sorts for her
family, following a long saga that began with her admission to hospital about
four weeks earlier.

Declared brain dead at a Dublin hospital on December 3rd and subsequently
transferred to a local hospital, she became the centre of a legal issue that
ended in the High Court. There, three judges cleared the way for the woman's
life support to be withdrawn, describing the continuation of somatic support as
a "futile exercise".

With constitutional and legal factors to the fore, it seems the practice of
ethical medicine was forced into a supporting role. The Eighth Amendment to the
Constitution, which enshrines the unborn's constitutional right to life and the
perceived risk of prosecution by doctors should they withdraw life support for
the mother, was a major factor.

It appears doctors were also fearful of conviction under the Protection of Life
During Pregnancy Act, 2013, which carries a possible 14-year prison sentence for
procuring an illegal abortion.

Clinical practice However, for many observers linking a 16-week pregnancy in a
brain-dead woman to abortion is perplexing. In the past, such tragedies have
been managed with sound clinical practice guided by medical ethics.

When a person is declared brain dead after a car crash or other cause of
catastrophic brain trauma, it means the brain stem - the part that drives basic
involuntary acts such as breathing and circulation - is irrevocably damaged.

Once this diagnosis has been carefully made, continuing life support can only be
justified for the purpose of harvesting the deceased's organs for donation or -
in the case of a woman in the later stages of pregnancy - to allow for a viable
foetus to be delivered by Caesarean section.

Challenging dilemmas For many physicians, turning off life support in the case
of a young brain-dead woman in the early stages of pregnancy would not pose an
especially difficult ethical dilemma. Not that such a decision should be taken
lightly by a lone practitioner; in practice doctors consult health professional
colleagues. For especially challenging dilemmas in hospitals, the availability
of a clinical ethics service is increasingly considered best practice.

Arguably a necessity rather than an option, such a service can be a powerful
motivating force in driving a renewed ethic of care for a broad range of health
professionals. It would ensure the kind of dilemmas that are unavoidable in a
high-tech environment are dealt with on an inclusive and ongoing basis.

Some important questions arise in the wake of the recent High Court case: do
Irish hospitals have access to trained ethicists to help inform best practice?
How many hospitals here have a clinical ethics service?

For doctors themselves, the practice of ethical medicine is a cornerstone of
professionalism. And while legal issues must be considered, it would not be
healthy for the practice of good medicine - or indeed for society in general -
for ethical issues to be routinely trumped by legal considerations. Overly
defensive medical practice is rarely good for patients and their families.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              May 9, 2009 Saturday

Hospitals get a pass, for now

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. L05

LENGTH: 514 words


Q: Recently, I went to a doctor whose offices are at a Toronto hospital. I was
told to get a "patient's card," which I did. Ever since, I've been swamped with
fundraising letters from the hospital's foundation. The only way I can figure
they got my name is from the patient registry and, if so, that raises serious
ethical questions. I thought patient information - including the fact that I was
a patient - was protected by confidentiality. Surely it can't be okay to use
this information to raise money?

A: Surprisingly, Ontario's privacy laws do permit hospitals to use patient
information for fundraising purposes. In order for them to do so, the patient is
required to give consent - but this is where it gets tricky.

Ideally, at the time of admission, hospitals would ask patients "is it okay if
we contact you for fundraising purposes?" But that doesn't yield as many
positive responses as hospitals like, so most fall back on something called
"implied consent." Simply stated, this means, "unless you tell us otherwise, we
assume that, since you came here as a patient, you don't mind us asking you for
money."

Patients are usually not told they are giving this implied consent, but
hospitals do put up posters or signs advising patients they will be contacted
for fundraising purposes unless they explicitly tell the hospital not to do so.

And privacy legislation allows only the patient's name and contact information
to be given to the foundation - nothing about their diagnosis or prognosis.

So, ethically, is this okay?

The whole notion of implied consent is tricky. It feels like the "negative
option billing" controversy that rocked Rogers Cable more than a decade ago,
when it argued that, by failing to tell the company to delete new cable
channels, customers were giving implied consent for Rogers to bill for them.
There was a consumer revolt at the time - yet what the hospitals do is quite
similar.

But there is a significant difference. The Cable Man took the money without
permission; hospitals ask for the money without permission, but don't actually
get a cent until you agree.

Their solicitations may (or may not, depending on your perspective) be a
nuisance - but they don't cost you anything unless you say okay.

The root of the problem lies in the fact that successive Ontario governments
starved the health care system so egregiously that hospitals have to raise
dollars wherever they can. Hence, the proliferation of Timmies-in-the-lobby and
$20 parking fees.

Health care costs big money, and if we elect governments who don't understand
that, we're going to pay for it some other way.

From an ethical point of view, I hate the whole idea of implied consent.
Whenever permission is required for something, whether it's sex or chocolate
cookies, it's better to ask than to assume.

In this case, however, given that all your hospital assumed was the right to ask
for what it needs, I'm prepared to give their foundation a clean diagnosis -
subject to ongoing monitoring.

Ken Gallinger's column appears every Saturday in Weekend Living. Email him at
ethical @ sympatico.ca.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2009 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              181 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Doctor denies signing forms on lost funds;
NEWS

BYLINE: Malcolm Brown

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 429 words


A MEDICAL director who signed documents which facilitated alleged fraudulent
payments of more than $200,000 to a medical researcher at the Royal Hospital for
Women has insisted some of the signatures shown to him on documents were
forgeries. Professor Neville Hacker, director of the Gynaecological Cancer
Centre at the hospital, said in answer to Robert Stitt, QC, for the researcher,
Sandra Lazarus, that although the signatures looked like his, some had
peculiarities which indicated he had not written them. He said when he had
signed forms authorising payment for research Ms Lazarus claimed to be doing -
testing a device called "Medex" for the early diagnosis of cervical cancer - he
had done so in the belief the money was coming from a trust fund established by
an outside sponsor.

He now knew no such fund had been established at the hospital and the money had
come straight from the hospital account. He had made it clear at the outset the
hospital was not to pay any money. Professor Hacker was appearing before the
Independent Commission Against Corruption, headed by Mr David Ipp, QC, which is
examining whether Ms Lazarus and her sister Michelle defrauded the Royal Women's
Hospital of $218,350 and Royal North Shore Hospital of $465,300. Professor
Hacker said that although earlier in the inquiry he had accepted he had signed
certain documents, he now questioned whether he had. He believed he had not
signed a form Ms Lazarus submitted for ethical approval to conduct the trials.
Nor had he signed a scientific assessment form. Ms Lazarus had told him she
obtained ethical approval and on that basis he agreed to let her pilot study go
ahead. He had not seen the approval document. "I have never been in a situation
before where someone has tried to do research in my department fraudulently," he
said. He had not heard of the companies Wish Consulting Pty Ltd or Medical and
Clinical Informatics Consultants Pty Ltd, now revealed to have been controlled
by one or other of the two Lazarus sisters, when he purportedly signed their
requisition forms. Now he questioned whether he had signed them and said in any
event he would not have signed five consecutive forms for 10 tests each when he
had only given approval for one pilot study of 10 tests. He had never seen any
printouts of tests results of patients. He had not seen her at all after the
decision had been taken to initiate the study. He had made inquiries and had
been informed it was very difficult to find her and he was not aware of any
patients who had been tested. The inquiry resumes today.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sandra Lazarus leaving the Independent Commission Against
Corruption.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                  April 2, 1989, Sunday, SUNDAY SECOND EDITION

The ethics of life and death Drawing the line on critical care

BYLINE: By Marilyn Dunlop Toronto Star

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 1869 words


   In the critical care unit at St. Michael's Hospital, a young man, breathing
with the help of a mechanical ventilator, sat propped up in his bed, wearing his
glasses and reading the day's paper.

He had the lethal acquired immune deficiency syndrome and had developed the kind
of pneumonia that often occurs in people with AIDS.

Nurses and doctors looking after him were deeply distressed, saddened by the
knowledge they could not save his life, and also faced with an ethical dilemma
concerning his care.

The man had instructed his doctors to take aggressive, heroic measures to keep
him alive if he should lapse into a state that made him unable to communicate.
But that could involve keeping him attached to life-support machines when there
was no hope he would recover.

"He was comfortable on the ventilator," Dr. Robert Byrick, co-ordinator of
critical care, said later. "But he was not responding to treatment. He was
continuing to deteriorate. Further treatment would be of no value."

Should the treatment be discontinued?

To help resolve the dilemma, Byrick asked for a consultation with George
Webster, clinical ethicist for the St. Joseph Health System, which includes St.
Michael's Hospital, St. Joseph's Health Centre and Providence Villa.

When Webster began this work in 1982, there was no such position as ethicist in
hospitals. Today other hospitals have created posts for ethicists, but Webster
remains unique.

"He works at the bedside and that is unusual," Byrick says. "I don't know of any
other bedside ethicist."

Webster joined Byrick to talk with the man about what he really wanted the
medical team to do as his condition worsened.

"George plays an important role in helping us deal with ethical issues - death
in particular," Byrick said. "Often there is difficulty in talking about it,
especially for the nurses who spend eight to 10 hours a day by their patients'
bedsides and become close to them."

The man knew he would die soon. His fear was less of death than of being
abandoned by those looking after him, if he told them he wished them to stop
trying everything to keep him alive.

"We were able to keep him comfortable and let nature takes its course," Byrick
said.

About the same time, at Providence Villa, a long-term care hospital, a patient
and staff members were facing the opposite kind of dilemma.

There, a middle-aged man with a fatal disease that attacks muscles, nerves and
brain - amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - was reaching the stage where he would
require feeding by means of a stomach tube and ventilation so he could breathe.

"He wanted none of that," said Dr. Peter Cranston. "He had made that clear when
he was still well. But the staff was having difficulty in facing the possibility
of carrying out his order to cease and desist any form of treatment."

He was not old nor incapable of living.

Enter Webster.

"George assisted in clarifying the issues for us," Cranston said.

The most troublesome issue for staff members was the morality of withholding
nutrition. If the stomach tube was not put in, he would waste away. How could
they let him starve?

"Food is a basic life need. It is not ordinarily seen as medical treatment,"
Cranston says. "But is it only prolonging the dying process in some cases? We
have had patients and families who have said, 'Enough.' They want the stomach
tube removed."

Feeding is not an ethical issue as long as a patient can take even a little food
and fluid by mouth. Spoon-feeding such a person is part of ordinary
compassionate care that should be given the dying, he says.

Cranston says on occasion family members have wished staff to stop giving food
to a patient who is in a mentally vegetative state, but who can still swallow.
That is never acceptable.

The dilemma arises when a patient can only be given nourishment intravenously or
by means of a tube into the stomach. Is that medical treatment?

It is not considered unethical to forego futile medical treatment. Is artificial
feeding any different than ventilation or any other means of artificially
sustaining life?

"It is still a controversial issue. I'm not sure where we stand," Cranston says.

Webster says no single issue has brought forth such deeply rooted feelings and
emotions: "The debate is fierce."

The bedside aspect of his work began taking a large slice of his time in the
last year to 18 months. (He also is responsible for ethics education in the
hospitals and at the University of Toronto's department of anesthesia, and works
with hospital ethics committees.) It developed slowly because to have a
non-medical person act as a consultant on specific cases did not initially seem
approriate to physicians.

"There were a lot of questions about confidentiality (of information about a
patient) and liability," he says.

He becomes involved in discussions about a patient only when invited to meet
with the physician in charge and the team.

"In the last year or so there has been a remarkable increase in requests," he
says.

Two or three times a week, he can be found engrossed in conversation with a
patient, family members, nursing staff and doctors who are grappling with
ethical decisions.

"He is a person with great skills in helping people express their feelings,"
says Cranston, who is in charge of a 56-bed, constant-care unit.

"He's a great help to families. In education, his forte is in teaching us how to
approach a problem in order to make an ethical decision."

At Providence Villa and other similar long-term care hospitals, a number of
patients are elderly and suffering from dementia. Some are in a vegetative
state. Many are nearing the end of their lives. It is a setting in which ethical
decisions must be made almost daily.

Webster says there has been a shift toward agreement that patients have the
right to play an integral part in making decisions about their own care.

"It is the patient who bears the consequences of those decisions," he says. "But
in the past, many decisions that were really moral decisions were cast as
medical judgments."

Often, various members of a medical-nursing team have strong but differing views
on what is right for a patient.

"George has brought about a major improvement among staff of understanding each
other's opinions," Byrick says.

Webster says that in the process of arriving at a consensus, everybody may come
to see the problem more clearly. But, he adds, there is also a danger of a team
becoming susceptible to "group think".

To agree may make everyone more comfortable, but that is no guarantee the
decision is ethical.

"One has to be careful," he says.

He winces if anybody refers to him as an ethics expert.

"I work solely as adviser," Webster says. "I am not the (ethics) police. I raise
questions and offer approaches to thinking that can sometimes clarify the issue
and form a framework for addressing the problem."

His training for the job included postgraduate courses at the Toronto School of
Theology, University of Toronto, and experience in dealing with patients under
the guidance of noted ethicist Abbyann Lynch of the Westminster Institute of
ethics in London, Ont.

Webster is a member of the board of the United States Society for Bioethics
Consultation; a member of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Washington D.C.; and
a member of the American Society of Law and Medicine, as well as holding
membership in a number of Canadian ethical and theological organizations.

He is also a consultant at Casey House AIDS Hospice and a director of the St.
Elizabeth Visiting Nurses Association of Ontario.

Regularly, he's invited to discuss ethical problems confronting staff in
different departments of the hospitals. The topic is whatever is bothering them.
He doesn't know in advance what that is.

"I don't prepare anything. I fly by the seat of my pants."

Over the years, he says, the most frequent question concerned how much
information should be disclosed to dying patients. What should doctors do when a
family insists: "Don't tell mother she is dying."

Webster believes in telling the truth to patients about something as crucial to
them as their own death.

"All studies show that people do well with the knowledge of their death if it is
given to them in an open and respectful way."

Another key issue, he says, is whether it is right to stop treatment once it has
begun. Cranston says a number of patients already have feeding tubes that have
been inserted at a general hospital.

"They are more inclined to go for broke," he says. It is not always a kindness
to a patient.

At the chronic care hospital, staff face the touchy problem of whether to
continue the therapy.

"Many see a moral distinction between withholding and withdrawing treatment
(from a dying patient)," Webster says.

Withholding treatment seems passive; it means not doing anything to delay
natural death, not putting the patient on a ventilator or feeding tube.

But once done, is it unethical to disconnect the devices and stop holding death
at bay?

It is often more distressing to staff to shut off the machine or remove the
tube. Withdrawing a life-sustaining procedure seems a deliberate act, speeding
death, somehow different than never starting the procedure in the first place.

"It comes up over and over again," Webster says. "But there is no difference
morally. It has become routine to decide to stop ventilation when the patient
cannot recover, although air, like food, is a basic need."

Webster is working with a subcommittee of the three-hospital ethics committee,
which is looking at the issue of nutrition with the goal of establishing
guidelines that will help staff.

Another subcommittee with which he worked has already drawn up legally
acceptable guidelines covering "do not resuscitate" orders.

Byrick, who has chaired the ethics committee, says the policy that was developed
took into account the views of physicians, nurses and all others involved with
caring for patients at risk of cardiac arrest. This organized approach to
determining guidelines has served patients well, and helped those critical-care
nurses and respiratory technologists who face the dilemma almost every day, he
says.

In seven years, the matter of ethics in hospitals has expanded to cover the full
spectrum of life, from reproductive techniques to create new life, to palliative
care, the compassionate care of the dying.

Webster says there is no end to ethical issues that must be dealt with in
future.

"The major question for the province and health-care institutions will be the
issue of allocation of resources," he says. If we can't provide care for
everyone, who should get priority?

"We're seeing the tip of it with instances when there are more patients than
beds, and with the tragic deaths of cardiovascular patients on waiting lists for
surgery.

"The government and the people of Ontario will have to make difficult choices
over the next 10 to 20 years."

But at this moment, Webster, responding to a call on the beeper he carries, has
been asked to help a patient, his family and medical team, make a difficult
choice about the care of one individual.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Star photo (Mahler) George Webster with doctors at St. Michael's
Hospital

                  Copyright 1989 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              183 of 997 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright (c) 2000 Thomas J. White Center on Law &
                                   Government
               Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy

                                      2000

                       14 ND J. L. Ethics & Pub Pol'y 245

LENGTH: 18518 words

ARTICLE: WHY LAW PERVADES MEDICINE: AN ESSAY ON ETHICS IN HEALTH CARE

NAME: Charity Scott *

BIO:



   * Charity Scott is Professor of Law at Georgia State University College of
Law; Faculty Ethics Fellow, Emory University Center for Ethics in Public Policy
and the Professions, 1994-95; J.D., Harvard Law School, 1979; B.A., Stanford
University, 1973. Professor Scott gratefully acknowledges the fine assistance of
third-year law student Sandra Herron in the preparation of this essay.

 TEXT:
 [*245]

   Law pervades medicine because ethics pervades medicine, and in America, we
use the law to resolve ethical dilemmas in health care.

   Law deals with ethics? Many people react with surprise, amusement, or
cynicism when they see those two words - law and ethics - together in the same
sentence. To many people, the two concepts seem wholly distinct, like the
proverbial apples and oranges, or even radically opposed, as different as night
and day. In medical circles, one senses an antagonism to law, not just to
lawyers. On hospital ethics committees, talk of law as well as lawyers may be
banned from the ethical discussions. On medical rounds, I may be asked to help
the residents and medical students keep a bright line between law and ethics so
that, I am told, they'll know when they're dealing with one and not the other.

   A central thesis of this essay is that there is no such bright line between
law and ethics in America, at least not in medicine. During the second half of
the twentieth century, most difficult issues in health care which have raised
profound ethical dilemmas have been addressed by law. For better or for worse,
law and ethics have been evolving in health care together; hand in glove is
perhaps the more apt simile. The central purpose of this essay is to foster
understanding by both legal and health care professionals about how law has
influenced the ethical evolution of medicine and health care in America during
the past several decades.

   Part I analyzes the relationship between law and ethics generally in health
care. It posits that law reflects a consensus statement by our society on what
we believe to be ethically appropriate behavior, or on how we believe ethical
dilemmas ought to be resolved. Like ethics, law fundamentally asks what,  [*246]
under all the circumstances, would be the right thing to do?  n1 Using several
examples of federal legislation, Part I illustrates how our laws have reflected
our society's evolving views on ethics in professional and business practices in
health care. Unlike ethics, however, law also serves to enforce the socially
agreed-upon views of right and wrong. Paradoxically and unfortunately, when law
becomes the primary enforcer of ethical views, its power can create problems, or
pitfalls, for continued ethical reflection on the very issues that it was called
upon to address in the first place.

   Part II recounts the evolution of medical ethics at the patient's bedside.
Through the lenses of law and ethics, this Part focuses on patients and their
relationships to the professionals who provide them health care. It explores how
law has supported the ethical concepts of patient autonomy and respect for
persons through the legal doctrines of patients' right to consent to and to
refuse medical treatment. Through the example of informed consent doctrine and
our growing obsession with informed consent forms, this Part illustrates how
law's power to enforce an ethical ideal of genuine dialogue between doctors and
patients has created a pitfall for ethical reflection about the actual
conversations between patients and the professionals who care for them.

   Part III examines the recent attention to business ethics in the
administrative offices and boardrooms of health care organizations. Increasing
marketplace competition has prompted health care organizations increasingly to
focus on profits, or at least on financial viability, which in turn has created
ethical dilemmas which in turn have been addressed by law. Focusing on managed
care and the Joint Commission on the Accreditation  [*247]  of Health Care
Organizations (JCAHO), Part III examines the evolution of organization ethics
and corporate health law in the business of health care delivery. All of the
business practices which raise ethical issues that JCAHO now requires a
hospital's business ethics code to address - billing, marketing, patient
admissions, transfer and discharge, conflicts of interest, and compensation
arrangements - are also addressed by health care laws at both state and federal
levels, providing civil as well as criminal sanctions. Part III uses the recent
flurry of corporate compliance programs throughout the health care industry to
illustrate the paradox that law's power and pervasiveness can create pitfalls
for ethical reflection on the very issues that law was called upon to address.

   Part IV proposes an alternative to reliance on law as the primary
articulation and enforcer of ethics in health care. Lawyers have not usurped the
power of health care providers to assume leadership on ethics. The law never
took it out of the hands of health care professionals to strive for the ethical
high ground. Until those in the health care field - individual practitioners to
high-level managers - assert their authority and responsibility for charting the
ethical direction of medicine and health care, law will continue to pervade
their professions and their institutions.

   I. The Relationship Between Law And Ethics In HealthCare

   A. Law as a Consensus Statement onEthics

 While lawyers may suffer some unpopularity, the law still reflects society's
idealism. Immanuel Kant believed that: "The greatest problem for the human
species, the solution of which nature compels him to seek, is that of attaining
a civil society which can administer justice universally."  n2 Justice is an
ethical concept of universal fairness for and among individuals; law is the
vehicle by which a society attempts to achieve this lofty ideal. Oliver Wendell
Holmes observed that: "The law is the witness and external deposit of our moral
life. Its history is the history of the moral development of the race."  n3 Thus
the law reflects what,  [*248]  at any given point in time, society views as
acceptable, ethically appropriate behavior.

   We often enact our moral views in our laws; in effect, we legislate morality.
Looking at our laws is like looking at a snapshot in time of our society's moral
views about how people ought to behave towards each other. Over time we may
change our views as to which behaviors are right or wrong, and we reflect that
change by changing our laws. For example, for some considerable time in our
nation's history we regarded it as morally appropriate for individuals of
different color or gender to be treated differently. We reflected those views in
our laws governing who could vote, who could own property, who could be educated
in which schools, who could marry whom, who could eat or work or live where, and
so forth. Today, our anti-discrimination laws reflect the moral view that it is
wrong to perpetuate those distinctions among individuals in our society.

   In health care, our society has used the law to ask (and answer) questions
about what are ethically appropriate behaviors among those who provide, or
receive, or pay for health care services. Frequently, the law is a reaction to
perceived ethical wrong-doing in health care. As discussed below, federal laws
over the past three decades illustrate how American society has reacted to
perceived or potential ethical abuses in health care by calling for laws to
resolve the ethical conflicts. The legal resolution in effect becomes a societal
consensus statement on ethics, at least for the time being and until the laws
are changed.  n4

[*249]

   1. The 1970s and 1980s: Patient Care and Medical Ethics

 Federal law was used to address an ethical dilemma caused by the shortage in
the 1960s of hemodialysis machines to treat patients with kidney disease. To
allocate these scarce resources in Washington, a group (later dubbed the
"Seattle God Committee") was given authority to decide, according to various
"social worth" criteria, which patients would or would not be given this
treatment. Patients were evaluated according to, among other things: age,
gender, income and net worth, marital status, number of dependents, educational
and employment background, and their "past performance and future potential."
n5 Societal unease about the ethics of this form of health care rationing found
expression in the enactment of the Social Security Amendments of 1972, allowing
Medicare reimbursement for most patients with end-stage renal disease.  n6

   Federal law was enacted in the 1970s to address the ethical issues raised by
the decades-long decision by the U.S. Department of Public Health to deprive
hundreds of African-American men in rural Alabama of available antibiotics to
treat syphilis.  n7 Government officials who authorized the Tuskegee Syphilis
Study viewed it as an opportunity to benefit both scientific research and the
Southern black community.  n8 After the public revelations and congressional
hearings, however, society reacted to what it judged to have been unethical
behavior by enacting national laws to develop ethical standards for the
protection of human research subjects.  n9

    [*250]  In the 1980s, conflicting ethical views about what was appropriate
medical care for critically ill newborns were socially expressed by the legal
controversy over the so-called Baby Doe regulations.  n10 Promulgated by the
Reagan administration, these regulations prohibited hospitals from withholding
life-sustaining treatment from very ill infants solely by reason of their
handicaps,  n11 and allowed the federal government to monitor medical treatment
decisions as potential violations of federal anti-discrimination laws through
twenty-four-hour hot lines and warning notices posted in hospitals.  n12 These
regulations have since been invalidated by the Supreme Court.  n13 Alternative
legislation was subsequently enacted which represented a compromise between the
ethical positions held by those (primarily doctors' groups) who believed such
treatment decisions should largely be left to the discretion of parents and
physicians, and those (primarily advocates for the disabled) who believed that
the treatment decisions should not based on predictions about an infant's future
"quality of life."  n14

    [*251]  That a health care law can represent society's views on ethics was
also illustrated by the 1980s controversy over so-called "patient dumping," or
the practice by many private hospitals of transferring poor or uninsured
emergency patients to public hospitals. Prior to the 1980s, hospitals generally
had no obligation under state and federal law to give life-saving treatment to
emergency patients, or to provide obstetrical care to women in labor, if these
patients could not pay for these services.  n15 Congressional hearings on the
nationwide problem of patient-dumping resulted in the Emergency Medical
Treatment and Active Labor Act.  n16 Prompted by societal concern over
individual patient horror stories, the Act reflected emerging societal agreement
that it was wrong for hospitals to refuse to treat women in labor or patients in
a potentially life-threatening emergency based on their inability to pay.

   In each of these four examples, the activities that gave rise to the public
controversies and subsequent legislation posed important and debatable ethical
questions in health care. Many of the actors at the time did not regard their
actions as ethically problematic, even if others later did. The members of the
Seattle God Committee  n17 and those who authorized the Tuskegee Syphilis Study
n18 believed their activities to be ethical promotions  [*252]  of the public
good. The hospitals who transferred poor patients to public hospitals rather
than treat them did not view it as ethically wrong to decline to give service to
someone who could not pay for it.  n19 Certainly there remain sharply divergent
views about what constitutes the ethical treatment of critically ill newborns.
n20  [*253]  The point is that in each case, the law was called upon to weigh
the merits of the differing ethical positions, to adopt some and reject others
(implicitly if not expressly), and to provide guidelines for what society agreed
(by proxy, through the democratic vote on the legislation)  n21 would be
considered unethical behavior in the future. As a consensus statement on ethics,
the law reflected society's views, at least for the time being, of where the
ethical balance should be struck.

   2. The 1990s: Managed Care and Business Ethics

 Many of the legal controversies involving medical ethics in the 1970s and 1980s
tended to focus on perceived ethical problems arising out of the
provider-patient relationship. In other words, these ethical questions
frequently focused on how those who provide health care services (the hospitals,
doctors, or researchers) should treat those who receive the services (the
patients).  n22 By contrast, many of the ethical conflicts in health care in the
1990s involve the business practices of payers (those who pay for health care
services, such as managed care and insurance companies), which raise ethical
questions about how the payers should treat both patients and providers
(particularly doctors and hospitals).  n23 Throughout the 1990s, providers and
[*254]  patients alike have vociferously expressed their sense of ethical
wrong-doing by insurers and managed care companies who, for example, attempt to
insert so-called "gag clauses" in their contracts with physicians;  n24 who may
try to cut costs by limiting hospital stays down to the point of paying only for
so-called "drive-through" deliveries  n25 and "drive-through" mastectomies;  n26
who may create financial incentives for doctors to deny or limit care  n27
[*255]  or otherwise interfere with the doctor-patient relationship by denying
payment for care that the patient needs and the doctor wants to provide;  n28
who impose restrictions on patients' choice of  [*256]  provider;  n29 who
appear to lack protections for the confidentiality of patients' records;  n30 or
who will not pay for emergency services without a lot of pre-authorization red
tape.  n31

    [*257]  The HMOs and insurance companies who engage in these behaviors do
not view them as wrong or unethical: on the contrary, it is just good business
to try to contain costs and allocate health care rationally. But others in our
society view these behaviors as ethically wrong, unfair, or abusive. And where
do they go when their sense of moral outrage gets strong enough? To the law, of
course. Each of these asserted unethical behaviors has generated calls for
social resolution, principally by legal ban at federal and state levels. In the
past few years, new legislation in Georgia  n32 and other states  n33 has
addressed, or has been proposed to address, many of these issues. Competing
Democratic and Republican proposals for "patient protection" legislation or a
"patients' bill of rights," which have been the focus of so much Congressional
debate over the past two years, also address many of these same concerns.  n34
As was true for the debates over medical ethics in earlier decades, these calls
for legal reform in the 1990s reflect societal judgment about the ethics of many
health care business practices.

   B. Law as Enforcer of Socially Agreed-Upon Values: Law Packs Ethics
WithaPunch

 While law and ethics both focus on questions of right and wrong in human
relationships, they differ starkly in their ability to enforce ethical behavior.
Ethics is aspirational only: it posits ethical ideals for human behavior. If we
say "ought," we mean ethics. By contrast, law provides penalties for failure to
abide by  [*258]  socially-agreed upon ethical norms.  n35 If we say "must," we
mean law. The old adage that "virtue is its own reward" is only partially true:
sometimes the threat of jail time or heavy monetary penalties can provide a more
compelling incentive for virtuous behavior than simple knowledge that one is
"doing the right thing." Law packs ethics with the "punch" of potential
sanctions.

   C. Clarification about the Consensus

 While law often serves these two primary roles - expressing social agreement on
what is ethically inappropriate behavior between individuals, and backing that
agreement up with penalties for violation - two further points are needed to
clarify the nature of this social agreement.

   1. Consensus Reflects General Agreement, Not Unanimity

 First, by societal "consensus" or social "agreement" this essay does not mean
to suggest that everyone in society agrees that the ethically correct resolution
has been expressed by the law in every case. Plenty of people obviously will
disagree. We live, after all, in a pluralistic society where uniformity of
opinion is virtually impossible. What is meant by "consensus" is less than
unanimity and more a sense of general agreement. Whether a bare majority or a
substantial majority, "consensus" in this essay means a democratic resolution we
have agreed to abide by in our social contract, even if individually some (or
even many) of us believe a particular resolution is wrong.  n36

[*259]

   2. Law Sets Ethical Minimums, Not Maximums

 Second, through the law, our society does not attempt to agree upon all conduct
which is ethical, and all conduct which is unethical. Law performs a much
narrower function. In the universe of ethics, right and wrong behaviors lie
along a spectrum, with ethically good or even ideal conduct at one end (perhaps
we could agree to put honesty, loyalty, generosity, altruism, and respect for
others at this end) and ethically bad behavior at the other end (most of us
might place murder, lying, cheating, and stealing, for example, at this end).
Much of human behavior lies somewhere in the middle, where there is significant
division of social opinion as to whether or to what extent it may be right or
wrong, good or bad, acceptable or unacceptable. Society often uses law to
identify those behaviors primarily at one end of the spectrum: those behaviors
about which there is general agreement that they are unethical, wrong, or
unacceptable.  n37 In our society, we often express our consensus about behavior
being ethically wrong by making it illegal.  n38 But that leaves much conduct -
perhaps  [*260]  most human conduct - simply not addressed by law, and over
which there may be significant differences of opinion.

   By addressing what we have generally agreed is wrong behavior or bad actions,
the law sets the legal minimums for behavior; it does not address the ethical
maximums. The law provides sanctions for wrongdoing; it does not tend to provide
rewards for doing good or even sanctions for failing to do good.  n39 The law
will punish you if you hit a person and leave him bleeding in the street; but if
you are walking down the street and happen to see someone lying and bleeding in
the gutter, the law will not penalize you if you walk on by and fail to help him
out.  n40 American law does not require you to be the "Good Samaritan," nor
reward you if you are. That is the province of ethics - it goes beyond the law.

   D. Too Much Law in the Discourse of MedicalEthics?

   1. Translating Moral Problems into Legal Problems

 Some people may readily agree that law is the principal forum where our society
debates ethics, and yet they may still deplore that this is so. The ethicist
Daniel Callahan has recently complained about the "elevation of moral judgments
of the courts as the moral standards of the land," and argues:



    Unfortunately, because we do let the law legislate considerable morality, or
use moral arguments to overcome existing bans, a great deal of the work of
ethics ends up being done in courtrooms and enshrined in legal decisions...
[Law] may be the best institution we have [to arbitrate moral questions], but it
is a poor substitute for moral consensus and public debate on ethics.  n41

    [*261]

 Certainly, there are problems with our society's translation of moral problems
into legal ones. Some commentators have said that law is coercive, and tends to
end public debate over morality.  n42 Some may wish that the law considered more
fully what it means for individuals to be members of the community, or that the
law did not focus so narrowly on individual rights.  n43 And yet for better or
for worse, we have not vested any other forum besides the law with sufficient
social clout and political authority to decide these ethical questions. We may
let our universities, places of worship, the media, public opinion surveyors, or
other social institutions raise these questions for us, but not resolve them.
Only law is given this authority, reflecting a social agreement to abide by the
resolutions it comes up with.

   2. Law's Power to Enforce Creates Ethical Pitfalls

 One serious problem with "legislating morality" is that when law pervades
ethical inquiry and backs its resolutions up with the punch of potential
liability, people frequently focus solely on avoiding the punch. In responding
to the so-called "chilling effect" of the law, some of us sometimes overreact
and assume that we must do something, or must not do something, because we think
that's "what the law says," whether it makes any medical sense or even common
sense. Often lay people may not know what the law says, or assume they know but
in fact are wrong, but they think, "never mind, it's better to be safe than
sorry," and so they engage in behaviors, or avoid behaviors, in order to comply
with what they blindly, and perhaps erroneously, assume the law  [*262]
requires of them.  n44 This is the essence of "defensive medicine," sometimes
reflecting misunderstandings about the law and nearly always illustrating
concern more about whether one can get sued than about whether one is doing the
right thing.  n45 Many lawyers, by the way, are also culpable on this score.

   The very power of the law can create pitfalls for real ethical reflection in
other ways. Paradoxically, more law can result in less ethical debate. When we
focus on the law, we tend to lose sight of the ethical underpinnings for it. In
trying to focus on the "letter of the law," we often lose sight of its "spirit."
When law becomes pervasive, we often forget about the original ethical questions
that prompted the legal resolutions. We also tend to forget that generally, the
law sets only the floor for ethical behavior, and that we have come to societal
consensus only on those behaviors which fall below that ethical level. We get so
focused on making sure that our behavior does not fall below that floor - that
we cannot be held legally liable for something - that we do not examine whether
our behavior is reaching far enough toward the ethical high ground. We worry
only about avoiding legal accountability, not about promoting ethical
responsibility. Our obsession with the law - or more particularly, with avoiding
law's punch - means that we tend to substitute our conformity with the legal
minimums for our need to reflect on the ethical  [*263]  maximums. We are too
quickly satisfied that our compliance with these legal minimums was all that
ethics required us to do.

   II. Medical Ethics at the Bedside: Law and the Recognition of Patients'Rights


 This Part examines law's influence on medical ethics at the bedside, in
particular on the doctor-patient relationship, and will illustrate how law's
power has created pitfalls for ethical reflection through the example of
informed consent forms.  n46 The law's recognition of patients' rights to
consent to and to refuse to receive medical treatment is solidly founded on
ethical considerations and, it is argued, reflects an emerging societal
consensus over how the ethical balance ought to be weighed between doctor and
patient at the bedside. Over the past several decades, the courts, legislatures,
and society at large have coalesced in the view that a competent adult patient
has the right to consent, or to refuse to consent, to medical treatment, even if
her health caregivers vehemently disagree with her decision. By contrast,
society has not come to a consensus on whether patients should be entitled to
receive medical treatment, if, for example, the patient cannot pay for it, or if
the doctor thinks it is not medically appropriate, or if the insurance company
does not want to pay for it. The lack of societal consensus over when, if ever,
a patient should be entitled to receive health care is reflected by the absence
of clear legislation or judicial precedent recognizing such rights.

   A. The Right of Informed Consent

 Throughout most of the history of medicine, the doctor-patient relationship has
been founded on the ethics of beneficence, or paternalism.  n47 The doctor
decided what was best for the patient, and the patient accepted the decision,
usually without questioning, understanding, or perhaps even a real choice. The
doctor was guided in his decision by another related ethical principle, namely
non-maleficence, which required him to "above all, do no harm" to the patient.

    [*264]  These two principles of beneficence and non-maleficence formed the
ethical bedrock of the doctor-patient relationship until relatively recently.
n48 Paternalism in medicine was grounded in ethics, and it reflected a social
consensus, for most of history and still in many other countries, about what was
ethically appropriate behavior between doctors and patients. Doing the right
thing for the patient entailed doing what doctors thought was the best thing for
the patient: what would benefit her, and above all not harm her. The ethical
principle of autonomy, or respect for individual self-determination, played a
minor role in the doctor-patient relationship, and was reflected in the doctor's
obtaining the patient's consent before treatment.  n49 It did not matter that
the patient's expression of consent may have been pretty general, such as simply
"Yes," or "OK," or "Sure, doctor, whatever you say," or even the failure to say
"No." Ethics required at least a minimalist expression of autonomy, and law
backed ethics up. Since the early part of this century, the law has expressed
society's view that it was wrong - a violation of autonomy - to treat the
patient without some kind of consent. The law expressed this ethical view by
allowing the patient to sue her doctor for common-law battery if the doctor
treated her without prior consent.  n50

    [*265]  With the advent of the civil rights movement in the second half of
this century, Americans' views began to undergo substantial change concerning
the rights of individuals in relation to government and in relation to other
individuals or institutions who were more politically, socially, or economically
powerful. Not surprisingly, about this time, societal views concerning the
patient's role in the doctor-patient relationship also began to change.  n51
Patients began to voice the ethical proposition, founded on the autonomy
principle, that they, rather than the doctors, should have the ultimate
authority to decide the course of their medical treatment. Patients asserted
this ethical view, not by writing philosophy dissertations in universities or
passionate editorials in newspapers, but by taking their doctors to court.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s in state courts and legislatures across the
country, patients began claiming that doctors had an ethical obligation, not
just to get them to agree to treatment, but to talk to them in more depth about
the nature and the risks of proposed medical treatment before providing it.  n52
In other words, they argued that doctors had an ethical duty to get more than
just bare consent; they ought to get the patient's informed consent prior to
treatment.

   Courts began to side with patients in this ethical debate by allowing
patients to sue a doctor, not just for battery, but also for medical malpractice
if the doctor failed to disclose, prior to treatment, certain significant
information about the proposed treatment which could affect the patient's
decision to accept or reject it. Starting from the ethical premise that patients
ought to be able to decide which treatments were in their best interest, courts
reasoned that patients needed to know a lot about a proposed  [*266]  treatment
before they could reasonably decide whether it was in their best interests to
have it. The courts therefore ruled that doctors were required to disclose
information which they knew about the treatment, and which patients would find
significant in deciding whether to accept it, such as the material risks
associated with it, its likelihood of success, its alternatives, and the
patient's prognosis without it.  n53 In some states, like Georgia, where the
courts did not reflect this ethical view in their common law, the state
legislatures enacted informed consent statutes which did so,  n54 and many
states have replaced their common-law developments with legislative enactments
on informed consent.  n55

   Informed consent doctrine thus reflects an ethical shift away from
professional paternalism (doing what in the doctor's view was in the patient's
best interest) and toward individual autonomy (letting the patient decide, once
fully informed, what was best). In effect, the widespread adoption of informed
consent laws reflects a societal consensus that in medical ethics at the
bedside, the principle of autonomy ought to prevail, in a case of conflict, over
the principle of beneficence. Patients were arguing that it was ethically
appropriate for doctors to talk in depth about the medical care they proposed,
even though such conversations were largely foreign to the ethical perspective
of the medical profession.  n56 Law was the vehicle by which the ethics of
patient self-determination and shared decision-making in the doctor-patient
[*267]  relationship were introduced to the medical profession.  n57 As a
profession, doctors may not have readily agreed that they had an ethical duty to
engage in these conversations with patients.  n58 Understandably, they have
resented both the lawsuits and the resulting laws. Those laws do reflect,
however, a societal consensus that it was ethically wrong not to engage in these
conversations with patients. Actions for battery and malpractice were simply the
ways that the law packed ethics with a punch.

   B. The Right to Refuse MedicalTreatment

 Issues in medical ethics at the bedside also arise when a patient wants to
refuse treatment that her doctors believe is in her best interests. A right to
refuse treatment would seem to be a natural corollary of the right to consent to
it. What now are the ethical responsibilities in the doctor-patient
relationship? In the name of autonomy, should, for example, a patient be allowed
to refuse CPR in the event of cardiac arrest, or to refuse a blood transfusion
in an emergency, or to forego other life-extending treatments, whether they be
ordinary or heroic measures? Or in the ethical interests of beneficence or
non-maleficence, should doctors be able to provide the treatment to save the
patient's life, even over her or her surrogate's objections?

   1. Incompetent Patients

 The first court case to address this question involved Karen Ann Quinlan, a
victim of a tragic accident that left her in a persistent vegetative state with
no possibility of recovery.  n59 After many  [*268]  years, Quinlan's father
finally asked to have his unconscious daughter disconnected from the ventilator,
in the belief that she would not have wished to have been kept alive by such
measures in a state of permanent unconsciousness. With the support of his
church, the father believed that it was morally right to stop providing this
form of treatment. The doctors, to the contrary, thought it was ethically wrong
to disconnect any living patient from a ventilator.  n60 What, ethically, should
be done? In a thoughtful opinion reflecting both ethical and legal precedent,
the court ruled in favor of the father's authority - rather than the doctors' -
to make the decisions about his daughter's medical treatment on her behalf in
light of what she would have wanted done under the circumstances.

   The case was controversial. Over the next three decades, state courts across
the country considered dozens of cases just like it. The courts have fairly
consistently upheld the ethical balance struck in Quinlan's case, and have ruled
that it is the patient's right (or a surrogate's right on the patient's behalf
if the patient is incompetent) to accept or to refuse medical treatment.  n61
Whether these court cases have changed social opinion, or whether changes in
social opinion are being reflected in these cases,  n62 gradually a social
consensus has emerged that patients (or their surrogates) - rather than doctors
- ought to decide ultimately how much and what kind of care they should have at
the end of life.

   When the United States Supreme Court in 1990 recognized under federal
Constitutional law that an individual has a liberty interest in refusing
unwanted medical treatment,  n63 the Court was  [*269]  reflecting this emerging
current societal consensus that individuals should have the "right to die with
dignity," and that it is wrong to extend life or prolong dying against the
patient's wishes. Over the past few decades, all state legislatures have also
backed up this ethical viewpoint with legislation recognizing the right of
patients to express their wishes, and to have them honored, through advance
directives like living wills or durable powers of attorney.  n64 Even the
federal government in 1991 addressed patients' rights with legislation pointedly
called the Patient Self-Determination Act,  n65 requiring hospitals to inform
patients about their rights under state law to consent to or refuse medical
treatment and to express their wishes in advance directives.

   2. Competent Patients

 The law has also been asked to resolve ethical conflicts at the bedside of
patients who are not terminally ill or comatose or in the process of dying. What
ought to happen when patients have, potentially, many years of healthy life
ahead of them if they are given certain medical treatment? Ethically, in the
interest of autonomy, should they be allowed to refuse it, when that decision
will likely result in declining health or even death? Or, in the interests of
beneficence and non-maleficence, should doctors be allowed to provide the care
to improve a patient's health or even save her life, over her objections?
Patients and doctors again took these ethical questions to the courts for
resolution. In deciding these cases, courts have expressly considered a variety
of ethical principles and concerns that compete with the ethical principle of
autonomy. In the courts' view, a person's interest in autonomy and control over
his body is not absolute, but must be carefully balanced against the ethical
interests of the community at large (the state) and of the medical profession in
particular.  n66

    [*270]  The state courts across the country have almost uniformly sided with
patients in this ethical debate. Courts have generally ruled that mentally
competent adults have the legal right to refuse any and all medical treatment,
even to the point of death. So, for example, a Jehovah's Witness may refuse a
life-saving blood transfusion,  n67 even if she is a parent whose refusal could
leave her children orphaned and without parental support.  n68 A person with
disabilities or serious illnesses, such as quadriplegia, may decline life-saving
medical treatment, nutrition, and hydration.  n69 Even state prison inmates may
refuse food and medical care to the point of death in some cases.  n70 Generally
speaking, however, courts have weighed this ethical balance against the patient
(and allowed doctors to provide treatment over the patient's objection) only
when the patient was a minor,  n71 or when the patient's refusal of medical
treatment might adversely affect the wellbeing of a minor  n72 or a fetus.  n73
Even in these  [*271]  cases, some courts have ruled that the patient may refuse
the treatment.  n74

   C. Patients' Rights and the Legal Power/Ethical PitfallProblem

 Do these legal developments in informed consent and refusal of medical
treatment reflect societal consensus? This essay argues that, at least in
theory, in giving primacy to the ethical principle of autonomy in the
doctor-patient relationship, the courts and legislatures have reflected, or
perhaps forged in some cases, a societal consensus that patients ought to have
more decision-making power in that relationship. By societal "consensus," again
it is not suggested that, as a practical matter, everyone in society agrees that
the ethically correct resolution has been reached in these cases.  n75 In
reality, plenty of people disagree. On ethical issues involving life and death,
there are bound to be sharp differences of opinions. While many patients, and
many who see themselves as future patients, may have come to believe that they
ought to be allowed to steer the course of the health care they receive, and
while the courts and legislatures may have agreed with them, the medical
profession has been slower to embrace the ethics of patient autonomy at the
bedside. So, for example, in the case of patients' rights to refuse medical
treatment, numerous studies and litigation have shown that despite court
rulings, living wills, durable powers of attorney, and so forth, many doctors
continue to provide treatment at the bedside without the consent or even over
the objections of patients or their families.  n76

    [*272]  Understandably, doctors resent the intrusion of law at the bedside.
Law came to the patients' bedside, however, because there was an emerging
societal sense that wrong was being done to the patients there. This invitation
to get the law involved in ethical conflicts is nothing new. Whenever there is a
social sense of wrong, or injustice, or an abuse of power by some people or some
institutions (including government), those who feel abused often turn to the law
for protection.  n77 In this case, a felt need for patient protection from a
power imbalance in the doctor-patient relationship has resulted in consent
forms, living wills, and other legal documents and rules. That these legal
mechanisms frequently provide only minimal protection in practice - that they
often fail to achieve the ethical balance that was their goal - does not alter
the point that their purpose was to promote an ethical vision of the
doctor-patient relationship.

   Although informed consent doctrine is founded on ethical ideals of respect
for persons, patient autonomy, and self-determination, as well as ideals of
shared decision-making and genuine collaboration between physician and patient,
actual practice in the relations between patients and providers is often
different. On the floor of so many hospitals and doctors' offices, informed
consent doctrine moves from the sublime to the ridiculous: from an active and
constructive conversation to a multi-page, incomprehensible consent document,
from facilitating a dialogue to  [*273]  getting a signature for the files. And
who is to blame? One may be tempted to say "the law," or at least "the lawyers."

   And to some extent that is true. After all, the law said it was important to
have these conversations, and backed that ethical proposition up with the punch
of liability for malpractice if the doctor or hospital did not have them.
Moreover, most legislation on informed consent provides explicit directions for
avoiding law's punch: get it in writing. Georgia's informed consent law, for
example, like many state statutes, provides that if one follows the instructions
and gets the patient's signature on a consent form that is filled out according
to statutory specifications, then the patient's consent will be legally presumed
to be valid.  n78 The bottom line: if you get the signature on a form like this
one, then you won't get sued ("punched").  n79

   And herein lies the pitfall which the very power of the law creates for
ethical reflection. That bottom line is near the bottom of ethical practice. As
argued earlier,  n80 law only sets a floor for ethical behavior. At the very
minimum, the law needs to be satisfied that the patient at least had the
opportunity to be informed about her diagnosis, the risks of treatment, her
alternatives, and so forth. The law does not require proof, beyond these
minimums, that the patient actually understood any of the information she was
given, or engaged in any genuine conversation with her health care providers
before accepting treatment, or made truly autonomous choices about her health
care. Faced with the power of law, however, we tend to get stuck in our ethical
reflections at the ground floor.  n81

   As is so often true when law packs ethics with a punch, people tend to
over-focus on avoiding the punch, and not on the  [*274]  ethical underpinnings
of the law. We get so obsessed about these forms that we forget that they were
designed to facilitate conversation, not to be a substitute for it. We forget
that they were intended to begin the conversations with patients, not to end
them. Forgetting the ethical ideals, we do not ask: did we have a real talk with
the patient, did the patient understand, does the patient really know and accept
what she is getting into? We worry only about legal compliance, and ask instead:
did you get the consent, by which we mean, did you get the signature? So often
before surgery one hears practitioners ask: "Did anybody go consent the
patient?" Now a transitive verb, "consent" is something that is done to the
patient, not something that the patient does.

   In reality, the law has done little to move actual medical practice closer to
the ideal of shared decision-making between physician and patient.  n82 Too
often, law has been used only to cover the doctor-patient relationship with
bureaucratic red tape.  n83 But it is not really the law's fault that ethical
ideals have not been achieved in medical practice. Health care providers are the
ones who can choose whether or not they want to go beyond  [*275]  law's
minimums and strive for the ethical maximums. They can choose to start and end
conversations with their patients with the informed consent form. Or they can
choose to go beyond the form and begin to engage the patient in thinking about
her health and the ways she thinks would best promote it, to allay her fears and
to give her confidence in her choices. Law never took it out of the hands of the
health care professionals to strive for the ethical high ground.

   D. The Right to Receive MedicalTreatment

 While social consensus has been evolving, at least in ethical and legal theory,
over patients' rights to consent to and refuse medical treatment, there is much
less social accord on more recently emerging ethical questions involving
patients' rights to receive medical treatment. We have never agreed in our
society that, ethically, every person who needs medical treatment ought to be
able to get it. Not surprisingly, we have no law that requires universal health
care coverage. Occasionally, we do agree that some people ought to be able to
get some kinds of medical treatment some of the time. For example, the federal
law mentioned earlier, which requires hospitals to treat emergency patients and
women in labor, reflects the social agreement that these patients ought to be
able to get emergency care regardless of their ability to pay for it.  n84 The
federal Medicaid and Medicare programs also reflect social accord that some
people should be able to get some treatment at least some of the time,
regardless of their ability to pay.

   Generally speaking, however, we have not yet found consensus on a range of
ethical questions involving when, if ever, patients ought to be entitled to
receive medical treatment that someone else either does not want to provide, or
does not want to pay for, or thinks that patients should not get. For example,
we have not yet agreed on whether a patient who is severely physically and
mentally disabled, such as permanently unconscious, ought to be able to get
medical treatment which her doctors do not want to provide because they say it
is futile, or her condition is too hopeless.  n85 We have not yet agreed on
whether patients  [*276]  with advanced breast cancer ought to be able to get
expensive high-tech treatment which their insurance companies do not want to pay
for because the insurance companies say it is experimental and unproven
treatment.  n86 And we are still deciding whether a patient ought to be able to
get a physician to help her commit suicide if she is terminally ill and wishes
to die.  n87

    [*277]  These ethical dilemmas may initially arise at the bedside, but their
ethical implications extend well beyond the doctor-patient relationship and
affect the broader community. That we are still in the process of finding a
social consensus on these questions is reflected, variously, by our lack of laws
directly addressing an issue, such as futile treatment;  n88 or by extensive
litigation resulting  [*278]  in conflicting court interpretations of existing
laws, such as with breast cancer treatment litigation;  n89 or by the passionate
calls that there "ought be a law," such as there is over the issue of
physician-assisted suicide, causing litigation going all the way to the Supreme
Court and heated debates in a multitude of state legislatures.  n90 To move in
the direction of patients' rights to  [*279]  receive treatment inevitably
entails a move beyond the bedside and into the offices and boardrooms of health
care providers and payers. Any claim that patients have a right to receive a
certain kind of medical care, or a certain quality of medical care, inevitably
raises the question, "Who's going to pay for it?" It is at this point that the
concerns of medical ethics begin to merge with those of business ethics, to
which this essay now turns.

   III. Ethics in the Boardroom: The Evolution of Organization Ethics and
Corporate HealthLaw

   A. Everybody Is a Patient Advocate TheseDays

 Although the medical profession may not have been among the vanguard of
patients' rights activists in the past, in the last few years it has
increasingly warmed to the role of patient advocate.  n91  [*280]  And the
medical profession is not alone. While it may have taken many individual patient
lawsuits and state-by-state legislative initiatives to establish patients'
rights to consent to and to refuse medical treatment over the past several
decades, in the past few years, many groups have come forward and made it their
priority to champion the rights of patients. "Patient protection acts" and
"patients' bills of rights" seem to have sprung up everywhere as people seem
keen to heed the rallying call of patients' rights. All of a sudden, everybody
is a patient advocate. In Congress, the AMA has been waging a "battle for strong
patient protection legislation that will support our right as physicians to
deliver medically appropriate care to our patients - and to support the rights
of our patients themselves."  n92 The American Hospital Association has revised
its own Patient Bill of Rights.  n93 The American Association of Health Plans
has added new patient protections to its initiative called, "Putting Patients
First."  n94 One of the biggest  [*281]  debates on Capitol Hill during the past
two years has been over competing Democratic and Republican proposals for a
patients' bill of rights.  n95 Why now is everyone clamoring to portray
themselves as friends of patients?

   Perhaps the patient has so many friends these days because, as the old saying
goes, "The enemy of my enemy is my friend." An editorial in a leading medical
journal began with dramatic war-like language: "The patient-physician
relationship is under siege."  n96 The AMA's patient protection campaigns and
the competing proposals for a patients' bill of rights are largely targeted at
perceived ethical abuses by managed care companies and payers of health care
services.  n97 Doctors and hospitals now see themselves, or at least portray
themselves, as aligned with patients as they struggle in the larger battle
against their common enemy - insurance companies, HMOs, and others who pay for
health care services.  n98

   As was earlier observed in the context of the doctor-patient relationship,
n99 the invitation to get the law involved in ethical conflicts is nothing new.
Whenever there is a social sense of wrong, injustice, or abuse of power, those
who feel harmed turn to the law for protection. Today, the clarion call for
patient protection legislation reflects a widespread societal concern about
potentially ethically abusive practices among those who pay for health care
services. Those who feel themselves hurt by such practices - the people who
provide those services as well as the patients who receive them - rally for new
laws, backed up by sanctions, to demonstrate societal intolerance of such
behaviors. The call for law is a call for society to lay down the ethical ground
rules, not just as before within the doctor-patient relationship, but now in the
whole health care industry.  n100

[*282]

   B. JCAHO's Accreditation Requirement for a Code of Organization Ethics: Law
Packs Ethics withaPunch

 In 1995, JCAHO saw clearly how the changing marketplace for health care was
placing new economic and ethical pressures on health care providers. At that
time, the Joint Commission created a new accreditation standard on organization
ethics. The new standard required a hospital to implement a "code of ethical
behavior" on the following activities: marketing; patient admission, transfer,
and discharge; billing practices; and the relationship of the organization and
its staff to other health care providers, educational institutions, and payers.
n101 In 1998, JCAHO added to this accreditation standard for an organization
ethics code the requirement that a hospital "protects the integrity of clinical
decision-making," regardless of its compensation or risk-sharing arrangements
with its leaders, managers, clinical staff, and licensed independent
practitioners.  n102

   What prompted JCAHO in the mid-1990s to get serious about business ethics in
health care organizations? After all, its accreditation standards already
addressed medical ethics and patients' rights.  n103 JCAHO was probably not just
jumping on the bandwagon of corporate mission statements and business ethics
codes.  n104 Rather, JCAHO was concerned that, in the ever increasingly
competitive health care environment, health care organizations might be tempted
to compromise on patient care. A spokesman for the Commission flatly stated that
the newly adopted 1995 accreditation requirements were "guided by the  [*283]
times, and the current environment in health care suggests a need for standards
that address conflict of interest statements and a code of ethical behavior. We
must assure that contractual ... agreements never compromise patient care."
n105 According to the Commission, the role of ethics in health care, whether
medical ethics or business ethics, is fundamentally to assure quality of patient
care: "The question to be considered is always, from an ethical standpoint, will
this business practice improve the quality of health care for patients. The
answer to that question ultimately will guide each decision."  n106

   What is interesting about the Commission's targeting these particular
activities in the new organization ethics code requirement - marketing, billing,
patient admissions and discharge, conflicts of interest, and compensation
arrangements - is that these same activities are also the current targets of the
most intense legal scrutiny in the history of health care law enforcement.
Because of rapid changes in health care markets, increased competition, and an
increased focus on constraining costs, redoubled efforts are being made to
ensure legal - as well as ethical - behavior by health care organizations. The
temptation for health care organizations to put profits ahead of patients is
causing a societal backlash that concerns not just the professional accreditors,
but law enforcers as well.

   As illustrated below, for each business practice which JCAHO briefly
identifies for inclusion in a hospital's organization ethics code, there is a
corresponding host of laws, regulations, and litigation addressing the same
conduct. JCAHO says simply: "The code ensures that the hospital conducts its
business practices and patient care practices in an honest, decent, and proper
manner."  n107 Increasingly called upon to define the thresholds of ethical
practice, the law packs this straightforward ethical ideal with a punch of
regulatory complexity and criminal and civil liability. The threat of that punch
- far more than the accreditation requirement for an ethics code - has fostered
a virtual industry of corporate compliance programs in health care organizations
today. After exploring how the law reinforces each of the organization ethics
standards of JCAHO through regulation and potential liability, this essay will
turn to the obvious question: Why didn't JCAHO simply say, "Obey the law"?

[*284]

   1. Billing Practices

 JCAHO briefly noted in its 1995 accreditation manual: "To support ethical
operations, an organization must have in place a mechanism to ensure that
patients are billed for only those services and care provided."  n108 A simple,
clear, straightforward ethical proposition: bill only for the services you
actually perform or the care you actually provide. Alleged violations of this
ethical proposition have created a virtual firestorm of investigations and
litigation throughout the health care industry. Industry concern over the
government's crackdown on fraud and abuse topped the Top 10 List of health law
developments for 1998 and ranked second for 1999.  n109 Health care fraud
enforcement has become a top priority at the Department of Justice, which
recovered $ 1.2 billion from its enforcement activities in 1997.  n110

   JCAHO's ethical standard to ensure proper billing has been dwarfed by a
legion of law enforcement activities addressing hospital billing practices. In
the past few years, the federal government has pursued alleged hospital fraud,
much of it in the billing area, through at least six major enforcement
intiatives:  n111 LabScam,  n112 the 72-Hour Window Project,  n113 the Lab
Unbundling  [*285]  Project,  n114 the Physicians at Teaching Hospitals (PATH)
initiative,  n115 the diagnosis-related grouping upcoding project,  n116 and the
transfer/discharge project.  n117 As if these government-initiated
investigations into alleged health care billing fraud were not enough, hospitals
also face the prospect of multi-million dollar litigation in qui tam lawsuits
initiated by private persons, or whistleblowers (frequently disgruntled former
employees), under the False Claims Act.  n118 To prevent false billing, or at
least to forestall prosecution and litigation for alleged false billing, health
care providers are hiring attorneys, accountants, and consultants to create
corporate compliance programs in record numbers.  n119

[*286]

   2. Marketing and Advertising

 JCAHO's new accreditation standard also addressed marketing practices: "To
support ethical operations, an organization must have in place a mechanism to
ensure that ... marketing ... practices are conducted in an ethical manner."
n120 JCAHO "recommends that the hospital adopt a statement of marketing and
public relations practices that addresses issues of truth, accuracy, fairness,
and responsibility to patients, community and the larger public."  n121 These
are good, solid, ethical principles: truth, honesty, fairness. Prior to 1995,
the law had already reflected these principles with legislation and regulations
governing truth in advertising. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has long had
authority to investigate and enjoin false or misleading advertising under
federal law which prohibits unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of
competition.  n122 So, for example, the FTC has challenged as false, deceptive,
or misleading the advertising claims of health care providers involving diet and
weight loss programs,  n123 success rates for infertility services  n124 and
cancer treatments,  n125 liposuction surgery,  n126 surgery for bowel-related
diseases,  n127 and even the efficacy of Prozac as a cure for obesity.  n128
[*287]  One hospital chain has been challenged twice by the FTC for misleading
advertising of ileostomy and in vitro fertilization services through its
specialized clinics.  n129 JCAHO's new standard to ensure ethical marketing
practices seems to address the same concerns as are already addressed by federal
and state consumer protection laws.

   3. Patient Admission, Transfer, and Discharge

 JCAHO's new accreditation standard also meant that: "To support ethical
operations, an organization must have in place a mechanism to ensure that ...
admission, transfer, and discharge practices are conducted in an ethical
manner."  n130 In 1995, JCAHO said it wanted to ensure that: "Admissions and
transfer policies are not based on patient or organization economics. Only
patients whose specific condition or disease cannot be safely treated at the
organization are diverted, refused admission, or transferred to another
organization."  n131 Not coincidentally, this ethical concern is soundly backed
up by numerous laws to ensure that, due to financial pressures or incentives,
hospitals do not prematurely discharge a patient before he or she is medically
stable;  n132 that private hospitals do not engage in "patient dumping" of
uninsured patients onto public hospitals;  n133 or that health care
organizations do not engage in other discriminatory  [*288]  refusals of
treatment based on economics or prejudice, such as fear of AIDS.  n134

   4. Compensation Arrangements and Risk-Sharing

 In 1998, JCAHO added to its accreditation standard for an organization ethics
code a requirement that the hospital "protects the integrity of clinical
decision-making" regardless of its compensation or risk-sharing financial
arrangements with its administrators or clinicians. This new requirement is
doubtless responsive to emerging ethical concerns about health care providers
who may have financial pressures or incentives to deny or limit patient care.
One of these concerns is that both individual and institutional providers may
feel pressured to cut their costs by "under-utilizing" medical resources,
specifically by failing to provide necessary medical care.  n135 Managed-care
programs in  [*289]  particular have been the subject of considerable commentary
on this score.  n136 Whether or not these financial considerations have actually
resulted in limitations or denials of medically necessary care by providers or
insurers is still hotly debated.  n137 Widespread  [*290]  societal concern that
they have, however, is reflected in the tremendous amount of recent litigation
by patients alleging that they have been improperly denied such care by their
health plans, doctors, and hospitals based on claims under federal law as well
as under traditional state law theories such as malpractice, corporate
negligence, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, and other traditional state law
claims.  n138 Indeed, the most strenuously contested  [*291]  issue in the whole
controversy these past two years over proposals for a patients' bill of rights
has been whether patients ought to be allowed to sue their health care providers
and payers for improper - and potentially unethical - denial of benefits under
these traditional state law theories of liability.  n139 The JCAHO standard thus
identifies an ethical principle, whose potential breach has already been the
target of considerable legal attention in recent years.

   5. Conflicts of Interest

 In 1995, the JCAHO organization ethics standard as originally implemented was
addressed to the somewhat more "garden variety" of conflicts of interests that
may arise in contracts  [*292]  between a health care organization and its
suppliers.  n140 This sort of conflict of interest, potentially involving
self-dealing by the members of a corporate governing board, is standard fare for
legal sanction in state corporations laws.  n141 The federal anti-kickback laws
n142 are also designed to prevent ethical abuses caused by self-interested
transactions. In particular, the federal Office of the Inspector General has
published numerous Special Fraud Alerts dealing with potential violations of the
anti-kickback laws  [*293]  in the health care field, and involving potential
conflicts of interest which can compromise the quality of patient care.  n143

   C. Why Didn't JCAHO Simply Say, "ObeytheLaw"?

 The question naturally arises, why did JCAHO decide to require hospitals to
adopt a code of organization ethics when there were already numerous federal and
state laws on the books addressed to the very same subjects? Why not just tell
the hospitals, "Obey the law"? Why would JCAHO require a code of organization
ethics that seems to duplicate everything the law already requires health care
organizations to do? Was it just window-dressing? Perhaps, but there are a
couple of less cynical possibilities.

   1. Professional Self-Policing

 One possibility is that the Commission is only doing what is required of all
sectors of society that want to be called "professions": they insist on
self-regulation and self-policing. That is one of the key distinguishing
features between a business and a profession. A profession engages in
self-regulation.  n144 The law enforcers cannot catch everyone; a lot of
misconduct falls between the cracks.  n145 Perhaps JCAHO recognized that a
profession  [*294]  worthy of the name will take it upon itself to uncover and
correct wrong-doing. JCAHO understandably takes the position that the primary
purpose of health care organizations is to provide patients with appropriate,
high-quality health care.  n146 Beyond legal compliance, ethical conduct by
health care providers ultimately promotes the quality of care delivered to
patients.  n147

   2. Going Beyond the Law

 Another, related possibility is that JCAHO is deliberately reflecting a key
distinction between law and ethics, in the sense of recognizing that ethics is
aspirational, and covers a lot of conduct not necessarily prohibited by law. Law
may set the floors below which behavior may not sink without incurring societal
sanction, but ethics creates the ceilings that good people aspire to reach.
JCAHO's inclusion of marketing practices in the code of ethics is a good example
here. The law's attention to ethical marketing practices focuses on setting
ground rules: is the advertising truthful - not false, deceptive, or misleading?
If yes, then it is legal. Ethics' attention to marketing practices goes further
and might ask, is the advertising responsible and socially appropriate?  [*295]
Does it, for example, encourage unhealthy practices, such as was alleged in the
marketing of breast milk substitutes in Third World countries? Does health care
advertising create, rather than simply channel, demand for health care services?
Does it reflect negative social stereotyping?  n148 On each of the issues
required to be included in a hospital's organization ethics code, JCAHO has
implicitly challenged hospitals to go beyond the legal minimums.

   Through the new accreditation standard on organization ethics, JCAHO hopes to
instill ethical sensitivity throughout the institution, rather than allow ethics
to be seen as the purview of the few members of the ethics committee. As a JCAHO
spokesperson said, "Ethical behavior ideally will become a daily interest of
management and staff."  n149 But will people really care about ethical ideals
when the federal agents are knocking at the door, or the accountants and lawyers
keep interrupting with new and improved corporate compliance programs? Once they
all leave, is it "OK everybody, back to work"?

   D. Corporate Compliance Programs: Example of the Legal Power/Ethical
PitfallProblem

 Unfortunately, corporate compliance programs may be doing to organization
ethics what informed consent forms did to  [*296]  medical ethics: They distract
us from thinking about ethics. We can get so focused on complying with "the
letter of the law" that we are too tired or busy or frustrated to wonder about
adhering to its ethical "spirit." We understandably become satisfied that
compliance with the legal minimums was all that ethics required us to do.

   Here again, the very power of the law creates pitfalls for ethical
reflection. We open up the daily and weekly health care newspapers and journals,
and what do we see? We see evidence of the law's punch everywhere. We see the
reports on who is being investigated, who is being indicted, who is going to
jail, who paid how many millions of dollars in fines to settle the
investigations, who paid how many millions more when the investigators would not
settle and demanded fines and prison terms, and so forth.  n150 Is it any wonder
that ethical ideals get lost in the legal shuffle?

   Even if it is understandable that our obsession with law distracts us from
ethical reflection, that distraction is not necessary or even necessarily
excusable. Neither the law nor the devil makes us do it. The law does not make
us forget our ethical moorings; we just allow ourselves to get side-tracked.
Strong corporate compliance programs under the law do not have to supplant even
stronger ethical direction by management.  n151 The law in this area even often
reminds us that its purpose is about ethics.  [*297]  The settlement agreements
between the government and health care organizations in health care fraud cases,
for example, are often called "corporate integrity agreements" which set up
"corporate integrity programs" within the settling health care organization.
These formal agreements may acknowledge at the very outset that the settling
organization "has expressed an interest in demonstrating, notwithstanding [its
alleged misconduct, that it] can be trusted to deal fairly and honestly with the
Government ... [and that it possesses] the high degree of business integrity
required of a provider participating in federally-funded health care programs."
n152

   But those are just the legal forms, and the forms themselves so often blind
us to the ethical substance behind them. The ethical objectives become buried
under the pages and pages of forms, the mountains and mountains of documents:
the subpoenas, the filings, the records, the interrogatories, the financial
statements, the releases, the contracts, the disclaimers, the memorandums, the
charts, the codes, the questionnaires, the reports, and the compliance plans
themselves.  n153 The paper trail seems to lead us into ethical darkness. Who
can help but laugh and think JCAHO was just spitting in the wind back in the
mid-1990s when it said about its new accreditation standard for an organization
code of ethics that: "In some real way this code of ethics has to be more than
just nice words on a piece of paper"?  n154

   And yet JCAHO was right for the very reason that everyone is now drowning in
paper. This avalanche of paper is in no small  [*298]  part a result of the fact
that too often, too many people in health care were not paying attention to the
basic ethical question, "What would be the right thing to do under these
circumstances?" In the administrative offices and boardrooms of health care
organizations, too many people simply did not ask whether their billing
practices accurately reflected their health care services. If some even noticed
that board members, administrators, or clinicians were engaging in
self-interested transactions with contractors or suppliers, they looked the
other way. Through aggressive prosecutions and defensive corporate compliance
programs designed to forestall prosecutions, the law now forces examination of
the basic ethical question in a variety of contexts: billing, advertising,
patient care, conflicts of interest, and compensation arrangements. It is
nonetheless ironic that the law's very power in focusing attention on ethical
issues can so easily create the pitfall of accepting law's minimum requirements
as ethical maximums. As earlier observed, the law itself has never taken it out
of the hands of the health care professionals to strive for the ethical high
ground.

   IV. Ethics in Health Care: An AlternativetoLaw

 It is easy to be cynical about law and ethics and to believe that, inverting
the old saying, in law "it's not the principle, it's the money." Unfortunately,
it is just as easy to be cynical and say the same thing about medicine and
ethics, or about business and ethics. It is possible, for example, to transform
the medical ethics concerns about the provision of futile medical treatment or
physician-assisted suicide into financial concerns about saving money rather
than saving lives. Certainly cynics can (and do) argue that many of the recent
calls for patients' bills of rights have less to do with protecting patients
than with protecting doctors, employers, or even the managed care companies
themselves.  n155 Newspapers report as front-page news the views of  [*299]
those who say that all the recent patient protection initiatives are really not
about patients, but about "protecting the incomes, jobs and turf of the health
care system's biggest and richest vested interests."  n156

   Unless we are prepared to say that money turns all of the phrases - "legal
ethics," or "business ethics," or "medical ethics" - into oxymorons, we should
acknowledge that professional conduct and business conduct ought to be
consistent with ethical conduct.  n157 The question then becomes, "Who is going
to ensure ethical conduct in health care?" The lawyers or the accountants?  n158
Compliance officers?  n159 The patients?  n160 The hospital chaplain? An
institutional ethics committee?

   This last candidate has increasingly been saddled with this responsibility in
recent years. Having previously gotten organized to address the ethical issues
involving patient care, these  [*300]  hospital committees are now often asked
to adopt and implement the organization ethics code as well.  n161 It seems a
lot to ask one committee - and usually a volunteer committee at that - to take
the brunt of ensuring the ethical integrity of an entire institution. Ethics
committees already have far too much on their plate. It is humanly impossible
for members of an ethics committee to be able to understand, let alone absorb
and process, all of the ethical dilemmas faced both at the bedside and in the
boardrooms of health care organizations.  n162

   In any event, should ethics be handled by committee in the first place?
Admittedly, the law had a hand in promoting ethics committees a few decades ago.
n163 Before the law's intervention,  [*301]  there generally were no
institutional forums for raising, let alone formally addressing, ethical
questions in health care organizations. Should health care providers continue to
rely so heavily on ethics by committee today? Like law, the very existence of an
ethics committee poses a pitfall for ethical reflection in the institution.
Whenever any committee is charged with a task, one problem is the tendency of
everybody else in the organization to refer that task to that committee.
Everyone can say, "Hey, that's their job, that's not my job."  n164

   The point is, ethics is everybody's job.  n165 Institutional ethics
committees can certainly help everybody do their job. The committees can
educate; they can set policy; they can even consult on cases from time to time.
n166 It is the responsibility of the highest management in the institution,
however, to instill in everybody a sense that ethics is their individual
priority. Perhaps the best alternative to having the law take the lead in
promoting ethical conduct in a health care institution is for the members of its
[*302]  highest management to shoulder that responsibility - visibly, credibly,
and passionately.  n167

   Ethics in health care inevitably means asking how conduct will affect the
quality of care of patients.  n168 Those who serve in the highest levels of a
health care organization have the greatest opportunity - and responsibility -
for ensuring its ethical integrity. Like the law, management has the power to
pack ethics with a punch. It only needs the will to do so. The highest levels of
administration have the power - and the duty - to set the ethical tone of an
organization, to demonstrate their ethical commitment throughout every
department of the institution, and to provide ongoing oversight and sanctions,
if necessary. Ethics committees can greatly support management and can even take
the lead in charting an institution's responses to ethical dilemmas as they
arise. But ethics committees, like ethics in general, serve primarily an
aspirational role. They often lack the power within the institution to make
ethics happen. The highest administrative levels in the organization do have
this power, and they have the duty to exercise it responsibly.

    [*303]  Management must both ask the hard questions, and make sure that they
get answered.  n169 If it does not, then eventually society will - through law.
This essay has traced the history of law's influence on the ethical evolution of
health care providers. It has illustrated how, whether health care professionals
liked it or not, the law has had to address difficult questions in medical
ethics and how it is currently addressing serious questions in business ethics.
Many people do not like the ways that the law (through courts, legislatures, or
enforcement agencies) handles these hard questions. Many people vehemently
disagree with the law's resolution of ethical dilemmas, or detest the power of
law to coerce societal views of ethical behavior. Until those within the health
care profession and industry assume leadership and take responsibility to define
and debate the ethical questions and continually refine the ethical answers - in
other words, to go beyond the law and to do the right thing  n170 - history is
probably bound to repeat itself. And then the law's presence will loom even
larger in the ethical life of health care organizations.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Copyright LawOwnership InterestsGeneral OverviewHealthcare
LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  On ethics' inquiry into right and wrong, see Deborah Caswell & H. Gill
Cryer, Nursing Grand Rounds: Case Study: When the Nurse and Physician Don't
Agree, 9 J. Cardiovascular Nurs. 30, 37 (1995) ("Traditionally, ethics has been
defined as the inquiry into rules and principles of morality, of right and wrong
conduct, of virtue and vice, and of good and evil as they relate to conduct.");
Bethany Spielman, Invoking the Law in Ethics Consultation, 2 Cambridge Q.
Healthcare Ethics 457, 464 (1993) (stating that ethics is "an attempt to answer
the question: what, all things considered, ought to be done in a given
situation?"). On law's inquiry, see Roger B. Dworkin, Limits: The Role of Law in
Bioethical Decision Making 6-7 (1996):



   Paul Freund put it best: "The law is dialectic in a deeper sense than its
adversary process. It mediates most significantly between right and right."...
The only questions that matter for the law are those in which there is something
"right," or good, on both or all sides of the controversy... When right exists
on both sides of an issue, the job of the law is to mediate between the
"rights," to accommodate, to adjust, to attempt to sacrifice as little as
possible of what is "right" on both sides.




n2.  Immanuel Kant, Idea for a Universal History with a Cosmopolitan Purpose,
Fifth Proposition, in Kant: Political Writings 45 (Hans Reiss ed. & H. B. Nisbet
trans., 1991).




n3.  Oliver Wendell Holmes, The Path of the Law, 10 Harv. L. Rev. 457 (1897).
See also Daniel Callahan, Escaping from Legalism: Is It Possible?, Hastings
Center Rep., Nov.-Dec. 1996, at 34 ("No myth is so hardy as the notion that 'you
can't legislate morality,' which of course we do all the time.").




n4.  As used in this essay, the word "consensus" does not imply unanimity or
complete agreement on a proposition, but rather a sense of general agreement. In
a democratic society, consensus among people may be represented by a bare
majority, as shown by those who represent the people and are elected to reflect
the people's views (as is true for majority passage of a piece of legislation),
or by a supermajority, as is required for the passage of constitutional
amendments. Consensus may be reflected in court decisions as well, whether there
may be one or two controversial court decisions, or a trend among many court
decisions, at the federal or state level which are not overturned by a
legislature, and may in fact be supported by subsequent legislation. See infra
note 36 and accompanying text. Law frequently serves as society's forum for
airing and resolving ethical debate. See infra notes 41-43 and accompanying
text. Legislatures and courts may sometimes be responding reactively to changing
societal views on what is ethically appropriate behavior. They may sometimes be
creating proactively these changes in social opinion. Whether proactive or
reactive, the laws that endure reflect our society's views about ethical
behavior in health care.




n5.  Maxwell J. Mehlman, Rationing Expensive Lifesaving Medical Treatments, 1985
Wis. L. Rev. 239, 256 (criticized for preferring Sunday school teachers and
scout leaders, the "Seattle God Committee" had policies that "ruled out creative
nonconformists who rub the bourgeoisie the wrong way... The Pacific Northwest is
no place for a Henry David Thoreau with bad kidneys."); id. at 256 (quoting
Sanders & Dukeminier, Medical Advance and Legal Lag: Hemodialysis and Kidney
Transplantation, 15 UCLA L. Rev. 357, 377 (1968)).




n6.  See id. at 247-48. See also 42 U.S.C. 426-1 (1991) (concerning end-stage
renal disease program).




n7.  See generally James Jones, Bad Blood: The Tuskegee Syphilis Experiment
(1992) [hereinafter Jones, Bad Blood]; Ad Hoc Advisory Panel, Final Report of
the Tuskegee Syphilis Study, U.S. Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare,
Public Health Service (1975).




n8.  See Jones, Bad Blood, supra note 7, at 94 ("Such a study would be an
expression of concern for Negro health problems, keeping the PHS involved as a
vital force in promoting medical attention to blacks[,] and that Macon County
presented a 'ready-made situation ... for carrying on the proposed study' of
untreated syphilis in Negroes."). See also infra note 18 and accompanying text.




n9.  See generally 2 Barry R. Furrow et al., Health Law 23-1 (1995). In 1974,
the National Research Act established the National Commission for the Protection
of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research to "conduct a
comprehensive investigation and study to identify basic ethical principles" for
the conduct of human subjects research. Id. at 549.




n10.  See 45 C.F.R. 84.55 (1985). Subsections (b) through (e) were later
invalidated by the Supreme Court in Bowen v. American Hospital Association, 476
U.S. 610 (1986).




n11.  See Alexander Morgan Capron, Baby Ryan and Virtual Futility, Hastings
Center Rep., Mar.-Apr. 1995, at 20-21.




n12.  See 45 C.F.R. 84.55(b)(3) (1985) (stating that hospitals were required to
post notices that declared: "It is the policy of this hospital, consistent with
Federal law, that, nourishment and medically beneficial treatment ... should not
be withheld from handicapped infants solely on the basis of their present or
anticipated mental or physical impairments."). See also Sarah Glazer, Born Too
Soon, Too Small, Too Sick: Whatever Happened to Baby Doe?, Washington Post, Apr.
2, 1991, at Z8.




n13.  See Bowen v. American Hosp. Ass'n, 476 U.S. 610 (1986).




n14.  See Capron, supra note 11, at 21; Glazer, supra note 12. While the first
Baby Doe regulations treated nontreatment of critically ill infants by
health-care providers as a potential violation of federal discrimination laws,
the Child Abuse and Neglect Amendments of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 5101-03) shifted the
focus to parental decision-making under state law, requiring reports to state
child welfare agencies only when medical treatment decisions might be viewed
under state law as child neglect. See Mary Crossley, Infants With Anencephaly,
the ADA, and the Child Abuse Amendments, 11 Issues L. & Med. 379, 407-08 (1996):



   The Amendments effectively define when parental decisions regarding
nontreatment for infants with disabilities threaten such serious harm that state
authorities should review those decisions... A parental choice falling below
this floor is suspect, and the Amendments accordingly require reporting of the
case to state authorities so that the state can determine whether there exists a
need to intervene to prevent or remedy medical neglect. Medical choices not
falling below this floor are left to unfettered parental discretion.




n15.  For a good account of the state of the law prior to EMTALA, see generally
Karen H. Rothenberg, Who Cares? The Evolution of the Legal Duty to Provide
Emergency Care, 26 Hous. L. Rev. 21 (1989).




n16.  42 U.S.C. 1395dd (1992). See generally Lynn Healy Scaduto, Comment, The
Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act Gone Astray: A Proposal to
Reclaim EMTALA for Its Intended Beneficiaries, 46 UCLA L. Rev. 943, 948 (1999)
(stating that the legislative intent "behind EMTALA was to deter what Congress
perceived to be the burgeoning practice among hospital emergency rooms of
dumping indigent and uninsured patients"). See infra notes 19, 84-90 and
accompanying text (discussing divergent legal and ethical views over providing a
right to receive medical treatment in America).




n17.  See Guido Calabresi & Philip Bobbitt, Tragic Choices 186-89 (1978)
(describing the Seattle God Committee's attempt to allocate kidneys in a
socially responsible way).




n18.  See supra note 8. See also Tom Junod, Deadly Medicine, GQ, June 1993, at
164, 170 (relating that one of the study's defenders, Dr. Sidney Orlansky, later
reflected on subsequent objections to the study: "After seeing these people,
knowing them and studying them and the record, I honestly feel that we have done
them no real harm and probably have helped them in many ways." At a 1969 meeting
at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta to discuss whether
the study should continue, Dr. Orlansky continued to insist that Tuskegee was "a
good study[,]" and "that there were no medical grounds for treating the men,
that for the most part their syphilis was inactive and that giving them
penicillin could incur 'catastrophic consequences.'"). For a good narrative
presentation of the ethical dilemmas posed for those who participated in the
Tuskegee study, such as the white doctors and the black nurse who worked with
the male subjects of the study, see David Feldshuh, Miss Evers' Boys, American
Theatre, Nov. 1990, a play which was made into a TV movie by Home Box Office in
1997.




n19.  The ethical position of the hospitals is similar to that of doctors today,
who are under no legal obligation to provide free medical care to patients who
cannot pay for these services and who, according to a recent study, are
providing less and less free care in health markets where managed care is
prevalent. See Peter J. Cunningham et al., Managed Care and Physicians'
Provision of Charity Care, 281 JAMA 1087, 1087-92 (1999). The hospitals'
"dumping" practice found legal support (just as today, doctors' decisions not to
provide charity care continues to find support) in the "no duty to rescue"
doctrine of the law, which in turn is premised on the ethical view that one is
not morally obligated to go out of one's way to help a stranger. See W. Page
Keeton et al., Prosser and Keeton on the Law of Torts 56 (5th ed. 1984)
[hereinafter Keeton, Law of Torts]. This ethical debate goes back to scripture,
with the moral quandary of whether we are our brother's keeper. See Gen. 4:9
("Then the Lord said to Cain, 'Where is your brother Abel?' 'I don't know,' he
replied. 'Am I my brother's keeper?'"). See also infra notes 39-40 and
accompanying text. While Prosser thought that the law has struck an
inappropriate ethical balance in this doctrine, society has not generally agreed
with him, by virtue of the doctrine's continuing without overruling by courts or
legislation except in certain cases involving special relationships, see Keeton,
Law of Torts, 375-77, or in specific legislation like EMTALA addressing specific
situations like emergency room patients. For example, the view that there is no
general moral obligation to provide goods or services to people who cannot pay
for them is currently reflected in America's unwillingness to enact universal
health care coverage, although federal coverage has been enacted for targeted
populations, such as certain poor families through Medicaid, or the elderly or
disabled through Medicare. Reflecting perhaps basic ethical ambivalence in our
society over granting patients a right to receive health care, see infra notes
84-90 and accompanying text, government enforcement of EMTALA has allegedly been
inadequate. See Lauren A. Dame, The Emergency Treatment and Active Labor Act:
The Anomalous Right to Health Care, 8 Health Matrix 3, 11-21 (1998). There
continues to be lively academic debate over whether a right to emergency
hospital treatment regardless of ability to pay for it is "a good or a bad
thing." Id. at 4, 28 ("the purpose of EMTALA, to protect patients at a time of
scary and perhaps desperate medical need, is noble and reflects the finer
aspects of our medical system"); cf. David A. Hyman, Patient Dumping and EMTALA:
Past Imperfect/Future Shock, 8 Health Matrix 29 (1998) (arguing that "the
premise of the statute is silly at best"); id. at 54-55 (suggesting that EMTALA
is a "symbolic law" resulting from "anecdotal advocacy" rather than hard data,
and comparing it to "other ineptly drafted, tunnel-visioned, short-sighted, and
counterproductive laws").




n20.  See Judith Graham, Weighing Care for "Preemies", Chicago Trib., Jan. 10,
1999, at 5 (noting that treatment decisions for extremely premature infants
continue to be highly controversial).




n21.  See infra note 36 and accompanying text.




n22.  See infra notes 46-90 and accompanying text (discussing medical ethics at
the patient's bedside).




n23.  See infra notes 91-154 and accompanying text (discussing business ethics
in the boardrooms of health-care organizations). Many of these issues are
addressed in recent proposals for new federal legislation addressing managed
care reform, often referred to as "patient protection" legislation or a
"patients' bill of rights." These proposals have been the subject of contentious
Congressional debate during 1998 and 1999. See generally Mary Agnes Carey,
Patients' Rights May Die Aborning, CQ Weekly, Aug. 1, 1998, at 2074-82. Efforts
to pass a federal patients' bill of rights during 1998 became deadlocked by
October. See Senate Defeats Final Democratic Effort to Force Debate on Managed
Care Bills, 7 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1642 (Oct. 5, 1998). In early 1999, competing
Democratic and Republican bills were re-introduced, and they illustrate how
politically divisive the debate over patients' rights is, with the sides in the
debate largely following party lines. See Geri Aston, Patient Protections Follow
Party Lines, Am. Med. News, Apr. 5, 1999, at 5. In October 1999, the House
managed to pass a bipartisan bill which provided broader patient protections
than did a Senate bill which was passed in July 1999. See Geri Aston, 'A Big Win
for Patients', Am. Med. News, Oct. 25, 1999, at 1 [hereinafter Aston, A Big
Win]. As of this writing, it is predicted that negotiations for compromise
legislation between the House and Senate will be difficult. See Jonathan
Gardner, House Vote Sets the Stage: Conference Panel Must Iron Out Differences
On Patient Protection, Modern Healthcare (Oct. 11, 1999); Norwood-Dingell
Managed Care Bill Sails Through House in Massive Bipartisan Vote, 8 Health L.
Rep. (BNA) 1654 (Oct. 14, 1999). See also Wendy K. Mariner, Going Hollywood with
Patient Rights in Managed Care, 281 JAMA 861 (1999) (distinguishing "consumer
rights" from "patient rights" as the focus of recent managed care reform
proposals).




n24.  In August 1998, the federal Office of Personnel Management issued a final
rule, 63 Fed. Reg. 42584 (1998), banning "gag clauses" from contracts with
insurers which participate in the federal employees' health benefits program.
See OPM Issues Final Rule on Gag Clauses in Federal Employees Health Coverage, 7
Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1297 (Aug. 13, 1998) (stating that contracts may not
provide any direct or indirect incentives to restrict what providers may discuss
with patients about treatment options; rule is designed to bring federal
programs into compliance with proposals for federal "patients' bill of rights").
Federal managed care reform proposals would also ban gag clauses. See Comparison
of Major Provisions of Democratic, Republican Patients' Bill of Rights
Legislation, 8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1145 (July 15, 1999). Currently, 47 states
prohibit any gag clauses which limit a physician's ability to discuss treatment
options with patients. See NCSL State-By-State Report Details Wide Range of
Consumer Protection Laws, 8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1282 (Aug. 5, 1999)
[hereinafter State-By-State Report]. Similarly, Georgia's Patient Protection Act
of 1996 also provides that no health care provider may be penalized for
discussing medically necessary or appropriate care with a patient. See Ga. Code
Ann. 33-20A-7 (1997). See generally Jennifer L. Myron, HMOs' Use of Gag Clauses:
An Unethical Threat to America's Health, 101 Dick. L. Rev. 729 (1997).




n25.  See the federal Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act of 1996, 29
U.S.C.A. 1185 (1999), for which implementing federal regulations are expected.
See also HIPAA: Maternity Stay Rule Released; Spells Out When Coverage Starts, 7
Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1715 (Oct. 29, 1998) (noting that federal law requires
group health plans with maternity benefits to allow 48-hour hospital stays after
normal vaginal births and 96-hour hospital stays for cesarean section
deliveries). See also Georgia's Newborn Baby and Mother Protection Act, Ga. Code
Ann. 33-24-58 (1996) (stating similar provisions).




n26.  19 states have passed legislation requiring minimum lengths of time for
hospital stays following a mastectomy. See State-By-State Report, supra note 24.
The Senate version of proposed patient protection legislation which passed in
July 1999 would ban "drive-through" mastectomies and would require health plans
to pay for hospital stays for whatever length of time deemed appropriate by the
patient and her physician. See Senate Appoints Managed Care Conferees; GOP
Leadership Urged to Respect House Vote, 8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1688 (Oct. 21,
1999) [hereinafter Senate Appoints].




n27.  Concern over financially-motivated denials of care is one of the most
contentious issues surrounding managed care. See infra notes 135-39 and
accompanying text. See generally Henry T. Greely, Direct Financial Incentives in
Managed Care: Unanswered Questions, 6 Health Matrix 53 (1996); David
Orentlicher, Paying Physicians More to Do Less: Financial Incentives to Limit
Care, 30 U. Rich. L. Rev. 155 (1996). For a controversial recent case involving
this issue, see Herdrich v. Pegram, 154 F.3d 362, 380 (7th Cir. 1998) (holding
that complaint was sufficient to state a claim for breach of fiduciary duty
under ERISA where plaintiff alleged that defendants' incentive system depleted
health plan resources so as to benefit physicians who administered the plan,
possibly to the detriment of patients), cert. granted, 120 S.Ct. 10 (1999); see
also Shea v. Esensten, 107 F.3d 627 (8th Cir. 1997) (allowing breach of
fiduciary duty claim under ERISA for failure to disclose financial incentives).
The potential for financial incentives to result in medically inappropriate
denials or limitations of care is addressed in some states' recent managed care
legislation, such as Georgia's Patient Protection Act of 1996 which prohibits a
managed care plan from using a financial incentive program that directly
compensates a health provider for ordering or providing less than medically
necessary and appropriate care to his or her patients. See Ga. Code Ann.
33-20A-6 (1996). See generally Lead Report, Physician Incentive Plans: States
Tell Health Plans that Incentives May Not Limit Medically Necessary Care, 7
Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1581 (Oct. 8, 1998) (stating that 21 states currently
prohibit managed care plans from using financial incentives to induce phsyicians
to restrict medically necessary services).




n28.  Getting insurers to approve doctors' medical treatment recommendations for
their patients has been one of the "most frustrating and infuriating features"
of dealing with managed care, and recently one major HMO announced it would no
longer require such prior approvals - a move popularly viewed as returning
decision-making power over patient care to the physicians. See Jennifer
Steinhauer & Milt Freudenheim, H.M.O.'s Shift May Please Patients, but Raise
Costs, N.Y. Times, Nov. 10, 1999, at C1. Other health plans are also eliminating
unpopular restrictions or emphasizing alternative ways to control costs which
are less intrusive in the doctor-patient relationship. See Milt Freudenheim,
Medical Insurers Revise Cost Control Efforts, N.Y. Times, Dec. 3, 1999, at A1.
Widespread dissatisfaction with managed care organizations' cost control efforts
which seem to interfere either with the patients' access to the physicians or
services they want or with their physicians' ability to obtain approval for
recommended treatment have resulted in a societal backlash against HMOs, as
reflected by the popular press in such cover stories as the one which ran in
Newsweek recently, picturing an angry patient and entitled "HMO Hell: The War
Over Patients' Rights." See Newsweek, Nov. 8, 1999. Many people accuse HMOs of
"putting profits before patients," and call for laws to stop their unethical
practices. Geoffrey Cowley & Bill Turque, Critical Condition, Newsweek, Nov. 8,
1999, at 58-62; Russell Watson, HMO Hell: The Backlash - HMOs Go Under the
Knife, Newsweek, Nov. 8, 1999, at 63-68. Anecdotal accounts of HMO denials of
treatment which have resulted in injury or death are now routinely related in
the popular media and in congressional hearings on proposed legislation. See,
e.g., David E. Rosenbaum, House Hears Grim Tales About Managed Care, N.Y. Times,
Oct. 8, 1999, at A23; Robin Toner, Many Doctors Tell of Denial of Coverage by
H.M.O.'s, N.Y. Times, July 29, 1999, at A18. HMO denials of coverage have also
been the subject of numerous lawsuits. See infra note 138. Whether physicians or
health plans should determine whether a given treatment is "medically necessary"
is another "flash point in the congressional debate on managed care patient
protections." Geri Aston, Patients' Rights Backers Seek Clear Definition of
Medical Necessity, Am. Med. News, Mar. 15, 1999, at 9.




n29.  The House and Senate versions of proposed patients' bill of rights
legislation differ as to whether to allow patients to have direct access to
specialists, or to allow health plans to require a referral from a primary care
physician or case manager before a patient may see a specialist. See Senate
Appoints, supra note 26. 36 states allow women either to choose an
obstetric/gynecological specialist as her primary care physician or to have
direct access to these specialist services without first having to get a
referral. See State-By-State Report, supra note 24.




n30.  Dating back to the Hippocratic Oath, keeping the confidences of patients
has been a foundational ethical tenet of the health-care professions. Respect
for individual privacy has never been an absolute principle, however, and it
often has given way to competing ethical concerns for the welfare of the
community. See Amitai Etzioni, Medical Records: Enhancing Privacy, Preserving
the Common Good, 29 Hastings Center Rep. 14 (Mar.-Apr. 1999). Finding social
consensus on where the balance is properly struck among the competing ethical
concerns in myriad health care situations has proven enormously difficult,
however, as reflected in our failure to enact uniform federal legislation in
this area despite years of Congressional debate. Most recently, Congress missed
its own self-imposed deadline of August 21, 1999 to enact comprehensive medical
privacy legislation. Congress established this deadline three years ago when it
enacted the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA)
and it further provided that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
should enact regulations governing the privacy of individually identifiable
health information by February 21, 2000, if Congress did not enact legislation
by its deadline. See Pub. L. No. 104-191, 264(c)(1) (1996). On November 3, 1999,
the Secretary of HHS issued proposed medical privacy regulations, 45 C.F.R. pts.
160 to 164, and she has extended the deadline for public comments until February
17, 2000. See Dept. Health & Human Services, Administrative Simplification
(visited Feb. 15, 2000) < The societal call for minimum federal rules is
responsive to the multitude and intricacies of each state's different laws
governing medical privacy, of which a comprehensive survey was recently
published by the Health Privacy Project of Georgetown University. See Georgetown
University Institute for Health Care & Policy, The State of Health Privacy: An
Uneven Terrain (visited Feb. 15, 2000) <http://www.healthprivacy.
org/resources/statereports/contents.html>.




n31.  Emergency care coverage creates tensions between assuring patients access
for true emergencies and allowing health plans to control their costs by
restricting patients from using the E.R. as a convenient substitute for a
doctor's visit. See Daniel B. Moskowitz, Emergency Care: In Search of Balance,
17 Bus. & Health 15 (1999). Competing versions of proposed federal patients'
bill of rights legislation differ in the extent to which emergency services are
required to be covered by a health plan. See Geri Aston, Patient Protection
Bills Differ, Even in the 'Common Ground', Am. Med. News, Apr. 12, 1999, at 5
(noting wide variations on emergency coverage provisions in competing
proposals); Senate Appoints, supra note 26 (H.R. 2990 would allow patients to
get more services covered by a health plan in connection with out-of-network
emergency care than would S. 1344). 37 states have passed laws requiring health
plans to cover emergency services. See State-By-State Report, supra note 24.
Georgia's Patient Protection Act of 1996 allows emergency services to be
provided without prior managed care authorization. See Ga. Code Ann. 33-20-9
(1996).




n32.  See The Patient Protection Act of 1996, Ga. Code Ann. 33-20A-1 to -10
(1996). Recent legislation amended this Act and, among other things, it gave
insureds the right to sue their HMOs for coverage decisions. See Georgia:
Governor Signs Managed Care Bills Allowing Physician Choice, HMO Lawsuits, 8
Health L. Rep. (BNA) 653 (Apr. 22, 1999) (discussing Ga. Code Ann. 51-1-48 &
51-1-49 (1999)). Georgia became the second state in the country (after Texas) to
allow such lawsuits against HMOs. See William G. Schiffbauer & Dean A. Rosen,
Georgia's Application of Liability to Benefit Administration Ignores Legal
Precedent, 8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1212 (July 22, 1999) (comparing Texas and
Georgia HMO liability legislation).




n33.  See generally Plan Regulation: Senate Labor Panel Set to Begin Work on
Managed Care Legislation March 17, BNA's Health Care Daily Rep., Mar. 12, 1999
(summarizing state legislation on patient rights); State Legislation: Managed
Care Bills Top State Agendas in 1999; Legislation Pending in Every State, 7
Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1996 (Dec. 17, 1998); State Legislation: State Managed Care
Laws Vary Widely, Few Have Broad Protections, Report Says, 7 Health L. Rep.
(BNA) 1162 (July 23, 1998).




n34.  See generally supra notes 23-31. For a comparison of the competing House
and Senate bills, see generally Senate Appoints, supra note 26.




n35.  See George J. Annas, The Standard of Care: The Law of American Bioethics 6
(1993):



   Law and ethics are distinct, though related, activities. The law is
mandatory, setting standards that can only be breached at the risk of civil or
criminal liability. Ethics is aspirational, setting forth universal goals that
we should try to meet, but for which we suffer no temporal penalty when falling
short.



    Dworkin, supra note 1, at 4 ("Law and ethics are not the same thing. Ethics
is a branch of philosophy that considers how persons and institutions ought to
behave. It claims for itself no temporal sanctions to ensure compliance or
punish deviation. Law, conversely, is entirely temporal and very much involved
with sanctions.").




n36.  Even controversial Supreme Court decisions, or other court decisions, can
be taken as "consensus" statements in the sense that these judicial opinions may
be interpreting legislation or constitutional provisions which have been adopted
by majorities through democratic process. On the other hand, if one thinks
judges may be "legislating," or creating new law, through such judicial
interpretation, then it may be harder to characterize these opinions as
"consensus" statements, at least when they are first authored. The same may be
true for judicial common law developments. To the extent that such judicial
interpretations "stand the test of time," however, and are not overturned by
later legislation, case law, or constitutional amendment, their continued
vitality suggests that they reflect this kind of "consensus," or general
agreement, on the correctness of their ethical resolutions. See supra note 4.
The amount of controversy (or lack thereof) generated over a statute or court
decision may well be a gauge of the breadth of the consensus over it. See
Alexander Morgan Capron, Morality and the State, Law, and Legalism, Hastings
Center Rep., Nov.-Dec. 1996, at 35-37:



   To some extent, all societies attempt to direct behavior into approved
channels by criminalizing certain conduct. In doing so, law is not merely
enforcing morality, but reinforcing it, and society's success on the first score
is heavily dependent on the second, that is, on whether a broad consensus is
achieved on the underlying moral view. When wide agreement exists, the law is at
once less visible and more powerful.




n37.  Corporations often use codes of ethics to do the same thing. One author
contrasts two approaches to business ethics codes: the "personal integrity"
approach (which tends also to be the focus of the law) and the "social
responsibility approach" (concerning ethical conduct which law leaves largely
unaddressed). See Leonard J. Weber, The Business of Ethics, Health Progress,
Jan.-Feb. 1990, at 76-78. Like the "personal integrity" approach, law focuses
more on issues of individual integrity (conflicts of interest, self-dealing or
self-interested transactions) rather than those of social responsibility. See
infra note 148 and accompanying text.




n38.  It should be clarified that not everything that is illegal is unethical.
The law is addressed both to acts which are malum in se (a wrong in itself,
something inherently wrong based on natural or moral principles) and to acts
which are malum prohibitum (something which is wrong because it is prohibited,
but is not inherently immoral). See Black's Law Dictionary 494 (5th ed. 1983).
Murder and theft are examples of illegal acts which are malum in se, while
double parking and jaywalking are legal wrongs, not because these actions
violate moral principles, but simply because they are prohibited by law. In
other words, we have some laws that reflect our society's ethical assessment of
certain conduct, and we have some other laws that simply make it possible to
organize civil society efficiently (like our rules of the road). This essay
addresses only the former kind of laws, which reflect societal views on matters
of medical and business ethics.




n39.  The law has long distinguished between acts and omissions, malfeasance and
non-feasance, active misconduct and passive failure to take action to prevent
harm. As a general proposition, the law seeks to sanction only the former. See
Keeton, Law of Torts, supra note 19, at 56.




n40.  See id. at 375 ("The law has persistently refused to impose on a stranger
the moral obligation of common humanity to go to the aid of another human being
who is in danger, even if the other is in danger of losing his life.").




n41.  Callahan, supra note 3, at 34-35.




n42.  See Carl E. Schneider, Moral Discourse, Bioethics, and the Law, Hastings
Center Rep., Nov.-Dec. 1996, at 37-39:



   Once the judicial system has reached some sort of conclusion, then the courts
are poor friends of moral discourse. In short, I have been arguing that the
law's discourse conflicts with what we ordinarily mean by discourse when it
purports to reach an authoritative conclusion and enforces it by claims that
further debate is inappropriate and by force. Indeed, it is exactly this aspect
of legal discourse that makes it so attractive to partisans of all sorts. Law is
more than debate. It is coercion. It is victory, or at least a gratifying step
toward it.




n43.  See Gilbert Meilaender, Less Law? Or Different Law?, Hastings Center Rep.,
Nov.-Dec. 1996, at 39-40:



   The danger, I think, is not exactly or not only that moral problems get
translated into legal problems and that discussion is then terminated.
Inevitably and necessarily the spheres [law and morality] must intersect in
countless ways ... What we need ... is an understanding of law that accepts into
public discussion outlooks that picture the human being as more than just an
isolated principle of will and choice...




n44.  A good example of this problem arises in the treatment of critically ill
newborns. See supra notes 10-14 and accompanying text. A 1988 survey of
neonatalogists indicated that implementation of the Child Abuse and Neglect
Amendments of 1984 (and the second "Baby Doe" regulations still in effect)
resulted in "overtreatment, poor use of resources, and insufficient attention to
suffering." Loretta M. Kopelman et al., Do the "Baby Doe" Rules Ignore
Suffering?, 18 Second Opinion 101, 101-13 (1993). According to one UCLA
physician:



   "I know of several instances where neonatalogists have used Baby Doe
regulations to convince a family that they had no choice but to continue to
treat where the family wanted no treatment."... [In reference to the study
above,] one third of the doctors who said that life-sustaining surgery was not
in an infant's best interests in a hypothetical case said they believed such
treatment nevertheless was required by law. "The conclusion we drew is that the
Baby Doe regulations [for the Amendments] are causing many babies to be
overtreated when their conditions are hopeless...."



    Glazer, supra note 12, at Z8.




n45.  See generally Marshall B. Kapp, Treating Medical Charts Near the End of
Life: How Legal Anxieties Inhibit Good Patient Deaths, 28 U. Tol. L. Rev. 521
(1997) (discussing the negative influence of defensive medicine on the clinical
and ethical quality of medical care at the end of patients' lives). See also
Annas, supra note 35, at 4-5 ("It should be emphasized at the outset that any
medical treatment done primarily to protect the physician from potential
lawsuits (rather than to benefit the patient), although sometimes legal, is by
definition unethical.").




n46.  See infra notes 75-83 and accompanying text. This legal power/ethical
pitfall problem is later explored in the context of business ethics. See infra
notes 150-54 (discussing corporate compliance programs).




n47.  See Ruth R. Faden et al., A History and Theory of Informed Con-sent 9-10,
61-76 (1986). "Before the mid-twentieth century, the beneficence model ... was
the only operative model of the physician's responsibility to the patient." Id.
at 100-01. For an exhaustive account of the four-principles (autonomy,
beneficence, non-maleficence, and justice) approach to medical ethics, see
Raanan Gillon, Principles of Health Care Ethics pt. 1 (1994).




n48.  See Faden et al., supra note 47, at 86-91 (suggesting that the late 1950s
and early 1960s marked the beginning of change from a beneficence model to an
autonomy model in informed consent theory).




n49.  See id. at 100 ("Informed consent did not become an issue in medicine
until the twentieth century, although we have seen evidence of consent-seeking
and the respecting of patient refusals in the nineteenth century."). See also
Jay Katz, The Silent World of Doctor and Patient 4, 49-50 (1986):



   The history of the physician-patient relationship from ancient times to the
present ... bears testimony to physicians' inattention to their patients' right
and need to make their own decisions... [Although] consent to surgical
interventions is an ancient legal requirement ... [such consent was not
meaningful consent] because there was no right for patients to decide, after
having been properly informed, whether an intervention was agreeable to them in
light of its risks and benefits as well as available alternatives.




n50.  See, e.g., Schloendorff v. Soc'y of N.Y. Hosp., 105 N.E. 92, 93 (N.Y.
1914) (Cardozo, J.) ("Every human being of adult years and sound mind has a
right to determine what shall be done with his own body; and a surgeon who
performs an operation without his patient's consent commits an assault, for
which he is liable in damages."). See also Harris v. Leader, 499 S.E.2d 374 (Ga.
Ct. App. 1998):



   The relationship of doctor and patient is a consensual one, and any
unauthorized and unprivileged contact by a doctor with his patient in
examination, treatment or surgery would amount to a battery. In the interest of
one's general right of inviolability of his person, any unlawful touching of
that type is a physical injury to the person and is actionable.



    In Georgia, for example, a patient may still have a cause of action for
battery when the surgeon exceeds the scope of the patient's consent, see, e.g.,
Johnson v. Srivastava, 405 S.E.2d 725 (Ga. Ct. App. 1991) (holding battery claim
was appropriate where patient alleged that she had consented only to an
"excision biopsy" whereas physician had performed a complete excision of a mass
on her face without first obtaining a biopsy), or obtained the patient's consent
by fraudulent misrepresentations, see, e.g., Lloyd v. Kramer, 503 S.E.2d 632
(Ga. Ct. App. 1998) (where the patient was allowed to sue a podiatrist for,
among other things, battery based on allegations that he obtained patient's
consent to unnecessary and inappropriate hammer toe surgery through fraudulent
misrepresentations).




n51.  See Faden et al., supra note 47, at 93-95, 101 ("[The American Hospital
Association's 1972] Patient's Bill of Rights was connected to various consumer
and civil-rights movements that were everywhere demanding increased rights to
make free and informed decisions.").




n52.  See generally id. at 114-50.




n53.  See, e.g., Canterbury v. Spence, 464 F.2d 772 (D.C. Cir. 1972); Cobbs v.
Grant, 502 P.2d 1 (Cal. 1972).




n54.  Georgia was one of the last states to adopt a legal duty of informed
consent, which it enacted in a limited form by statute in 1989. Before 1989,
numerous cases in Georgia established that once a doctor had informed a patient
in general terms of the treatment or course of treatment proposed for the
patient, the doctor had no further duty to disclose the risks of treatment. See
Padgett v. Ferrier, 323 S.E.2d 166 (Ga. Ct. App. 1985) (and citations therein).
Under the 1989 amendment to Georgia's Medical Consent Law, specific disclosures
were required to be made to the patient, including (a) diagnosis of patient's
condition; (b) nature and purpose of proposed procedure; (c) material risks of
the procedure; (d) likelihood of success; (e) practical and generally recognized
alternatives; and (f) patient's prognosis without the procedure. See Ga. Code
Ann. 31-9-6.1 (1996).




n55.  See Faden et al., supra note 47, at 139 (by 1982, thirty states had
replaced common-law developments in informed consent with statutes on informed
consent).




n56.  To put it bluntly, these legal developments in informed consent caused
medicine to be "jolted from an exclusive preoccupation with a beneficence model
to awareness of an autonomy model of responsibility for the patient." Id. at
142. See also Katz, supra note 49, at 1 ("disclosure and consent, except in the
most rudimentary fashion, are obligations alien to medical thinking and
practice").




n57.  See Annas, supra note 35, at 3 ("Law sides with patients to oppose the
arbitrary use of power whether by physicians or the government; the rubric is
patient rights. This is why American law, not philosophy or medicine, is
primarily responsible for the agenda, development and current state of American
bioethics."); Faden et al., supra note 47, at 101:



   Amid the convergence of complicated social causes and reasons that may never
be properly sifted by historians, it was case law that introduced the concept of
informed consent to medicine in the mid-twentieth century using the language of
"self-determination." Shortly thereafter, informed consent was transformed in a
social context beyond law from a malpractice issue to a moral duty incumbent on
physicians, one straightforwardly linked to the principle of respect for
autonomy.




n58.  See Carl E. Schneider, Making Sausage: The Ninth Circuit's Opinion,
Hastings Center Rep., Jan.-Feb. 1997, at 28 ("The history of bioethics is in no
small part a reaction to the sobering number of doctors who have not been driven
to understand patients' wishes, who have not understood them, and who have
ignored them even when they have understood them.").




n59.  See In re Karen Ann Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647 (N.J. 1976).




n60.  See id. at 655 ("it seemed to be the consensus not only of the treating
physicians but also of the several qualified experts who testified in the case,
that removal from the respirator would not conform to medical practices,
standards, and traditions"). Twenty years later, many doctors are now taking the
contrary ethical position, and are urging that medical ethics allows (and maybe
obliges) doctors to remove a permanently unconscious patient like Quinlan from
life support they deem to be futile, even if the patient's surrogate objects to
its removal. See infra note 85.




n61.  See generally Furrow et al., supra note 9, at 403-16 (collecting cases and
discussing potential civil liability for providers' failure to recognize
patient's or surrogate's decision to forego life-sustaining treatment). In a
recent case in Texas, parents who had decided against having doctors resuscitate
their infant born prematurely at 22 weeks gestation won a $ 42.9 million verdict
for doctors having resuscitated the infant against parents' wishes. See Jury
Returns $ 42.9 Million Verdict in Case of Brain-Damaged Baby, 7 Health Law Rep.
(BNA) 183 (Jan. 29, 1998).




n62.  See supra notes 4, 36.




n63.  See Cruzan v. Director, Mo. Dep't of Health, 497 U.S. 261 (1990). The
Court characterized this case as "the first case in which we have been squarely
presented with the issue of whether the United States Constitution grants what
is in common parlance referred to as a 'right to die.'" Id. at 277. The Court
assumed, for the purposes of the case, "the United States Constitution would
grant a competent person a constitutionally protected right to refuse lifesaving
hydration and nutrition." Id. at 279.




n64.  See National Survey of State Laws 441-96 (Richard A. Leiter ed., 2d ed.
1997) (identifying forty-nine states' legislation concerning advance
directives). Since publication of this volume, the fiftieth state, Alabama, has
amended its statute to provide for durable powers of attorney for health care.
See Ala. Code 26-1-2 (1998).




n65.  42 U.S.C. 1395cc, 1396a (1992).




n66.  While the courts have not framed their analysis in the terms of the
conventional four principles of medical ethics (autonomy, beneficence,
non-maleficence, and justice, see supra note 47, they have adopted an
analytical, four-factor framework that parallels closely those principles. The
four countervailing "state interests" which courts have identified as important
to balance against the patient's (autonomy) interest in refusing medical
treatment are: (1) preserving life, (2) preventing suicide, (3) protecting the
ethical integrity of the medical profession, and (4) protecting the interests of
innocent third parties. See, e.g., Bartling v. Super. Ct., 209 Cal. Rptr. 220
(Ct. App. 2d 1984); State v. McAfee, 385 S.E.2d 651 (Ga. 1989); Superintendent
of Belchertown State Sch. v. Saikewicz, 370 N.E.2d 417 (Mass. 1977).




n67.  See, e.g., Norwood Hosp. v. Munoz, 564 N.E.2d 1017 (Mass. 1991); Fosmire
v. Nicoleau, 551 N.E.2d 77 (N.Y. 1990).




n68.  See, e.g., Stamford Hosp. v. Vega, 674 A.2d 821 (Conn. 1996); In re
Dubreuil, 629 So. 2d 819 (Fla. 1993).




n69.  See, e.g., Bouvia v. Super. Ct., 225 Cal. Rptr. 297 (Ct. App. 2d Dist.
1986) (quadriplegic); Satz v. Perlmutter, 362 So. 2d 160 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App.
1978) (Lou Gehrig's disease); State v. McAfee, 385 S.E.2d 651 (Ga. 1989)
(quadriplegic).




n70.  See, e.g., Thor v. Super. Ct., 855 P.2d 375 (Cal. 1993); Zant v. Prevatte,
286 S.E.2d 715 (Ga. 1982). But see Schuetzle v. Vogel, 537 N.W.2d 358 (N.D.
1995) (holding that the state's interest in orderly prison administration
outweighs a prisoner's right to refuse treatment, and specifically stating that
"we, like every court that has considered Zant, refuse to follow it"). In the
case of federal prisoners, courts have upheld the prison's force-feeding of
inmates, citing either constitutional bases, see, e.g., In re John Doe, 150 F.3d
170 (2d Cir. 1998) (stating that the state's interests in preserving life and
orderly prison administration outweigh the prisoner's right to refuse
treatment), or Bureau of Prisons Regulation, see, e.g., Martinez v. Turner, 977
F.2d 421, 423 (8th Cir. 1992). See also 28 C.F.R. 549.65 (1994) (authorizing
force-feeding after medical evaluation).




n71.  See, e.g., Novak v. Cobb County-Kennestone Hosp. Auth., 849 F. Supp. 1559
(N.D. Ga. 1994), aff'd, 74 F.3d 1173 (11th Cir. 1996) (holding that a "mature
minor" does not have the right to refuse medical treatment under the U.S.
Constitution or Georgia law).




n72.  See, e.g., Application of the Pres. & Dirs. of Georgetown College, Inc.,
331 F.2d 1000 (D.C. Cir. 1964) (ordering blood transfusion of Jehovah's Witness
mother of infant child).




n73.  See, e.g., Jefferson v. Griffin Spalding County Hosp. Auth., 274 S.E.2d
457 (Ga. 1981) (holding the state may intervene on behalf of fetus and require
pregnant woman to have cesarean section surgery).




n74.  Some courts have held that a competent pregnant woman has the right to
refuse cesarean section surgery, even when such refusal may threaten the welfare
of her fetus. See, e.g., In re A.C., 573 A.2d 1235 (D.C. 1990); In re Baby Boy
Doe, 632 N.E.2d 326 (Ill. App. Ct. 1994) (recognizing right of refusal). One
recent decision permitted a pregnant woman to refuse less invasive medical care
- a blood transfusion - which doctors had recommended for the welfare of her
fetus. See In re Brown, 689 N.E.2d 397 (Ill. App. Ct. 1997). See generally
Charity Scott, Resisting the Temptation to Turn Medical Recommendations into
Judicial Orders: A Reconsideration of Court-Ordered Surgery for Pregnant Women,
10 Ga. St. U. L. Rev. 615 (1994).




n75.  See supra notes 4, 36 and accompanying text.




n76.  See, e.g., David A. Asch et al., Decisions to Limit Life-Sustaining
Treatment By Critical Care Physicians in the United States: Conflicts Between
Physicians' Practices and Patients' Wishes, 151 Am. J. Respir. Care Med. 288,
288-92 (1995) (one-third of surveyed physicians continued life-sustaining
measures despite patient or surrogate wishes that it be discontinued); Kapp,
supra note 45, at 524-37 (providing examples of medically inappropriate
treatment near the end of life as a result of physicians' fears of legal
liability); Philip G. Peters, Jr., The Illusion of Autonomy at the End of Life:
Unconsented Life Support and the Wrongful Life Analogy, 45 UCLA L. Rev. 673
(1998) (citing numerous studies which suggest that physicians routinely ignore
patient preferences about life-sustaining care); SUPPORT Principal
Investigators, A Controlled Trial to Improve Care for Seriously Ill Hospitalized
Patients: The Study to Understand Prognoses and Preferences for Outcomes and
Risks of Treatments, 274 JAMA 1591, 1591-98 (1995) (reporting findings of a
large study that many physicians were unaware of or ignored their patients'
preferences concerning CPR, and that terminally ill patients were hooked up to
mechanical ventilation despite their preferences, and were dying in pain). There
are a number of cases where allegedly unwanted care was provided despite the
presence of a patient's advance directive. See, e.g., Roberts v. Jones, 475
S.E.2d 193 (Ga. Ct. App. 1996); Allore v. Flower Hosp., 699 N.E.2d 560 (Ohio Ct.
App. 1997). See also Furrow et al., supra note 9 (discussing potential civil
liability for failure to respect patient's decision); Peters, supra (arguing
that liability should be imposed on a physician who wrongfully administers
life-sustaining care over the objection of the patient or surrogate); Tamar
Lewin, Ignoring "Right to Die," Medical Community Is Being Sued, N. Y. Times,
June 2, 1996, at 1 ("there is a new wave of lawsuits seeking to hold hospitals,
nursing homes and doctors liable for ignoring living wills and other advance
directives").




n77.  See Annas, supra note 35, at 3 ("American law, especially civil rights
law, is dedicated to fostering individual rights, equality and justice. Law
sides with patients to oppose the arbitrary use of power whether by physicians
or the government; the rubric is patients' rights.").




n78.  See 1 Furrow et al., supra note 9, at 439 ("A consent form, or other
written documentation of the patient's verbal consent, is treated in many states
as presumptively valid consent to the treatment at issue, with the burden on the
patient to rebut the presumption."). See also infra note 79.




n79.  Actually, you can still get sued, but you have increased your chances of
defending a malpractice suit successfully. In Georgia, for example, for surgical
or diagnostic treatment involving anesthesia, amniocentesis, or injection of
contrast material, if the consent form discloses in writing certain specific
matters - diagnosis, material risks, likelihood of success, and alternatives -
and is signed by the patient, then it is rebuttably presumed to be valid
consent. See Ga. Code Ann. 31-9-6.1(a), (b)(2) (1996). For all other treatment,
if the consent form discloses in general terms the course of treatment and is
signed and in writing, then it is conclusively presumed to be valid consent in
the absence of fraud. See id. at 31-9-6(d).




n80.  See supra notes 37-40 and accompanying text.




n81.  See generally Kapp, supra note 45, at 524-37, 544-46 (discussing how
physicians' misunderstandings of the law can lead to medically inappropriate and
ethically dubious treatment of critically ill and dying patients).




n82.  See Faden et al., supra note 47, at 100:



   Katz seems right in his thesis that informed consent has not changed the
fundamental character of the physician-patient relationship... The beneficence
model is [still] overwhelmingly predominant. Patients routinely acquiesce to
medical interventions rather than autonomously authorizing them. From this
perspective all the changes [over the past century] are surface displays, while
below the surface there are no more real 'informed consents' than in the past.



    See also Bruce V. Corsino, Bioethics Committees and JCAHO Patients' Rights
Standards: A Question of Balance, 7 J. Clin. Ethics 177, 179 (1996) (describing
providers' experiences with informed consent and advance directives as
"unhelpful, non-medical procedures"); Alan Meisel & Mark Kucsewski, Legal and
Ethical Myths About Informed Consent, 156 Arch. Int. Med. 2521 (1996)
(attributing physicians' negative reactions to informed consent to fundamental
misunderstandings about what informed consent requires); Informed Consent - Not,
Sci. News, July 4, 1998, at 15 (reporting on two studies which raise questions
about the utility of informed consent forms as an aid to patient
decision-making).




n83.  See 1 Furrow et al., supra note 9, at 439-41:



   These forms operate as a legal surrogate for consent, sometimes memorializing
an actual physician-patient discussion, sometimes acting simply as a fiction...
Written consent forms predominate in institutional settings, given bureaucratic
pressures for a complete patient record, a desire to protect against litigation,
and a sense that something is better than nothing. They are often reduced to
little more than a bureaucratic formality that the institution hopes will erect
a defense shield against malpractice liability.



    See also John Lantos, Informed Consent: The Whole Truth for Patients?, 72
Cancer 2811, 2813 (Supp. 1993) ("Informed consent forms become waivers of
liability.").




n84.  See 42 U.S.C. 1395dd (1992). See also supra notes 15-16 and accompanying
text.




n85.  Unilateral efforts by physicians to terminate life-sustaining treatment
they consider futile for a patient over the objections of the patient or the
patient's family have generated public controversy and litigation. In the case
of Helga Wanglie, a medical center unsuccessfully sought to replace the
patient's husband as her guardian when he refused to consent to the removal of
her respirator, which treatment the doctors regarded as inappropriate and
"non-beneficial" in light of the patient's persistent vegetative state. See
Marcia Angell, The Case of Helga Wanglie: A New Kind of "Right to Die", 325 New
Eng. J. Med. 511 (1991); Steven H. Miles, Informed Demand for "Non-Beneficial"
Medical Treatment, 325 New Eng. J. Med. 512 (1991). In the case of Catherine
Gilgunn, a jury found doctors and a hospital not liable for withdrawing
ventilator support from a comatose and severely brain-damaged patient whose
daughter had objected to the withdrawal and insisted that her mother would have
wanted the aggressive treatment. See Alexander Morgan Capron, Abandoning a Life,
Hastings Center Rep., July-Aug. 1995, at 24; Gina Kolata, Court Ruling Limits
Rights of Patients, N. Y. Times, Apr. 22, 1995, at A6. See also Velez v.
Bethune, 466 S.E.2d 627 (Ga. Ct. App. 1995) (denying a motion to dismiss, court
observed that doctor "had no right to decide, unilaterally, to discontinue
medical treatment even if, as the record in this case reflects, the child was
terminally ill and in the process of dying. That decision must be made with the
consent of the parents."); infra note 88.




n86.  Public debate over who decides what health plans and insurance companies
should pay for continues amid controversial damage awards and "horror stories"
after some payers have denied coverage for treatments they consider unproven,
experimental, or not medically necessary. See, e.g., Christine Gorman et al.,
Playing the HMO Game: Denied Viagra and Inflamed by Horror Stories, Consumers
Put Health Reform Back on the Front Burner, Time, July 13, 1998, at 22
(describing numerous cases of denied coverage); Tom Hamburger, Clinton Presses
for Patients' Bill of Rights: An Apple Valley Woman Relates Her HMO Trouble,
Minneapolis-St. Paul Star Trib., May 29, 1998, at 10A (stating that President
Clinton urged Congress to pass a patients' bill of rights, citing example of
woman with breast cancer denied chemotherapy by her HMO); Ron Winslow & Rhonda
L. Rundle, Aetna Reels in Wake of $ 116 Million Damages Verdict, Wall St. J.,
Jan. 22, 1999, at B4 (describing large jury awards for denials of bone-marrow
transplant coverage in the cases of Teresa Goodrich's husband, who died of
stomach cancer, and Nelene Fox, who had breast cancer). Even studies designed to
determine the efficacy of costly new medical treatments seem unlikely to quell
the public debate over whether they should be covered by health payers. See
Nancy Ann Jeffrey & Michael Waldholz, Studies Are Likely to Question Breast
Cancer Therapy, Wall St. J., Mar. 24, 1999, at B1 (noting that four landmark
studies of aggressive chemotherapy-transplant treatment for breast cancer "are
likely to spark a firestorm of controversy"); infra note 89.




n87.  The moral and social debate over the ethics of physicians collaborating
with patients to hasten their deaths continues both inside and outside
courtrooms and legislatures. Jack Kevorkian of Michigan has given high
visibility to the public debate over physician-assisted suicide, which will
probably not be diminished by his March 1999 conviction of second-degree murder
for administering a lethal injection to a man with Lou Gehrig's disease. See Sue
Ellen Christian, Opponents Fear Making Martyr of Kevorkian; Conviction Leaves
Debate Unfinished, Chicago Trib., Mar. 28, 1999, at 3. Having assisted in the
deaths of approximately 130 persons since 1990, Kevorkian had been
unsuccessfully prosecuted four times before for his role in providing suicide
assistance. See Julie Grace, Curtains for Dr. Death, Time, Apr. 5, 1999, at 48.
There is also evidence that medical and nursing professionals have assisted in
the suicides of their patients. See, e.g., Ezekiel J. Emanuel et al., The
Practice of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, 280
JAMA 507 (1998) (stating that approximately fifteen percent of surveyed
oncologists reported participating in euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide);
Lee R. Slome et al., Physician-Assisted Suicide and Patients with Human
Immunodeficiency Virus Disease, 336 New Eng. J. Med. 417 (1997) (relating that a
majority of San Francisco-area physicians caring for HIV/AIDS patients who
responded to the survey said they had granted at least one patient's request for
assisted suicide). Acknowledging that the medical profession has historically
failed to address serious deficiencies in the care of dying patients, the AMA
has undertaken a number of reform initiatives to improve physicians' skills in
the field of end-of-life care, as well as to educate patients on the quality of
care they should expect. See, e.g., Kathleen M. Foley, Competent Care for the
Dying Instead of Physician-Assisted Suicide, 336 New Eng. J. Med. 54 (1997);
Diane M. Gianelli, Assisted Suicide Case Consensus: We Need Better End-of-Life
Care, Am. Med. News, Apr. 1997, at 1; Diane M. Gianelli, Report Says Myths
Dominate End-of-Life Care Debate, Am. Med. News, May 19, 1997, at 8; Daniel P.
Sulmasy & Joanne Lynn, Contempo: End-of-Life Care, 277 JAMA 1854 (1997); AMA
Hosts Innovative Seminar Addressing End-of-Life Care, Am. Med. News, Feb. 15,
1999, at 24; Warren E. Leary, Many in U.S. Denied Dignified Death: Health Panel
Asserts That Too Little Is Done to Ease End of Life Care, N.Y. Times, June 5,
1997, at A13; infra note 90.




n88.  For example, litigation under EMTALA has established the right of an
infant with anencephaly (i.e., without a brain) to receive life-saving medical
treatment in a hospital's emergency room, even though doctors believed that such
extraordinary measures were outside the medical standard of care and that such
treatment was both medically futile and ethically inappropriate to render. See
In re Baby K, 16 F.3d 590 (4th Cir. 1994); but cf.  Bryan v. Rectors & Visitors
of the Univ. of Va., 95 F.3d 349 (4th Cir. 1996) (holding that EMTALA did not
require doctors to continue treating a woman who had been treated at the
hospital for 12 days for an emergency condition). While there are few laws
directly addressing the problem of futile treatment (Virginia is the only state
with a statute permitting doctors to withhold such care, but it was held to have
been preempted by EMTALA in the Baby K case), the literature on the topic of
medical futility is voluminous. For views that doctors should not be required
(ethically or legally) to render care they believe to be futile, see, for
example, Howard Brody, The Physician's Role in Determining Futility, 42 J. Am.
Geriatrics Soc'y 875 (1994); John J. Paris & Frank E. Reardon, Physician Refusal
of Requests for Futile or Ineffective Interventions, 1 Cambridge Q. Healthcare
Ethics 127 (1992); Lawrence J. Schneiderman & Nancy S. Jecker, Is the Treatment
Beneficial, Experimental, or Futile?, 5 Cambridge Q. Healthcare Ethics 248
(1996). For contrary views that doctors do have such an obligation, see, for
example, Felicia Ackerman, The Significance of a Wish, Hastings Center Rep.,
July-Aug. 1991, at 27; Robert M. Veatch, Why Physicians Cannot Determine If Care
Is Futile, 42 J. Am. Geriatrics Soc'y 871 (1994); Susan Wolf, Near Death - In
the Moment of Decision, 322 New Eng. J. Med. 208 (1990). See generally Daniel
Callahan, Medical Futility, Medical Necessity: The-Problem-Without-A-Name,
Hastings Center Rep., July-Aug. 1991, at 30. For a recent recommendation that
all hospitals develop a medical futility policy, see AMA Council on Ethical &
Jud. Affairs, Medical Futility in End-of-Life Care, 281 JAMA 937 (1999).




n89.  Insurers and employers have attempted to exclude, by the terms of the
health insurance policy, costly treatments which have not yet been
scientifically proven to be beneficial or which they consider still
experimental. A common area of litigation has been over high-dose chemotherapy
with autologous bone marrow transplant (HDC/ABMT) or with peripheral stem cell
recovery (HDC/PSCR) for advanced breast cancer. Courts have split in their
interpretations of these contractual limitations. Some courts have construed
such contractual exclusions against the insurers by finding the policy language
ambiguous, thus finding that the patients were entitled to coverage. See, e.g.,
Bailey v. Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Va., 67 F.3d 53 (4th Cir. 1995); Frendreis
v. Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Mich., 873 F. Supp. 1153 (N.D. Ill. 1995). Other
courts have held that the contractual exclusions unambiguously precluded
coverage. See, e.g., Bechtold v. Physicians Health Plan of N. Ind., 19 F.3d 322
(7th Cir. 1994); Fuja v. Benefit Trust Life Ins. Co., 18 F.3d 1405 (7th Cir.
1994). See generally John A. Bourdeau, Annotation, Propriety of Denial of
Medical or Hospital Benefits for Investigative, Educational, or Experimental
Medical Procedures Pursuant to Exclusion Contained in ERISA-Governed Health
Plan, 122 A.L.R. Fed. 1 (1998) (in 3, collecting cases involving denials of
high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplant as treatment for
breast cancer); Norman Daniels & James E. Sabin, Last Chance Therapies and
Managed Care: Pluralism, Fair Procedures, and Legitimacy, Hastings Center Rep.,
Mar.-Apr. 1998, at 27 (1998) (analyzing how health plans can make fair
determinations about when to cover as-yet unproven and costly treatments). Some
litigation has been brought under the anti-discrimination laws, raising the
question whether a health plan's denial of coverage for treatment of breast
cancer by high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplant
(HDC/ABMT) on the grounds that treatment was experimental constitutes
discrimination under Americans with Disabilities Act. See Henderson v. Bodine
Aluminum, 70 F.3d 958 (8th Cir. 1995) (arguably YES, remanding case to district
court). See generally Laurie Dechery, Note, Preferential Treatment or
Discriminatory Standards: Do Employer-Provided Insurance Plans Violate Title VII
When They Exclude Treatment for Breast Cancer?, 80 Minn. L. Rev. 945 (1996)
(arguing such policy exclusions constitute discrimination under Title VII).




n90.  The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that mentally competent, terminally ill
patients do not have a right protected by the federal constitution to receive a
physician's assistance in committing suicide by obtaining a prescription of
lethal drugs. See Vacco v. Quill, 521 U.S. 793 (1997) (finding no denial of
Equal Protection under 14th Amendment); Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U.S. 702
(1997) (finding no liberty interest under Due Process Clause of 14th Amendment).
The issue of physician-assisted suicide has prompted legislative activity at
both the federal level, see, e.g., Federal Assisted Suicide Funding Restriction
Act, 42 U.S.C. 14401 (Supp. 1997) (prohibiting use of federal funds to subsidize
physician-assisted suicide), and the state level. At least 37 states and
territories have statutes which specifically ban assisted suicide. See Stephanie
Graboyes-Russo, Too Costly Too Live: The Moral Hazards of a Decision in
Washington v. Glucksberg and Vacco v. Quill, 51 U. Miami L. Rev. 907, 912 n.29
(1997) (collecting statutes). In several other states, assisted suicide is
illegal under case law or negligent homicide statutes. See id. at 912-13 n.30
(citing laws or cases in Alabama, Wyoming, North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio,
and Massachusetts). Under state statutes authorizing advance directives, such as
living wills or durable powers of attorney for health care, 45 States and the
District of Columbia expressly disapprove of assisted suicide or mercy killing.
See Edward R. Grant & Paul Benjamin Linton, Relief or Reproach: Euthanasia
Rights in the Wake of Measure 16, 74 Or. L. Rev. 449, 462-63 nn.44-46 (1995).
With the exception of Oregon, discussed infra, no state expressly authorizes the
practice of assisted suicide. In addition, since 1994, proposals to legalize
assisted suicide have been introduced in at least seventeen different state
legislatures, yet none has been enacted. See Glucksberg, 521 U.S. at 717 n.15.
After two voter referendums, Oregon has passed a law permitting physician
assistance in hastening death under certain circumstances. See Or. Rev. Stat.
127.800 (1996). For a report on Oregon's experience with its new law, see Arthur
E. Chin et al., Legalized Physician-Assisted Suicide In Oregon - The First
Year's Experience, 340 New. Eng. J. Med. 577 (1999).




n91.  See Thrust into the Spotlight, Am. Med. News, Aug. 17, 1998, at 21. Dr. E.
Ratcliffe Anderson Jr., Executive Vice President of the AMA, characterized the
heart of the AMA's work as "doing what is right for patients," and he said
pushing for a federal patients' bill of rights was one of the highest AMA
priorities "that places everything else on the back burner." Id.; see also infra
note 92. This new campaign for adoption of a patients' bill of rights at the
federal level broadens the AMA's earlier efforts "for these patient protections
in piecemeal fashion - one issue at a time, often one state at a time." Thomas
R. Reardon, From the AMA Board Chair: AMA to Continue to Push for "Patient Bill
of Rights", Am. Med. News, Dec. 22, 1997, at 17, 19. A primary focus of AMA
advocacy will continue to be patient protection. See The Big Picture, Am. Med.
News, Mar. 8, 1999. See also supra notes 23-31 (discussing federal proposals and
state legislation for patients' bill of rights). It was not until 1996 that the
editors at the Journal of the American Medical Association announced the
inauguration of a new column in the journal devoted to "the patient-physician
relationship," calling it the "center of medicine" and urging physicians to
"resist any compromises of the trust this relationship requires." Richard M.
Glass, The Patient-Physician Relationship: JAMA Focuses on the Center of
Medicine, 275 JAMA 147 (1996). The first featured article addressed to this
now-central subject chronicled the history of "patient-centered medicine."
Christine Laine & Frank Davidoff, Patient-Centered Medicine: A Professional
Evolution, 275 JAMA 152 (1996).




n92.  Randolf D. Smoak, AMA Agenda for 1999: A Year of Opportunity, Am. Med.
News, Jan. 4, 1999. This aggressive campaign in the name of patients' rights
continues the AMA's legislative lobbying efforts from 1998. See Aggressive AMA
Campaign Aimed at Correcting Abuses by Health Plans, Am. Med. News, Aug. 3,
1998, at 21 [hereinafter Aggressive AMA]; AMA Advocates for a "Patients' Bill of
Rights", 280 JAMA 310 (1998) [hereinafter AMA Advocates]. The AMA credits its
lobbying efforts as key in securing the recent passage in the House of a
patients' rights bill. See Linn Weiss & Catherine Hamrick, One Giant Step Closer
to Patients' Rights, Am. Med. News, Nov. 1, 1999, at 20.




n93.  The American Hospital Association first adopted "A Patient's Bill of
Rights" in 1973. Its latest revision was approved by the AHA Board of Trustees
on October 21, 1992. See American Hospital Association, Management Advisory: A
Patient's Bill of Rights (visited Mar. 13, 1999) <http://www.aha.org/resource/
pbillofrights.html>.




n94.  AAHP Approves New Patient Protections, 7 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 351 (Feb.
26, 1998). A group of HMOs has also announced its allegiance to patient
protection (they call it "consumer" protection) and called for national legal
regulation of managed care plans. See Robert Pear, Three Big Health Plans Join
in Call for National Standards, N.Y. Times, Sept. 25, 1997, at 28 (Kaiser
Permanente, HIP Health Insurance Plans, and the Group Health Cooperative of
Puget Sound joined in issuing a "statement of principles for consumer
protection"). For a skeptical view about the AAHP's "Putting Patients First"
initiative, see Jerome P. Kassirer, Managing Managed Care's Tarnished Image, 337
New Eng. J. Med. 338, 338-39 (1997) (arguing that it "amounts to little more
than a thinly veiled attempt to ward off state and federal legislative actions
to curb the abuses of managed care").




n95.  See supra notes 23-31.




n96.  Glass, supra note 91, at 147. Note also the AMA's "battle" language to
describe its campaign for patient protection legislation. See id.




n97.  See AMA Advocates, supra note 92, at 310 ("The American Medical
Association has launched an intensive, nationwide campaign that it hopes will
result in the enactment of a 'bill of rights' to protect patients from abusive
health plan practices.").




n98.  See Aggressive AMA, supra note 92, at 21 (The AMA campaign "emphasizes the
rights of both patients and physicians, which ... are intertwined... If the
physician stands up to the health plan, it is the physician who suffers. If the
physician is forced to buckle under, it is the patient who suffers.").




n99.  See supra note 77 and accompanying text.




n100.  No less a figure than Dr. Arnold Relman, editor emeritus of the New
England Journal of Medicine, has in the past urged: "State and federal
legislatures must be prepared to develop, together with organized medicine, laws
that will define the limits of ethical practice." Janice Perrone, Physician,
Police Thyself: Can Renewed Emphasis on Ethics Blunt Government Regulation, Am.
Med. News, Apr. 27, 1992, at 3.




n101.  See 1 Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, 1995
Accreditation Manual for Hospitals Standard RI.4-RI.4.2 (1995) [hereinafter 1995
JCAHO Manual]. This 1995 edition of the Accreditation Manual introduced the
standard under the heading "Patient Rights and Organizational Ethics," although
JCAHO has changed the phrase from "organizational ethics" to "organization
ethics" in later editions of the accreditation and standards volumes.




n102.  Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, 1998
Hospital Accreditation Standards Standard RI.4.4 (1998) [hereinafter JCAHO 1998
Standards].




n103.  See 1995 JCAHO Manual, supra note 101, Standard RI.1-RI.1.3. JCAHO has
parallel requirements for organization ethics codes for managed care plans which
it accredits. See Managed Care: MCOs Embrace Ethics Committees to Tackle Tough
Treatment Decisions, 7 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 683 (1998). For health care
networks, see JCAHO Releases Accreditation Standards for Evaluating Health Care
Networks, 3 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 15 (1994).




n104.  See Francis J. Aguilar, Managing Corporate Ethics 61 (1994) ("By one
account, over 80 percent of major corporations have adopted codes of ethics.").




n105.  Managed Care Brings a Demand for Institutional Ethics Policies, 10 Med.
Ethics Advisor 125 [hereinafter Managed Care].




n106.  Id. at 128.




n107.  JCAHO 1998 Standards, supra note 102, at 55 (setting out, for mandatory
compliance, the "Intent of RI.4 Through RI.4.2").




n108.  Compare 2 1995 JCAHO Manual, supra note 101, at 23 (requiring that an
organization have in place the mechanism described), with JCAHO 1998 Standards
("The code ensures that the hospital conducts its business and patient care
practices in an honest, decent, and proper manner.").




n109.  See HLR's Top 10 Health Law Developments for 1998, 7 Health L. Rep. (BNA)
5 (1998); HLR's Top 10 Health Law Issues for 1999, 8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 5
(1999).




n110.  See Roundup: DOJ Recovered $ 1.2 Billion in Fiscal 1997 in Fight Against
Health Fraud, Report Says, 7 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1793 (1998) [hereinafter DOJ
Recovered]. See also Peter Eisler & Barbara Pearson, Feds Triple Health Fraud
Cases / Crackdown Hits Medicare Billing Abuses, USA Today, Feb. 23, 1999, at 1A
(stating that U.S. attorneys prosecuted 552 criminal cases of health care fraud
in 1997; the Medicare program lost an estimated $ 12.6 billion last year (six
percent of its expenditures) to fraud and abuse; and civil and criminal
enforcement actions in 1998 resulted in approximately $ 500 million in
judgments, settlements, and fines).




n111.  See Ursala Himali, Fraud: Government Approach to Investigating False
Claims Varies By Initiative, 6 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 45, d39 (1997) ("law
enforcement's approach to investigating the submission of false claims to
federal and state health insurance programs is multidimensional, and there is no
end in sight to the initiatives being launched").




n112.  See id. (referring to an investigation targeting fraudulent billing by
the nation's largest independent clinical laboratories).




n113.  See Himali, supra note 111, at 48 ("Since December 1994, the Pennsylvania
U.S. Attorney's Office has been investigating abuses of the '72-hour rule' which
stipulates that hospitals cannot submit separate bills to cover certain
outpatient tests if the Medicare patient is admitted to the hospital within 72
hours of the test."); Health Fraud Comprises Two-Thirds of Pending DOJ Civil
Fraud Cases, GAO Finds, Health News Daily, Aug. 13, 1998, at 5, [hereinafter
Health Fraud Comprises] ("The Window Project addresses billing for outpatient
services within 72 hours of a hospital admission that are included in the
inpatient prospective payment rate.").




n114.  See Himali, supra note 111 (this project is also known as "Operation Bad
Bundle"); Health Fraud Comprises, supra note 113, at 2 ("The Lab Unbundling
Project focuses on inappropriately high payments for tests that are performed
concurrently on automated equipment.").




n115.  See Himali, supra note 111, at 50 (targeting over 130 teaching hospitals
under PATH as of the end of 1997, "the government is investigating Medicare Part
B billings by teaching physicians for services performed by interns and
residents").




n116.  See id. at 51 (project investigates "hospitals that bill consistently for
complex pneumonia, which has a significantly higher DRG than simple pneumonia");
Feds Eye Circumstances, Clinical Pathways in DRG Upcoding False Claims Cases,
Physician Manager, Oct. 2, 1998, at 12 ("DRG upcoding is shaping up into a major
national false claims investigation. The feds say some hospitals exaggerate
patients' symptoms and secondary diagnoses to bill Medicare for a more-lucrative
version of the correct DRG. Examples: pneumonia and septicemia.").




n117.  See Himali, supra note 111, at 52:



   At issue in the transfer/discharge initiative is when a patient is
transferred from one hospital to another but it is reported as having been a
discharge so that the first hospital the patient was admitted to receives the
full DRG payment as opposed to what the hospital should have received - a per
diem amount based on the number of days the patient was at the hospital, not to
exceed the full DRG. The second hospital the patient is transferred to should
receive the full DRG. "If the [Medicare] program is billed for two full DRGs,
there has been a false claim."




n118.  See 31 U.S.C. 3729-33 (1994). See generally Patricia Meador & Elizabeth
Warren, The False Claims Act: A Civil War Relic Evolves Into a Modern Weapon, 65
Tenn. L. Rev. 455 (1998); Marc S. Raspanti & David M. Laigaie, Current Practice
and Procedure Under the Whistleblower Provisions of the Federal False Claims
Act, 71 Temp. L. Rev. 23 (1998).




n119.  See Thomas E. Bartrum & L. Edward Bryant, The Brave New World of Health
Care Compliance Programs, 6 Annals Health L. 51 (1997); Karen Boxer & Helaine
Gregory, Compliance is Good for Your Corporate Health, 1057 PLI/Corp 711 (1998);
Health Attorneys See Rapid Growth in Adoption of Compliance Plans, 5 Health L.
Rep. (BNA) 33, d5 (1996). See also sources cited infra note 153. In the past
eighteen months, the Office of the Inspector General issued six model compliance
plans for guidance to the health care industry. See OIG Compliance Program
Guidance for Clinical Laboratories, 63 Fed. Reg. 45076-03 (1998); OIG Compliance
Program Guidance for Hospitals, 63 Fed. Reg. 8987-02 (1998); OIG Model
Compliance Plan for Clinical Laboratories, 62 Fed. Reg. 9435-01 (1997).




n120.  1 1995 JCAHO Manual, supra note 101, at 23.




n121.  Changes in Accreditation Thrust Ethics Committees into New Roles, Med.
Ethics Advisor, Jan. 1995, at 1 [hereinafter Changes in Accreditation].




n122.  See 15 U.S.C. 52-55 (1996).




n123.  See Two Diet Companies Contest FTC Claims; Three Others Resolve False Ad
Charges, 65 Antitrust & Trade Reg. Rep. 460 (1993); Very-Low-Calorie Diet
Program Marketers Settle FTC Deceptive Advertising Charges, 64 Antitrust & Trade
Reg. Rep. 343 (1993).




n124.  See FTC Is Probing Marketing of Health Care Including Claims by
Infertility Services, 62 Antitrust & Trade Reg. Rep. 283 (1992).




n125.  See Cancer Treatment Centers Settle FTC Allegations over Ad Claims, 5
Health L. Rep. (BNA) 12, d22 (1996).




n126.  See 56 Fed. Reg. 56228 (1991) (proposed consent agreement with analysis
to aid public comment, requiring Minneapolis cosmetic surgeon to disclose risks
and have scientific evidence supporting his claims for benefits of liposuction
procedure).




n127.  See 57 Fed. Reg. 26848 (June 16, 1992) (proposed consent agreement with
analysis to aid public comment concerning NME Hospitals, d/b/a/ Continent Ostomy
Centers).




n128.  See Obesity Treatment Ad Touting Prozac Violates Medical Practice Act, 6
Health L. Rep. (BNA) 2, d28 (1997).




n129.  See Hospital Settles FTC Deception Charges, Won't Misrepresent Ileostomy
Rates, 62 Antitrust & Trade Reg. Rep. 756 (1992).




n130.  2 1995 JCAHO Manual, supra note 101, at 23.




n131.  Id.




n132.  State law theories of abandonment, negligence, or intentional or
negligent infliction of emotional distress can create hospital liability for
denial of treatment or premature discharge. See, e.g., Muse v. Charter Hosp. of
Winston-Salem, 452 S.E.2d 589, 594 (N.C. Ct. App. 1995) (holding that hospital
owed duty not to institute policy or practice which requires that patients be
discharged when their insurance benefits ran out). In 1994, the Health Care
Financing Administration (HCFA) published a final rule that makes it a condition
of participation in Medicare hospitals to have a discharge planning process for
patients. See 42 C.F.R. 482.43 (1998). HCFA was concerned that lack of adequate
discharge planning might result in "systematic underservice of beneficiary
needs", which its requirements were designed to guard against. Medicare: HCFA
Publishes Final Rule on Hospital Discharge Planning Process, Daily Rep. for
Executives, Dec. 13, 1994, at 237 d12. Interestingly, HCFA expressly found that
compliance with JCAHO accreditation standards for discharge planning satisfy the
new rule. See 42 C.F.R. 482.43 (1996).




n133.  See, e.g., Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act of 1986, 42
U.S.C. 1395dd (1994). See also supra notes 15, 16, 19 and accompanying text.




n134.  Both individual and institutional providers may be subject to the
Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, prohibiting discrimination by public
accommodations on the basis of disability in the provision of their services.
See 42 U.S.C.A. 12101-17 (1995). Discriminatory refusals to treat HIV-infected
patients may be challenged under the ADA. See, e.g., Bragdon v. Abbott, 524 U.S.
624 (1998) (holding that HIV infection is a "disability" under the ADA, even if
the infected individual appears asymptomatic); U.S. v. Morvant, 898 F. Supp.
1157 (E.D. La. 1995) (holding that dentist unlawfully discriminated by referring
out HIV-positive patients); Woolfolk v. Duncan, 872 F. Supp. 1381 (E.D. Pa.
1995) (holding that physician may not deny medical services to HIV-infected
patients); Howe v. Hull, 873 F. Supp. 72 (N.D. Ohio 1994) (holding that the
hospital and physician violated ADA by pretextual refusal to admit HIV-infected
patient). See generally Lawrence O. Gostin et al., Disability Discrimination in
America: HIV/AIDS and Other Health Conditions, 281 JAMA 745 (1999).




n135.  The Office of the Inspector General was so concerned about the prospect
(and reports) of hospitals providing financial incentives to doctors to reduce
the amount of care they provide patients that it proposed a specific rule
allowing civil monetary penalties against (1) a hospital "who knowingly makes a
payment, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to a
physician as an inducement to reduce or limit services provided to an individual
who is eligible for Medicare or Medicaid benefits and who is under the direct
care of the physician that knowingly accepts receipt of such payment," and (2) a
physician who knowingly receives such a payment.  59 Fed. Reg. 61571, 61574
(1994). Critics of the proposed rule argued that "its vague wording could
jeopardize almost any hospital incentive plan under managed care - including
capitation's withholds and risk pools." Julie Johnsson, No Incentives to Limit
Care: New Federal Rule Bans Hospitals from Encouraging Reduced Services, Am.
Med. News, Dec. 26, 1994, at 1, 24. The Final Rule allows civil penalties
against physicians who do not meet Medicare/Medicaid requirements for incentive
plans. See 42 C.F.R. 1003.100 (1998). In turn, the Medicare/Medicaid
participation requirements state that a specified insurer "may operate a
physician incentive plan only if ...no specific payment is made directly or
indirectly under the plan to a physician or physician group as an inducement to
reduce or limit medically necessary services ...." 42 C.F.R. 417.479 (1998).
Recently, the OIG said in a special advisory bulletin that a common hospital
practice known as "gainsharing" - whereby hospitals financially reward
physicians who help achieve cost-savings for the hospitals - implicated these
concerns and was illegal under 42 U.S.C. 1128A(b)(1) and (2). See Katherine E.
Harris & Barbara Yuill, IG Strikes Down Gainsharing, Says CMP Law Bans
Incentives to Curb Care, 8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1133 (1999). See generally D.
McCarty Thornton & Kevin G. McAnaney, Recent Commentary Distorts HHS IG's
Gainsharing Special Advisory Bulletin, 8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1522 (1999).




n136.  See, e.g., American Medical Association, Council on Ethical and Judicial
Affairs, Ethical Issues in Managed Care, 273 JAMA 330, 330-35 (1995) ("In their
zeal to control utilization, managed care plans may withhold appropriate
diagnostic procedures or treatment modalities for patients."); Kevin Grumbach et
al., Primary Care Physicians' Experience of Financial Incentives in Managed-Care
Systems, 339 New Eng. J. Med. 1516 (1998) (in one study, 57% of surveyed primary
care physicians reported that they were being rewarded by managed care
organizations for limiting referrals, and 17% of those believed this compromised
the quality of patient care); Alan L. Hillman, Financial Incentives for
Physicians in HMOs: Is There a Conflict of Interest?, 317 New Eng. J. Med. 1743
(1987); Alan L. Hillman et al., How Do Financial Incentives Affect Physicians'
Clinical Decisions and the Financial Performance of Health Maintenance
Organizations?, 321 New Eng. J. Med. 86, 86-92 (1989); Marc A. Rodwin, Conflicts
in Managed Care, 332 New Eng. J. Med. 604, 605 (1995) ("Many financial
incentives for physicians to control costs create conflicts of interest that
compromise the interests of patients. Most [HMOs and a few PPOs] increase or
decrease a physician's compensation depending on the cost implications of his or
her clinical choices or the organization's profitability."); supra note 27.




n137.  Some studies find a difference in the provision of treatment to patients
depending upon the payment systems for the providers. See, e.g., John Rapoport
et al., Resource Utilization Among Intensive Care Patients: Managed Care vs.
Traditional Insurance, 152 Arch. Int. Med. 2207 (1992); Sheldon Retchin et al.,
Outcomes of Stroke Patients in Medicare Fee for Service and Managed Care, 278
JAMA 119 (1997). Other studies have found little or no difference in the care
provided to patients under different payment systems. See, e.g., Derek C. Angus
et al., The Effect of Managed Care on ICU Length of Stay: Implications for
Medicare, 276 JAMA 1075 (1996); Geri Aston, Study: HMO Hospital Stays Same as
Fee for Service, Am. Med. News, Nov. 3, 1997, at 6; Sheldon Greenfield et al.,
Outcomes of Patients with Hypertension and Non-Insulin-Dependent Diabetes
Mellitus Treated By Different Systems and Specialties: Result from the Medical
Outcomes Study, 274 JAMA 1436 (1995). Some studies have suggested that the
provision of less care due to financial incentives may result in improved
quality of care. See e.g., Daniel J. Cher & Leslie A. Lenert, Method of Medicare
Reimbursement and the Rate of Potentially Ineffective Care of Critically Ill
Patients, 278 JAMA 1001 (1997). See generally Barry R. Furrow, Regulating the
Managed Care Revolution: Private Accreditation and a New System Ethos, 43 Vill.
L. Rev. 361, 384 (1998) (collecting many studies and concluding that the
evidence "supports claims that managed care has substantial advantages over FFS
[traditional fee-for-service payment] plans not only in controlling costs, but
also in maintaining or even improving the quality of care for subscribers").
Many observers have called for more research to determine the actual effects of
financial incentives on quality of patient care. See, e.g., R. Adams Dudley et
al., The Impact of Financial Incentives on Quality of Care, 76 Millbank Q. 649
(1998); Patrick H. Mattingly, Observations From the Field: Effects of Financial
Incentives on Quality of Care, 76 Millbank Q. 733 (1998); Steven D. Pearson et
al., Sounding Board: Ethical Guidelines for Physician Compensation Based on
Capitation, 339 New Eng. J. Med. 689 (1998).




n138.  The explosion in litigation in this area has been matched by the amount
of academic writing on it in recent years. For just a few of the array of
articles collecting court cases and discussing the effect of federal ERISA
preemption on this ligitation, see, for example, Brian P. Battaglia, The Shift
Toward Managed Care and Emerging Liability Claims Arising from Utilization
Management and Financial Incentive Arrangements Between Health Care Providers
and Payers, 19 U. Ark. Little Rock L.J. 155 (1997); Jose L. Gonzalez, A Managed
Care Organization's Medical Malpractice Liability for Denial of Care: The Lost
World, 35 Hous. L. Rev. 715 (1998); Peter D. Jacobson & Scott D. Pomfret, Form,
Function, and Managed Care Torts: Achieving Fairness and Equity in ERISA
Jurisprudence, 35 Hous. L. Rev. 985 (1998); Jeffrey E. Shuren, Legal
Accountability for Utilization Review in ERISA Health Plans, 77 N.C. L. Rev. 731
(1999).

   HMO denials of medically necessary or medically appropriate care have
received considerable negative publicity, see supra note 28, and have been the
subject of numerous lawsuits. During the fall of 1999, a series of class actions
against HMOs was initiated across the country for alleged violations of federal
law under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act and the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). See Plan Liability: Class
Actions Against HMOs Climb as 'REPAIR Team,' Physicians File More Suits, 8
Health L. Rep. (BNA) 1887 (Dec. 2, 1999). Individual actions brought under
various federal and state law theories are also increasingly common. See, e.g.,
In re U.S. Healthcare, 193 F.3d 151 (3d Cir. 1999) (allowing negligence claims);
Giles v. NYLCare Health Plans, 172 F.3d 332 (5th Cir. 1999) (allowing vicarious
liability and negligence claims); Dukes v. U.S. Healthcare, 57 F.3d 350 (3d Cir.
1995) (allowing negligence and malpractice claims); Moscovitch v. Danbury Hosp.,
25 F. Supp. 74 (D. Conn. 1998) (allowing negligence claim); Drolet v.
Healthsource, 968 F. Supp. 757 (D. N.H. 1997) (allowing misrepresentation claim
under ERISA); Petrovich v. Share Health Plan of Ill., 719 N.E.2d 756 (Ill. 1999)
(allowing vicarious liability claim); Neade v. Portes, 710 N.E.2d 418 (Ill. App.
Ct. 1999) (allowing breach of fiduciary duty claim); Pappas v. Asbel, 724 A.2d
889 (Pa. 1999) (allowing negligence claim) cert. pet. filed, 67 USLW 3717
(1999). Although numerous state laws already exist that could be used to address
wrongful denials of benefits, one problem for plaintiffs has been that courts
have often interpreted ERISA to pre-empt these state law claims. See, e.g.,
Andrews-Clarke v. Travelers Ins. Co., 984 F. Supp. 49 (D. Mass.1997):



   This case, thus, becomes yet another illustration of the glaring need for
Congress to amend ERISA to account for the changing realities of the modern
healthcare system... ERISA has evolved into a shield of immunity that protects
health insurers, utilization review providers, and other managed care entities
from potential liability for the consequences of their wrongful denial of health
benefits.



    See generally Margaret G. Farrell, ERISA Pre-Emption and Regulation of
Managed Health Care: the Case for Managed Federalism, 23 Am. J.L. & Med. 251
(1997); Peter D. Jacobson, Legal Challenges to Managed Care Cost Containment
Programs: An Initial Assessment, 18 Health Affairs 69 (1999). Some plaintiffs
have recently avoided having their state law claims against HMOs preempted by
ERISA by characterizing their actions as challenges to the quality of medical
care they received or as medical negligence, rather than as a denial of
benefits. See Robert Pear, Series of Rulings Eases Constraints on Suing
H.M.O.'s, N.Y. Times, Aug. 15, 1999, at A1.




n139.  Whether patients will be allowed to sue their health plans under state
law theories, or whether such claims will continue to be preempted by ERISA,
remains one of the most debated issues in managed care reform and proposals for
patient protection legislation. See Susan Webster, Managed Care Regulation Tops
1999 Health Issues List; Fraud Crackdown Ranked Second, 8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 5
(1999) (managed care reform is the number one health law issue for 1999, with
ERISA preemption being a major component of the debate); see also Aston, A Big
Win, supra note 23 ('biggest area of disagreement is whether people with
employer-based health coverage should be able to sue their health plan for
malpractice if they think the plan has denied them a medically necessary
benefit"); Geri Aston, Health Plan Liability Erupts at Center of House Battle,
Am. Med. News, Sept. 27, 1999, at 1 ("the battle over managed care patient
protections in the House has boiled down to one issue: health plan liability").
While so far only a few states, such as Texas and Georgia, have enacted laws to
allow HMOs to be sued for their coverage decisions such as denials of benefits,
31 states have indicated that health plan liability will continue to be a high
priority issue in their legislatures during the coming year. See Stephen
Piontek, Life or Money?, Nat'l Underwriter Life & Health - Fin. Serv. Ed., Aug.
3, 1998, at 49 ("The nub of all the disputing over patient protections going on
in Congress now really comes down to whether patients should be allowed to hold
their health plans legally liable for adverse decisions."); State-By-State
Report, supra note 24; see also supra note 29. Although numerous state laws
already exist that could be used to address wrongful denials of benefits, the
problem has been that federal ERISA law has been interpreted to preempt these
state law claims. See generally Farrell, supra note 138.




n140.  2 1995 JCAHO Manual, supra note 101, at 23 ("The governing body needs to
review relationships carefully and ensure that its mission to its patients and
community is not harmed by any contractual relationship... The proposed contract
is approved or rejected based on best-bid practices and the potential for
conflict of interest."). Some areas where conflicts may arise in a health care
institutional setting are relationships between a hospital pharmacy and drug
companies, and an institution's financial interests in the research conducted on
its premises. See, e.g., Ezekiel J. Emaneul & Daniel Steiner, Sounding Board:
Institutional Conflict of Interest, 332 New Eng. J. Med. 262 (1995) ("Financial
conflicts of interest in a research setting can adversely affect patient care,
teaching, and research... Less attention has been paid to the conflicts of
interest that arise when health care institutions have a financial stake in the
research conducted in their laboratories and clinics."); Managed Care, supra
note 105, at 126:



   The conduct of hospital pharmacists and physicians who sit on hospital
formulary committees that review and determine hospital drug supplies can be
compromised by drug company marketing enticements... The capacity for drug
companies to influence hospital formulary development is just one of many
reasons why it is incumbent upon hospitals to develop a code of ethical
behavior.




n141.  See American Hospital Association, Management Advisory: Resolution of
Conflicts of Interest (1990):



   Duality of interest can raise the potential for a conflict of interest when
the personal interests of institutional officials come in conflict with the
interests of the institution... The laws of the various states prohibit or
severely restrict actions made under a conflict of interest by a fiduciary, that
is, an individual occupying a special position of trust and responsibility.
Officers, governing board members, and in some states other officials of health
care institutions should be guided by the laws governing a fiduciary. Ethics are
supported by these laws.



    See also Boston Children's Heart Found., Inc. v. Nadal-Ginard, 73 F.3d 429
(1st Cir. 1996) (former president of a nonprofit corporation breached his
fiduciary duty by failing to disclose to the board that he was the director of
another organization performing work in the same general area at the same
hospital where he worked on behalf of the corporation); Mary v. Lupin Found.,
609 So.2d 184 (La. 1992) (holding that cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duties is made out upon allegations that inside directors of a nonprofit
corporation sold a hospital (the corporation's principal asset) for $ 5 million
less than its actual value and secretly structured an improper side deal with
the prospective purchaser).




n142.  See 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(b) (soliciting or receiving illegal remuneration);
see also 42 U.S.C. 1395nn (prohibiting "physician self-referrals," or referrals
to providers in which referring physician has a financial interest).




n143.  The OIG has issued ten "Special Fraud Alerts" to the health care industry
warning of potential enforcement targets and addressing the following topic
areas that could violate the anti-kickback statute: joint venture arrangements;
routine waiver of Medicare Part B co-payments and deductibles; hospital
incentives to referring physicians; prescription drug marketing practices;
arrangements for the provision of clinical laboratory services; home health
fraud; fraud and abuse in the provision of medical supplies to nursing
facilities; fraud and abuse in the provision of services in nursing facilities;
fraud and abuse in nursing home arrangements with hospices; and physician
liability for certifications in the provision of medical equipment and supplies
and home health services. See 59 Fed. Reg. 65373 (1994) (publishing first five
alerts, addressing prescription drug marketing schemes, physician investors in
joint ventures, waivers of co-payments or deductibles, hospital incentive
payments to physicians, and clinical lab services); Dept. of Health and Human
Serv, Office of the Sec., Office of Ins. Gen., Special Fraud Alerts, (visited
March 13, 1999) <http://www.hhs.gov/progorg/oig/frdalrt/index.htm>.




n144. " The hallmark of professionalism is self-regulation," said AMA's then
Executive Vice-President James Todd, M.D. Perrone, supra note 100, at 3.




n145.  EMTALA provides a good example, for there is evidence that government
enforcement has been insufficient to prevent ongoing violations of the statute
and persistent patient-dumping practices. See Dame, supra note 19, at 11-21;
Scaduto, supra note 16, at 968-75. Fraud and abuse enforcement is another
example. While in 1997 the DOJ did recover $ 1.2 billion in settlements and
judgments, hired an additional 285 attorneys and agents devoted exclusively to
health care fraud, and opened more than 4,000 civil fraud cases (nearly double
the number from the year before), see DOJ Recovered, supra note 110, these
efforts address only a fraction of the overall loss to the federal government
through erroneous payments to providers, see Kristen Hallam, HCFA Raises the Bar
for Fraud Detection, Modern Healthcare, Feb. 15, 1999 (reporting that an audit
by the Department of Health and Human Services of Medicare overpayments revealed
that $ 20.3 billion (11%) of all Medicare payments in 1997 were erroneous
overpayments; the error rate decreased in 1998, down to 7%, or $ 12.6 billion,
in overpayments). Federal enforcers know that they are targeting only the tip of
the iceberg in bringing civil and criminal actions, and they have relied on a
variety of forms of self-help and self-policing, including reliance on (1)
so-called whistleblowers to bring qui tam actions under the False Claims Act,
see supra note 118, (2) the voluntary corporate compliance programs described in
this essay, and (3) voluntary disclosures by health care organizations who
discover illegal conduct. See Aaron M. Altschuler et al., Health Care Fraud, 35
Am. Crim. L. Rev. 841 (1998). The OIG has initiated a Provider Self-Disclosure
Protocol to encourage providers to voluntarily disclose violations of the fraud
laws. See 63 Fed. Reg. 58399 (1998); see also OIG's website (visited Dec. 12,
1999) <http://www.hhs.gov/progorg/oig> (voluntary disclosure will not
necessarily protect providers from civil or criminal action, but self-reporting
"could be a mitigating factor in OIG's recommendations to prosecuting
agencies").




n146.  See supra note 105 and accompanying text.




n147.  See Mary J. Pitzer, Health-Care Firms Realizing Need to Clear Up Ethical
Fuzzy Areas, L.A. Times, June 8, 1998, at D22 ("Although these [corporate
compliance] programs start with regulatory compliance, they often don't end
there. Billing problems, financial conflicts of interest, harassment and
staffing levels all can fall under the ethics umbrella. And they all ultimately
affect quality of care if resources are diverted from patient care.").




n148.  See Leonard J. Weber, The Ethics of Health Care Advertising, Mich. Hosp.,
Dec. 1988, at 29, 31 (discussing the distinction between a "personal integrity"
model of ethics (which tends to be law's focus) and a "social impact" model of
ethics). Weber observes:



   The 'personal integrity' approach to business advertising focuses on the
relationship of advertising to truth-telling and to individual freedom, two
important values in personal ethics... [Under this approach,] Advertising should
not be deceptive or make false claims... Advertising should not be so
manipulative that individuals cannot resist... The 'social impact' approach to
business ethics... insists... that there are other important ethical concerns as
well, that it is not sufficient to be concerned about manipulation or deception.



    Id. The author goes on to discuss advertising that may promote harmful
practices, create needs, or reinforce harmful stereotypes:



   It is important to ask what message is being communicated and received about
health care when a hospital advertises its childbirth services by stressing the
medical complications associated with labor and delivery. It is important to ask
what message is being communicated and received when a hospital's advertising
stresses the life-saving 'miracles' that take place because of the latest in
high-technology medicine. It is important to ask what the impact of these
messages is on the public's expectations of the kind of health care they can
expect to receive.



    Id. at 31-32.




n149.  Changes in Accreditation, supra note 121, at 7.




n150.  Certainly the trade journals for the health care industry are full of
reports of fraud enforcement activities and strategies for responding. See,
e.g., Sarah A. Klein, Protection or Persecution?, Am. Med. News, Feb. 15, 1999
(providing a sampling of health care providers who have been "snared in the
False Claims net"); John G. Malcolm & Robert F. Schroeder, Health Care Fraud:
What Do You Do When the Government Knocks?, Ga. St. Bar J., Oct. 1998, at 22-30;
Molly Tschida, In the Line of Fire: The Feds Take Aim at Doctors' Billing
Practices, Modern Physician, June 29, 1998, at 23; Top Fraud Cases to Watch in
1999, 8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 98 (1999) (identifying the top ten health care
fraud cases across the country predicted to make headlines this year). But even
the popular press is full of stories of the government crackdown on health care
fraud. See, e.g., Peter Eisler, Fed's War Against Health Fraud Escalates, USA
Today, Feb. 23, 1998, at 5B; Gloria Lau, Gotcha! A Swarm of Federal Inspectors
Is Descending on the Nation's Doctors, Hospitals, and Health Plans, Forbes, May
18, 1998, at 130; Robert Pear, Medicare Fraud Weapon: Patients/Health-Care: The
Government Will Ask Them to Report Their Doctors and Hospitals If They Suspect
Billing Problems, Orange County Reg., Feb. 21, 1999, at A29.




n151.  For a discussion contrasting two approaches to corporate compliance
programs, one that assimilates compliance into corporate culture and one that is
"superimposed as a bureaucratic replacement for clear conscience," see William
Nolan, Corporate Compliance, Corporate Culture: A Way to Avoid Having 'the
Lawyers' Run Health Care Organizations, Behavioral Health Mgmt., Jan.-Feb. 1998,
at 34. See also Pitzer, supra note 147 ("'To have just a compliance-driven
program will not ultimately be successful... Ethics without compliance is a
program without teeth. Compliance without ethics is a program that employees
will not buy into.'").




n152.  See, e.g., Corporate Integrity Agreement between National Medical
Enterprises, Inc. (NME) and the Office of the Inspector General, U.S. Dept. of
Health and Human Services (June 29, 1994), at p. 1.




n153.  See generally Klein, supra note 150 (describing how False Claims Act
prosecutions have generated a compliance industry of insurance carriers,
consultants, and newsletters); Sean Martin, Fraud Fears Fuel Growth of
Compliance Programs, Am. Med. News, Dec. 15, 1997, at 3 (describing manuals,
guides, symposia, and the cottage industry of consultants that have sprung up to
address corporate compliance).




n154.  Changes in Accreditation, supra note 121, at 7. More recently, the
Department of Justice has echoed this sentiment. The Deputy Attorney General has
"urged health care lawyers to 'convince your clients to make compliance plans
and good stewardship top priorities.'... Prosecutors will be looking for 'teeth'
in companies' compliance programs, 'not just glossy brochures.'" Justice
Department to Increase Use of False Claims Act To Pursue Hospital Quality of
Care, Health News Daily, Oct. 23, 1998 [hereinafter Justice Department to
Increase]. Unfortunately, perhaps it is only after the DOJ repeats the ethical
exhortations of JCAHO that health care providers will actually take heed.




n155.  See Peter T. Kilborn, In Managed Care, "Consumer" Laws Benefit Doctors,
N.Y. Times, Feb. 16, 1998, at A1:



   Under the banner of consumer protection, legislators are wrestling with the
complaints of specialist physicians who have been losing their patients, fees
and autonomy, those of insurance and managed care companies whose profits have
sunk in competition for patients, and those employers who pay for much of the
coverage... ["]The quip going around is that this is physician protection, not
consumer protection."



    See also Kassirer, supra note 94 (Kassirer, expressing skepticism about the
AAHP's "Putting Patients First" initiative because it has less to do with
protecting patients than protecting managed care companies from increased
federal and state regulation).




n156.  Kilborn, supra note 155, at A1.




n157.  See generally Leonard H. Friedman & Grant T. Savage, Can Ethical
Management and Managed Care Coexist?, Health Care Mgmt. Rev., Apr. 1, 1998, at
56 ("notwithstanding the pervasive cynicism about the state of business ethics,"
the authors propose a model for health care management which combines business
ethics and biomedical ethics, positing that "the values of truth-telling,
avoiding harm, respecting authority, and honoring agreements have a higher
institutional priority than earning short-term profits. In the for-profit world
of managed care, the values of social equity and fairness should be added given
the unique status of health care in our society.").




n158.  The Office of the Inspector General has suggested it may be preferable,
where feasible, to separate the roles of general counsel or chief financial
officer from the role of chief compliance officer, to ensure independent
judgment on behalf of the hospital. See OIG Compliance Guidance for Hospitals,
63 Fed. Reg. 8987-02, at 8993 n.35 (1998).




n159.  To have any effect within a health care organization, a compliance office
must have high-level authority and be able to exercise independent judgment, a
tall order for any employee charged with uncovering his or her employer's
ethically or legally questionable conduct. See Kirsten Hallam, A Compliance
Problem: HHS, Others Rule out CFOs, Counsels as Ethics Czars, Modern Healthcare,
Oct. 5, 1998, at 116 (Columbia/HCA's head of compliance said that a "compliance
officer should look at a situation without assuming the company is right and
without assuming management's point of view," while Quorum Health Group's head
of compliance observed that a compliance officer has to be "fearlessly"
independent: "you can't always be everyone's friend").




n160.  Interestingly, both JCAHO and the federal government have recently
initiated programs to recruit patients to report potentially questionable
practices by their health care providers. See JCAHO Sets Up Toll-Free Hot Line,
8 Health L. Rep. (BNA) 554 (1999) (toll-free hot line to encourage patients,
their families, and others to "share concerns regarding quality-of-care issues
at accredited health care organizations"); Pear, supra note 150 ("The federal
government will begin enlisting millions of Medicare beneficiaries in its war
against Medicare fraud next week, urging them to report billing errors,
overcharges and other evidence of possible wrong-doing by their own doctors and
hospitals.").




n161.  For an overview of the history, role, and function of hospital ethics
committees, see William S. Andereck, Development of a Hospital Ethics Commitee:
Lessons from Five Years of Case Consultation, 1 Cambridge Q. Healthcare Ethics
41 (1992); George A. Annas, Ethics Committees: From Ethical Comfort to Ethical
Cover, Hastings Center Rep., May-June 1991, at 18-21. See also infra note 166.




n162.  Some hospitals have divided the ethics committees in two, "[one] is for
clincial ethics and the other for organization ethics." John C. Fletcher,
Responding to JCAHO Standards: Everybody's Business, 7 J. Clin. Ethics 182, 183
(1996). Even handling one typical piece of a clinical ethics committee work -
the individual patient case consultation - requires a diversity of people and
strategies which alone can stretch the capacities of committee members to
perform adequately. See Cynthia B. Cohen, Avoiding "Cloudcuckooland" in Ethics
Committee Case Review: Matching Models to Issues and Concerns, 20 J.L. Med. &
Health Care 294 (1992).




n163.  Referring to a 1975 Baylor Law Review article, the court in In re Quinlan
suggested that a hospital ethics committee could assist the family and
physicians in making treatment decisions for incompetent patients. See In re
Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647, 648 (N.J. 1976) ("I suggest that it would be more
appropriate to provide a regular forum for more input and dialogue in individual
situations and to allow the responsibility of these judgments to be shared."). A
later New Jersey court commented, "The suggestion of such a committee traces its
origins to Quinlan, where the court contemplated an 'ethics committee' to
confirm the medical prognosis of the patient and, thereby, to immunize the
doctor and the hospital from civil and criminal liability." In re Jobes, 529
A.2d 434, 463 (N.J. 1987). Although not expressly calling for ethics
"committees", JCAHO began in 1992 in its accreditation standards to require
hospitals to have in place "a mechanism(s) for the consideration of ethical
issues arising in the care of patients, and to provide education to caregivers
and patients on ethical issues in health care." 1 Joint Commission On
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, 1992 Accreditation Manual for
Hospitals, Standard RI. 1.1.6.1 (1992). See also Annas, supra note 35, at 6:



   The strategy of using ethics committees to provide 'comfort' for physicians
and others worried about either legal liability or public reaction has
prospered. Ethics committees have grown from an anomalous entity to provide
ethical comfort to a few, to an almost standard entity to provide ethical cover
for many. Without the threat of legal liability and community disapproval (which
could lead to new laws), ethics committees would probably not have developed at
all.



    As suggested in this essay, a similar charge may well be leveled at
corporate compliance programs.




n164.  Corsino, supra note 82, at 177 ("Overreliance on bioethics committees in
meeting JCAHO standards can result in ... a disincentive for clinicians and
administrators to understand and promote patients' rights as a regular part of
daily patient care."). Corsino's observations in the context of medical ethics
concerns is equally apt in the context of organization ethics issues: "If ethics
committees become proxies with sole accountability for [JCAHO] standards, then
hospital staff may never acquire the wisdom, commitment and multi-disciplinary
participation necessary to fully incorporate patient rights into daily patient
care." Id. at 180. When ethics is handled by committee, other problems can arise
as well. See Gregory J. Hayes, Ethics Committees: Group Process Concerns and the
Need for Research, 4 Cambridge Q. Healthcare Ethics 83, 84 (1995) (identifying
various problems with group dynamics, such as a lack of diversity within the
committee, dominance by a few powerful members, drifting away from the original
mission, and failure to consider alternatives adequately in an effort to reach
consensus quickly); Diane E. Hoffman, Evaluating Ethics Committees: A View from
the Outside, 71 Millbank Q. 677, 683 (1993) (noting a concern about potentially
conflicting roles of an ethics committee in trying to serve the interests of
both caregivers and patients); Giles R. Scofield, Ethics Consultation: The Least
Dangerous Profession?, 2 Cambridge Q. Healthcare Ethics 417 (1993) (noting
common criticisms of ethics committees that they are time consuming and
unwieldly and suffer from "group-think" and "non-think").




n165.  See Fletcher, supra note 162, at 182 (observing that "the ethics of
patient care is everybody's business").




n166.  These three functions are frequently viewed as the primary ones for
hospital ethics committees. See, e.g., David C. Blake, The Hospital Ethics
Committee: Health Care's Moral Conscience or White Elephant?, Hastings Center
Rep., Jan.-Feb. 1992, at 6; John C. Fletcher & Mark Siegler, What Are the Goals
of Ethics Consultation? A Consensus Statement, 7 J. Clinical Ethics 122 (1996).




n167.  A case in point may be Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. In the wake of
numerous government investigations in recent years:



   [Columbia/HCA says it is now] putting teeth into its new ethics and
compliance program... The new emphasis of Columbia's top management has gone
beyond demonstrating legal and regulatory compliance to establishing a "set of
aspirations in terms of overall conduct that doesn't have to do with the law,"
says Alan Yuspeth, Columbia's senior vice president of ethics and compliance.
"It has to do with what we're about as an organization, what kind of culture we
want to have."



    Vida Foubister, Fostering a New Corporate Culture, Am. Med. News, Aug. 10,
1998, at 12. Some observers remain skeptical, however. George J. Annas believes:
"'It's not a serious attempt to do ethics... It's a serious attempt to avoid
legal liability.'" Id. Whether skeptical or not, health care observers are
watching the compliance programs at both Columbia/HCA and Tenet Healthcare
Corp., whose predecessor National Medical Enterprises paid millions to settle
fraud charges in the mid-1990s, as potential models for genuine attempts to "do
ethics." Pitzer, supra note 147. The government has also urged that
responsibility for ethics as well as legal compliance begin at the top levels of
a health care organization. See Justice Department to Increase, supra note 154
(the DOJ urges "good stewardship" as a top priority); OIG Compliance Guidance
for Hospitals, 63 Fed. Reg. 8987, 8990 n.8 (1998):



   The OIG strongly encourages high-level involvement by the hospital's
governing body, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, General
Counsel, and Chief Financial Officer, as well as other medical personnel as
appropriate, in the development of standards of conduct. Such involvement should
help communicate a strong and explicit statement of compliance goals and
standards.




n168.  See supra notes 105-06, 146-47 and accompanying text.




n169.  See Fletcher, supra note 162, at 183 (observing that accountability for
meeting JCAHO standards does not rest with the ethics committee: "That
obligation clearly falls on the governing body and the most senior
administrators and clinicians."). See also Weber, supra note 148, at 32:



   Management may need to develop an institutional framework for assessing the
ethics of any proposed advertising. The key is to have the right persons ask the
right questions. The right questions are questions about both the content and
the impact of the advertising... The right persons are those who are willing to
ask - and answer - the hard questions, no matter who is proposing or sponsoring
the activity.




n170.  See Annas, supra note 35, at 10. Prof. Annas's suggestion about ethics
committees is equally applicable to management:



   What we might try ... is to engage in a real effort to see if
multidisciplinary committees can "do ethics" and encourage real change in our
hospitals and medical care facilities to go beyond the law and risk management
and to "do the right thing." Good ethics (and a good ethics committee) begins
where the law ends.



    See also Foubister, supra note 167 ("[A] corporate-led compliance program
that goes beyond the minimum required by law is critical to any business,
whether it's defense or health care."); Pitzer, supra note 147 (according to
Alan Yuspeth, senior vice president at Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. to over see
its ethics and compliance program: "'At a minimum, we want to ensure compliance
with complex laws and re gulations... But in a larger sense, we want to do the
right thing.'").


                              184 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             July 2, 1994, Saturday

Medical miracles, moral costs Tackling tough questions:

BYLINE: By Ann Hardie STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SCIENCE; Section E; Page 1

LENGTH: 1089 words


With technological advances, doctors, hospitals and families are looking toward
ethics committees for guidance in life-or-death decisions.

Even as hospitals in Atlanta and around the country push the technological
envelope to keep people alive, they increasingly are returning to an ancient
discipline for moral guidance.

The field of ethics is becoming a part of this country's most modern health
care, alongside organ transplants and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

Hospitals are forming teams to think through ethical dilemmas involving
everything from genetic testing to post-menopausal pregnancy to the withdrawal
of artificial life support.

Although ethics committees often don't come up with clear-cut answers, they seem
to provide an element of comfort in an area where the difference between life
and its end increasingly comes down to a piece of machinery.

"Technology is a wonderful servant but a poor master," said G. Robert Gary, vice
chairman of Emory University Hospital's recently formed ethics committee and
director of Emory's Center for Pastoral Services. "There is an increasing
awareness that we are pushing the boundaries medically and morally on how much
should be done for our patients."

Those lines are certain to become more blurred with medical advances such as
sophisticated genetic testing that could determine if people are predisposed to
certain health problems and diseases.

The ethical question then becomes: Who gets access to the information,
especially if there isn't a cure or treatment for the illness? Patients who
could plan their lives accordingly? Employers who could factor it into hiring
decisions? Or insurance companies who might use it in deciding who gets
coverage?

In addition, health care reform probably will ease the ethical dilemmas facing
hospitals and their doctors.

With the realization that there isn't enough money to pay for all of medicine's
bag of tricks, ethics committees may be called upon to decide who gets a heart
transplant or ventilator.

"I think they are going to expand into new areas, like rationing," said Arthur
L. Caplan, president of the American Association of Bioethics and director of
the Center of Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania. "I think they could
well find themselves in the middle of issues like payment and insurance and
charity care."

When should life end?

One of the most common ethical dilemmas in hospitals today is when to withdraw
artificial life support. Kathy Kinlaw, associate director of Emory University's
Center for Ethics and Public Policy in the Professions, has helped hospitals
across the state form ethics committees.

"We frequently hear questions that have to do with the end of life, whether it
has to do with how aggressive we should be with a very low- birthweight infant
or an aging person who has a chronic illness and recurrent pneumonia," Kinlaw
said.

"The fact that our technological capabilities have increased so dramatically
means that the questions are intensified," she said. "It is not clear to me,
that because the technology exists, that the right thing to do is to take
advantage of it."

One of the most difficult distinctions doctors and patients and their families
must make is when medical technology such as ventilators and feeding tubes is
prolonging life or painfully delaying an imminent death.

"Life is not going to go on forever and at some point it might become morally
wrong to pretend that it is," said Jan C. Heller, director of ethics at St.
Joseph's Hospital in Atlanta.

Heller says people often are surprised that St. Joseph's, a Roman Catholic
hospital, does not necessarily sanction doing everything medically possible to
keep a person alive. "At some point, we must surrender our lives to God,'' he
said.

For ethical and legal questions, hospitals and physicians say they err on the
side of doing too much unless a patient or his family specifies otherwise.

"And when the treatment is a painful and unproductive one and the physician or
nurse feels they are brutalizing the patient, someone cries for help," Gary
said.

Those cries increasingly are being heard by ethics committees, whose emergence
in hospitals has been a long time coming.

The oath of ethics that doctors swear to is named after the Greek physician
Hippocrates, who died more than 2,300 years ago. St. Joseph's is the only
hospital in the metro area that employs a full-time ethicist. Such positions are
rare nationwide.

80 percent of hospitals have ethics panels

But an estimated 80 percent of the country's hospitals have an ethics committee,
comprising mostly doctors, nurses, chaplains and other members of the hospital
community.

Many ethics committees were formed in the '80s after heated public debate on how
aggressively to treat premature and disabled infants.

That debate still is raging. Atlantans became attached to the plight of Baby
Pumpkin, born four months premature to a woman who was addicted to crack. Baby
Pumpkin's eight-month stay in Grady Memorial Hospital's intensive-care unit cost
taxpayers about $ 500,000.

The child, who died at 27 months after choking on a grape, lived on a diet
consisting mainly of baby food because disabilities had slowed her development.
She was making weekly visits to physical and respiratory therapists.

"Some of these babies are so small that you wonder if it is medically futile or
not," said Catherine J. Futch, assistant vice president of nursing services at
Grady and co-chair of its ethics committee. "They could have lung problems,
cerebral palsy, damage to their brain or liver. Then you see that one child at
[age] 5 who is fine."

In the past five years, the scope of most ethics committees has been expanded to
include all medical disciplines in a hospital.  In the current clamor for health
care reform, those taking on medicine's ethical dilemmas see their role becoming
even greater.

"On the one hand, you have an emphasis on patient rights and respect for the
person to let them decide how much they want to do," Heller said. "On the other
hand, you have this tremendous pressure to control cost. We can't seem to decide
these issues on a societal level like we ought, so they are being pushed down to
the bedside."

And the issues are being pushed to ethics committees, which Futch says could
face some very difficult questions in the future.

"How many livers should a person have? If you drink, should you get another? If
you are fat, can you get an angioplasty? It could go on forever," Futch noted.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941840018

GRAPHIC: Color photo: Jan Heller talks with nurses Jill Stansell and Marianne
Baird in the intensive-care unit. / JOEY IVANSCO / Staff Color photo: Baby
Pumpkin, born weighing 1 1/4 pounds, typifies the tough decisions doctors and
families must make. / JOEY IVANSCO / Staff

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              185 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Tribune

                               November 03, 2002

ROW OVER 'ILLEGAL TRIALS';

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 277 words


THE controversy surrounding the over-charging of cancer patients at St Vincent's
has led to an unprecedented row between consultants and management amid
allegations that doctors were in effect carrying out illegal clinical trials on
patients.

The dispute centres over whether clinical trials conducted at St Vincent's
Private Hospital were covered by the oversight of the Ethics Committee at the
nearby St Vincent's University Hospital, which is funded in the main by the
state.

Such studies carried out without ethical oversight would be illegal under the
Clinical Trials Act.

Top cancer specialist John Crown, who is at the centre of the current dispute,
and other doctors at St Vincent's Private Hospital, have said that two former
chief executives of the centre had maintained that trials carried out there were
covered by the Ethics Committee of the public hospital.

Management of St Vincent's University Hospital has strongly denied this and said
that it has never had any role in in the review, approval or rejection of
trials.

However, this stance has been opposed by the doctor who chaired the Ethical
Research Committee at St Vincent's University Hospital when the cancer drug
trials at the centre of the over-charging row were launched. The Irish Medicines
Board has suspended all trials at the hospital pending a review.

The IMB has stated that patient safety was not at issue.

Supporters of Crown maintain that the issue of ethical approval for the trials
was only brought up by management after he effectively blew the whistle on the
hospital over-charging patients for free drugs by hundreds of thousands of euro.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 The Sunday Tribune plc


                              186 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                     April 23, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

A DEAL'S A DEAL: Roman Catholic hospitals have a right to abide by their beliefs

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 311 words


Many Albertans will not be pleased if the board of Mineral Springs Hospital in
Banff decides to drop contraceptive medical services because it determines they
are in conflict with ethical guidelines set down by the Roman Catholic Church
for its hospitals.

But Alberta Health accepted these inevitable conflicts between faith and medical
service when it signed on Roman Catholic hospitals, and it would be unfair to
attempt to renegotiate the arrangement at this late date.

Yes, it is an important principle of our health-care system that a full range of
medical procedures be offered at publicly-funded facilities.

But there are exceptions to every rule, and Alberta long ago accepted this one.

A deal's a deal. It's well known that the Roman Catholic Church does not approve
of vasectomies to sterilize men and laparoscopic tubal ligations to sterilize
women, unless the procedures are done for medical reasons other than
contraception.

The Mineral Springs board has not determined whether the hospital bylaw
requiring compliance with the ethical standards of the church would disallow
providing these services under all circumstances. Nor has it decided if the
hospital will change the bylaw or abandon the procedures altogether if they are
found to be in conflict.

But the point is that a Roman Catholic hospital has every right to set its own
policies in these matters and, if it turns out that these procedures cannot be
accommodated within church guidelines, the board's decision should be accepted
with regret but without recrimination.

The ethical dilemma would take on larger dimensions if Banff patients were being
denied essential medical procedures. But residents who require the treatment can
easily drive to Canmore or Calgary. It's an inconvenience, but no more, and most
residents will easily put the matter in perspective.


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 997 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright (c) 2012 Loyola University Chicago School of Law,
                  Beazley Institute for Health Law and Policy
                              Annals of Health Law

                          ASLME Special Edition, 2012

                              Annals of Health Law

                             21 Ann. Health L. 181

LENGTH: 4967 words

ARTICLE: Institutional Ethics Committees: Should We Kill All the Lawyers? The
Role of Lawyers on Hospital Ethics Committees

NAME: Joanna K. Weinberg, J.D., LL.M*

BIO: * Senior Lecturer in Law, Center for State and Local Government Law,
University of California Hastings College of the Law. Adjunct Professor of Law,
Health Policy and Ethics, Institute for Health and Aging, University of
California San Francisco.

TEXT:
 [*181]

   I. Introduction

 Lawyers who serve on hospital ethics committees frequently find themselves
wondering what precisely the role of law is in resolving ethical dilemmas, how
law affects the functioning of hospital ethics committees, and what non-lawyer
colleagues on these committees think lawyers ought to be doing.

   This article explores the role of lawyers on institutional ethics committees,
and whether the presence of lawyers on institutional ethics committees affects
the form or content of the committee's discourse or activities. This question,
of course, immediately raises several normative questions: what is the purpose
of institutional ethics committees, what do they do, where did they come from,
and who selects the members?

   The idea of asking a group of people not directly involved with a patient's
care to advise the patient's physicians about ethical issues is a very recent
phenomenon and is still in its adolescence. n1 But it is an awkward adolescence,
without clear rules or direction. The "accepted wisdom" is that institutional
ethics committees were established for the purpose of assisting physicians in
resolving complicated ethical problems involving the care and treatment of
patients within the healthcare institution. n2 Their decisions are, for the most
part advisory. But despite the endorsement of the formal medical establishment,
n3 they are frequently not welcomed within  [*182]  their own facilities. It is
not clear why institutional ethics committees have evolved the way they have, as
quasi-professional bodies composed chiefly of medically oriented members. An
early example suggests what "might have been."

   II. The "Birth of Bioethics": The Seattle Swedish Hospital "God Committee"

 In 1961, Seattle Swedish Hospital's Artificial Kidney Center formed a
proto-ethics committee, an Admissions and Policy Committee, to assist the
medical staff make recommendations as to which patients should receive a
then-new form of kidney dialysis which greatly expanded the number of patients
who could benefit from receiving hemodialysis, far beyond the limited capacity
of the hospital's center. The hospital created the committee in part to protect
doctors from having to make these decisions about their own patients.

   The committee, later termed the "God Committee," was composed of seven lay
members - a lawyer, a minister, a housewife, a state government official, a
banker, a labor leader, and a surgeon who served as a "doctor-citizen". It met
every two weeks for four years. Journalist Shana Alexander received permission
to attend some of the Committee's meetings and discussed their debates in a 1962
Life magazine article. n4 She said of the Committee "these seven citizens are in
fact a Life or Death Committee. With no moral or ethical guidelines save their
own individual consciences, they must decide, in the words of the Hebrew prayer,
"Who shall live and who shall die; who shall attain the measure of man's days
and who shall not attain it; who shall be at ease and who shall be afflicted.'
They do not much like the job." n5

   At the outset the Committee had to decide whether it should accept the
recommendation of the kidney doctors at the hospital, that patients over
forty-five and children should be excluded on the grounds that they were most
likely to suffer other health problems that could compromise their dialysis -
the committee did. Ultimately, the committee created its own list of criteria,
an extensive list based upon age, sex, marital status and number of dependents,
income, net worth, emotional stability, educational  [*183]  background,
occupation, past history and future potential, and names of people who could
serve as references. The Committee also limited eligibility to residents of
Washington State. Subsequent analysis of the Committee's selections over the
four years showed that those with the best chance for acceptance by the
committee were white middle aged, middle class men, not surprising since all
members of the committee were middle class white men, with the exception of the
"housewife" (who was married to a middle class white man).

   The Committee struggled with how to determine the standards that should be
employed in making its decisions.



   HOUSEWIFE: If we are still looking for the men with the highest potential of
service to society, I think we must consider that the chemist and the accountant
have the finest educational backgrounds of all five candidates.



LAWYER: Both these men have made provisions so that their deaths will not force
their families to become a burden on society.



SURGEON: How do the rest of you feel about Number Three - the small businessman
with three children? I am impressed that his doctor took special pains to
mention that this man is active in church work. This is an indication to me of
character and moral strength.



HOUSEWIFE: Which certainly would help him conform to the demands of the
treatment ... .



LAWYER: It would also help him endure a lingering death ... .



STATE OFFICIAL: But that would seem to be placing a penalty on the very people
who have perhaps been most provident ... .



MINISTER: And both of these men have children too.



LABOR LEADER: For the children's sake, we've got to reckon with the surviving
parents opportunity to remarry, and a woman with three children has a better
chance to find a new husband than a very young widow with six children. n6

 This is only a small fragment of the committee's deliberations, but it is
unnerving. What was the committee's charge? Were they presented with a clear
definition of ethical decision-making, or were they simply told to devise their
own standards for determining eligibility? Were their recommendations advisory
or determinative; in effect, did they have the authority of a jury? Was the
patient or family involved in the committee's deliberations, and was there an
opportunity for the patient or family to appeal the committee's decision, or to
present evidence? Finally, it seems clear that only patients who had traditional
support systems were considered; there were no patients who might need
assistance from  [*184]  surrogate or any form of long term care in order to
continue their dialysis treatments.

   What was the lawyer's role on this committee? He didn't "act like a lawyer;"
he didn't raise issues one would expect a lawyer to raise. In fact, his comments
might be said to have violated a lawyer's obligations as an officer of the
courts, except that in this case the committee debates appear to have been more
those like of a jury - confidential, only made public following the "verdict,"
due to the presence of a reporter.

   The Life magazine article spawned an NBC television documentary, which
highlighted the stories of some of the successful recipients. n7 A small town in
Washington raised $ 30,000 for a young milkman. The "Bucks for Buddy" campaign
included pancake breakfasts, bake sales, and a radio announcer's daily pitches
for support. Another recipient, after discussing his dialysis, was asked if he
knew what happened to the other applicants for the kidney machine. He replied,
""Only two of us were accepted... . I don't know why [the others were rejected]
- either for medical reasons or psychological reasons or [they] just didn't have
the $ 30,000.'" n8 When asked if he knew what happened to the others, he
replied, "They're dead." n9

   The "God Committee" has been disparaged; it was not really an ethics
committee, but a rationing committee of laypersons, using social worth criteria
to make its decisions. However, the outcome of the Seattle affair was not an
immediate shift to institutional ethics committees, at least not with respect to
disputes about end-of-life care and distribution of scarce medical resources.
The outcome was a shift to rationing under a different guise. Perhaps in
response to the negative reaction of the public, discussions about dialysis
moved inside the institution to become less visible, often only among
physicians, excluded laypersons (and lawyers) and became less specific about the
process of and reasons for their decisions. n10 The facilities still considered
personal details, but these became part of the medical judgment. The
economically disadvantaged and those with an "unsavory" past were not considered
a good risk for dialysis because they did not have the emotional support of
stable families. Subsequent allocation methods included administration of IQ,
personality, and vocational tests; lotteries (from a medically acceptable pool),
and first-come first-served, premised upon the utilitarian principle of
"maximizing outcome". n11

   The "God Committee" has frequently been cited as the case that led to  [*185]
the "birth" of ethics committees. It is also set off a chain of events that led
to a significant advance in health law. The 1972 amendments to the Social
Security Act created the End State Renal Disease Program, ending the need for
decisions about allocation of dialysis technology and making dialysis
universally available under Medicare, without consideration as to age, income or
medical condition. n12

   With respect to the "birth" of "bioethics" and ethics committees, the credit
falls somewhere between law, medicine and philosophy. Albert Jonsen suggests
that it does not much matter, "whether [the] birthday [of ethics committees] was
November 9, 1962, the date of the Life article about the Seattle committee, or
June 16, 1966, the day [Henry] Beecher's article on the ethics of research
appeared in the [New England Journal of Medicine], or March, 31 1976, when the
New Jersey Supreme Court rendered its decision In the Matter of Karen Ann
Quinlan, all these events pushed medical ethics out of its past into its
future." n13 Nor does it matter whether bioethics was conceived "in the
inspiration that struck Dan Callahan and Will Gaylin in 1969 to start The
Hastings Center and, almost simultaneously, struck Andre Hellegers to start the
Kennedy Institute for Bioethics in Georgetown, the ideas for bioethics were
waiting to be heard." n14

   III. From Rationing Committees to Ethics Committees - Not a Great Leap

 However, many people consider the New Jersey Supreme Court's decision in In re
Quinlan to have given institutional ethics committees an official stamp of
approval. Ethics committees began to move into the mainstream following that
court's opinion. Quinlan involved a father's request to remove his daughter from
life support, a young women whom all physicians agreed was in a permanent
vegetative state following a drug overdose. The court held that Quinlan's father
had the right to act as her surrogate decision maker and to direct the actions
of her physicians. In its opinion, the court noted the years of contentious
litigation and expressed its frustration at the lengthy adversarial process. It
was "impossibly cumbersome" for the courts to be involved in patient care
decision making, said the court, suggesting that an ethics committee within the
health facility would more effectively and knowledgeably act as an alternative
to the more  [*186]  traditional probate court process. n15

   The Quinlan court recognized the failure of the adversarial process in
ethical disputes over patient care. As courts often do, it is likely that the
Quinlan court picked up on a nascent trend in medical society, a frustration
with increasing disputes over medical decision-making, and the emergence of the
field of medical ethics (the seminal work on the topic is The Principles of
Biomedical Ethics n16 by Thomas Beauchamp and James Childress). As a result,
institutional ethics committees have become nearly universal since Quinlan, and
are now required by a number of official bodies. n17 The only membership
requirement is diversity; members must come from a variety of disciplines and
theoretical backgrounds, and must be representative of the local community. n18

   In 1998, over ninety percent of U.S. hospitals had ethics committees,
compared to just one percent in 1983. n19 In many institutions, physicians have
been unenthusiastic about the presence of ethics committees. n20 However, the
American Medical Association Code of Ethics suggests that "preferably, a
majority of the committee should consist of physicians, nurses, and other health
care providers," n21 and this is how most institutional ethics committees are
composed at present, with most additional members also drawn from the facility -
social workers, chaplains, and occasionally institution administrators.

   Institutional ethics committees' duties have also evolved. Initially their
duties primarily involved clinical consultation, advising treating physicians
and families about treatment options and assisting in resolving disputes over
patient treatment and care. Gradually they began to take on a policy function as
well; to review and draft institutional policies that touch on issues of ethics,
and more recently, to provide training in core ethics competencies to
institutional committee members. n22 However, they struggle with somewhat
incompatible goals - to make the process of consultation and consideration of
ethical issues less adversarial and to bring tough  [*187]  decisions into the
open.

   IV. The Role of Lawyers

 Lawyers have been members of institutional ethics committees from the
beginning, although only a minority of institutional ethics committees has a
lawyer as a member. Most are appointed as community members, although
occasionally legal representatives of the institution or risk managers are
members.

   Despite the history, the role of law and lawyers on ethics committees has
been controversial. Do (or should) lawyers bring a particular expertise to
ethics committees, or should they behave like the lawyer on the Seattle "God
Committee" - like just another member of the community? What role should lawyers
play in the training of institutional ethics committee members?

   For example, consider the following hypothetical dilemma. An institutional
ethics committee in a community hospital was asked to give an advisory opinion
about an experimental in vitro fertilization procedure proposed by a
physician-owner of a local fertility clinic. The physician did not request the
participation of the hospital; he simply wanted the input of the ethics
committee as to what ethical issues he could expect. However, the description of
the project was framed as a "proposal." The committee was composed of various
members of the hospital staff including physicians, nurses, and a social worker,
three community members, including a lawyer, and was chaired by two staff
members - a physician and a hospital chaplain. It also had a paid ethics
consultant. Prior to the meeting, the ethics consultant distributed a lengthy
analysis of the fertility physician's proposal. The committee engaged in a
lengthy discussion of the ethical issues, led by the ethics consultant, but the
lawyer felt that there were significant legal issues as well, and wished to
include those in the discussion.

   What should the outcome be? The ethics consultant felt the purpose of the
discussion was solely to address the ethical issues, and that the legal issues
would divert attention from the serious ethical concerns. The lawyer felt that
the committee needed to have all of the relevant information, legal as well as
ethical, in order to address the issue in a coherent way.

   This highlights a key conflict over how institutional ethics committees view
their role in clinical ethics consultation - one that is exclusively ethical,
regardless of individual members' disciplinary training, or one that draws on
committee members' individual expertise as contributors to an ethical discourse
and seeks multidisciplinary perspectives.

   The emergence of professional bioethicists and ethics consultants have raised
the bar for what constitutes training, as has the report defining the  [*188]
Core Competencies for Health Care Ethics Consultation, initially adopted by the
Association for Bioethics and Humanities in 2008 and revised in 2010. n23 The
focus on core competencies shifted the direction of institutional ethics
committee discourse in the direction of requiring that all members have formal
training in ethics consultation. To its credit, the report does not take a
position on whether professionally trained bioethics consultants, or
institutional ethics committees should perform ethics consultations. n24

   The report defines the nature and goals of ethics consultation, the types of
skills, knowledge and character traits important for conducting ethics
consultations, and the special obligations of consultants. n25 Individuals
engaged in healthcare ethics consultation ("HCEC") should be able to access,
critically evaluate, and use relevant knowledge in the following concepts:



   . Moral reasoning and ethical theory as it relates to HCEC



. Common bioethical issues and concepts that typically emerge in HCEC



. Health care systems



. Clinical context as it relates to HCEC



. The local health care institution in which the consultant (or committee
member) works



. The local health care institution's policies relevant for HCEC



. The beliefs and practices of the local patient and staff population



. The relevant codes of ethics and professional conduct and guidelines of
accrediting organizations; and



. Relevant health care law. n26

 There is little doubt that all, or at least most, institutional ethics
committee members should have an effective grasp of the concepts contained in
items two through eight. It is also likely that most institutional staff that
serves on committees should receive basic training in these concepts, although
many of them will already have a basic understanding. It is less clear whether
the more esoteric concepts of moral reasoning and ethical theory require
precise, explicit training, or whether patients and physicians may be better
served when institutional committee members contribute the moral principles and
ethical perspectives of their own  [*189]  disciplines.

   Looking at the three key functions of institutional ethics committees -
clinical consultation, bioethics education, and policy development, lawyers have
been involved in institutional policy development ever since institutions began
to develop policies, since policies are generally reviewed by institutional
legal staff before final approval. But does it make sense for lawyers to
participate in policy-making or advising on policy through their participation
on institutional ethics committees as well? All policies should comply with
legal requirements relating to the topic under consideration, especially since
many issues involve legislation, regulations, or official policies. If an
institutional ethics committee is asked to assist the institution in drafting an
institutional policy, for example a Physician Order for Life Sustaining
Treatment ("POLST") form, what should be the role of a lawyer-member of the
ethics committee? Institutional policies are generally reviewed by institution
administration, often including an institution attorney, before final approval.
What does the committee lawyer-member contribute that is different? Consider the
other two functions of the institutional ethics committee - ethics consultation,
and staff, and now, committee education. With respect to all three ethics
committee functions, the lawyer-member can provide the basic knowledge of the
law - one of the Core Competencies relevant to bioethics consultation (e.g.,
end-of life decision making, competency, informed consent, privacy). n27
Non-lawyers can acquire general legal knowledge; however, the lawyer-member has
the advantage of recognizing that the law in its "black letter" context may
interpret similar concepts differently. n28 Lawyers can explain how legal
concerns might impact ethical analyses, not just "black-letter" law, but legal
perspectives of ethical issues such as informed consent, confidentiality, and
futility. The expanded framework can provide the committee with useful tools for
ethical analysis. n29

   This argument frames the discourse in favor of including lawyers as community
members on institutional ethics committees, and it suggests that it may not be
wise to delegate all training of members of committee members to bioethics
consultants, or to turn over all ethics consultation to professional ethics
consultants. (Lawyers employed by the institution have different interests
altogether).

   The core competencies explicitly include education in relevant health care
law as one of the competencies. Who should provide this education? Perhaps it is
sufficient if some members of the committee (whether or not a  [*190]  lawyer)
take on this role. Or should only lawyers (whether committee members or not) be
the "educator" whose role is to "teach" the non-lawyer members about the law and
the legal issues involved in ethical decision-making? And it adds a further
question - what should be the content of legal training?

   The ethical principles of the Beauchamp and Childress trope are autonomy,
nonmaleficence, beneficence, and justice. n30 The concept of "justice," for
bioethicists, does not always mean due process for the patient, as that might
create an adversarial relationship between patient and provider. n31 However,
the point in the article cited above is not that the conflicting interpretations
of due process (legal and ethical) are adversarial or that legal "due process"
is not a "lawyerly enemy of the physician." The point is that legal and ethical
due process, if it were possible to marry the two, are a tool to guarantee that
the patient is heard. n32

   V. Conclusion

 The above discussion suggests that lawyers are appointed to ethics committees
to temper and to balance the tone of ethical discussions. Looking closely at the
issues that ethics committees are struggling with today, ethical issues in
health care have gradually been re-defined as legal issues. However, who is
doing the defining? Does this make it easier or more difficult to make decisions
about these controversies? And are these things that can be taught to
non-lawyers? These questions affect both the design and functioning of ethics
committees, as well how and who should train ethics committee members.

   Institutional ethics committees have taken on a more significant role in the
functioning of institutions since Quinlan, and have expanded to include, in
addition to patient consultation, education - of institution staff and committee
members, and institution policy development. Consultations are now a key
component of bioethical issues in patient care, and the the Core Competencies
have codified most of the skills necessary for a "good" ethicist." But not
enough is known about what legal skills, or legal knowledge, are necessary,
whether the skills can be taught, or whether a lawyer-ethicist can provide the
training "on-site"? That is an issue crying out for research. In any event, the
role of lawyers, still developing, will become more relevant, clear and
important; ideally it will not be long before the "good" lawyer-ethicist will
become widely accepted as an integral member of institutional ethics committees.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawTreatmentEnd-of-Life DecisionsLife SupportLegal EthicsGeneral
OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Susan M. Wolf, Ethics Committees and Due Process: Nesting Rights in a
Community of Caring, 50 Md. L. Rev. 798 (1991).





n2.  American Med. Ass'n, Code of Medical Ethics, Opinion 9.11 - Ethics
Committees in Health Care Institutions (2010-2011), available at
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/medical-ethics/code-medical-
ethics/opinion911.page.





n3.  See, e.g., Sharon E. Caulfield, Health Care Facility Ethics Committees New
Issues In The Age Of Transparency, Hum. Rts., Fall 2007, at 10, 10 (citing the
1992 mandate of the Joint Commission - then the Joint Commission for the
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations ("JCAHO") - that healthcare facilities
should have in place a mechanism for the consideration of ethical issues that
arise in the course of patient care).





n4.  Shana Alexander, Thirty Years Ago, Hastings Ctr. Rep., Nov./Dec. 1993, at
S5.





n5.  Shana Alexander, They Decide Who Lives, Who Dies, Kidney Times (Mar. 2011),
http://kidneytimes.com/article_ print.php?id=20110304143111.





n6.  Id.





n7.  Sally T. Sanford, What Scribner Wrought, 13 Rich. J.L. & Pub. Int.337, 344
(2010).





n8.  Id. at 345.





n9.  Id.





n10.  Sally L. Satel & Benjamin E. Hippen, When Altruism Is Not Enough: The
Worsening Organ Shortage and What it Means for the Elderly, 15 Elder L.J. 153,
171 (2007).





n11.  Id.





n12.  Social Security Amendment of 1972, Pub. L. No. 92-603, § 299I (1972).





n13.  Albert R. Jonsen, The Birth of Bioethics, Hastings Ctr. Rep., Nov./Dec.,
1993, at S1, S3 (citing Henry Beecher, Special Article, Ethics and Clinical
Research, N.Eng. J. Med., 24; 274, 1354-1360)





n14.  Id.





n15.  In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647 (N.J. 1976).





n16.  Thomas Beauchamp & James Childress, The Principles of Biomedical Ethics
(Oxford Univ. Press 2008) (1979).





n17.  Pat Milmoe McCarrick, Ethics Committees in Hospitals 1-2 (1992), available
at http://bioethics.georgetown.edu/publications/scopenotes/sn3.pdf.





n18.  JCAHO, Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for Hospitals 104 (1992).





n19.  Glenn McGhee et al., A National Study of Ethics Committees, Am. J.
Bioethics, Fall 2011, at 60, 62.





n20.  Bernard Lo, Behind Closed Doors: Promises and Pitfalls of Ethics
Committees, 317 N. Eng. J. Med. 46 (1987) ("The committee may feel attacked by
various groups [including] attending physicians who fear that their power is
being usurped.").





n21.  American Med. Ass'n, supra note 2.





n22.  McGhee et al, supra note 19, at 60.





n23.  Am. Soc'y For Bioethics & Humanities, Core Competencies For Health Care
Ethics Consultation (2010).





n24.  Frederick Adolf Paola, Law, Humanities and Equipoise in the Education of
Physicians Assistants, Internet J. Allied Health Sci. & Prac., Apr. 2006, at 1,
2, http://ijahsp.nova.edu/articles/vol4num2/paola.pdf.





n25.  Am. Soc'y for Bioethics & Humanities, supra note 23, at 22-33.





n26.  Id. at 27.





n27.  Id.





n28.  Amy L. McGuire et al., The Ethics of Lawyer-Ethicists, 33 J.L. Med &
Ethics 603, 605 (2005).





n29.  Id.





n30.  See, e.g., Beauchamp & Childress, supra note 16.





n31.  Wolf, supra note 1, at 858.





n32.  Id. at 806.


                              188 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 July 29, 2004

Reid plans more elitist hospitals;
 UNISON rages at ethical recruitment exemption

BYLINE: by DANIEL COYSH

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 395 words


HEALTH Secretary John Reid announced a doubling of the number of elitist
foundation hospitals yesterday amid union fury at plans to exempt them from "
ethical recruitment."

Another 20 NHS hospitals have been given the goahead to apply for foundation
status, which would take the total number to 40.

Outlining an expansion of the controversial scheme, Mr Reid (right) said that
the independent regulator has indicated that the next batches will be authorised
in November 2004 and February 2005.

The arch-Blairite claimed that the announcement is "another important step on
the road to decentralisation, " freeing the NHS from Whitehall control and
giving local patients more power.

But health union UNISON raised more concerns over the plans, noting that they
involve a "shameful" government U-turn on poaching nurses from developing
countries.

The Health Secretary told the annual congress of the Royal College of Nursing in
May that the code of conduct on ethical recruitment needs strengthening.

He made the commitment after RCN and UNISON exposed numerous cases of staff
being lured over from countries such as South Africa, which has a critical
shortage of nurses.

Often, such staff find themselves at the mercy of private agencies, which then
force the qualified health workers into low-paid care jobs in private homes.

Despite this, a new code of practice has been drafted, which declares that
foundation trusts will now be treated like private hospitals, which are merely
"invited" to adopt the code of conduct.

UNISON head of health Karen Jennings said: "It is shameful that the government
is considering giving foundation hospitals carte blanche to poach nurses from
overseas.

"We have long argued that the guidelines need to be given more teeth and
extended to cover the private sector.

"This is to try and stop unscrupulous agencies breaching the guidelines and
taking staff from countries like South Africa, with no real comeback, " she
added.

RCN senior employment relations adviser, Howard Catton condemned Mr Reid for
reneging on the promise given at May's congress.

Ms Catton warned that new Labour's obsession with creating "competition" in the
NHS through the mantra of "payment by results" will encourage foundation trusts
to scrap the practice of ethical recruiting in the race to secure enough staff.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd


                              189 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             March 25, 1988 Friday
                                  Late Edition

MORALITY MAKERS: THE NEW BREED AND THE OLD

BYLINE: KIM LANGLEY

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Agenda; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1406 words


A WOMAN with a fatal nervous disease requested that her life support system be
removed. Doctors at St Vincent's Hospital in Melbourne agreed, it was revealed
this week - on the advice of a moral philosopher.

The film Fatal Attraction showed a child's slaughtered pet rabbit boiling on a
stove. The Film Censorship Board said children under 15 could not see it

What gives these people the right to make such decisions? Certainly not the
authority of the cloth which traditionally allowed the clergy to shape public
morals.

Secular ethical advisers - predominantly men - can now be found in hospitals,
universities, schools, businesses and the public service. They help people make
vital decisions about issues ranging from business to euthanasia and abortion.

Dr Peter Singer, head of Monash University's Centre for Human Bio-ethics, said
there were more secular ethical advisors because "we no longer accept the
teachings of clergy and the priests".

He said people did not accept religion because it was "not a rational thing to
believe in", and did not explain the increasingly complex world.

HOSPITAL ETHICIST

ADVISING that a terminally ill woman be permitted to die was only one of
hundreds of moral decisions Nicholas Tonti-Filippini helped make at St Vincent's
Hospital in Melbourne.

Last year, Australia's only hospital ethicist had 480 consultations with staff
on matters of medical ethics. The issues included the withholding of diagnoses
from patients, relatives blocking information to a patient, reproduction,
resuscitation, and euthanasia.

Mr Tonti-Filippini says he makes moral decisions on well-established principles.
In the case of the terminally-ill patient, he and the other members of the
hospital's bio-ethics committee were satisfied the woman made a free, informed
and competent decision to refuse treatment. They were also convinced the burden
of medical intervention was disproportionate to its benefits.

Mr Tonti-Filippini, 32, became the hospital's moral guardian six years ago while
doing a master's degree in philosophy at Monash University. Although he accepts
the hospital's Catholic philosophy, he also defends his appointment on broader
ethical grounds.

"I think problems have become more complex with the development of technology.
Thus it has become very difficult to sort them out. With a lot of what we're
doing there is no clear-cut policy for us to follow."

Mr Tonti-Filippini says cultural changes also require an ethicist's
intervention.

"Medicine used to be fairly paternalistic, with doctors making the decisions.
Now decision-making is open to scrutineers. If the doctor makes a decision, he
can expect it to be looked at. The doctor-patient relationship is not as private
or confidential as it once was, particularly in a large public hospital where so
many people are involved in the care of a patient. That's unfortunate, but it is
the case."

Mr Tonti-Filippini sees his role as "essential", and expects more and more
philosophers will be employed by hospitals. Many hospitals already have
bio-ethics committees.

FILM CENSOR:

John Dickie is a neophyte moral custodian, who says he doesn't feel qualified to
be one.

Dickie, 47, has been chief censor for seven weeks. Prior to that he headed the
Attorney General's Department Censorship Policy Branch and worked for the Human
Rights Commission and The Age newspaper.

Last year the Film Censorship Board watched 500 feature films and 4500 videos to
protect public sensibilities.

Mr Dickie says the censors make their judgments according to criteria spelt out
in legislation.

Films are classified either G for general, PG recommending parents accompany
their children, M for people 15 years and over, R for those 18 years and over,
or X if they are non-violent and sexually explicit.

Films are refused classification if they contain child pornography, bestiality,
terrorism or sexual violence.

Mr Dickie concedes subjective judgements are made to classify a film. Language,
visuals, theme and sexual content may be taken into consideration.

Mr Dickie says censors play an important function. "I think the community in
general probably goes along with the view people ought to be able to see, read
and listen to what they wish, but I think there is consensus in the community
that some things are really beyond the pale. People shouldn't have those things
they don't wish to see foisted upon them and there should be appropriate
safeguards for children."

He says the eight-person Film Censorship Board (five male, three female)will
increase by two people this year, so it can expand activities to include visits
to public cinemas to gauge audience reaction.

SCHOOL TEACHER

LAWRIE Fabian helps Balmain High School children between the ages of 14 and 17
make decisions about AIDS, drugs, sex and religion.

Mr Fabian teaches personal development, one of the Education
Department's"growth" subjects. Like many other teachers, he is probably the
first person outside the home with whom many children discuss moral questions.

Mr Fabian, 32, says "I'm not a conventional religious person. I just present the
information from both sides of any argument, and give it to the kids: they make
up their own minds.

"For example, with my year 10 class right now, I'm doing a thing on drugs
-everything from heroin to alcohol and tobacco. It is presented in as clinical a
way as possible, covering the positive and negative aspects. The positive aspect
of any drug is it makes people feel part of a group. The negative aspect is the
damage to the body and the brain."

Mr Fabian says his main aim is to boost children's self-esteem. "Self-esteem
issues are invariably why kids get involved in drugs, why they move around in
gangs ... I want to teach kids to say 'No', and to give them enough background
information to make solid decisions."

Children question religion, he says. "I don't believe (The Church) has the
relevance to the kids any more. They say 'How can a church that embodies
Christianity allow things like Ireland to go on and South Africa to occur?'"

He says the syllabus varies according to what is relevant to the age group. For
example, year eight children are taught about smoking, while year 10 children
study parenting skills and relationships.

Mr Fabian is one of three personal development teachers at Balmain High(the two
others are women). He has taught the subject for three of the 10 years he has
been a teacher. He has no specific training in personal development, but attends
Education Department seminars on the subject.

PRISON CHAPLAIN

ONE of the first things a prisoner did when he got out of Long Bay Jail was
marry his de facto wife. Among the wedding guests was the man who helped bring
him to the altar - the prison chaplain, the Rev Reg Clark.

Mr Clark, 58, has worked at Long Bay for seven years. Many prisoners still look
to clergy like him for moral guidance.

He says: "We go there primarily as counsellors and advisers, someone who can
empathise with the prisoners, and help them see where their frustrations and
anxieties are stemming from."

Mr Clark also advises prisoners' relatives and prison officers, helps train
officers, serves on departmental committees, and conducts religious services,
weddings and baptisms.

One of four prison chaplains in the State, Mr Clark has over 10 years'parish
experience and attended a training course to secure the job.

"I believe the basic skill involved is being a good pastoral man - someone who
has genuine concern for their flock and is able to bear with them in moments of
grief."

Despite the fact he helps some prisoners become Christians, Mr Clark says: "We
have very little influence on the morals of the prisoners. The main reason for
our existence from the inmates' point of view is we are the only persons within
the jail scene who are not departmental.

"For example, an inmate confided he was hanging out and needed some methadone.
We organised it so the medical people came in and gave him what he needed in his
cell after lock-up, and didn't report it to the prison authorities.

"From the department's point of view, I think we have a softening effect on the
inmate population. There was a young Aboriginal whose grandmother had died while
he was in here. He was hostile, wouldn't talk to the prison officers, and
wouldn't fill in the form to allow him to go to the funeral.

"I spent three-quarters of an hour in the cell with him to get him to calm down.
He even apologised to the officer he was mouthing off at."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Four illus: Nicholas Tonti-Filippini, Australia's only hospital
ethicist. Photograph by RON ROBERTSON Chief censor John Dickie: "There is
consensus that some things are really beyond the pale". Photograph by David
Trood Lawrie Fabian: "I just present the information from both sides of any
argument: they make up their own minds." Photograph by Doris Thomas Mr
Clark...little influence on prisoners' morals. Photograph by Palani Mohan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1988 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

Front: Leading doctors raise alarm over delays to medical trials: Britain could
be left unprepared for outbreak of infectious disease

BYLINE: Ian Sample, Science correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words


A major outbreak of infectious disease could sweep through the country and leave
thousands dead or ill because hospitals cannot test life-saving treatments
quickly enough, senior doctors have told the Guardian.

Profound delays in the approvals process for clinical trials mean doctors face
months of form-filling and administrative checks that make it impossible to run
crucial tests in good time, said Jeremy Farrar, in his first major interview as
director of the Wellcome Trust.

Farrar, a world expert on infectious diseases at Oxford University, has taken
over from Sir Mark Walport, who left the medical charity to become the
government's chief science adviser.

Farrar's warning is backed by other senior figures including Sir Michael
Rawlins, president of the Royal Society of Medicine, and Prof Peter Openshaw,
who advised the government during the pandemic flu outbreak in 2009.

Farrar said the unwieldy system puts public health at risk, particularly when
pandemic flu and other infectious diseases strike, because doctors have no idea
which interventions work. "The systems we have got in place are not fit for
purpose when the situation is moving quickly," said Farrar. "We have nothing
that enables us to respond in real time."

The Department of Health yesterday approved proposals from the Health Research
Authority to streamline clinical trials, but some leading experts argue that far
more work is needed within the NHS to fast-track trials in an emergency.

An emerging infection such as bird flu, Sars or pandemic influenza could spread
across Britain and burn itself out within the space of eight weeks.

But doctors hoping to test drugs or other interventions in patients can face
delays of more than a year before they can recruit a single case.

The delays mean that doctors have almost no hope of learning which treatments
might save lives during an outbreak because patients will have recovered or died
before a trial can start.

Farrar said the system needed a radical overhaul so emergency trials could
launch within 24 hours of an epidemic emerging. "Getting this information early
on is critical to inform what we do and how we treat patients. Without it we are
completely in the dark," he said.

Pandemic influenza is considered the most serious civil emergency risk that
Britain faces, but other infections, such as novel coronaviruses and the
alarming rise of drug-resistant pathogens, are also a serious threat. Clinical
trials need formal approval from the NHS and other bodies before doctors can
recruit patients, but the process is held up at almost every stage. Researchers
must apply for grants, submit study protocols and patient consent forms, gain
ethical approval, find hospitals with the right facilities, equipment, supplies,
staff and patients, and then sign legal contracts with them all. The process is
necessarily thorough to protect patients and hospitals from litigation. Trials
can go spectacularly wrong, as happened in 2006 when six young men were nearly
killed by an experimental drug in a trial at Northwick Park hospital in north
London.

The 2002 Sars pandemic killed 774 people and infected more than 8,000. Had the
virus not been contained it could have killed far more. The reason the death
toll was not higher was that patients were most infectious when they were most
sick, so isolating the ill stopped the virus spreading. "There is no doubt we
were very lucky with Sars," said Farrar. "But nobody knows where it has gone and
we don't have a vaccine. If it were to come back tomorrow and I got infected,
the doctor treating me wouldn't have a clue which drug, if any, to give me."

Without hard evidence, the government's preparedness rests on educated guesses.
The Department of Health spent £424m stockpiling Tamiflu (oseltamivir) for a flu
pandemic. But the lack of trials in sick patients means doctors disagree on how
well the drug works.

A 2011 report from the Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS) raised major concerns
about delays to clinical trials. The report quoted Cancer Research UK data that
found the typical time taken to launch a trial and treat the first patient was a
staggering 621 days. The bulk of that time was spent obtaining NHS approval. The
time has come down since, to around 18 months, but has not improved much in the
past year or so.

Sir Michael Rawlins, president of the Royal Society of Medicine, who chaired the
report, said progress was disappointing. "It's going in the right direction, but
it's painfully slow," he said.

The Health Research Authority was set up in response to the AMS report and
charged with streamlining approval times. It has already cut delays that held up
ethical approval. One change was to hold weekly meetings of ethical committees
to consider and approve trials submitted in the days beforehand, and a system
for convening ethical committees virtually when a trial is urgent. One trial to
look at the effect of a vaccine in pandemic influenza received ethical approval
in two days.

But the major delays are not with ethical approval, but sign-off from the NHS
centres that host trials. It is here that the HRA proposals aim to make their
greatest impact. Instead of individual NHS hospitals duplicating each other's
work by independently reviewing, querying and finally approving a trial, the HRA
will act as a central authority, giving a single sign-off for all participating
hospitals.

Relieved of that workload, hospitals can focus on the practicalities, such as
obtaining trial drugs and making sure patients are enrolled. If the health
department agrees to the plans, a simple trial could be approved within 25 days.

"We will give researchers a lot more confidence that the NHS can respond if the
HRA is doing the greater part of the approving," said Janet Wisely, chief
executive of the HRA.

She said that ultimately, they should be able to approve emergency trials within
24 hours. "If you are intending to treat someone in a 24-hour timeframe then
research should match that. It's a challenge, but it's what we should aim for,"
she said.

Farrar wants more trials pre-approved so that doctors can start emergency tests
in patients the moment an outbreak is identified. "We need generic protocols
which have been pre-approved by ethics committees and institutions at a national
level. All the information, from what samples to take to the forms we'd record
patient data on, would be openly available. Then, in an emergency, a group that
has worked on the top three or four interventions can start enrolling patients
within 24 hours," he said. "There are groups trying to address this, but it's
nowhere near there yet."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                               May 5, 1980 Monday

Drug sales effort indicated competition

BYLINE: Dan Westell; GAM

LENGTH: 522 words

DATELINE: Toronto ON


The pharmaceutical companies' attempts to sell ethical or prescription
 drugs may be the most promotion-intensive sales effort of any Canadian
 industry.

Total promotion and marketing expenditure of $154.2-million in 1978
 represented 21.5 per cent of sales of $717.4-million, although the selling
 cost was down from the 30 per cent of sales in 1964, according to
 statistics collected by the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of
 Canada.

Each one of the 117 pharmaceutical companies in the ethical or
 prescription market spent an average of $15.53 on each of the 61,970
 physicians, dentists and health care workers who are the target audience
 for ethical drug promotions.

The companies spent an average of $1,817 on each worker. Assuming
 physicians, the bull's-eye in the advertising target, bore the brunt of
 the attack alone, each one was the beneficiary of $2,905 of promotion
 expenditure.

Advertising, largely through professional journals, accounted for $20-
 million, field selling (the "detail men" who do the rounds of physicians'
 offices distributing literature and free samples) for $70-million, samples
 for $13.6-million, and administration and other costs for slightly more
 than $50-million.

The promotion effort indicates the competitive nature of the business
 but it also shows the importance of reaching the health care
 professionals, particularly doctors, who actually make decisions on what
 drug the patient will use.

For the doctor struggling to keep pace with rapid developments in all
 areas of medicine, advertising often is a cheap way to follow developments
 in the pharmaceutical field.

If repeated promotion can convince some doctors to prescribe a brand
 name product rather than a generic or a similar but less well promoted
 brand, regardless of price, the advertising has been effective.

Leslie Dan, president of Novopharm Ltd. of Toronto and co-chairman of
 the Canadian Drug Manufacturers Association, said promotion in the
 hospitals is also very effective because doctors are attached to hospitals
 and frequently "develop the habit of prescribing that product (used in the
 hospital)."
    There are, however, instances where promotion is wasted. In
 Saskatchewan, the provincial Government requires the companies to tender
 for contracts to supply drugs and will choose to buy the cheapest if the
 competing drugs produce the same medical effect.

In some other provinces, under drug insurance plans the dispensing
 pharmacist is required to substitute the cheapest drug regardless of the
 doctor's prescription based on a list of equivalents developed by
 government research.

Drug promotion also spills over into some controversial areas of
 medical practice, including the whole "give 'em a pill" approach to
 medical services and the possible dangers of frequently prescribed drugs,
 such as the common tranquilizer Valium.

The use of drugs is one of the indirect messages of the promotion
 material, but the position of those questioning parts of ethical drug use
 has recently been strengthened by a World Health Organization report,
 which says only 200 of the 2,000 drugs currently marketed are
 indispensible for health care.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1980 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                             April 9, 2016 Saturday

Meet focus on treatment

BYLINE: Our Correspondent

LENGTH: 346  words


Ranchi, April 9: Jharkhand government must make treatment and medicines
absolutely free for poor patients at Sadar Hospital.

The remark came from a group of doctors who had assembled in the capital for a
daylong seminar on "Ethical Practices in Medical Profession and Providing
Acceptable Healthcare to Common Citizens" held at XISS auditorium today.



"In Bhimrao Ambedkar Multi Specialty Hospital, registration fee is Rs 1 for poor
patients. Medicines are also free," said Dr R.N.P Mishra, the former chief
medical officer of the hospital in Noida.

Speaking on how government hospitals have earned ignominy due to lack of
facilities, Mishra said it was important for doctors to be honest and devote
time to their patients.

"If they (doctors) do not do their work, we don't need them," he said at the
conference organised by Jharkhand Nagrik Prayas.

Chief guest D.K. Saraf, secretary of Anandalok Hospital, Calcutta, said that he
had met chief minister Raghubar Das yesterday and requested him to provide five
acres of land to open a hospital that will offer high end treatments at
affordable costs.

"Das has promised to provide the land and once this hospital comes up, it will
provide health care at nominal rates like Anandalok Hospital," he said.

Speaking on "Hospitals for the Common Citizens", Saraf said that he charged Rs
75 only for treating patients in ICU.

"Private hospitals charge Rs 2,000-Rs 4,000 for the same. For computerised eye
testing, the rate is only Rs 20 at the hospital," he added.

Ranchi-based Dr Siddhartha Mukherjee, while speaking on the topic "Ethical
Practices and Healthcare", said there was no health check-up in city schools and
majority of adolescent girls were suffering from anaemia.

"Where are the ethics of doctors if they cannot attend to patients at 10pm? We
have 80 per cent population still residing in villages. Why these doctors are
not going there? During my 20 years of service, I had organised 10 health camps
per year in remote areas and was really disturbed to see how poor people suffer
due to lack of drinking water facilities," he rued.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Patients here happy to donate tissue for research;
Consent rate has increased as NUH gets doctors to explain to patients how the
samples will help to cure diseases

                            November 15, 2002 Friday

Chang Ai-Lien


WHEN patients at the National University Hospital were first given a new consent
form early this year asking them to donate some of their surplus tissue from
operations to research, half of them said 'no'.

But all that changed when doctors started speaking to patients personally to
explain the importance of such research in helping to cure diseases, reassuring
them that their welfare came first, and of the steps taken to ensure patient
confidentiality.

They were also given information brochures, as well as the option of withdrawing
their consent at any time.

Now, eight in 10 people are happy to give this gift to science.

Said Associate Professor Lee Kok Onn, chairman of the hospital's institutional
review board: 'Once they overcame their initial suspicion, the attitude was that
as the excess tissue was useless to them and would be otherwise thrown away, why
not use it to help other people with their disease in future?'

Where possible, a different doctor than the one treating the patient makes the
request, so that there is no misconception that the patient will get better
treatment if he donates his tissue, added Prof Lee.

The hospital was one of the first institutions here to put in place a formal
system for getting tissue samples from patients specifically for research.

In many developed countries, including Britain, consent is implied and there is
no formal written consent, which means that samples for research are taken from
tissue left over from operations.

This is changing, as countries all over the world grapple with ethical issues in
the wake of the new life sciences, where genetic details can predict a person's
chances of getting a disease, and insurance companies can refuse cover or charge
higher premiums based on such information.

In the United States, some hospitals have begun asking for consent to use
patients' tissue samples of say, tumours or skin, if they are needed for
research.

Singapore is the first country in the world to come up with a focused national
effort to spell out the ethical and legal issues in the field.

This is through the efforts of the Bioethics Advisory Committee, which on
Tuesday released ethical and legal guidelines governing the collection, storage
and use of tissue samples for research, placing strong emphasis on patient
consent and confidentiality.

Hospitals and institutions here, working under their own ethical bodies, have
been collecting these samples for decades.

As early as the 1960s, several people agreed to donate their brains to science
after they died, to help teach medical students about blood circulation and
stroke.

There was no formal procedure although, sometimes, doctors and researchers did
get consent for specific studies, said Prof Lee.

The National University Hospital (NUH) review board, comprising doctors,
lawyers, nurses, members of the public, religious professionals, a social worker
and a bio-statistician, said that its new guidelines are in line with the
national approach.

'We're still working out what the best way to go about collecting tissue is...
As science moves forward, things may change,' added Prof Lee.

The process of collecting tissue for research at NUH is now separate from that
of agreeing to, say, an operation, with patients signing separate consent forms
for each.

The hospital has a comprehensive electronic tracking system to keep tabs on each
tissue sample donated to research, which means that the sample can be withdrawn
from the bank if the patient changes his mind later on.

NUH is working with the Singapore Tissue Network - a national bank - to build up
Singapore's store of healthy and diseased human tissue.

SAMPLES: Preserved at -80 deg C

IN THE past, tissue banks here, which have collected thousands of samples over
the decades, have been built up largely as a by-product of operations and other
diagnostic procedures, said Professor Yap Hui Kim, vice-dean of research at the
National University of Singapore's medicine faculty. Only about 30 per cent are
useful in the quest to understand and find cures for diseases, she added.

But as part of Singapore's efforts to boost the biomedical sciences, stores of
tissue specifically for research are being set up here, including the Singapore
Tissue Network, a national bank for healthy and diseased human tissue which aims
to help researchers find cures for diseases such as cancer.

When storing tissue for research, small pieces of tumours, for example, are
placed in individual containers which are flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen or
kept at a temperature of minus 80 deg C.

While it is more expensive to store samples this way, it is the best method of
preserving the cell and researchers can look at the intact proteins in them.

Tissue samples taken as part of the patient's medical records are generally kept
indefinitely. Many of these have been preserved in paraffin wax blocks, which
can be kept at room temperature.

While not so suitable for research, these can still be useful in sifting out
certain DNA sequences in some cases, said Prof Yap.

SECTION: TECH & SCIENCE

LENGTH: 848 words

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                              194 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Child hearts could be used again minutes after death

BYLINE: Sarah-Kate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 692 words


TIME is running out for 16-month-old Jack Morris. Suffering from dilated
cardiomyopathy, a condition in which the heart muscle becomes thin and
stretched, he is in desperate need of a new heart. Jack is far from alone. With
a chronic shortage of donated hearts, British surgeons have begun discussions
with the transplant ethics committee for the right to remove the hearts of
children just five minutes after they are pronounced dead. Those organs would
then be implanted into other youngsters and restarted.

Surgically, the practice is comparatively straightforward. Ethically, however,
it presents the medical world with a conundrum: how can the donor be pronounced
dead on the grounds that his or her heart has stopped beating when the organ can
be restarted inside the recipient's chest? Such ethical questions brought a
similar trial in America to a halt. Between 2004 and 2008, surgeons in Denver
removed the hearts from dead children 75 seconds after they stopped beating and
implanted and restarted them in three babies.

Surgeons from the Freeman hospital in Newcastle upon Tyne and Great Ormond
Street hospital in London believe a simple alteration to the US scheme -
removing the hearts after five minutes rather than 75 seconds - would allow the
technique, used only after parental consent is granted, to be employed again.

Their case is based on a near-universal acceptance among doctors that a person
whose heart has failed to beat for five minutes is dead. Yet even after that
period, it is possible for the organ to be restarted in another body.

Asif Hasan, a child heart transplant surgeon at the Freeman hospital and one of
those behind the proposal, acknowledged the ethical concerns.

"You take the hearts, resuscitate the hearts and then use them again. That is an
ethical minefield at the moment," he said. "That is because one of the
definitions of death is that the heart should have stopped beating and that
circulation should have stopped. Now, if you restart the heart then it will mean
[in the minds of some] that the patient was never dead in the first place."

Dr Joe Brierley, intensive care consultant at Great Ormond Street hospital, said
changing views about the nature of death offered the scope to revisit the issue
and potentially save lives.

"As death was being certified using cardiorespiratory criteria, it troubled some
that the heart and/or lungs could then be restarted in another person," he said.
"Current ethical thinking, however, suggests that death is the complete death of
the individual person as a whole." Brierley said the new transplants would save
the lives of children, and babies in particular, who would otherwise die waiting
for an organ.

The problem that faces Jack's mother, Laura Campbell, 25, and countless other
families is that surgeons can use hearts only from those pronounced brain dead.
These donors must have no activity in their brain stem, no potential for
consciousness, and their hearts must be kept beating only by a ventilator.

There is a shortage of such donors, meaning that a fifth of children on the
waiting list die before they receive a heart.

Agonisingly for Campbell, the ethical wrangling affects only hearts. Over the
past decade surgeons have been transplanting other organs, including kidneys,
livers and lungs, from patients diagnosed as dead on the basis that their hearts
had stopped beating.

"Families of dead children are in a terrible situation but I would just ask them
to consider organ donation because it does save lives," said Campbell, from
Liverpool.

"If their child passes away, it would be fantastic if they could consider giving
a child like Jack the life they deserve."

The device keeping Jack alive is also slowly sapping his strength. A Berlin
heart, an artificial organ, has caused him to suffer a stroke and there is a
limit to how long he can use it.

Dr Richard Kirk , his paediatric cardiologist at the Freeman, has become
accustomed to lengthy, and sometimes fruitless, waits for donor hearts. He hopes
the proposal will be accepted and such delays become infrequent. "At the moment
there are a lot of families who have to wait an extraordinarily long time."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Laura Campbell with son Jack, who needs a new heart

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Child hearts could be used again minutes after death

BYLINE: Sarah-Kate Templeton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 692 words


TIME is running out for 16-month-old Jack Morris. Suffering from dilated
cardiomyopathy, a condition in which the heart muscle becomes thin and
stretched, he is in desperate need of a new heart. Jack is far from alone. With
a chronic shortage of donated hearts, British surgeons have begun discussions
with the transplant ethics committee for the right to remove the hearts of
children just five minutes after they are pronounced dead. Those organs would
then be implanted into other youngsters and restarted.

Surgically, the practice is comparatively straightforward. Ethically, however,
it presents the medical world with a conundrum: how can the donor be pronounced
dead on the grounds that his or her heart has stopped beating when the organ can
be restarted inside the recipient's chest? Such ethical questions brought a
similar trial in America to a halt. Between 2004 and 2008, surgeons in Denver
removed the hearts from dead children 75 seconds after they stopped beating and
implanted and restarted them in three babies.

Surgeons from the Freeman hospital in Newcastle upon Tyne and Great Ormond
Street hospital in London believe a simple alteration to the US scheme -
removing the hearts after five minutes rather than 75 seconds - would allow the
technique, used only after parental consent is granted, to be employed again.

Their case is based on a near-universal acceptance among doctors that a person
whose heart has failed to beat for five minutes is dead. Yet even after that
period, it is possible for the organ to be restarted in another body.

Asif Hasan, a child heart transplant surgeon at the Freeman hospital and one of
those behind the proposal, acknowledged the ethical concerns.

"You take the hearts, resuscitate the hearts and then use them again. That is an
ethical minefield at the moment," he said. "That is because one of the
definitions of death is that the heart should have stopped beating and that
circulation should have stopped. Now, if you restart the heart then it will mean
[in the minds of some] that the patient was never dead in the first place."

Dr Joe Brierley, intensive care consultant at Great Ormond Street hospital, said
changing views about the nature of death offered the scope to revisit the issue
and potentially save lives.

"As death was being certified using cardiorespiratory criteria, it troubled some
that the heart and/or lungs could then be restarted in another person," he said.
"Current ethical thinking, however, suggests that death is the complete death of
the individual person as a whole." Brierley said the new transplants would save
the lives of children, and babies in particular, who would otherwise die waiting
for an organ.

The problem that faces Jack's mother, Laura Campbell, 25, and countless other
families is that surgeons can use hearts only from those pronounced brain dead.
These donors must have no activity in their brain stem, no potential for
consciousness, and their hearts must be kept beating only by a ventilator.

There is a shortage of such donors, meaning that a fifth of children on the
waiting list die before they receive a heart.

Agonisingly for Campbell, the ethical wrangling affects only hearts. Over the
past decade surgeons have been transplanting other organs, including kidneys,
livers and lungs, from patients diagnosed as dead on the basis that their hearts
had stopped beating.

"Families of dead children are in a terrible situation but I would just ask them
to consider organ donation because it does save lives," said Campbell, from
Liverpool.

"If their child passes away, it would be fantastic if they could consider giving
a child like Jack the life they deserve."

The device keeping Jack alive is also slowly sapping his strength. A Berlin
heart, an artificial organ, has caused him to suffer a stroke and there is a
limit to how long he can use it.

Dr Richard Kirk , his paediatric cardiologist at the Freeman, has become
accustomed to lengthy, and sometimes fruitless, waits for donor hearts. He hopes
the proposal will be accepted and such delays become infrequent. "At the moment
there are a lot of families who have to wait an extraordinarily long time."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Laura Campbell with son Jack, who needs a new heart
PAUL VICENTE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            September 9, 2011 Friday

Big dollars, little sense

BYLINE: Erika Stutzman

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 541 words


Our for-profit health care world, some of which will be partially addressed by
the Affordable Care Act, continues to produce some jaw-dropping numbers.

To be sure, no system is perfect when it comes to major money, insurance and
health care -- there are a lot of moving parts. But when there are clear costly
or ethical problems that arise from the mere promise that some individuals could
enrich themselves at a cost to the system as a whole, they should be addressed.





 Infertility treatments are big business. Concerns have arisen over the sharp
rise in multiple births from doctors who implant more than one embryo --
sometimes several, in one famous case as many as 12 -- in the hopes that their
success rate will increase. Success rates in this field are virtually a license
to print money, at a high ethical cost.



 Sperm banks with very successful donors also increase their odds. As many as
60,000 babies are born using sperm banks in America, which unlike several other
countries does not limit how many children can be fathered by one donor.
Motivated by a lucrative trade, a clear ethical breach has occurred: A story in
the New York Times this week uncovered sperm donors who have fathered 70, even
150, children. It increases the chance that rare genetic diseases could spread
through a population, and increases the chances of accidental incest between
half siblings, which can also lead to dangerous health conditions.



 Drug companies pay thousands of dollars -- sometimes hundreds of thousands --
to physicians, a multi-million dollar business designed to earn them billions
from patients. Some are no doubt for needed research and education, but results
in some serious ethical concerns. The Denver Post reported Thursday that the
ethics board at the University of Colorado School of Medicine has rejected more
than a third of contracts it found questionable since it took over approving the
deals on June 1.



 We have, by far, the most costly health care system in the world. GOP
candidates for president continue to enthusiastically promise the repeal of the
Affordable Care Act, but for what? The status quo? Despite our spending,
neonatal deaths here put American babies at 41st in the world in terms of infant
mortality, behind Cuba, Slovakia, Croatia and all of Western Europe and
Scandinavia, according to the World Health Organization.



 A new study by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services shows that at
any given time, one in 20 hospital patients has a hospital-acquired infection.
The death toll on those is an estimated 99,000 per year, and an unnecessary $33
billion price tag. A study that included routine, cheap interventions -- from
hospital workers washing hands to brushing the teeth of patients on ventilators
-- had patients released from the hospital an average of two days earlier, and
hospital bills that were an average of $12,000 less.



 And then there are the administrative costs our current system requires: The
August issue of the journal Health Affairs, found that per-physician
administrative costs in the United States averaged $82,975 annually, while
Ontario-based physicians averaged $22,205. This is the system some promise they
will retain?



 -- Erika Stutzman, for

 the Camera editorial board

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday

Helping families make tough ethical decisions;
Three-pronged approach when child is ill best way to find 'last moral peace'

BYLINE: Laura Armstrong Toronto Star

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION1; Pg. M3

LENGTH: 818 words


When patients, families or health-care professionals at Toronto's Sick Kids find
themselves faced with a clinical ethical dilemma, the hospital has a
three-pronged plan: the lawyer, the nurse and the doctor.

Randi Zlotnik Shaul, a trained lawyer, Rebecca Greenberg, with her background in
nursing, and Jonathan Hellman, the former clinical director of the hospital's
neonatal intensive care unit, make up the Department of Bioethics, a small
department that helps hospital patrons and employees deal with some
life-changing decisions.

"Watching a child, caring for a child who's ill, having to make decisions for a
child who's ill is very different than when it's an adult," said bioethist
Greenberg.

"It feels different, it pulls at your heartstrings more and so we come into
challenges in having to support families to make decisions and be able to feel
at peace with these incredibility weighty decisions."

The Department of Bioethics at Sick Kids was initiated in 1991. Zlotnik Shaul,
its director, says the department receives eight consultation requests each
week. Some consultations can be resolved quickly, while consultations with more
tension, which require research or necessitate bringing to the table families,
medical practitioners or experts in fields such as social work or religion, can
extend for several days, she said.

No two cases are the same, said Zlotnik Shaul. "A 'typical' case is that it's
not really so typical."

The goal in bioethics is to help all those involved in the decision-making
process reach a "last moral peace" in the face of tough choices, Zlotnik Shaul
said. The "right thing," she said, is hard to know for sure, but there are
better and worse ethical arguments and ways forward that are more or less
defensible.

"You want all the players involved hopefully to have felt that the appropriate
issues were considered, that the appropriate voices were brought to bear," she
said.

"Hopefully, at least if one looks back years from now and says, 'I wish a little
bit differently,' at least they can feel confident that a good process went
through and the proper considerations and voices were brought to the table."

Classically, hospitals had ethics committees, said Hellman, who acts as the
medical adviser for the department. But in the Department of Bioethics at Sick
Kids, the aim is not to simply impose recommendations on families or hospital
employees.

"It's not as though we come and say, 'You should transplant,' or 'You shouldn't
transplant,' " he said.

The old notion of "doctor knows best," that he or she will decide what's right
for the patient, has been replaced by a more democratic process of
decision-making that gives patients and their families more autonomy, Hellman
said.

Shared decision making can be positive, he said, but also intimidating.

"This is the grey area that's emerged in medicine that the public often doesn't
appreciate. They think, 'You guys should know what to do. I came here with this
disorder; surely you've seen it before. You should know what to do.' What we're
trying to do is incorporate respect for that patients' values and views in this
whole decision-making process."

That decision-making process becomes even more difficult when dealing with
children. At Sick Kids, the hospital uses a model called child and
family-centred care. The child is at the centre of care and the family is
central to care. Still, balancing a child's wants with their needs and their
primary decision-makers choices can again be complicated, Hellman said.

"When a 12-year-old was asked if he would have a second lung transplant for
cystic fibrosis he said, 'I would have to, or my mother would be so
disappointed.' How do you tease out what he's really feeling versus his role in
the family? For us to try to get to the voice of the child is very complex."

Through research, education and policy-making - which, combined with
consultation, are the four pillars of bioethics at Sick Kids - the bioethicists
hope to be able to weigh in on innovative issues.

Right now, for example, the department is involved in talks about the legal and
ethical issues around potential future face and limb transplants on a child.
What could such surgeries mean for their identity, social interaction or
psychological adjustment? Zlotnik Saul says they're looking into it.

"This is still in the future, but can we anticipate what might be some of the
ethical issues that may come up? Can we try and prepare for them, or preempt
them?"

But innovation aside, the department still has a day job, she said.

"For every family going through (these decisions), this is perhaps the first
time. It's overwhelming and tragic and the values are no less complex," Zlotnik
Saul said.

"For one bioethics department, it can be things that are quite innovative that
we'll weigh in on, and pieces that happen quite frequently but are again almost
no less profound to the players, and to the families."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              198 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            April 28, 2016 Thursday

Catholic Church's influence over Irish hospital medicine persists;
Doctors at St Vincent's must sign pledge to adhereto hospital ethos

BYLINE: Claire Hogan

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 675 words


The Institute of Obstetricians has expressed concern that St Vincent's hospital,
which is owned by the Religious Sisters of Charity, will govern the National
Maternity Hospital when it transfers to the St Vincent's campus. Chairman Dr
Peter Boylan stated that "Catholic-controlled hospitals around the world forbid
the provision of modern contraceptive services, IVF, sterilisation operations
and gender reassignment surgery", and also expressed concern about the
implementation of the Protection of Life in Pregnancy Act.

Despite a common perception of secularisation, many modern Irish hospitals are
still run according to Catholic mores. The running of the Irish health service
was largely undertaken by religious orders in the past. Orders of nuns were
responsible for the setting up of many of Ireland's hospitals in the 19th and
20th centuries.

In 1978, the then archbishop of Dublin, Dr Dermot Ryan, asked all Catholic
hospitals to set up ethical committees which would "set out clearly ethical
policy, both for the day to day running of the hospital and for the problem
cases".

This request was accompanied by an ethical code which stated: "The concern of
the hospital for the good of the patient is not confined to his bodily and
mental welfare but extends to the spiritual wellbeing which is inseparably
connected with bodily and mental welfare." The 1980s marked a difficult period
between church and State on the issue of negotiation of the "common contract"
pursuant to which the State was established as the employer of hospital
consultants, including those working in Catholic voluntary hospitals.

 Bind doctors

These hospitals were concerned that the contract did not bind doctors to a
Catholic ethos. In later years, there followed a change in ownership of some of
the voluntary hospitals. Nonetheless, the influence of religious orders was
preserved. For example, in 2001 the Sisters of Mercy sold the Mater hospital to
the State with the contingency that its Catholic ethos, first espoused by the
order's founder Catherine McAuley, be retained.

The mission of St Vincent's is described as being: "To bring the healing love of
Christ to all we serve." The first core value is "human dignity respecting the
sacredness of human life and the dignity and uniqueness of each person".

Nuns are on the board of directors and doctors must sign contracts promising
adherence to the ethos of the hospital.

There are myriad ways in which the law of the State has reflected and continues
to reflect Catholic thinking on certain reproductive/life issues, such as the
constitutional ban on abortion and the fact that Ireland was the last country in
Europe to legalise the sale of modern contraception. However, hospital treatment
which goes beyond the dictates of the law is also relevant. Both the Mater and
St Vincent's prohibit female sterilisation, a standard procedure which is not
illegal, and is carried out in non-Catholic-run institutions, as well as other
treatment centres. In the 2006 Lourdes hospital inquiry report, Judge Maureen
Harding Clark highlighted that the "prohibition on sterilisations" gave rise to
the performance of what have been described as compassionate hysterectomies.

Between the 1940s and 1980s, the barbaric symphysiotomy procedure was performed
in preference to Caesarean sections, a decision driven by religious ideology.

Further evidence that medical care at State-funded hospitals is often influenced
by the religious views of board members surfaced in 1994, when the Mater banned
HIV- prevention leaflets and posters from its Aids unit. The hospital's chief
executive agreed the Catholic ethos was a factor in this decision.

 'Sensational'

The chairman of St Vincent's quickly dismissed as sensational the "tale of nuns
attempting to control Irish maternity services". However, history shows that
ethos affects treatment. The concerns of the Institute of Obstetricians ought
perhaps be given more consideration. Claire Hogan is a barrister and has a
doctorate in the area of constitutional freedom of religion

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday

'Private hospitals can do transplants'

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 485 words


KLANG: Private hospitals will be allowed to carry out organ transplants if they
meet the new criteria imposed by the Health Ministry.

Health Minister Datuk Seri Dr S. Subramaniam said he did not see why private
hospitals should be barred from performing organ transplants if they followed
ethical procedures, have the specialists and necessary equipment needed to
prevent complications during the operation.

"I think in principle, so long as they have specialists with adequate
qualifications and accreditation, the necessary facilities to prevent
complications, supporting team to help with the transplant, and follow ethical
procedures outlined by the ministry, there is no reason why they shouldn't (be
allowed)," he said when asked to comment on the possibility of private hospitals
carrying out transplants.

Several private hospitals were carrying out transplant surgeries until there was
a death that had caused the ministry to disallow such operations in private
hospitals.

"The current situation came about because a death occurred.

"I'm sure this death was investigated and there were probably some reasons to
give us concern whether private hospitals have adequate facilities to perform
transplants," he said after attending Chennai Silk Palace's 10th anniversary,
here, yesterday.

According to the 21st Report of The Malaysian Dialysis & Transplant Registry
2013, there were more than 5,000 new kidney patients annually with 31,637
dialysis patients in 2013 and a total of 19,541 were on the kidney transplant
waiting list.

Transplant surgeries in private hospitals started in 1999 at places such as
Subang Jaya Medical Centre and Gleneagles Hospital followed by Prince Court
Medical Centre in 2009.

Prior to the clampdown in 2012, private hospitals contributed up to 19 per cent
of kidney transplants in Malaysia.

Meanwhile, the country has seen a big jump in the number of potential organ
donors, from just 8,500 in 2004 to over 300,000 last year, said Organ Donation
Public Awareness Action Committee chairman Tan Sri Lee Lam Thye in Bedong,
Kedah.

He said the improvement was a result of the implementation of the Organ Donation
Awareness Strategic Plan by the Health Ministry.

"Among the steps taken was to give priority to the younger generation as the
target group of the campaign.

"Collaboration with other government agencies, private sector and influential
people were also given priority," he said at the state-level organ donation
roadshow held at the Semeling campus of AIMST University here yesterday.

Lee said based on the record of the National Transplant library, out of 310,391
organ pledgers between 1997 and this year, 175,111 or 56.4 per cent were women.

"Based on the breakdown on race, the Chinese recorded the highest number with
141,992 or 45.7 per cent, followed by the Malays with 80,561 or 26 per cent,
Indians with 74,330 or 24 per cent, and other races with 13,443 or 4.3 per cent.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 19, 2004 Thursday
                                 First Edition

When to make an ethical call;
Health Careers

BYLINE: Alan Mascarenhas

SECTION: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 589 words


Helping doctors and nurses confront dilemmas is a fine balancing act, writes
Alan Mascarenhas.

Few hospital staff can list a PhD on Aristotle on their re{aac}sume{aac}. Then
again, Dr Bernadette Tobin is a rare breed: while she works at St Vincent's
Hospital in Sydney, her specialisation is philosophy, not medicine.

Tobin is director of the hospital's Plunkett Centre for Ethics - a job that
involves advising doctors and nurses on the daily dilemmas associated with
clinical care. The hospital is governed broadly in these matters by the Code of
Ethical Standards for Catholic Health and Aged Care Services in Australia, which
Tobin - herself a practising Catholic - played a role in drafting.

Yet, despite her religious faith, Tobin believes ethics stem from something even
more fundamental: natural law. "Ethical principles are ones that any person of
goodwill can recognise as true and become committed to," she says.

"While there are special questions that may confront a Catholic ethicist in a
Catholic hospital, my time is mainly spent on questions that confront health
care professionals [everywhere]."

Perhaps the most complex of these is guarding against the "over-treatment" of a
dying patient. "It's possible, for example, that a person in the last stage of
cancer might be offered another round of chemotherapy," she explains. "But a
judgement has to be made as to whether that would be the right thing to do. Very
often, when people know they're dying, they want to spend their last moments of
life not being treated [but] sometimes doctors who are very well meaning can
inadvertently impose their own view."

If the patient is not competent to make their own decisions, Tobin says the
hospital's ethics code comes into play. "For every possible treatment, one has
to ask if it is likely to bring the patient sufficient benefit to make
administering it worthwhile, or is it going to impose [excessive] burdens."

She believes doctors are entitled to withhold treatment where it would be of
insufficient value to the patient. However, she is at pains to distinguish this
situation from euthanasia where the doctor deliberately withholds treatment to
hasten the patient's death.

Tobin also advises on whether patients should receive a transplant to improve
their quality of life; there is a debate, for example, on whether those with
intellectual disabilities should have equivalent access to donor organs. Another
responsibility, where a coma patient is unresponsive, is helping to decide the
appropriate time to switch off life support.

Tobin is assisted at the hospital by two part-time ethicists and her services
are open to any health professional who wishes to discuss a case. "Generally,
I'm [consulted] when [hospital staff] are a bit troubled by how things are
going," she says. "People can become very involved and I don't just mean
emotionally . . . the issues often activate their sense of right and wrong."

Another important element of Tobin's job is teaching ethics to medical students
who pass through the hospital in the fourth year of their degree.

For people looking to enter her line of work, Tobin says the best training
ground is philosophy or a law degree with high jurisprudence content. A number
of universities, she says, also have degrees and diplomas in applied ethics.

But perhaps the essential prerequisite lies in having a clear-cut and methodical
mind. While Tobin concedes that the issues surrounding euthanasia are
contentious, she is adamant that ethics stem from objective standards of right
and wrong.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Getting to the heart of the matter: Dr Bernadette Tobin,
director of St Vincent's Plunkett Centre for Ethics. Photo: by Natalie Boog

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             June 5, 2008, Thursday
                                 First Edition

Kids in Third World 'sweatshops' make surgical tools for Wales, warns BMA

BYLINE: Catherine Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 683 words


WELSH hospitals are spending millions of pounds on surgical instruments made by
children in the Third World working in appalling conditions, according to a
report by the British Medical Association.

The report - entitled Ethical trade in surgical instruments: bringing change to
the supply chain - was produced by BMA International to highlight the need for
hospitals to purchase operating equipment with greater ethical consideration.

Dr Terry John, chairman of the BMA's International Committee, said: "People are
increasingly aware of the importance of buying Fair trade products. Health
professionals and patients deserve to know more about the origins of the
surgical instruments that are used in operations. This is a complex issue but
the NHS can exert its influence on the supply chain by calling for improved
conditions."

Two-thirds of the world's basic surgical instruments are made in Sialkot,
Pakistan. Although products such as surgical scissors are sold by the
manufacturer for as little as pounds 1, the item retails for approximately
pounds 30 after being repackaged in Britain.

The Sialkot surgical instrument manufacturing industry makes an estimated 100
million products annually.

Thousands of these products are used in Welsh operating theatres every day.

But the BMA is concerned that employment conditions in the industry are poor and
exploit the vulnerable, such as children living in poverty.

"The NHS purchases millions of pounds' worth of medical equipment every month,
much of which is manufactured in developing countries," states the report.

"International labour reports have found that working conditions in surgical
instrument factories can be unsafe and unhealthy.

"The BMA feels that more can be done to ensure that the instruments used by
health professionals are ethically procured."

Recent estimates state that between 2,000 and 5,000 children are employed in the
surgical instrument sector in Sialkot. They do not attend school and work to
support their families. These children are employed on a contractual basis,
working long hours with little pay. They suffer exposure to machinery, metal
dust, noise, repetitive strain injury and exposure to toxic and corrosive
materials.

Injuries and pain are frequent in the industry. And workers, who have few
rights, are also said to be inadequately paid - the minimum wage in Pakistan is
just 4,000 rupees (pounds 31) per month.

The report advises the health service to implement policies to promote fair and
ethical trade, call for improved standards and to learn from the experience of
other industries.

"To date there has been no direct interaction between the instrument
manufacturers and the end-users in the NHS," says the report.

"However, just as consumers are demanding to know how the tea, coffee and
bananas they buy are grown, the UK health service is starting to examine how the
surgical instruments that supply its hospitals are made, and how to ensure that
they are traded ethically, as part of a wider initiative of sustainable
development in the healthcare sector."

The Department of Health is working to ensure that national contracts for the
purchasing and supply of healthcare commodities promote international labour
standards.

And the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency (PASA) is currently preparing
guidelines on ethical procurement in the healthcare sector. Each NHS
organisation must adopt its own code of conduct, policies and approaches.

A spokesman for BMA Wales said: "NHS PASA is going to produce some guidelines in
September, then the home counties will look at them.

"Representatives from the Welsh Assembly Government and Welsh Health Services
have been looking in on these discussions. Welsh hospitals buy these
instruments. It is up to them whether they take up the guidance."

A Welsh Assembly Government spokesman said: "We acknowledge ethical concerns,
but this needs to be balanced against ensuring that the quality of equipment is
of a high standard, as patient safety must be our number one priority.

"We will ensure that both ethical and quality control issues feature in future
procurement in Wales."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday

Ethical guidelines being flouted in the East

BYLINE: Prithvijit Mitra

SECTION: KOLKATA

LENGTH: 661 words


KOLKATA: Guidelines for medical research ethics were being routinely flouted in
Kolkata and the east. Patients and research participants were often kept in the
dark about the fact that they were being subjected to experiments, which was
illegal and unethical, according to Vasantha Muthuswamy, former deputy
director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Considered to
be the force behind the research ethics movement in India, Muthuswamy - who
graduated from the RG Kar Medical College in Kolkata - has stressed on the need
for training members of the city's ethical committees that approve research
procedures.

In Kolkata to deliver a lecture, Muthuswamy - also a renowned drug developer -
claimed that committee members in Kolkata were not trained to screen the
observance of ethical guidance. "Rules are flouted everywhere but its
exceptionally bad in Kolkata and the east. Here, no effort is made to train or
upgrade the ethical committees which are just routinely appointed by research
institutes and hospitals. There is no monitoring of research work, which often
uses animals and humans to test drugs. It could lead to a dangerous situation so
we are eagerly waiting for the implementation of a government committee
guideline that lays down the functioning requirement of ethical committees,"
said Muthuswamy. Other than playing a major role in the ICMR's drug development
activities, she has worked on the ethics of animal and human experimentation,
promotion of research by medical students and the development of various
guidelines to facilitate research.

While more than 600 private and government institutions around the country had
ethical committees, few functioned effectively, she said. "Screening is poor
simply because there is no pressure on the committees to perform certain duties.
They are not accountable either," added Muthuswamy.

The scenario was poor in Kolkata, reveals a survey done by a team of clinicians
and researchers in Kolkata. A study of 10 government and non-government research
institutions in the city showed that ethics committee members were not
sufficiently aware of the norms. "The level of awareness on the functions they
need to peform is low. Most committees have senior people on board and they hold
honorary posts. Also, while the government regulations make it mandatory to have
non-medical people on the committee, several do not have them," said Subhrojyoti
Bhowmick, medical superintendent, Peerless Hospital and Research Centre. Ethics
committees should have at least one lawyer, a social scientist, a
pharmacologist, a clinician and a lay person. "The government regulations lay
down that they should have more non-medical people on board, which is not the
case in Kolkata. Interestingly, our survey disclosed that the medical people
were less aware of the regulations than the non-medical members," said Bhowmick.

The primary function of the committee is to make sure that informed consent is
received from research participants before they are made a part of an
experiment. While Muthuswamy said there were yet no specific complaints from the
east, flouting of norms can't be ruled out. Some experts said that while consent
was taken, it wasn't done in the proper way. "It is not enough to tell a patient
about a new drug that will be tried on him. It also has to be conveyed to him
that the consequences may not be favourable. Our doctors rarely do that," said
Sujit Kar Purakayastha, medical director, Peerless Hospital.

It was imperative to look at the safety and well-being of participants,
according to Bhowmick. For instance, there could be an experiment to check the
efficacy of a medicine which lowers blood pressure. Now, it could also lower the
blood sugar level. Participants have to be informed about this and they can't be
forced to agree. More importantly, there is a need to screen the big
pharmaceutical-funded research projects,"" said Bhowmick.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday

Ethics at life's end

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 416 words


DYING IS more than a medical event. Innumerable ethical issues surround it and
general end-of-life care. There is a reluctance sometimes to face many of these,
even to realise that there might be questions of ethics involved. This is not to
say that there is an unwillingness to be ethical. Ethics is a component of
medical courses and the majority of healthcare professionals are conscious of
the sacredness of death as an inevitable conclusion to life s experience. But a
weakness of focus has been apparent.

Hospital staff can have varying stances and protocols on  do-not-resuscitate
orders, on providing patients with information and on consent. Research shows
the public is unfamiliar with many of the terms and issues involved. A recent
Seanad debate on end-of-life care reflected the often uneven level of public
discourse on such matters. There is some reluctance, too, to accept that Ireland
is not immune to the controversies surrounding assisted suicide and euthanasia.

The Irish Hospice Foundation s National Audit on End-of-Life Care reflected well
on the quality of such care but it exposed many problems. Among these was the
disinclination of medical staff to make decisions to stop invasive treatments of
dying people. How often does technology s availability lead to futile treatment,
sometimes at immense discomfort to the patient? When is it appropriate to tell
someone they are dying? How is a patient s autonomy respected? Is it ethical to
withhold nutrition and hydration?

These are among the topics tackled in an  Ethical Framework for End-of-Life Care
which was published yesterday in Cork for the Irish Hospice Foundation s Hospice
Friendly Hospitals Programme. The framework   compiled in collaboration with
University College Cork and the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland   has had
inputs from clinicians, sociologists, legal experts, theologians and ethicists.
It draws on national and international research; is aimed at health
professionals, patients, families and the general public; and is instructive in
recognising the complexity of many situations.

The framework performs a valuable public service in highlighting issues such as
managing pain, confidentiality, governance in clinical care, breaking bad news,
healthcare decision-making and life-prolonging treatments. In that regard, it
should encourage open public debate and enable healthcare professionals to be
collaborative, informed and confident in addressing these matters, however
complex and contentious.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                National Edition

B.C. couple put faith in 'saviour sibling'; Battle to save son's life raises
ethical and moral concerns

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Canwest News Service

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 906  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER - Parents Mike and Pam Obadia are opting for desperate -- and
controversial -- measures to boost the survival odds of their son, who has been
in a five-year battle with leukemia.

Eight-year-old Benjamin is receiving chemotherapy treatment at B.C. Children's
Hospital in Vancouver after suffering a relapse of the acute lymphoblastic
leukemia he first got in 2002.

A bone-marrow transplant would improve the odds of finally beating the cancer,
but there are no family matches and an international registry of volunteer
donors has also not turned up any, after nearly two years of searching.

So even though the odds of fertility success are extremely slim because of Ms.
Obadia's age (47), the couple will try to create a "saviour sibling" -- a term
used to describe a test-tube baby created to save an older, sick sibling through
donor stem cells from the newborn's umbilical cord.

But the couple from Port Coquitlam, about 25 kilo-metres east of Vancouver, have
to go to Chicago for the procedure, which will cost up to $30,000.

Doctors at Children's and Women's Hospital in B.C. are not prepared to aid their
quest because of ethical and moral concerns about creating -- and exploiting --
a life to potentially save another.

The couple have fully weighed all the issues and are still convinced they are
doing what they must as parents who can't bear to lose a child.

"We have to do this to exhaust all the possibilities to help Benjamin," Ms.
Obadia said. "It's not like we are trying to create a designer baby. We want
another child, we will love another child. If we succeed ... [it] may help with
Benjamin's illness."

They haven't said much to Benjamin about their plan. They do not want to talk to
him about subjects like death, since he himself is so upbeat.

"As far as he is concerned, he's a child and only adults die of cancer. I think
it's a good thing that he's so positive," said Ms. Obadia, in an interview
between treatments at the hospital this week where Benjamin is having tests and
high-dose chemotherapy.

When he relapsed nearly two years ago, his younger sister, who was then four,
was overcome with sadness and confusion. She asked her parents "why the doctors
gave Benjamin his cancer back."

They told her that the drugs were not strong enough. This time around, Benjamin
is on a regimen of about six drugs, sometimes requiring hospital stays. So far,
Benjamin has endured 295 courses of chemotherapy, 263 needles, 16 blood
transfusions and 13 bone-marrow biopsies. His life and cancer treatment are
documented on a Web site atwww.mobadia.ca. The couple readily admit they are
grasping for a miracle.

"Though we've been told our chances are nil and it will cost us $30,000, we will
try anything to save our son," Mr. Obadia said. "We will also try naturally to
have a child and take our chances that it will be a match."

The process begins with conventional in vitro fertilization in which embryos are
created in a laboratory with the mother's eggs and father's sperm. But the next
step is controversial. Doctors at the Reproductive Genetics Institute in Chicago
then screen embryos to look for one that is a tissue match. The matched embryo
would then be implanted into the mother's uterus and when the baby is born,
umbilical cord stem cells would be harvested for transplantation.

Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) has been available for genetic
screening of inherited diseases for about 15 years, but only in recent years has
it been used as well to make saviour babies. The Chicago clinic has done at
least three dozen such tissue-typing cases.

Dr. Paul Rogers, medical director of pediatric oncology at B.C. Children's
Hospital, said the medical centre has never offered the procedure for cancer
patients. B.C. Children's Hospital did, however, use the umbilical-cord blood
from a naturally conceived newborn to transplant into an older sibling, who was
then cured of his life-threatening bone-marrow disease. In that case, the mother
was already pregnant when the older child got sick. In other words, the baby was
not conceived for the purpose of being a saviour child.

Lori d'Agincourt-Canning, a clinical ethicist at B.C. Children's and Women's
Hospitals, said it has not become standard practice because of cost, moral and
ethical issues.

"We understand that parents will seize on anything to help their sick children,
but the [uninsured] costs to them are so high that we don't want to create a
burden on parents who cannot afford this," she said. "There are also ethical
concerns about whether it is right to conceive a child for the sake of another.
What if something goes horribly wrong? What if the sick child gets sick again
after a transplant? Do we presume we have the right to seek yet another donation
from the saviour child if the effects of the first wane?"

Even when bone-marrow or umbilical-cord-blood stem-cell transplants are given to
patients, there is no guarantee of a cure, she said.

But she conceded that the Obadia case should prompt the hospital to conduct a
review on the potential harms, benefits and ethical issues. After that, some
guidelines and policies could be formed.

Ms. Obadia hopes the hospital will, at the very least, tell parents about the
procedures. She is distressed that PGD for tissue typing was not mentioned to
them by oncologists at Children's Hospital two years ago when Benjamin relapsed.
At that time, she might have had slightly better odds of getting pregnant.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Black & White Photo: Stuart Davis, CanWest News Service; Eight-year-old Benjamin
Obadia, who has leukemia, is surrounded by his sister, Stephanie, mother, Pam,
and father, Mike, at their home in Port Coquitlam, B.C. Benjamin's parents want
to create a test-tube baby whose umbilical cord stem cells may save him. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 19, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

HOSPITALS TURN TO PHILOSOPHERS ON LIFE ISSUES

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1721 words


Several New York teaching hospitals are using philosophers in their day-to-day
operations to help their medical staffs make better decisions affecting the life
and death of patients.

John D. Arras, a philosopher recently appointed to the clinical staff of
Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center in the North Bronx, said the intent was
to have philosophers help physicians make judgments about life and death with a
deeper insight into the ''meaning of life'' and into the complex and conflicting
moral and ethical questions that are involved. In some instances, they give
advice on specific cases, and in other instances, they are consulted by
physicians on general problems they confront in their practices.

Typically, the philosphers are called into a case by medical staff members who
are confused or troubled, and they give advice based on ethical literature and
legal precedents. They do not go along on medical rounds and they rarely talk to
patients or their families.  Often they pose questions to the doctors rather
than provide answers.

The philosophers, for example, give advice on when or whether a terminally ill
patient or a deformed or brain-damaged infant should be allowed to die, or who
should be admitted to an overcrowded intensive care unit, or under what
circumstances a patient can refuse exotic life-support technology. But the
philosophers only offer advice and never make any actual decisions.

''We do not tell doctors what to do,'' Mr. Arras said.  Jay Kantor, a
41-year-old philosopher who conducts ethics conferences for medical students and
physicians at Methodist Hospital, Downstate Medical Center and Brookdale
Hospital Medical Center, all in Brooklyn, says: ''The time is ripe for us.
Hospitals and physicians have become acutely aware of the ethical issues
involved in medical care and they are hopeful that philosophers like myself can
help them find better solutions.''

For example, determining the mental competency of a person to stand trial for a
crime is a psychiatric discipline. However, mental competency is an extremely
difficult and troublesome issue for most psychiatrists, and Mr. Kantor, who is
also a philosopher in residence in the forensic psychiatry service at Bellevue
Hospital Center, helps them define the issue more clearly.

While many medical schools in the country use philosophers to give students a
grounding in medical ethics as part of their academic training, Montefiore
believes that the idea of having philosophers actually become an integral part
of a hospital's clinical staff and thus become personally involved in the
day-to-day medical decisions involving patients is highly unusual.

According to Montefiore officials, a few medical centers - such as the
University of California at Los Angeles, the University of Wisconsin at Madison
and the University of Texas at Galveston -use philosophers on a consulating
basis. However, the officials think that Mr. Arras, a member of its department
of social medicine since last year, is the only philosopher in the country with
a full-time appointment to a hospital's clinical staff.

Like Mr. Arras and Mr. Kantor, the other philosophers working in New York
hospitals have received doctorates in philosophy. All of them have taught in
academic settings.

The idea for the hospital programs grew out of a pilot project at Montefiore and
New York University Medical Center that began five years ago. At its inception,
the program was experimental. It evolved gradually, moving from advice to
medical students into clinical settings in hospitals, and it was not until last
year that one of the philosophers, Mr. Arras, received a full-time hospital
appointment.

'Stretching Vision'

''This is particularly valuable for young doctors,'' said Dr. Carl Eisdorfer,
Montefiore's president. ''We see philosophy's wisdom as stretching people's
vision in managing human lives.''

The project was initially financed by the New York Council for the Humanities in
cooperation with the Society for Philosophy and Public Affairs. Both are private
organizations that sponsor research programs in philosophy and the humanities.

Michael Buckner, a philosopher at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine, is the acting
head of the school's department of urban affairs and community medicine, which,
along with its philosophy-medicine program, is to be eliminated in June as a
result of cuts in Federal and state aid to medical education.

Mr. Buckner and Natalie Abrams, a philosopher who is also on the medical
school's faculty, have spent five years teaching ethics to students and helping
physicians and nurses at the New York University Medical Center and at Bellevue
sort out the often conflicting ethical, legal and moral issues that can confound
the keenest medical minds.

For example, does a living fetus that has been aborted have a right to survive
even though the abortion was clearly intended to destroy it? Should a hospital
permit surgery so that a severely deformed infant can survive an otherwise fatal
intestinal obstruction? Should a hospital authorize kidney dialysis for an
elderly patient who is near death?

Crises and Questions

In most hospitals, such decisions are usually made by committees of physicians,
often influenced by the wishes of the patient and his family. While most cases
are decided purely by medical factors, some are undone by the crisis of the
moment, such as a cardiac arrest, or become hopelessly complicated by profound
ethical questions that trouble the collective consciences of hospitals and the
physicians who are required to make them.

Dr. Eisdorfer of Montefiore said in an interview that one of the longest and
most powerful traditions in medicine -the physician's determination to keep a
patient alive at all cost - was changing under pressure from patients and their
families. He said this change was creating enormous conflicts for hospitals and
the lawyers they retain to protect them from law suits.

According to Dr. Eisdorfer, philosophers like Mr. Arras can help resolve ethical
conflicts, such as when should a physician or a hospital stop attempting to
effect a cure and begin helping a patient to die as peacefully as possible.

Dr. Eisdorfer, who is a psychiatrist, said that while psychiatrists and
psychologists in hospitals were involved in dealing with complex moral and
ethical issues, ''we also employ philosophers to go beyond these professional
disciplines to broaden our approach and understanding.''

'No Code' Patients

In an interview, Mr. Arras - who is 37 and on leave from his position as
chairman of the department of philosophy at the University of Redlands in
California - and Nancy Dubler, a Harvardtrained lawyer and an expert on the law
dealing with medicine and patient's rights, said that in most hospitals the
issue of whether ''heroic'' and ''extraordinary'' means should be used to save a
patient is skirted by unoffically designating such patients as ''no code.''

''In other words,'' Mr. Arras said, ''it is just understood that nothing will be
done for them if they go into cardiac or respiratory arrest.''

Some states, such as Massachusetts, have approved legislation authorizing ''no
code'' hospital protocols, Mrs. Dubler said, but New York has not, so hospitals
here that use ''no code'' designations do so at their legal peril.

Accordingly, some physicians have traditionally perceived the law with suspicion
and animosity, Mrs. Dubler said. But she said she hoped to convince doctors that
the law could be used as a solid foundation for ''decent, humane medicine.''

Last month, Mrs. Dubler and Mr. Arras were called into a case involving a
15-year-old girl who had tried to kill herself by jumping from a building in the
South Bronx. She did not die, but became totally paralyzed and will be so for
the rest of her life.

A Change of Mind

By means of blinking her eyes, she communicated to members of the medical staff
that she still wanted to die. The staff members then asked Mr. Arras and Mrs.
Dubler for their advice on what to do if the girl went into respiratory arrest -
should they put her on a respirator, or allow her to die as she wished?

The conflict for the staff was resolved when the girl changed her mind and
signaled that she wanted to live. But the issue still haunts physicians.

Dr. Victor Sidel, the chairman of Montefiore's department of social medicine,
said the question of suicide was a major issue for hospitals. ''Physicians are
pledged to protect life, but there is a conflict when a patient wants to end
his. There is no use sweeping the conflict under the rug.''

Dr. Sidel said he saw philosophers as ''clarifying assumptions that physicians
like myself make and sharpening the conflicts that divide us, while raising our
collective consciousness.''

At Bellevue, Mr. Buckner, who is 35, recalled a case that troubled medical
students and residents and in which he was called in to give advice.

''It was classic - a middle-aged alcoholic who was dying from a destroyed liver
and heart disease,'' he said. ''Some of the students took the critical view that
the patient had destroyed herself and thus did not deserve any extraordinary
means to help save her. Others felt it was more merciful to allow her to die if
she went into cardiac arrest - in other words, be treated as a 'no code'
patient.

''Then the issue became more complicated. A shortage of whole blood developed,
and this patient was using up a lot of it, and the staff questioned whether she
should be allowed to get it, given her condition, her circumstances, and the
fact that perhaps more deserving patients should get it first.

''But the conclusion,'' he said, ''was that she was given a 'remote' chance of
surviving, and she did not become a 'no code' patient.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday

Confusion over resuscitation decisions

BYLINE: Eithne Donnellan, Health Correspondent

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 625 words


A national study has found a high level of dissatisfaction, confusion and
varying practices among Irish consultant physicians regarding the making of
decisions on whether to resuscitate patients in certain circumstances.

More than 170 consultants across 38 hospitals took part in the study and while
58 per cent of them indicated they "nearly always" discussed a patient's
resuscitation status with the patient's relatives, 37 per cent said they did
this only "sometimes" and 3 per cent indicated they "almost never" did so.

The study's authors have called for the formation of a national policy on
resuscitation decision-making, which they say exists in many countries.

They also say it is of concern that 10 of the doctors surveyed were not making
resuscitation decisions at all, with some of them leaving it to junior doctors.

Doctors make decisions not to resuscitate patients in different circumstances.

The most common reasons cited by doctors in this study for making "do not
attempt resuscitation" or DNAR orders included, in order of frequency: end-stage
disease (34 per cent); futility (21 per cent); cancer-related diagnosis (16 per
cent); elderly with co-morbidities (13 per cent); and expected poor quality of
life post-resuscitation (4 per cent).

When asked if they thought any patient group was more likely to be the subject
of a DNAR order, the most common groups mentioned by the consultants questioned
in this study were "terminally ill" people, "elderly" people or the "terminally
ill and elderly".

Some 59 per cent of physicians said they believed both they and the next of kin
were jointly responsible for deciding resuscitation status of an incapacitated
patient with no advance directive as to what should happen to him/her, while 35
per cent felt they were solely responsible in such circumstances.

Only one-fifth of the doctors said they were aware of a formal resuscitation
policy in their hospital.

The doctors were surveyed in 2003 but the findings have only now been published
in the latest edition of the Irish Medical Journal.

Its authors, who include doctors from Loughlinstown Hospital, Dublin and a
member of staff of the Division of Legal Medicine at University College Dublin,
warn that the legal/ethical status of DNAR orders in the Republic has not been
clarified.

They conclude: "The medico-legal and medico-ethical status of DNAR orders and
advance medical directives needs to be clarified nationally.

"The Irish Medical Council ethical guidelines do not address resuscitation
decision-making in detail," they said.

"We recommend the formation of a national policy for resuscitation
decision-making, as exists in many countries, to facilitate more widespread
local policy formation."

Asked if it was considering a national policy, the Department of Health said:
"The Medical Council ethical guidelines do refer to the issue of resuscitation
decisions.

"The issue of consent, including the role of next of kin, is the subject of a
current review by the Law Reform Commission - the outcome of which will provide
a basis for further policy in this area," the department said.

The Medical Council's ethical guidelines say it is desirable that a doctor
discusses management of a seriously ill patient who is unable to communicate
with the next of kin or legal guardians prior to reaching a decision on "the use
or non-use of treatments which will not contribute to recovery from the primary
illness".

It adds that in the event of a dispute between the doctor and relatives, a
second opinion should be sought from a suitably qualified and independent
medical practitioner.

The guidelines also say that where death is imminent, "a doctor is not obliged
to initiate or maintain a treatment which is futile or disproportionately
burdensome".

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              May 15, 2017 Monday

CME Group president talks about business ethics

SECTION: BIZ LEDGER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 489 words


CME Group president talks about business ethics

ROMEOVILLE -- CME Group President Bryan T. Durkin provided a business case for
attaching oneself to ethical principles during the 2017 Lewis University College
of Business Ethics Week.

Durkin, a Lewis University alumnus, is responsible for overseeing the CME
Group's Technology, Global Operations, Market Technology and Data Services, and
International businesses, as well as the company's GFX division. He stressed the
importance of a strong education in forming one's personal judgment, adding "I
know I received a great deal of this ethical grounding from this university."

The former Lewis University adjunct instructor has been part of the futures
industry in Chicago for more than 30 years, beginning his career with the Office
of Investigations and Audits at the Chicago Board of Trade. He has held several
key positions at CBOT, and then later at CME Group, including roles as CME
Group's Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. And, as part of
his responsibilities, he led the global integrations following CME Group's
merger with the Chicago Board of Trade and CME Group's acquisition of the New
York Mercantile Exchange.

"Every day, CME Group provides economic value, integrity, confidence and trust
in the marketplace," added Durkin, who earned a bachelor's and master's degree
from the Lewis University College of Business.

Ethics Week is an annual observance for the College of Business. Professors put
an extra emphasis on integrating ethical leadership into their lessons during
the week.

Silver Cross receives 'A' from Leapfrog for hospital safety

NEW LENOX -- Silver Cross Hospital has once again been awarded an "A" Hospital
Safety Grade by the The Leapfrog Group, a nonprofit organization committed to
driving quality, safety, and transparency in the U.S. health care system.

The group rates how well hospitals protect patients from errors, infections, and
accidents that can cause harm. Only 38 out of 113 hospitals in Illinois received
an "A" and Silver Cross is the only hospital in Will County to do so. It is the
fifth time Silver Cross has received "Straight A's."

"At Silver Cross, we see it is part of our mission and commitment to deliver
safe, high quality care," said Paul Pawlak, President and CEO of Silver Cross
Hospital.

The A grade is one of the most meaningful honors a hospital can achieve, and one
of the most valuable indicators for patients looking for a safe place to receive
care. The Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade uses 30 measures of publicly available
hospital safety data to assign A, B, C, D and F grades to more than 2,600 U.S.
hospitals twice per year. It is calculated by top patient safety experts,
peer-reviewed, fully transparent and free to the public.

According to the Armstrong Institute for Patient Safety and Quality at Johns
Hopkins, over 33,000 lives could be saved if all hospitals performed at the
level of A graded hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bryan T. Durkin, president of CME Group, delivers the keynote address
at the 2017 Lewis University College of Business Ethics Week. Bryan T. Durkin,
president of CME Group, delivers the keynote address at the 2017 Lewis
University College of Business Ethics Week.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              208 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

Spanish priest dies of Ebola; UN debates ethics

BYLINE: Chico Enterprise-Record

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 780 words


MADRID (AP) &GT;&GT; A Spanish missionary priest being treated for Ebola died
today in a Madrid hospital amid a worldwide debate over who should get
experimental Ebola treatments.

After holding a teleconference with medical experts around the world, the World
Health Organization declared it is ethical to use unproven Ebola drugs and
vaccines in the current outbreak in West Africa provided the right conditions
are met. Its statement, however, sidestepped the key question of how to decide
who should get the limited drugs.

Two more experimental Ebola treatments were reportedly heading today to Liberia
to be used on two infected doctors   the first Africans to receive the untested
drug.

The U.N. health agency says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola outbreak
in West Africa and authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected or confirmed cases.
The killer virus, spread by direct contact with bodily fluids like blood,
diarrhea and vomit, was detected in Guinea in March and has since spread to
Sierra Leone, Liberia and possibly Nigeria.

Two Americans and reportedly the Spanish priest who died had gotten the drug
named ZMapp, which has never been tested in humans. But the vast majority of
Ebola victims have been Africans, and some have protested that their citizens
are not getting access to the novel drugs.

"We can't afford to be passive while many more die," said Aisha Dab, a
Senegalese-Gambian journalist who was tweeting using the hashtag
"GiveUsTheSerum."

The company that makes ZMapp said Monday that its available supply was
"exhausted."

The Spanish missionary, 75-year-old Miguel Parajes, died in Madrid's Carlos III
Hospital, the hospital and his order said. The hospital would not confirm that
he had been treated with the drug, but his order and Spain's Health Ministry
said earlier that he would be. His body will be cremated Wednesday to avoid any
further public health risks, the hospital said.

Parajes had worked for the San Juan de Dios hospital order, a Catholic aid
group, and had been helping to treat people with Ebola in Liberia when he became
ill and was evacuated.

WHO decided it is ethical to use experimental treatments and vaccines in West
Africa even though there's no evidence yet that these experimental drugs can
actually help fight Ebola and it is possible they could be harmful or have no
effect at all.

The agency said the size of the outbreak   the biggest-ever in history  made the
experimental use of drugs ethical.

"It seems some of the usual methods we're using ... are not working as well,"
said Dr. Marie-Paule Kieny, an assistant director-general at WHO, during a press
conference. "We don't have enough people to rely on the traditional methods if
we want to stop the outbreak as soon as possible."

WHO said it was OK to use unproven treatments if certain criteria were met,
including informed consent, confidentiality and freedom of choice.

The panel said a "more detailed analysis and discussion" are needed to decide
who should have access to any experimental treatments, since there is an
extremely limited supply of the novel drugs and vaccines. WHO also said the
world had "a moral duty" to collect evidence about any untested treatment's
safety and effectiveness in proper scientific trials.

Kieny said it was difficult to judge how the few experimental treatments have
been doled out so far.

"I don't think there could be any fair distribution of something available in
such small quantities," she said.

She added that some companies were speeding up trials of their new Ebola
vaccines and it was possible there might be some preliminary safety data by the
end of the year.

West African nations are struggling to control both the deadly outbreak and the
fear it has engendered. Most airlines flying in and out of the Liberian capital
of Monrovia have suspended flights amid the unprecedented health crisis.

The Ivory Coast, which shares borders with Liberia and Guinea, banned direct
flights from those countries and said it would increase health inspections at
its borders.

Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf suspended all travel by executive
branch officials for one month. She also ordered those already abroad to return
home within a week "or be considered as abandoning their jobs," according to a
statement.

A U.K.-based public relations firm representing Liberia said the experimental
Ebola treatment named ZMapp would be arriving within the next 48 hours to treat
the two Liberian physicians.

"The two doctors gave their consent, themselves being medical professionals, for
the drug to be administered," the statement said. "The drugmaker has agreed to
supply a sufficient amount of this drug only for these two patients."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aid workers and doctors on Thursday transfer Miguel Pajares, a Spanish
priest who was infected with the Ebola virus while working in Liberia, from a
plane to an ambulance as he leaves the Torrejon de Ardoz military airbase, near
Madrid, Spain. (AP Photo/Spanish Defense Ministry, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                January 23, 2003

Irish Council for Bioethics launched by Tanaiste

BYLINE: By DICK AHLSTROM, Science Editor

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 411 words


Guidelines for medical researchers on the ethical handling of human tissue
samples will be ready before the end of the year, prepared by a new bioethics
body launched by the Tanaiste.

Ms Harney yesterday officially launched the Irish Council for Bioethics. Its
role is to consider the ethical issues raised by developments in biological and
medical research.

The council had a significant role because of the dramatic increase in State
spending on research, Ms Harney said yesterday.

"It is important we would have available to the country the best possible
expertise. Ethical issues are going to arise more and more and we need the best
possible advice," she said. "Because of the independence of the council it will
have authority," she stated.

"Ireland can not and will not be involved in any experiments involving human
embryos," she declared.

The new council is based in the Royal Irish Academy in Dublin but operates
completely independently from it. Its chairman, Prof Patrick Fottrell, announced
the creation of three working groups, which will focus on specific ethical
areas.

These include expert groups on the proper handling of human biological material;
on genetically engineered organisms; and on ethics committees already in place
here.

The discovery that many hospitals had retained tissues without consent including
deceased children's organs, caused widespread public indignation. The issue
continues to cause controversy between the Minister for Health and Children, Mr
Martin, and the families. Ethical guidelines meant to control the handling of
tissue samples should be ready within six to 12 months according to the head of
the biological samples working group, Dr Mark Lawler, a molecular haematologist
at St James's Hospital and Trinity College. "I want to move it forward as
quickly as possible," he said. "We would be aiming to produce a report within
the year."

The council has 21 members and experts can be co-opted into the working groups,
Prof Fottrell said, and all are volunteers. "There hasn't been a body heretofore
looking at these issues with such a breadth and depth of expertise," he said
yesterday. "We would hope to engage the public through every means possible," he
added. "We will try to see if we can win over public confidence and we intend to
do that."

The body received funding from Forfas to cover its small secretariat and its
scientific officer, Dr Siobhan O'Sullivan, for three years.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 The Irish Times


                              210 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Mr. Frist's Curious Timing

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 467 words


TENNESSEE Republican Bill Frist has been a senator for almost 11 years now,
majority leader for three. During his tenure, Mr. Frist, a heart surgeon, has
worked on  --  and often taken a leading role in  --  such health care issues as
the Medicare prescription drug bill, limits on medical malpractice awards and
managed-care legislation.

Throughout that time, Mr. Frist rebuffed suggestions that his extensive holdings
in HCA, the giant hospital chain founded by his family, posed any ethical
problem. When Democrats denounced this as a "blatant conflict of interest"
during his run for a second term, Mr. Frist dismissed those concerns,
brandishing opinions from the Senate's Select Committee on Ethics stating that
he was free to vote on health care matters despite millions of dollars in HCA
holdings. Indeed, Mr. Frist insisted, he had gone the extra ethical mile of
putting his  holdings in a blind trust.

So it's more than a little curious that Mr. Frist, who will end his Senate
career next year, has chosen this time to decide to heed ethics concerns and
sell off his HCA holdings. The senator's blind trust turns out to allow for a
little peek-a-boo, and Mr. Frist instructed the trustees in June to get rid of
the stock. That was good timing: The company's stock price fell 9 percent the
next month, after it disclosed lower-than-expected second-quarter profits.

Mr. Frist's spokeswoman, Amy Call, said the move was based "purely on wanting to
avoid any future appearances of conflict." But, of course, if that was a
problem, why did it take the senator more than a decade to figure it out? After
all, any such perception didn't seem to bother Mr. Frist this year, when he
championed medical malpractice caps even as his family's hospital empire
included a large malpractice insurer.

One possible explanation for Mr. Frist's action is that he is weighing a
presidential run and wanted to get any potential ethical issue out of the way. A
more conspiratorial explanation comes to mind, as well, which is that Mr. Frist
had some advance knowledge of the company's impending bad news. Mr. Frist's
brother is HCA's largest individual shareholder, its chairman emeritus and a
member of the company's board. There's no evidence that Mr. Frist had inside
information or traded on it, though Ms. Call's careful phrasing  --  that the
senator "did not have any conversations with HCA executives about HCA stock when
he was making the decision to divest"  --  is curious.

Still, Mr. Frist's sudden and well-timed change of mind about his ethical
obligations at least warrants further inquiry; this is the kind of thing the
Securities and Exchange Commission does routinely. It ought to do so in this
case, too  --  if only to clear the senator of the worse of two unflattering
possibilities.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              211 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          December 14, 2005, Wednesday

Hwang leaves hospital again with focus on work

BYLINE: By Jin Hyun-joo

LENGTH: 602 words



Stem-cell research pioneer Hwang Woo-suk left hospital again yesterday to
continue his research against the advice of his doctor. Hwang was readmitted to
hospital on Monday night after first returning to his lab early that morning
following an 18-day absence. Hwang went into seclusion on November 24 after
admitting at a televised news conference to ethical breaches in his stem cell
research and spent several days in hospital.

Hwang returned to his lab early on Monday morning, after an 18 day absence. He
was admitted to hospital last Wednesday suffering from stress and exhaustion
caused by media scrutiny over allegations of ethical misconduct in his stem cell
research.

A physician looking after Hwang said he insisted on returning to his laboratory,
even though he was advised that it will take him a month to recover.

"I don't know how long he's going to stay in hospital, but I think it may take
about a month to treat him," said Ahn Cu-rie, Hwang's doctor and close
associate. "Personally, I hoped he would stay for treatment in hospital for
enough time to get well, but he wants to return to work due to concerns that his
research may hit a snag without him."

Hwang's return on Monday coincided with the launch of an investigation by SNU
into possible ethicial misconduct in landmark research carried out by his team.
The university yesterday began appointing an investigative committee yesterday
made up of school faculty members. The school authorities said, if necessary,
they may invite outside experts, including staff from the University of
Pittsburgh where a co-author Hwang's research Gerald Schatten works. The
American university recently launched its own probe into possible problems
within the work. The panel will initially look into data used by Hwang - images
and DNA fingerprints of stem cells - in response to suspicions from some
scientists that they were fabricated. After reviewing the data, the committee
will decide whether to conduct DNA tests to verify the authenticity of the
patient-tailored stem cells cloned by Hwang's team.

Hwang's team announced in May that it had successfully produced 11 different
embryos from cells of patients and cultivated stem cell lines from them, an
announcement that increased hopes that therapies for hard-to-cure diseases can
be developed. However, Korean scientists recently expressed suspicions about the
number of stem cells cloned by Hwang. The scientists said the total of cloned
cells may be far fewer than the 11 initially claimed in his research and that
the landmark stem cells may have not existed at all, citing flaws in data
published alongside the paper. Critics say that some of the stem cell
photographs were duplicated and that the DNA fingerprints of stem cells
presented as independent are unusually similar. Hwang's team denied such
accusations in a statement, saying the duplicate images are a simple publishing
mistake and that the similar DNA fingerprints are visibly different when
magnified.

Hwang's reputation was also tarnished by ethical breaches he eventually admitted
to ethical breaches that happened during the procurement of human eggs for the
research last year. The irregularities came to light last month when Hwang's
former research partner Schatten ended their collaboration, citing ethical
impropriety in obtaining human eggs for his paper published in Science last
year.

Hwang officially admitted he used ova donated by two researchers, an act frowned
on by the international scientific community because of the possibility of
coercion being used to gain the ova.  (hjjin@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2005 The Korea Herald


                              212 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday

Kinship faked for kidney donations

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: OSAKA


A number of cases have been discovered in which patients in need of kidney
transplants have falsified their relationship with donors to meet the ethical
guidelines of the Japan Society for Transplantation, which approves organ
transplants between patients and their relatives.

In the most recent case, a patient who received a kidney transplant at a
hospital in Uwajima, Ehime Prefecture, and his common-law wife were arrested on
suspicion of illegally purchasing a kidney. They claimed the donor was the
wife's younger sister.

As the case followed on the heels of another in which a patient married a donor
to meet the society's guidelines for transplant, a number of hospitals have set
stricter regulations than those of the society to prevent similar incidents.

According to Shigekazu Haruki, a 65-year-old psychiatrist of Matsue who
counseled patients in need of kidney transplants at the Kidney Center of Tokyo
Women's Medical University, a middle-aged woman requiring a kidney transplant
married a man to act as a donor about 10 years ago.

Suspicious of the couple's story, Haruki repeatedly held counseling sessions
with them prior to the transplant. At about the same time, Haruki received a
letter from the patient's former husband, saying the patient and donor had
married because of the transplant.

According to the letter, although the former husband had planned to donate a
kidney, he was unable to do so due to physical reasons. The patient then
discussed the issue with a male friend at an alumni reunion, resulting in the
man offering to donate his kidney. The patient then divorced her husband and
married her potential donor.

Haruki said the couple and the former husband initially plotted the scenario
together, but they seemed to have had financial troubles, and the transplant was
eventually canceled.

In another case, a gang member brought a young man he claimed was his adopted
son to the hospital as a donor. According to Haruki, the young man nervously
explained: "I owe my father-in-law a debt of gratitude. So I want to give him my
kidney."

When Haruki asked the young man when he was adopted, he gave a different date
from the one recorded on his family registry. Six months later, the two gave up
on the transplant and disappeared, Haruki said.

The ethical guidelines stipulate that donors should be relatives within the
sixth degree of blood kinship or within the third degree of matrimonial kinship.
If an intended donor does not meet the criteria, the decision whether to approve
the donor rests with ethical committees at hospitals.

Kyoto University Hospital has approved as donors relatives of fourth degree
blood relationship or closer in exceptional cases.

In one case at the hospital, a donor who claimed to be a cousin of a patient was
found to have no kinship, leading the hospital's ethical committee to stipulate
in 2005 that donors should be blood relatives within the third degree of kinship
or spouses of patients.

Hospital probed over fraud

OSAKA--The Ehime Health Insurance Bureau decided Wednesday to inspect an Ehime
Prefecture hospital on suspicion it used misappropriated public money to perform
surgeries, including a transplant of an illegally purchased kidney.

Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital in Uwajima in the prefecture is suspected to have
provided its patients with only a verbal explanation of the procedures involved
in a kidney transplant, failing to present the required written explanation.

When one of any 24 types of operations, including kidney transplants, are
performed using public health insurance, the hospital in question is required to
provide the patient with an explanation of the surgery in writing.

If insurance officials determine the hospital failed in this duty, the bureau
likely will order the hospital to repay the incurred fees, which could reach
into several tens of millions of yen, greatly affecting the hospital's
management.

According to the insurance payment system, which was revised in April, hospitals
must fulfill four conditions to receive public health insurance money to cover
the costs of any of the 24 operations, which also include lung, esophageal and
prostate cancer surgeries, and heart bypass surgery.

Hospitals are also expected to make public the number of such operations
performed at their institutions over the previous year.

Only after meeting the four requirements and reporting to health insurance
bureaus, hospitals are allowed to request medical costs be covered by public
health insurance.

Hospitals are required to attach copies of documents given to their patients in
their medical records.

Under the system as it was between fiscal 2004 and 2005, hospitals that failed
to meet these standards were allowed to receive up to 70 percent of the surgery
costs from the insurance scheme.

However, it was revealed during a press conference Monday the hospital had
failed to provide written explanations to its patients or obtain written consent
for any of the 82 kidney transplant operations performed by urology department
head Makoto Mannami since April 2004.

This means the hospital issued fabricated payment requests to the Ehime Health
Insurance Bureau as it had failed to meet the requirements.

According to the bureau, payment agreements are revoked when a hospital is
discovered to have failed to meet the requirements.

The revocation also will affect requests other than kidney transplants, leading
the bureau to ask the hospital to repay all the insurance payments used to cover
any of the operations since April, and at least 30 percent of the payments made
between fiscal 2004 and 2005.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

'It's time to discuss, rebuild doctor-patient bond'

BYLINE: Malathy Iyer

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 531 words


MUMBAI: A group of doctors, fed up with the tag of commercialization attached to
the Indian medical fraternity, has come up with a Munnabhai-style campaign to
counter it.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day on July 1, these doctors will use a
letter-purportedly written by a patient - thanking his/her doctor for being
ethical unlike others being accused of over-prescribing medicines and tests.

The national group - which calls itself the Network of Doctors for Ethical,
Rational and De-commercialised Healthcare' - wants all doctors to put up this
letter outside their clinic to establish their credentials as non-commercial
doctors.

''The doctor-patient relationship is at an all-time low. Using this letter, we
want to revive this relationship by providing a talking point for patients and
doctors,'' said Dr Abhay Shukla of the network.

The five-day letter-campaign will be kickstarted on the social media, with NGO
Oxfam India putting it up on its social networking sites.

The letter not only has patients expressing their gratitude to their doctor, but
also lists out the various problems with the Indian medical system. For example,
it reads, "I feel rather awkward to let you know that I hear many of my friends
alleging openly that their doctors are referring them to a particular hospital/
laboratory/ imaging centre, while pocketing a hefty commission which is then
extracted from the patient."

* Touching upon ''unethical practices by a hospital management, which tends to
put money above all other considerations'', the letter appeals to ethical
doctors and patients to come together and persuade hospitals to discontinue such
practices.*

Dr Shukla said that patients have a tendency to only discuss their immediate
health issue with their doctors. ''The allegations of cut practice or
unnecessary tests are never discussed. It's time to discuss and rebuild the
doctor-patient bond,'' he said.

This introspective mood is also reflected in an article carried in the British
Medical Journal where two doctors have written out a prescription for all that
ails Indian medical system. ''Right from anomalies/cheating in entrance
examinations for medical courses, fraud in medical education, to corruption in
medical practice, it's quite clear that regulation has served as a poor barrier
to avert these practices. It's important for the profession to address
corruption in its ranks and practice with urgency,'' wrote Dr Anant Bhan and Dr
Bhavna Dhingra in BMJ's online journal.

Introspection points for Indian doctors

Corruption: is a major crisis for the profession.

Trust deficit: rising incidents of doctor-patient conflicts evidenced by regular
occurrences of attacks on doctors.

Interprofessional healthcare practice: Doctors need to work with allied
professionals such as nurses, medical technicians, and social workers etc

Public engagement: There is a proactive need for doctors to engage with media
and the public to dispel misconceptions. Use social media.

Collective action: Make policy makers respond to the needs of medical
professionals such as ensuring safety at workplaces, enhanced recruitments,
regular supply of healthcare drugs and devices.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

It's time to discuss, rebuild doctor-patient bond'

BYLINE: Malathy.Iyer@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 390 words


A group of doctors, fed up with the tag of commercialization attached to the
Indian medical fraternity , has come up with a Munnabhai-style campaign to
counter it.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day on July 1, the doctors will use a letter
-purportedly written by a patient -thanking his/her doctor for being ethical,
unlike others being accused of over-prescribing medicines and tests.

The national group, the Network of Doctors for Ethical, Rational and
Decommercialized Healthcare, wants all doctors to put up this letter outside
their clinic to establish their credentials as non-commercial doctors.

"The doctor-patient relationship is at an all-time low . Using this letter, we

want to revive the relationship by providing a talking point for patients and
doctors,'' said Dr Abhay Shukla of the network.

The five-day letter campaign will be kick-started on social media, with the
Oxfam India NGO putting it up on its social networking sites.

The letter not only has patients expressing gratitude to their doctor, but lists
problems with the Indian medical system. For example, it reads, "I feel rather
awkward to let you know that I hear many friends alleging openly that their
doctors are referring them to a particular hospital/laboratory/imaging centre,
while pocketing a hefty commission, extracted from the patient."

Touching upon "unethical practices by a hospital management, which tends to put
money above all other considera

tions,'' the letter appeals to ethical doctors and patients to come together and
persuade hospitals to discontinue such practices.

Dr Shukla said patients only discuss

immediate health issues with doctors "Allegations of cut practice or unneces
sary tests are never discussed. It's time to discuss and rebuild the
doctor-patient bond,'' he said.

The introspective mood is reflected in an article in British Medical Journal in
which two doctors have written out a prescription for all that ails the Indian
medical system. "Right from anoma lies/cheating in entrance examinations for
medical courses, fraud in medical education, to corruption in medical practice,
it's quite clear that regulation has served as a poor barrier to avert these
practices. It's important for the profession to address corruption in its ranks
and practice with urgency ,'' wrote Dr Anant Bhan and Dr Bhavna Dhingra in BMJ's
online journal.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Prince Rupert Daily News (British Columbia)

                            January 26, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Humboldt, Sask., mayor doesn't want new hospital run by Catholic church

BYLINE: Canadian Press

SECTION: RELIGIOUS NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 339  words

DATELINE: HUMBOLDT, Sask.


HUMBOLDT, Sask. (CP) -- A southern Saskatchewan mayor wants the provincial
government to ensure that the Roman Catholic church isn't involved in running a
new hospital being built in his city.

"The message council has received from the community is that there is a clear
desire for a public hospital," said Humboldt Mayor Malcolm Eaton. "In order to
have a hospital that doesn't get into Catholic ethical issues, we need a public
hospital."

Other communities in the area have also expressed support for a publicly
operated hospital instead of a faith-based facility, Eaton said.

Construction is to start on the new hospital this spring.

The current hospital, St. Elizabeth's, serves about 35,000 people in the region
and is owned by the Saskatchewan Catholic Health Corp. The Catholic-run board
receives operating money from the Saskatoon Health Region.

The hospital made the news last year when its board prohibited elective tubal
ligations to prevent pregnancies. That decision sparked ethical debate in and
around Humboldt, about 100 kilometres east of Saskatoon, about faith-based
hospitals.

"I stress that we have not severed ties with the Catholic church. No final
decision has been made," Eaton said.

The final word actually rests with Health Minister Len Taylor, said Louise
Greenberg, associate deputy minister of health.

The minister is to meet with the Catholic Health Corp. and Catholic bishops in
the coming weeks, as well as with people living in the communities served by the
new hospital, she said.

Community representatives already met once this month with Health Department and
health region officials to discuss the new hospital's operation.

The community was clear about its support for a publicly operated hospital, but
the province also heard there is still a role for spiritual care, such as
religious programs and chapel services, Greenberg said.

"It's not black and white."

Calls to the Saskatchewan Catholic Health Corp. and the Catholic diocese were
not immediately returned. The Saskatoon Health Region declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Prince Rupert Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2010 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                  Winter, 2010

                      Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics

                           38 J.L. Med. & Ethics 847

LENGTH: 13676 words

INDEPENDENT: How Bioethics Can Enrich Medical-Legal Collaborations

NAME: Amy T. Campbell, Jay Sicklick, Paula Galowitz, Randye Retkin, and Stewart
B. Fleishman

BIO: Amy T. Campbell, J.D., M.B.E., is an Assistant Professor in the Center of
Bioethics and Humanities at Upstate Medical University and at the Syracuse
University College of Law (courtesy), and Associate Faculty in the Bioethics
Program of Union Graduate College -- Mount Sinai School of Medicine. She
received her law degree from Yale Law School (New Haven, CT), and her Master's
in Bioethics degree from the University of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia, PA). Jay
Sicklick, J.D., is the Deputy Director of the Center for Children's Advocacy in
Hartford, Connecticut, and is an Adjunct Professor of Law at the University of
Connecticut School of Law, and an Assistant Clinical Professor in the Department
of Pediatrics at the University of Connecticut School of Medicine. He received
his law degree from Boston College Law School (Boston, MA). Paula Galowitz,
M.S.W., J.D., is a Clinical Professor of Law at New York University School of
Law. She received her M.S.W. Wurzweiler School of Social Work, Yeshiva
University (New York, NY) and her J.D. from Brooklyn Law School (Brooklyn, NY).
Randye Retkin, J.D., is the Director of LegalHealth, a division of the New York
Legal Assistance Group. LegalHealth partners with medical professionals to
address the non-medical needs of low-income people with serious health problems.
She received her law degree from Howard University (Washington, D.C.). Stewart
B. Fleishman, M.D., is the Founding Director of Cancer Supportive Services at
Continuum Cancer Centers of New York: Beth Israel Medical Center and St.
Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He also serves as the Associate ChiefMedical
Officer of Continuum Hospice Care-Jacob Perlow Hospice and Chair of their Ethics
Committee. He received his M.D. from the Autonomous University of Guadalajara
(Mexico) with degree conferral by the State University of New York.

HIGHLIGHT: Medical-legal partnerships (MLPs) -- collaborative endeavors between
health care clinicians and lawyers to more effectively address issues impacting
health care -- have proliferated over the past decade. The goal of this
interdisciplinary approach is to improve the health outcomes and quality of life
of patients and families, recognizing the many non-medical influences on health
care and thus the value of an interdisciplinary team to enhance health. This
article examines the unique, interrelated ethical issues that confront the
clinical and legal partners involved in MLP5. We contend that the ethical
precepts of the clinical and legal professions should be seen as opportunities,
not barriers, to further the interdisciplinary nature of MLPs. The commonalities
in ethical approaches represent a potential bridge between legal and health care
advocacy for patient/ client well-being. Bioethics has a role to play in
building and analyzing this bridge: bioethics may serve as a discourse and
method to enhance collaboration by highlighting common ethical foundations and
refocusing legal and clinical partners on their similar goals of service for
patients/clients. This article explores this bridging role of bioethics, through
a series of case studies. It concludes with recommendations to strengthen the
collaborations.

TEXT:
 [*847]  Introduction
Medical-legal partnerships (MLPs) -- collaborative endeavors between health care
clinicians  n1 and lawyers to more effectively address issues impacting health
care -- have proliferated over the past decade.  n2 The goal of this
interdisciplinary  n3 approach is to improve the health outcomes and quality of
life of patients and families, recognizing the many non-medical influences on
health care and thus the value of an interdisciplinary team to enhance health.
There are currently over 180 MLPs at over 200 hospitals and health centers in
the United States, with increasing federal interest and potential legislative
support of this model.  n4

   This article examines the unique, interrelated, and often similar (although
at times conflicting) ethical issues that confront the clinical and legal
partners involved in MLPs. We contend that the ethical precepts of the clinical
and legal professions should be seen as opportunities, not barriers,  n5 to
further the interdisciplinary nature of MLPs. In turn, our perspective
emphasizes the shared ethical foundations. Among legal and clinical
professionals, there is a "shared set of core social and ethical values,
interests, and experiences," and a shared "respect for the individual and a
commitment to reason, professional judgment, and experience as a basis for
decision making."  n6 An integral part of the ethical canons of each profession
is the primacy of their duties (fiduciary obligations) to the people they serve.
Each has a code of ethics that is self-imposed and in many ways remarkably
similar.  n7 Each professional can be seen as a healer and an advocate.  n8

   Although the theories, schema, and specific guidance may vary, the
commonalities in ethical approaches represent a potential bridge between legal
and health care advocacy for patient/client well-being. Bioethics  n9 has a role
to play in building and analyzing this bridge: bioethics may serve as a
discourse and method to enhance collaboration by highlighting common ethical
foundations and refocusing legal and clinical partners on their similar goals of
service for patients/clients. This article explores this bridging role of
bioethics.

   In Section I, the medical-legal partnership model is briefly explained. In
Sections II and III, the principal  [*848]  tenets of legal ethics (II) and
bioethics (III) are examined. Section IV applies the legal and bioethics
principles and perspectives to specific case studies that illustrate legal and
clinical ethical issues that may arise in MLPs. In Section V, we conclude with
specific suggestions for next steps to improve these collaborations, focusing on
changes in education in the professional schools and during the collaboration;
awareness of the availability and importance of ethics consults; and
modifications to legal ethics rules to facilitate interdisciplinary
collaborations, such as those in MLPs.

I. Medical-Legal Partnership Overview
The MLP model has grown since the 1993 creation of a partnership to serve
low-income pediatric patients and their families at the Boston City Hospital
(now the Boston Medical Center).  n10 In 2006, the National Center for Medical
Legal Partnership was established to promote the development of medical-legal
partnerships across the country.  n11 Recognizing the success of the
medical-legal partnership model, the American Bar Association (ABA) adopted a
resolution in 2007 to encourage the development of medical-legal partnerships.
n12 In 2008, the ABA launched the Medical-Legal Partnerships Pro Bono Support
Project to further promote the creation of these programs.  n13

   There are a variety of models used by individual MLP network members to
facilitate collaborations between clinicians and lawyers.  n14 The most common
model is where a legal service entity partners with a hospital or health clinic
to establish an onsite legal clinic at the health care facility to serve the
patients of the health care entity. MLPs may also be based in law school
clinics. In addition there are various pro bono models: for example, a law firm
may "adopt" a medical clinic or a department within a health care setting.

   While most MLPs started in pediatric departments, several have branched out
successfully to other clinical departments, including: oncology, palliative
care, HIV/AIDS, geriatrics, family medicine, internal medicine, and maternal
health.  n15 MLPs provide services in the areas of law that are most relevant to
patients with health concerns, including: government benefits; housing; advance
planning (wills, health care proxies, powers of attorney and permanency
planning); immigration; insurance issues; family law; debtor/creditor matters;
employment matters and special education.

   An essential element of the MLP, regardless of the model, is collaboration
between the legal and clinical partners to ensure ease of patient access to
legal services or advocacy that may enhance care. The MLP builds upon the trust
that the clinician has already established with the patient since it is often
the clinician making the referral for legal assistance.

   In addition to the direct legal services, another essential activity of the
MLP is to facilitate training of legal and clinical professionals. Clinicians
may learn about the legal (individual and systemic) issues affecting their
patients. This training helps them make informed legal referrals and, where
appropriate, assist with advocacy efforts. Such advocacy assistance could
include filling out government and other forms with/ for patients, writing
letters to landlords, or educating lawmakers about the critical impact of
policies on health. Lawyers may learn more about clinical issues affecting
patient and family interests, and gain a better understanding of the language
and culture of health care.

   Working together enables clinicians and lawyers to address problems more
effectively than either could do alone. Studies by various MLPs have shown that
these models are cost effective and in fact can provide health care recovery
dollars for the health care facility.  n16 Studies have also shown that MLP
training curricula positively affect physician behavior in addressing a
patient's nonmedical needs.  n17 MLPs also positively impact
relationship-building among professionals through the collaborative experiences.
n18 Finally, there have been evaluations on a MLP's positive impact on health
outcomes and alleviating distress.  n19

   As MLPs flourish, it would not be unexpected for more legal and clinical
ethics issues to arise. In 2009, more than 13,000 people were served by MLPs
across the nation.  n20 The sheer number of cases might under-standably  [*849]
lead to a rise in ethical issues. In addition, as MLPs increasingly move from
pediatric settings into other clinical disciplines (e.g., geriatrics, oncology,
internal medicine, maternal health), MLPs will encounter new populations (the
elderly, cancer patients, new mothers) who will generate a new set of ethical
dilemmas. For example, MLPs centered in a geriatric practice will encounter
issues regarding capacity. Maternal health patients may have concerns about the
hospital's right to test their newborn for various diseases and drugs and turn
to the MLP lawyer for advice. MLPs in oncology or hospice settings will most
certainly encounter end-of-life ethical issues.

   In addition, as MLPs become more integrated into the culture of the hospital
and have greater involvement in the activities of hospitals and clinicians, this
shift will generate a whole new set of ethical issues. For example, what happens
when a clinician calls on the MLP lawyer (and not hospital counsel) for
interpretation of the law: when does that information cross the line so that the
MLP lawyer is perceived as the definitive legal source (and not hospital
counsel)? Additionally, as more clinicians rely on the services of the MLP
lawyer and seek more advice from the MLP lawyer, friendships and familiarity
might lead to blurred roles and open the door to ethical dilemmas.

   There is no doubt that MLPs will encounter a wide range of ethical concerns
as their numbers grow and activities expand. Thus, an understanding of the legal
ethics and bioethics frameworks in which they operate will only prove to enhance
their effectiveness when providing direct services to patients or engaging in
training activities. Before considering ethical issues in the context of case
examples, the fundamentals of legal ethics and bioethics frameworks should first
be examined. We begin with legal ethics.

II. Legal Ethics Primer
Legal ethics and professional responsibility are critically important concepts
that dictate the essence of the legal profession and apply to all aspects of
lawyer conduct. Typically, states regulate ethical conduct through an office or
administrative agency charged with the responsibility of lawyer conduct and
ethical oversight. Each jurisdiction chooses a baseline set of rules and
principles that are codified in Rules or Codes of Professional Conduct which
govern the ethical spectrum of the practice of law in that jurisdiction.

A. Principles of Legal Ethics  n21
The American Bar Association (ABA) has adopted a model set of ethical rules,
namely the Model Rules of Professional Conduct (Model Rules), which are
precatory in nature but serve as the basis for most state ethical rules and
guidelines regulating lawyer conduct. Since the inception of the Model Rules in
1983, most states have adopted the exact format (or close parallel) of the ABA
Model Rules.  n22 The Model Rules are broken down into seven major categories,
which form the framework for defining the essence of a lawyer's responsibility
in any setting -- namely, representation of a client with competence and
diligence in a confidential fashion, free from any conflicts of interest. The
basic principles of legal ethics that pertain to the representation of clients
in a MLP revolve around the following core concepts: Lawyer-Client Relationship;
Lawyer as Zealous Advocate; Conflict of Interest; Lawyer's Role as Counselor and
Advisor; Independence of Professional Judgment; and Confidentiality (discussed
in detail below).

   Lawyers who work in an MLP are bound by the same principles of ethical
conduct as lawyers working outside the MLP realm. A lawyer's conduct, whether
the lawyer is an employee of a law firm, a legal service organization, health
care institution, or a participant in a pro-bono program, is governed by rules
of conduct that take into consideration employment venues, but do not alter
essential standards or premises of ethical conduct based on the employment
arrangement.

B. Principles Applied to Collaborative Setting
1. THE LAWYER-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP
The formulation of the lawyer-client relationship is the critical mechanism that
triggers the application of the rules governing lawyer conduct in any setting.
The MLP lawyer must remember that a lawyer-client relationship is not formed
with the clinicians even though the lawyer's expertise may be utilized as an
advisor  n23 or "consultant" on matters such as eligibility for government
benefits, remedies for substandard housing, or issues surrounding child
protection or elder abuse. Thus, an MLP lawyer may work with and participate on
an interdisciplinary team, provided that the lawyer makes it clear to the team
that she is not the staff's legal advisor.  n24 The lawyer's ethical obligations
under state rules and codes do not attach until the lawyer meets with the
client. It is when the lawyer interacts with a prospective client that the
principles of loyalty, confidentiality, and conflict of interest arise.

2. LAWYER AS ZEALOUS ADVOCATE
A lawyer is ethically bound to assert her client's position as a diligent and
competent advocate, even if she finds the client's goal and objectives
repugnant.  n25 This unique concept, whereby the lawyer stands as a zealous
advocate for a client but remains detached from her client's ends, is often
referred to as the principle of "neutral partisanship."  n26 Thus, the MLP
lawyer may  [*850]  have to advocate for a position that is antithetical to the
recommendation of the very same clinicians with whom the lawyer consults and
works with on a daily basis. The MLP lawyer, however, must proceed as an
advocate for the client, whose position (and thus the position advocated by the
lawyer) may in fact conflict with the recommendations of the other (non-law) MLP
partners. It is important that collaborative team members are made aware that
the lawyer's ethical duty to advocate on behalf of the client is not an
endorsement of the client's views or activities, but merely serves to fulfill
her ethically mandated role as diligent or zealous advocate.  n27

3. CONFLICT OF INTEREST
Conflicts of interest in legal representation are generally governed by
principles of loyalty, independence of professional judgment, and the duty of
confidentiality to present or former clients. In the MLP setting, a lawyer must
be attuned to the traditional rules governing conflicts of interest, making sure
that present client matters do not conflict with the lawyer's other existing
client matters, a lawyer's responsibilities to a third party, or the same or
substantially related matters in which the lawyer represented previous clients.
n28 In the MLP setting, conflicts of interests are likely to arise in a number
of ways, including:


     . As a potential conflict of interest between the potential/actual
     representation of the client vs. the interest of the collaborative
     partner (the hospital); and
     . As a potential conflict of interest between the potential/actual
     representation of a client vs. the interest of a family member of a
     client.  n29


In the first scenario, since the MLP lawyer does not, nor presumably has ever,
represented the hospital at any time, the potential conflict that arises many
not implicate the applicable Rules of Professional Conduct, but the potential
conflict is an actual one. The lawyer may be concerned that the continuation of
the MLP might be jeopardized by her representation of an interest of a client
that is in conflict with that of the hospital.  n30

   In the second scenario, the lawyer must be attuned to a possible conflict of
interest with the client's family, especially in areas where the clinicians may
be working in a family-centered model to assure patient buy-in and family
support. Here there may be conflicts between the clinician's efforts to provide
holistic care (through family support) and the patient's individual wishes
(independent of family desires). The lawyer and the clinician must be aware that
ethical conflicts may arise, and that even those conflicts not involving rule
interpretation might negatively affect the entire collaborative venture.

4. LAWYER'S ROLE AS COUNSELOR AND ADVISOR
A fundamental responsibility of ethical lawyering is based on the principle that
a lawyer must provide independent advice and counsel to a client, utilizing not
only legal rationale, but also taking into account social, economic, political,
and moral factors as well.  n31 Before the lawyer engages in advocacy,
negotiation, or litigation on behalf of a client, she must first serve the role
as an advisor, which provides the client with the backdrop on which to decide
the course of action in the representation.

   Often times, the lawyer's expertise can provide clients (i.e., patients) with
greater access to clinical services -- both through the direct advice provided
to clients, and also as an information resource to clinicians who seek the
lawyer's counsel on core issues surrounding poverty law, child welfare, and
countless other patient centered legal matters. Keep in mind, however, that the
lawyer's role as an "advisor" to a client is a legal duty, while her role as an
information resource (a much less formal role) to members of the collaborative
team is borne out of the unique relationship of the lawyer embedded in the
clinical setting.

5. CONFIDENTIALITY
A crux of the lawyer-client relationship lies in the principle of client
confidentiality. Confidentiality is a broad term that encompasses the benchmark
concepts of the "ethical duty of confidentiality" defined in formal rules of
professional conduct and the "attorney-client privilege." Thus, confidentiality
not only refers to oral statements made by a client to her lawyer (implicating
the attorney-client privilege), but just as important is "information relating
to representation of a client" (implicating the lawyer's ethical duty of
confidentiality).  n32

   The common perception of lawyer-client confidentiality is that information
provided to a lawyer by a client is protected by an inviolate obligation, which
may not be breached unless certain conditions are met. The "attorney-client
privilege" is the product of evidentiary law, and specifically protects
communications (usually oral) proffered by clients to lawyers from being
divulged by the lawyers in a testimonial (i.e., court) setting.  n33 According
to an ethical duty of confidentiality, however, any information relating to the
representation of a client is confidential; thus, this duty to protect client
secrets sweeps far broader than the attorney-client privilege. All jurisdictions
have codified the duties surrounding confidentiality, and  [*851]  the
exceptions to this broad notion of client loyalty, in the applicable rules of
professional conduct.

   Obligations related to confidentiality lead to some critical questions, such
as:


     . May the collaborative lawyer routinely reveal the fact that she is
     representing a patient/family to the interdisciplinary medical team?
     . How much, if any, information may the collaborative lawyer routinely
     reveal to a health care clinician or a treatment team about the
     representation in general and the client in particular?
     . Are members of the interdisciplinary medical team part of the "firm"
     that represents a patient/ family in a legal matter? May the legal
     collaborative "deputize" members of the medical team to the "firm?"
     . Are mandated reporters of child abuse and neglect (e.g., hospital
     social workers and doctors) working with the collaborative project
     exempt from reporting abuse or neglect to the requisite child
     protection agency if the information is obtained as part of the
     confidential legal intake process?  n34
     . If the collaborative lawyer learns about a forthcoming action
     adverse to the client as a result of participation in an
     interdisciplinary team meeting, does the lawyer have an ethical
     obligation to inform the client/patient about the impending action?


These scenarios occur on a daily basis in a MLP, so MLPs should think through
these sorts of questions to ensure that the client's rights are not violated,
and that the interdisciplinary collaborative team serves the best interest of
the patient.

   It has sometimes been suggested that lawyers in an MLP should have a client
sign a release as part of the case-opening paperwork that would allow the lawyer
to share information with the medical provider. However, such an approach may
display a misunderstanding of the ethical rules that apply to lawyers. Model
Rule 1.6 (which most states follow) provides, in relevant part, that a client
give "informed consent" before a lawyer can reveal information relating to the
representation of a client; informed consent is defined in Model Rule 1.0 (e) as
"the agreement by a person to a proposed course of conduct after the lawyer has
communicated adequate information and explanation about the material risks of
and reasonably available alternatives to the proposed course of conduct." Thus,
a conversation between the lawyer and client that includes the material risks
and alternatives could only take place after there has been sufficient
discussion of the issues and the ramifications, and not as part of the
case-opening paperwork.

   The MLP lawyer is not simply acting in a legal realm but also situated within
a clinical one. Both clinical and legal professionals operate under a
time-honored principle of confidentiality (i.e., physician-patient,
psychiatrist-patient, and psychotherapist-patient), an obligation that is
breached only under specifically defined circumstances.  n35 Difficulties arise,
however, when the lawyer joins the clinical team in a discussion regarding the
team's patient -- who also happens to be the lawyer's client.  n36 The freedom
and candor that surrounds the interdisciplinary discussion is anathema to the
lawyer's ethical obligation of confidentiality (and may be to the clinician's as
well). The lawyer is bound not to reveal information that may be critically
important to the team's decision. Thus, the lawyer must be fully aware that she
is operating in an environment that may preclude her from full participation in
critical decision-making events.

   While legal ethics cover the MLP lawyer in the clinical setting, it should
not be forgotten that other ethical obligations govern the health care partners.
Bioethical approaches play an important role in guiding the course of
collaborative patient care, and often impact the outcome of the most challenging
cases. Thus, all partners (especially legal ones) could benefit from a better
understanding of bioethics.

III. Bioethics Primer
While law may ask what must we do, ethical inquiry asks what ought we do. In
health care, the concept of ethical practice is not new; indeed, thousands of
years ago, the Hippocratic Oath offered ideas of the right sort of doctoring,
then primarily vis-a-vis protecting confidences and maintaining a "fatherly
insistence on deciding unilaterally what is best for [patients]."  n37 However,
the 20th century brought with it advancements in health care technology altering
our conceptions of what we can treat and how (e.g., transplant surgeries, test
tube babies), our vision of what it means to be human (e.g., genomics), and our
view of who should control who lives and dies (e.g., decision making at
beginning and end of life). In addition, individuals increasingly began to call
into question the authority vested in physicians to guide patient
decision-making.  n38 Coupled with the technological advancements were concerns
over the complexity and costs of treatment in the face of limited resources.
Bioethics emerged from a traditional understanding of "medical ethics" as its
own field of applied study -- crossing many professional boundaries -- to help
guide individuals, institutions, policymakers, and the public in an
ever-changing and increasingly complex  [*852]  environment.  n39 Law did not
recede in having influence in health care decision-making;  n40 rather,
bioethics became another mechanism to help resolve disputes.

A. What Is "Bioethics"?
First, it is important to explain what is meant by bioethics, and to consider
how one distinguishes between bioethics  n41 and medical ethics (which may in
practice be used interchangeably). Medical ethics in its technical sense
connects to the medical (i.e., physician) profession; medical ethics governs how
a physician, as a professional, should practice -- and has traditionally been
seen as within the province of physicians only.  n42 Bioethics, in recognition
of our more complex health care environment, takes within its orbit medical
ethics, but also includes ethical concerns of a range of professions and
individuals, e.g., nurses, social workers, hospital administrators. In addition,
it expands the scope of ethical inquiry to include not only clinical (i.e., "at
the bedside" medical or nursing) issues but also many more "beyond the bedside"
concerns, e.g., what happens at the institutional, research, public health, and
policy levels.  n43

B. Bioethics Approaches (Methods)
It may also be helpful for all MLP partners to have some understanding of the
methods of bioethics.  n44 Although typically considered an applied field of
study, bioethics grounds itself in theory. Two primary theories are discussed in
the literature: one focused on an individual's duties (not dissimilar from a
lawyer's fiduciary duties), and the other focused on the consequences of an
individual's actions.  n45 Their application is much like what their descriptive
terms imply. A duty-bound professional would follow dictates of a relevant duty
(e.g., obtain informed consent before any procedure); alternatively, a
consequentialist would look not to a preexisting duty but rather to the
consequences of potential actions (e.g., obtaining informed consent or not), and
would seek to maximize good over bad outcomes (e.g., enhanced patient outcomes
and satisfaction).

   Moving from theory to practice, principles are often employed to frame
bioethical issues in clinical settings. Typically four main principles are
recognized today: (1) beneficence, (2) non-maleficence, (3) justice, and (4)
autonomy.  n46 Beneficence refers to acting for the benefit of someone's health;
alternatively, non-maleficence put simply means "do no harm." Justice refers to
seeking fairness in distributing benefits and burdens of treatment and in
allocating limited health care resources. Autonomy, of paramount importance in
law and ethics, relates to self-determination: the ability of a competent adult
to decide what treatment he or she wants or does not want.  n47

   Finally, casuistry has emerged as a key ethical approach for dealing with
clinical cases in context.  n48 A pragmatic approach to addressing ethical
issues, casuistry involves the search for a case sufficiently similar to one's
own to help figure out what to do and how in the current situation. This
approach benefits from its similarity to medical (and legal) reasoning wherein
clinicians turn to prior experience to guide decision-making. Collectively, in
practice we see a blend of approaches applied in real-world cases, akin to tools
that clinicians may use to analyze difficult cases. These tools may also help
facilitate communication across professions and with patients and families.

C. Moving Theory to Practice: Ethics Consulting in Clinical Settings
So, how do ethical issues play out in the health care setting? First, the "who:"
for larger health systems and academic medical centers, a select group of
individuals will often take the lead role as ethics consultants for the
institution (or health system), with regularly scheduled rotations as on-call
consultants. Smaller and community hospitals may rely on nearby larger centers
with more expertise or academic colleagues knowledgeable about bioethics to help
with consulting. Increasingly, ethics consultants have additional training in
bioethics to help conduct analyses and guide decision-making processes,
particularly with complex, emotionally fraught, or novel issues.  n49

   Larger health care institutions often also have an ethics committee.  n50 In
addition to an ethics consult (or case review) role, institutional ethics
committees take a lead in the review and drafting of ethics-related policies,
and may also be responsible for ethics education of staff and trainees for the
institution or system.  n51 A multidisciplinary body (ideally led by someone
with ethics training), members typically include physicians, nurses, social
workers, other clinicians, community representatives, and spiritual care staff
Some committees also choose to include hospital counsel and/or risk management
staff, although including these individuals is not without controversy.
Certainly, many ethical issues dovetail legal matters; however, the committee
may take on a more or less "legalistic" (i.e., institutional, risk averse) tone
with their inclusion. Caution is often urged, as is the enunciation of a clear
description of each member's role on the ethics committee and the committee's
purpose.  n52

   Depending on the setting within which the MLP is situated -- namely for those
increasing number of MLPs based in hospitals or academic medical center settings
serving patients with complex needs (as of 2008, MLPs housed in 73 hospital
settings, a growing number)  n53 -- an ethics consultant or ethics committee
[*853]  may thus be an additional resource to offer a different perspective on a
vexing case facing an MLP. The consult may serve to reorient parties to common
goals and to reaffirm, to the fullest extent possible, patient decision-making.
Even when formal ethics consultations are not an option, an understanding of
bioethics principles may serve as a useful discourse to navigate thorny issues
crossing disciplinary boundaries in patient care.

   How might an ethics consult happen? Normally anyone involved in the case may
call the designated ethics institutional number for ethics guidance, including
faculty, staff, patients, and family members. After the call is made and a
consult requested, the process typically includes a discussion with the
requestor, the attending physician (if not the requestor), and the patient and
relevant family members (if not the requestors).  n54 The consultant also meets
with others on the medical team to get a clear picture and ascertain key facts
and points of conflict. The case may require legal research (but not necessarily
a referral to hospital counsel) to assist in the ethical analysis, but purely
legal or risk management perspectives are not the substance of the ethics
consult. Potentially an MLP attorney may be consulted during this process, so
long as care is taken not to negatively impact any lawyer-client relationship.
n55 The MLP lawyer should view this as an opportunity to enhance collaboration
by being part of forward progress on a case (or as a means to remove obstacles),
and not as a challenge to his/her authority. It would be helpful for all MLP
partners to see the bioethics consult (formal or informal) as a means to think
more broadly, across traditional boundaries, about how best to serve the
patient/client -- similar to how the MLP itself represents a broadened
perspective on the diversity of professionals and resources that can work
together to enhance patient care.

   Why might a consult be requested? Sometimes a member of the clinical team
calls for a consult because of a disagreement within the team, a challenge with
communication (not necessarily an ethical issue, but often referred for an
ethics consult), and/or an issue with a patient or family decision.
Alternatively, a patient or family member may seek a consult because a clinical
order is seen as over- or under-treatment. Or there may be a concern about the
patient's capacity to make a decision, or whether a surrogate decision-maker is
acting in the patient's best interest. Thus, a frequent focus is on patient
decision-making capacity. The ethics consultant does not perform the capacity
assessment, but considers what sorts of assessments have been made and applied
to the current decision, and helps sort out the role, if any, of the family and
treatment team in decision-making.

   Ethics consultants do not superimpose their judgment on the clinician-patient
relationship or make a clinical treatment decision (or legal decision), but
rather foster conflict resolution by identifying ethical issues and guiding
decision-making through ethical reasoning. To do this, the ethics consultant or
committee draws on ethics principles and other bioethics approaches, and also
examines patient and family preferences and contextual issues (e.g., cultural
and religious factors, financial and economic factors, legal and institutional
policy issues, etc.).  n56 The goal is to support favored options via reasoned
judgment, with due consideration of each option's consequences.

   It is worth noting that many lawyers enter the ethics field and act as ethics
consultants, which may become their primary or sole role for the institution.
These legally trained representatives should be clear about the difference
between ethics consulting and legal counseling, be able to identify when they
are acting in which role, and recognize the limits of such roles. MLP legal
partners should also be clear about their role as distinguished from hospital
counsel. When there is a bioethics consult on a case in which an MLP is also
involved, it should be emphasized that while legal matters may be an issue, they
are not the issue for the consult.

   Now that some of the basics of bioethics analysis and ethics consultation
have been explained, and to better understand how bioethical issues might arise
[*854]  and/or how bioethical analysis might help bridge clinical and legal
perspectives in the context of MLPs, it would be helpful to see how the
perspectives apply in different sorts of cases. A range of case types exist,
from bioethics mutually supporting (i.e., working in concert with) law to
actualize patient goals, to bioethics guiding parties struggling with the
application of the law, to bioethics illuminating and expanding law's focus. A
sample case from each general type follows. These cases are illustrative of the
sort that have vexed several of the authors and have been in the press.  n57
They are intended to illustrate how bioethics might offer a different
perspective for the MLP partners that is of particular importance when there may
be a legal response available for a particular issue, but one that does not
necessarily resolve the underlying conflict. As more MLP partners become aware
of the benefits of a consult or the value in understanding basic bioethics
theories, these offer the MLP team a new tool and allows them to think outside
the box in enhancing patient/client care. It also dovetails with the holistic
systems-based approach that MLPs endorse, building on a social work perspective
(who are often critical members of the MLP team).

IV. Case Studies
A. Ruth and Bioethics Mutually Supporting the Law
Ruth, a 58-year-old single woman, was taken to the hospital Emergency Room with
severe shoulder pain. An X-ray showed a significant amount of fluid in the
lungs. Further tests showed that Ruth had ovarian cancer, which had already
spread to the lungs. She began chemotherapy in advance of surgery. After
admission to the hospital, it was discovered that she did not have any advance
directives, and was referred to the onsite MLP lawyer.

   Ruth wanted her good friend Jane to serve as her health care agent and power
of attorney and asked Jane to be present when she met with the MLP lawyer.
During the bedside legal consult the lawyer heard Ruth clearly state her wishes
regarding end-of-life care. She expressed that she did not want to be maintained
as a "vegetable" (in a neurovegetative state), and wanted "no tubes; I am going
to die anyway?" The lawyer helped her complete a New York State Health Care
Proxy and Power of Attorney form.

   The day following the lawyer's visit, Ruth developed severe respiratory
distress and was unable to communicate with the health care team. As was the
custom at the hospital, a covering doctor called Ruth's sister, listed as
"next-of-kin" on the face sheet of the medical record, having been so identified
in a previous admission. Her sister arrived in New York to learn of the gravity
of Ruth's condition, which soon deteriorated; she developed a severe pneumonia,
needing intubation and sedation. Jane, acting as Ruth's health care agent,
wanted to follow Ruth's wishes, but Ruth's sister from California, with whom
Ruth was not close, wanted her to be intubated as she was upset about her
sister's newly diagnosed illness and did not want to "let her die."

   The Intensive Care Unit staff was unsure if they could follow the agent's
direction, and in frustration, the agent called the MLP lawyer, who reinforced
her rights through the proxy form. The hospital administration was uncomfortable
allowing the physician to follow the agent's direction when a family member
opposed that direction. An ethics consult was called.  n58

1. THE LEGAL PERSPECTIVE
The principal role of the MLP lawyer in this case was to act as an advisor and
retained lawyer who worked on Ruth's behalf to help her complete the Health Care
Proxy and Power of Attorney form. The lawyer-client relationship arose when the
lawyer advised and assisted Ruth during the bedside consultation. In Ruth's
case, the lawyer has an ethical duty to avoid a conflict of interest while
representing Ruth, even though the representation merely consisted of a bedside
consultation and limited assistance in filling out paperwork. Any confidential
information acquired from Ruth during the consultation must be preserved, unless
the lawyer is implicitly authorized to reveal that information as part of her
representation or permitted to reveal by the client; in this case, the client
did not authorize any release of confidential information.  n59 The questions
then arise as to (a) whether the fact that the MLP is partially funded by the
hospital creates an ethical conflict of interest; and (b) whether the lawyer's
relationship with the hospital, and specifically the MLP's relationship as an
inherent part of the health care team, creates an untenable practical conflict
of interest.

   First, while the lawyer's employment in the MLP is partially funded by the
hospital, this does not create a de facto ethical conflict of interest that
would prevent her from advocating on Ruth's behalf, even in matters affecting
the hospital administration. It should be clear to all parties from the outset
that the MLP lawyer is not retained to represent the hospital and thus she has
not formed a lawyer-client relationship with the hospital in any manner. It is
incumbent upon the hospital administration to recognize the boundaries
encompassed by the MLP lawyer, and to respect the role the lawyer plays in
representing her client in a diligent, competent and zealous fashion, even when
it conflicts with the hospital administration.

   In this case, members of the clinical team might be curious about the
lawyer's conversations with Ruth, or  [*855]  any information the lawyer learned
during the brief interaction between the two while filling out the proxy forms.
Here lies the crux of the lawyer's dilemma, as she is ethically bound to keep
those interactions confidential -- unless the client gives informed consent,
n60 yet she also may feel obligated to participate in the clinical process,
answer questions posed by her clinical partners, and avoid being evasive. An MLP
lawyer's communication with other partners about these obligations of
confidentiality before the fact, however, often alleviates this dilemma;
clinicians must understand from the outset the lawyer's limited ability of
information sharing.

2. THE BIOETHICS CONSULT
A central issue in this case for ethical analysis is who should decide what to
do, and related to this, what is the capacity of the patient to make her own
decisions. At this time, Ruth is sedated, so it is hard to gauge her current
wishes. A likely initial ethics consultant question to the clinical team would
be whether Ruth could be awakened sufficiently to have the "capacity" to discuss
her wishes given the current state of affairs.

   If able to do so, proxy decision-making would not be necessary given the
patient's capacity. If unable to communicate with Ruth (as the facts seem to
indicate here), having an agent designated and wishes stated so close in time to
Ruth's current status would weigh on the side of no intubation, especially given
the gravity of Ruth's diagnosis. During the consult, Jane should describe the
discussion she had with Ruth when she was designated as Ruth's agent: that Ruth
did not want to be in a vegetative state or on tubes. An ethics consult could
help to clarify, however, what Ruth meant by "no tubes." Perhaps intubation
might simply be a time-limited event to deal with the pneumonia. It would be
important to clarify Ruth's wishes as to what she wanted, and whether Ruth's
wish not to be intubated was a general request (as was not being in a
"vegetative state"), or might be something she would allow in certain
circumstances for a certain time period (e.g., to recover from pneumonia to have
surgery).

   ICU team discomfort might relate to not being a party to the discussion about
Ruth's wishes. Ideally, the physician is involved in these important
discussions.  n61 It would be advisable for the physician to discuss Ruth's
wishes with her and include information from the discussions in the patient's
record. Formal documentation (e.g., proxy document) should also be in the
record. The hope is that the agent and the clinical team are familiar with the
patient's wishes to ensure that the agent does not simply act in the patient's
best interests (a secondary surrogate decision-making goal), but in fact decides
as the patient would have if able, i.e., substituted judgment (a primary goal
for surrogate decision-making).

   One might argue that it seems the distant sister is acting in Ruth's best
interests by keeping her alive, given how new her diagnosis is and the option of
surgery. Although a proxy form was signed and agent designated, given Ruth's
sisters concerns, the ethics consultant may recommend that the team and Jane
spend more time with Ruth's sister describing the full clinical picture, the
gravity of Ruth's diagnosis, what Ruth had said she wanted, and the potential
risks and benefits of aggressive care, such as intubation and mechanical
ventilation. This could "buy" a little time to allow Ruth's sister to absorb the
information and grieve.

   The MLP lawyer can be party to certain ethics discussions, particularly since
the MLP lawyer was there when the client signed the proxy form (mindful, of
course, of limits on what the lawyer can share). In this case, the consult
process was separate from any MLP involvement. While such may be typical of how
MLP lawyers become involved in ethics consults, more education about the ethics
consult process and bioethics approaches could help lawyers and other MLP
parters to better understand how they fit within the context of the case and to
be better prepared to address issues from a bioethics perspective. In the
future, however, the MLP lawyer may also more proactively consider how an ethics
consult or bioethics approach could clarify Ruth's wishes via a more
"collaborative" process (i.e., through a shared "ethics" discourse) to build
bridges between legal and clinical advocacy for Ruth.

   In sum, a bioethics consult in this case would investigate many of the same
issues a legal consult would: capacity, autonomy, decision-making authority, and
when placed in context, how to deal with relationships affected by our
decisions. Bioethics may help support legal goals of effectuating Ruth's wishes.
This perspective also brings to light capacity concerns and benefits from
seeking out interdisciplinary input into addressing those concerns to achieve
Ruth's wishes: bioethics is a tool to engage deeper discussions across
disciplinary boundaries.

B. Annie and Bioethics Informing the Law's Application
Annie is a 15-year-old girl who is regularly seen in the adolescent clinic in a
large metropolitan hospital. Annie's mother has signed a general hospital
"Consent to Treat" form that allows Annie to receive routine well and sick care
without the need for an accompanying adult. At her last well-care visit upon
turning 15, Annie asked her primary care physician (PCP) about  [*856]  methods
of contraception and admitted that she has recently begun a sexual relationship
with a new boyfriend. She would not reveal the boyfriend's age during that
encounter.

   During her most recent visit, she presented with the following information:
she is having unusual abdominal pains; is bleeding abnormally; has experienced
periodic burning sensations while urinating; and that day experienced a small
amount of discharge from her vagina. Her PCP ran a routine battery of tests and
took a detailed history, during which Annie admitted that she is presently
engaged in a sexual relationship with a 20-year-old man whom she calls her
"boyfriend." Annie reported that because of her mother's displeasure with the
relationship, she has recently moved in with her boyfriend and the boyfriend's
sister, saying her mother would "kill her" if she returned home now.

   The PCP asks Annie whether any of her sexual encounters were forced, and
whether she is a consensual partner in the relationship with her boyfriend.
Annie refuses to answer. The PCP notices heavy makeup around her eye; yet, when
he attempts to examine Annie's face, she pulls away. The PCP suspects that Annie
has been subjected to facial trauma and is attempting to hide a black and blue
mark on her right cheek.

   At this point, the PCP believes that Annie has contracted a sexually
transmitted infection (STI), is possibly pregnant, and may be holding out other
vital information regarding her relationship with her boyfriend. The PCP calls
the MLP lawyer, saying he will go to hospital counsel to discuss reporting
obligations (if any) related to parental neglect;  n62 however, he would like
advice about what to do with Annie generally in this situation since there are
tricky confidentiality and other legal issues. Furthermore, he suspects that
Annie is not capable of negotiating the maze of social services that may be
available to her and requests that the MLP lawyer meet with her to discuss her
legal options.

   The MLP lawyer meets with Annie in the exam room and informs her that their
conversation will remain confidential, subject to a few exceptions (e.g., if
fear of substantial bodily harm). At first Annie is hesitant to say anything to
the lawyer, but eventually she admits that she has been assaulted a "couple of
times" by her boyfriend, and that he has forced her to engage in sexual
intercourse on a few occasions against her will. Despite this, she indicates
that she loves her boyfriend and wishes to return to his apartment and continue
her relationship with him. She also asks the MLP lawyer to keep this information
confidential; although she likes and respects the PCP, she thinks that he might
take steps to separate her from her boyfriend.

1. THE LEGAL CONSULT (AND LEGAL ETHICS PERSPECTIVE)
The MLP lawyer in this case is faced with several significant legal ethical
dilemmas. As is typical of many MLP lawyers, the lawyer in this scenario is
playing a dual role -- that of an informal consultant to the medical provider,
and as a legal confidante and advisor to the patient. While many times these
roles coincide and result in collaborative outcomes, in this case the lawyer is
faced with a difficult ethical conflict.

   Although the PCP has referred Annie to the MLP lawyer, the lawyer is not
retained by the PCP or the adolescent clinic but is merely serving in an
advisory capacity, and neither the PCP nor the adolescent clinic are "clients"
under any set of legal ethics rules or codes. The expectations of the PCP,
however, are rooted in the notion that the lawyer and clinician are working
toward the same goal -- ensuring the health and well-being of the adolescent
patient. If the lawyer's only contact was with the PCP as information resource,
her advice would be rooted in her knowledge of the law surrounding an
adolescent's right to make health care decisions independent of parental
notification or consent. The relationship, however, would not be lawyer-client
based.

   Upon meeting with Annie, however, the MLP lawyer must work within the
constraints of legal ethics rules to determine whether she must honor the
confidentiality of the prospective client/patient (i e, Annie) or whether there
are extenuating circumstances that might compel her, as a matter of ethical
duty, to reveal the issues of domestic violence and physical harm. In addition,
the lawyer is bound by her ethical duty to counsel and advise the teenager in
terms of the legal ramifications of her status as a minor and the potential
implications of a child welfare referral by the PCP.

   Most difficult here is the practical conflict of interest that arises when
the lawyer discovers from the adolescent client the forced sexual activity and
the physical assault -- and how that information plays into her role as an
"advisor" to the PCP. While the lawyer has no legal "ethical" duty to reveal the
adolescent's confidences to the PCP, her failure to do so may practically
impinge upon the critical collaborative relationship that exists between the two
professional providers. Thus, the lawyer might be upholding the highest
aspirations of her profession by keeping the patient's information confidential,
but she may be undercutting the notions of trust and loyalty that play an
important part of the lawyer's role in the medical-legal collaborative setting.
With this tension in mind, the lawyer is not in a position to discuss potential
referral to the child welfare agency with the PCP, and should direct the
clinician to seek counsel from colleagues or hospital counsel.

 [*857]  2. THE BIOETHICS PERSPECTIVE (AND POTENTIAL BIOETHICS CONSULT)
In this case it is not clear that mandatory reporting would apply given a lack
of involvement by the parents in the case; however, clinicians may be confused
about legal obligations and concerned with how such affect ethical ones. It is
here that bioethics has a role to play, where legal obligations may be seen as
impinging on certain ethical obligations of the PCP. Confidentiality in health
care is a paramount value in health care, especially with adolescents where
confidentiality may enhance their help-seeking behavior; trust in their PCP; and
their engagement in care, with the ultimate result being more effective
treatment. The PCP must consider what is in the best interests of his patient.
This includes avoiding harm to Annie, which breaking confidences may do; the
latter may also negatively impact the ability to develop a strong
physician-patient relationship.

   Thus, the PCP may feel torn between potential legal reporting requirements
and his desire to maintain a strong relationship with Annie to get her the care
she needs. A bioethics consultant's role is not to endorse breaking the law, but
she can urge sensitivity when working with clinicians who may struggle to
balance legal and ethical obligations, and can also sensitize the lawyers to the
ethical concerns these clinicians face. Lawyers and clinicians may also be
better educated about how reporting plays out in real world situations.

   It is also important to remember that Annie, as an adolescent, sits within a
family, raising further ethical obligations. The PCP can try to partner with
Annie and facilitate conversations between Annie and her mother so that Annie
gets the support she needs. He may feel frustrated by legal requirements that
would set bright-lines on disclosure when he wishes to maintain a bit more
discretion in how this process unfolds. A formal ethics consult may help the PCP
think through the best process and means of communication in sensitive
situations such as this.

   If a potential ethics consult precedes (or runs parallel to) MLP involvement
with Annie's case, the MLP could see the consult as a means to clarify legal
obligations, and the limits of the MLP lawyer role in contrast to hospital
counsel, in a less adversarial (or "turf" challenging) way. If no consult has
been called, however, the MLP lawyer could use a bioethics approach as a
mediating function: it can be an invaluable means to open up the lines of
communication so that all critical voices are heard and the focus reoriented to
Annie's best interests, a unifying goal among all MLP partners.

   In sum, in these sorts of cases, bioethics can help explain how law may seem
clear but may (a) be questionable in application (e.g., if the PCP must report
in this sort of situation where there is no clear parental involvement); and/or
(b) create other ethical concerns if applied (e.g., Annie's confidentiality and
trust in PCP). Bioethics facilitated and framed discussion may help to
illuminate these issues and clarify roles, expectations, and obligations of all
parties, with Annie's best interests as the unifying objective.

C. Mr. G. and Bioethics Illuminating the Law and Expanding Its Focus
Mr. G., a 75-year-old undocumented immigrant from Mexico, was admitted to the
hospital for a neurological work-up. He had radiation necrosis from prior
radiation on a brain tumor. The hospital determined that the tumor was
inoperable, but because of Mr. G.'s altered mental status (including possible
dementia), inability to communicate, and an inability to walk or eat without
assistance, he could not be safely discharged to his home. Other than Mr. G.'s
niece, with whom he lived, his family still lived in Mexico, including a younger
sister (his niece's mother).

   As an undocumented immigrant, Mr. G.'s only access to health benefits in the
hospital was Emergency Medicaid, which covered his care when first admitted as
an emergency patient, but which was not covering his on-going (non-acute)
treatment. The social worker assigned to Mr. G.'s case was urged to find him a
nursing home for discharge as his on-going needs did not require hospital care,
and the growing costs of that care were falling on the hospital. However, each
nursing home she approached declined transfer due to his lack of insurance and
immigration status.

   At this point, the hospital unit's social worker referred Mr. G.'s niece to
the onsite MLP, a project funded in part by the hospital, to determine whether
Mr. G. would be eligible for non-Emergency Medicaid. After interviewing Mr. G.'s
niece, the MLP lawyer determined that there was no basis to adjust Mr. G.'s
status in the U.S. and therefore no basis to make him eligible for non-Emergency
Medicaid.

   The hospital administration then considered if discharge and subsequent
private repatriation might be the best solution, as they believed that the care
would be adequate and he had a sister in Mexico to help manage that care. The
Administrator asked the unit social worker to begin to work with the niece to
safely transport Mr. G. back to Mexico. The niece, knowing how poor the family
in Mexico was, did not think that repatriation was in the best interests of Mr.
G. and expressed her concerns to the MLP lawyer.

 [*858]  1. THE LEGAL CONSULT (AND LEGAL ETHICS PERSPECTIVE)
When initially consulted, the MLP lawyer was working in concert with the goals
of the hospital to investigate and potentially advocate on Mr. G's behalf
regarding Medicaid eligibility However, as time went on, it became apparent that
the goals of the MLP as advocate for the client and the hospital's goal to
obtain financial remuneration for Mr. G.'s care began to diverge. The hospital
was concerned about the costs of having Mr. G. remain in the hospital and now
sought repatriation, not insurance reimbursement. The MLP lawyer was concerned
about the potential consequences of this discharge plan. There is a clear
conflict now between the MLP's duty to its client, the niece, and the hospital
administration.

2. THE BIOETHICS PERSPECTIVE (AND POTENTIAL BIOETHICS CONSULT)
The social work staff was quick to consult with the legal team regarding
immigration issues; however, they should be encouraged to seek out an ethics
consult for a different framing of this situation. An ethical analysis would
focus on concerns over a potential unsafe discharge and abandoning a patient
with medical issues. A central theme in ethics is to "do no harm": an
immigration/deportation focus in this case may harm Mr. G. by taking him from a
place where clinical relationships have formed. Also, his unstable medical
condition could suffer from movement to a country with potentially inadequate
resources for someone in his medical condition. Beyond individual harm, Mr. G.
also resides in an immigrant community to which the hospital provides a variety
of services, which it is able to do because over time it has built trust with
this community. Acting hastily with Mr. G. could harm trust not only at the
individual level, but also at the community level, raising a potential public
health risk (i.e., risk at a larger immigrant population level).

   The MLP lawyer in this case, unlike the preceding two, may not see the
bioethical issue or need for an ethics consult, but rather may feel the sole
conflict is that between her own legal obligations to the client and a sense of
loyalty to the hospital and its interests. Critically, then, recognition of the
availability of a bioethics consult or use of a bioethics approach may help the
MLP lawyer and other partners see the case through a new lens: that of providing
care to a vulnerable patient from an immigrant community where clinical input
may be invaluable in making a strong case, and not simply a legal matter.

   Thus, in this case a bioethics perspective might serve to educate the
interdisciplinary team as to issues they might not otherwise recognize as
critical in this sort of case, namely issues when addressing health care needs
of an immigrant and an immigrant community. While focused on the legal status of
Mr. G. and concerns of deportation, viewed through a bioethics prism, the
partners might also recognize other harms to Mr. G.'s health (e.g., unsafe
discharge) from a move. Furthermore, at issue is not simply deportation of Mr.
G. but also how the treatment of one patient may affect relationships with a
larger pool of patients from Mr. G.'s community (e.g., raise fears of
deportation or repatriation if seek treatment).

V. Implications/Next Steps
There are many ways that the collaborations between and amongst the
professionals involved in MLPs could be further enhanced by changes and
improvements. We will focus on three main recommendations in this article: (1)
changes in education -- in professional schools and during the collaboration
(both as part of the formation stage of the MLP and after its creation); (2)
awareness of the availability and importance of an ethics consult to expand the
options of MLPs in dealing with points of conflict; and (3) modifications in the
applicable legal ethics rules to facilitate interdisciplinary collaborations,
such as those in MLPs.

A. Changes in Education
As to education in professional schools, many issues arise from the nature of
ethics and how it is traditionally taught. Legal ethics are codified  n63 while
bioethics is less focused on the right "code" and more on the application of a
range of methods and approaches to help resolve difficult cases in context.  n64
In part the divergence in aims relates to the greater formalism in legal ethics;
additionally, bioethics must confront and incorporate a ranges of professions in
its application (i.e., not guide the behavior of a single professional).  [*859]
We recommend that each profession's ethics training incorporate positive aspects
of the other (as is true for many issues in these collaborations).  n65

   In addition to the changes in traditional ethics training, professional
training should also address specific ethical challenges raised by
interdisciplinary collaboration.  n66 Professor Tobin Tyler noted that educators
have called for "more attention in [the] curriculum to teaching
client/patient-centered counseling, ethical reflection, cultural competency, and
interdisciplinary and holistic problem-solving to address complex client and
patient problems."  n67 Clinicians' professional training and that in law
schools should incorporate electives on interdisciplinary advocacy and healing
into the curriculum.  n68

   In the formation stages of the MLP, discussions between the various
professionals should include an understanding of the ethics rules of each of the
professions and the potential impact of those rules on the MLP. Protocols to
address some of these ethical issues should be created prior to the beginning of
the MLP.  n69 All members of the MLP should also receive training in bioethics
and the value of a bioethics perspective (including potentially a consult) in
the MLP (discussed below). Once the MLP has been created, continuing discussions
of the ethical and professional role issues should be built into the MLP.  n70

   Education offered by and through MLPs has typically been primarily about the
legal partners training clinicians on legal and advocacy matters. Endorsed here
is greater attention to what the legal partners have to learn about clinicians'
various ethical obligations and professional standards. For example, it would
help if lawyers better understood the ethical and professional tensions that
arise in the face of mandatory reporting obligations (e.g., concerns with
maintaining confidentiality and enhancing trust in clinician/patient
relationship).

   Further, additional training in bioethics for all partners could make real
the idea of a cross-disciplinary "collaboration" by focusing attention on common
ethical issues (e.g., capacity and informed consent, confidentiality) and
fiduciary obligations to help actualize patient/client interests. While each
profession's language may differ, expertise vary, and approaches diverge,
bioethics can be a bridge across professions to help members of the MLP team see
differences not as oppositional but as varied approaches to reach similar
desired ends. No profession's expertise would be discounted, but rather brought
to the table to reach mutual goals. The intent would be to use bioethics
education to lessen points of conflicts, and to facilitate understanding of the
various professional roles and values in the MLP.

B. Use of Bioethics Consult and Bioethics Review
For those times when conflict cannot be avoided, use of ethics consults could
introduce a neutral party into the issues in which the MLP lawyer is involved.
While we recognize that not all MLPs may have access to institutional ethics
committee or ethics consultants, we also realize that a growing number of MLPs
are within hospitals or academic medical centers, or otherwise have ties to
such, and so access to committee review is increasingly an option, especially as
laws give more validity to the ethics committee role.  n71 The MLP partners
should be educated about the value of the ethics consult and, when appropriate,
how to request it. For example, the ethics consult could be useful to resolve
family conflicts in end-of-life care, even when legal issues are involved. A
bioethics consult could foster communication and reframe seeming conflicts as
opportunities for sharing and mutual learning. Bioethics is not about consensus
or majority rules; however, the consult process may facilitate conflict
resolution through greater understanding of the many facets of a case through
appropriate sharing by each team member regarding his/her knowledge of key facts
and expertise in how to deal with issues. Consults may also point towards the
need for additional education or policy activities (e.g., education of unit
staff about working with immigrant populations; policy development to better
clarify obligations when working with the potentially abused adolescent
patient). Moreover, even if the MLP is in a setting where an ethics consult or
committee review is not readily available, the bioethics training recommended
for all MLP partners could be useful to navigate complex issues.

C. Modification of Legal Ethics Rules
As to changes in the applicable ethical rules, modifications could be made to
allow for increased collaboration in multidisciplinary practice. When the ABA
examined multidisciplinary practice in 1998 through a Commission of
Multidisciplinary Practice, the focus was on multidisciplinary practice in the
corporate business world (e.g., law and accounting) and not in the non-profit
world. The Commission specifically looked at Model Rule 5.4: Professional
Independence of a Lawyer, proposing five new models to allow attorneys to
practice in multidisciplinary practice,  n72 all of which the ABA House of
Delegates rejected.

   It is time to take a fresh look at these multidisciplinary practices in
non-profit organizations, including MLPs: a specific model that should be
explored is the expansion of the definition of the "legal team." A possible
approach is to expand this definition to include non-lawyers that assist the
lawyer in the representation of the client in non-profit multidisciplinary
organizations  [*860]  providing direct legal services to low-income and "other
vulnerable client populations."  n73

   Importantly, while there have been many suggestions to substantially change
the form of the legal relationship, changes to legal ethical rules are not
simple and could have unintended consequences. Understanding the complicated
nature of these suggestions, we recommend that the ABA (and perhaps state bar
associations) create a commission to study and recommend changes that could be
made to facilitate nonprofit interdisciplinary collaborations.  n74 The
commission could also examine other suggestions to facilitate MLPs in non-profit
organizations, such as modifying the rules to permit the offering of
interdisciplinary services while maintaining client confidentiality.  n75

Conclusion
In this era of health care reform, with an expanding health care consumer base
and cost-driven calls for innovation in practice models, it is likely that MLPs
will grow in number and scope. Our recommendations seek to foster this growth by
focusing on that which we believe can solidify more effective interdisciplinary
partnership: an understanding of and participatory discourse in ethics. The
commonalities in ethical approaches of the various professions in MLPs represent
a bridge between clinical and legal advocacy for patient/client well-being.
Understanding the similarities and differences, and the role of bioethics, would
help the interdisciplinary partners in the MLPs to navigate the often complex
and intricate ethical challenges that confront this unique treatment team.
Building on our vision of bioethics as a bridging discourse, we see in bioethics
a means to reinforce the collaboration that is the foundation of the MLP. We
suggest that bioethics represents a potentially valuable resource for conflict
resolution and cross-professional collaboration by providing a discourse that
borrows from legal and medical ethical traditions. MLP lawyers, in particular,
may value the bioethics perspective to better understand the health care
landscape within which they practice.

Acknowledgements
The authors kindly thank Tenley Mochizuki, University of Virginia Law School,
and Nick Moore, Syracuse University College of Law, for their assistance with
compiling and verifying references.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
EvidencePrivilegesAttorney-Client
PrivilegeExceptionsEvidencePrivilegesAttorney-Client PrivilegeWaiverLegal
EthicsPublic Service

FOOTNOTES:





n1  It is recognized that lawyers and health care professionals may each be
considered "clinicians;" however, within this article, when "clinician" is used,
it will refer strictly to the health care professional.





n2  There is ample literature on the medical-legal partnership model and theory.
See, e.g., E. Cohen, et al., "Medical-Legal Partnership: Collaborating with
Lawyers to Identify and Address Health Disparities," Journal of General Internal
Medicine 25, Supp. 2 (2010): 136-139; R. Retkin et al., "Medical-Legal
Partnerships: A Key Strategy for Mitigating the Negative Health Impacts of the
Recession," Health Lawyer 22, no. 1 (October 2009): 29-34; J. Wettach, "The Law
School Clinic as a Partner in Medical-Legal Partnership," Tennessee Law Review
75 (2008): 305-313; P. Tames et al., "The Lawyer Is In: Why Some Doctors Are
Prescribing Legal Remedies for Their Patients and How the Legal Profession Can
Support This Effort," Boston University Public Interest Law Journal 12 (2003):
505-527.





n3  Some use the terms interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary interchangeably,
but they have different meanings. Multidisciplinary is more akin to a "separate
but equal" partnership, while "interdisciplinary" implies a more integrated
teaming among disciplines. See R. L. Jessup, "Interdisciplinary Versus
Multidisciplinary Care Teams: Do We Understand the Difference," Australian
Health Review 31, no. 3 (2007): 330-331.





n4  See National Center for Medical Legal Partnerships, "About Us," available at
<http://www.medical-legalpartnership.org/about-us> (last visited October 6,
2010) [hereinafter NCMLP]. As for federal support, the Medical-Legal Partnership
for Health Act was introduced into the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate
on July 29, 2010 (H.R.5961 and S.3668).





n5  Much of the relevant literature examines how to deal with the ethical
barriers in interdisciplinary work. A. Anderson et al., "Professional Ethics in
Interdisciplinary Collaboratives: Zeal, Paternalism, and Mandated Reporting,"
Clinical Law Review 13 (2007): 659-718; see Tames et al., supra note 2, at 513,
525-526; J. M. Norwood and A. Paterson, "Problem-Solving in a Multidisciplinary
Environment? Must Ethics Get in the Way of Holistic Service?" Clinical Law
Review 9 (2002): 337-372.





n6  P. D. Jacobson and M. G. Bloche, "Improving Relations between Attorneys and
Physicians," JAMA 4 294, no. 16 (2005): 2083-2085.





n7  There is remarkable similarity between the two professional codes. See Model
Rules of Professional Conduct, at Preamble (2002); American Medical Association,
Principles of Medical Ethics (Chicago: American Medical Association Press,
2008).





n8  A lawyer as an advocate and a doctor as a healer are typical
characterizations. However, as described by Professor Charity Scott, a doctor is
also an advocate as an "economic advocate" (advocate with health insurance
providers for the patient to obtain treatment that is medically necessary) and a
"care advocate" (advocate for the patient in any conflict over the care with the
patient or patient's family). C. Scott, "Doctors as Advocates, Lawyers as
Healers," Hamline Journal of Public Law and Policy 29 (2008): 331-399. A lawyer
can also be a healer, as part of the broader roles for a lawyer in the Model
Rules (i.e., counselor; consider moral, economic, social and political factors
in acting as advisor), and as a problem solver, helping to make things better
for people involved in the legal system. Id.





n9  Medical ethics and bioethics are sometimes used interchangeably. However, as
discussed in this article, bioethics results from a recognition that ethics
apply to more than the physician profession and the clinical realm; bioethics
encompasses ethics in health care and biomedicine.





n10  NCLMP, "About Us: History," available at
<http://www.med-ical-legalpartnership.org/about-us/history> (last visited
October 6, 2010).





n11  Id. (formerly the "Medical Legal Partnership for Children").





n12  D. I. Schulman et al., "Public Health Legal Services: A New Vision,"
Georgetown Journal on Poverty Law & Policy 25 (2008): 729-779, at 763 (citing
American Bar Association, Health Law Section, Report to the House of Delegates,
Recommendations (August 2007), available at
<http://wwwaba-net.org/AIDS/dots/ABA_MLP_Resolution_Aug2007adopted.doc> (last
visited May 25, 2010).





n13  H. Thomas Wells, American Bar Association President, to American Bar
Association Members, October 21 2008, available at
<http://www.abanet.org/legalservices/probono/medlegal/docs/wells_letter.pdf>
(last visited May 25, 2010).





n14  While it is beyond the scope of this article to be an exhaustive treatise
on MLP models, there are several articles that define the MLP's purpose and
potential models. For example, see, B. Zuckerman et al., "Why Pediatricians Need
Lawyers to Keep Children Healthy," Pediatrics 114, no. 1 (2004): 224-228; R.
Retkin et al, "Lawyers and Doctors Working Together -- A For-midable Team;'
Health Lawyer 20, no. 1 (2007): 33-36; see also references in supra note 2.





n15  LegalHealth, "Our Trainings," available at
<http://legalhealth.org/about/ourTrng.htm> (last visited October 6, 2010).





n16  K. J. Rodabaugh et al., "A Medical-Legal Partnership as a Component of a
Palliative Care Model," Journal of Palliative Medicine 13, no. 1 (2010): 15-18,
at 16.





n17  See Cohen et al, supra note 2, at 137-39.





n18  Id., at 137.





n19  E. Lawton et al., "Disparities in Health, Disparities in Law: The Global
Potential of Individual Advocacy," in P. Cholewka and M. M. Motlagh, eds.,
Health Capital and Sustainable Socioeconomic Development (Boca Raton: CRC Press,
2008): at 419-439; D. Weintraub et al, "Pilot Study of Medical-Legal Partnership
to Address Social and Legal Needs of Patients," Journal of Healthcare for the
Poor and Underserved 21, Supp. 2 (2010): 157-168.





n20  NCMLP, "2009 Medical-Legal Partnership Site Survey Results;' available at
<http://www.medical-legalpartnership.org/mlp-network/network-site-survey> (last
visited October 6, 2010).





n21  This Section provides an overview of fundamentals of legal ethics,
particularly areas relevant to MLPs. Readers wishing a more thorough examination
could consult a number of treatises on legal ethics, e.g., D. L. Rhode and D.
Luban, Legal Ethics, 5th ed. (New York: Foundation Press, 2009); L. G. Lerman
and P. G. Schrag, Ethical Problems in the Practice of Law, 2nd ed. (New York:
Aspen Publishers, 2008).





n22  For a comprehensive guide to each state's application of ethical rules and
codes, see American Bar Association, "Center for Professional Responsibility:
Links to Other Legal Ethics and Professional Responsibility Pages;" available at
<http://www.abanet.org/cpr/links.html> (last visited April 19, 2010).





n23  The term "advisor" is used in a generic sense -- to provide general legal
information to the collaborative team. It is not meant to imply that the lawyer
has assumed the role of an "advisor" pursuant to the Rules of Professional
Conduct. See Model Rules of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R. 2.1
("Advisor") (2002).





n24  See Tames et al., supra note 2.





n25  Interestingly, the Model Rules do not contain a requirement that a lawyer
"zealously" advocates for a client. The preamble to the rules, however, provides
that a lawyer "zealously asserts the client's position under the rules of the
adversary system." See Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 7, at Preamble
§ 2. It is generally accepted that lawyers may refuse to represent a prospective
client, or withdraw from representing an existing client, if the client's
position is morally repugnant to the lawyer's. See Model Rules of Professional
Conduct, supra note 7, at R.1.16 ("Declining or Terminating Representation").





n26  See D. L. Rhode, "Ethical Perspectives on Legal Practice," Stanford Law
Review 37 (January 1985): 589-651, at 605; W. H. Simon, "The Ideology of
Advocacy: Procedural Justice and Professional Ethics;" Wisconsin Law Review 29,
no. 1 (1978): 29-144, at 36-38. Note that this concept should be recognizable to
clinicians, who also have an obligation to uphold a capable/competent patient's
autonomous wishes, even if not the clinician's own.





n27  See Model Rules of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R.1.2(b) (2002)
("[a] lawyer's representation of a client...does not constitute an endorsement
of the client's political, economic, social, or moral views or activities").





n28  Present and former client conflicts are governed by the principles of
loyalty (to present clients) and confidentiality (to former clients). See Model
Rules of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R. 1.7 and 1.9 (2002) (providing
the guideposts for identifying conflicts of interest for present clients, and
the duties to avoid conflicts of interest to former clients, respectively).





n29  While this paper does not intend to focus on the nuances and complexities
of the rules of professional lawyer conduct, it raises the issue of potential
conflict of interest that should be addressed at the outset of every potential
collaboration.





n30  For example, the lawyer may encounter a client who seeks redress for a
medical error committed by the hospital, but her pursuit of a remedy on behalf
of the client would likely be her last act as a collaborative partner with the
hospital. The very nature of MLPs precludes adverse action by the lawyer in the
collaborative setting against the collaborative partner.





n31  The lawyer's role as an Advisor is found in Model Rule 2.1. See Model Rules
of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R. 2.1 (2002) ("in representing a
client, a lawyer shall exercise independent professional judgment and render
candid advice. In rendering advice, a lawyer may refer not only to law, but to
other considerations such as moral, economic, social and political factors, that
may be relevant to the client's situation").





n32  See Model Rules of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R 1.6 (2002).





n33  See Restatement (Third) of Law Governing Lawyers § 68 (2000) (stating that
privilege is generally extended to include "(1) a communication, (2) made
between privileged persons, (3) in confidence, (4) for the purpose of obtaining
or providing legal assistance for the client").





n34  See Anderson et al., supra note 5, at 659-718; P. Galowitz, "Collaboration
Between Lawyers and Social Workers: Re-examining the Nature and Potential of
Relationships;" Fordham Law Review 67 (1999): 2123-2154; R. Retkin et al.,
"Attorneys and Social Workers Collaborating in HIV Care: Breaking New Ground;"
Fordham Urban Law Journal 24 (1997): 533-565.





n35  All three relationships are governed by codes that allow for the breach of
confidentiality. Typically, lawyers may breach confidentiality when faced with a
situation where she knows that a client is about to commit an act that will
result in substantial bodily harm or death. See Model Rules of Professional
Conduct, supra note 7, at R 1.6 (2002). A psychiatrist may reveal confidential
information in order to protect individuals or the community from "imminent
danger." See American Psychiatric Association, The Principles of Medical Ethics
with Annotations Especially Applicable to Psychiatry, 2009 rev. ed. (Arlington:
American Psychiatric Association, 2009): at 5-6.





n36  See Tames et al., supra notes 2 and 24, at 514-517.





n37  L. Vaughn, Bioethics: Principles, Issues, and Cases (New York: Oxford
University Press, 2010): at 51. For more on the "Hippocratic Tradition;" see R.
M. Veatch, A Theory of Medical Ethics (New York: Basic Books, Inc. Publishers,
1981): at 18-26.





n38  D. J. Rothman, Strangers at the Bedside (NY: Basic Books, Inc., 1991): at
1.





n39  See A. R. Jonsen, The Birth of Bioethics (New York: Oxford University
Press, 1998) ("Even though medical ethics, bioethics' predecessor, was shaken by
notable and notorious events, it was a slow accumulation of concerns about the
ambiguity of scientific progress that turned the old medical ethics into the new
paths of bioethics," at 3).





n40  See C. Scott, "Why Law Pervades Medicine: An Essay on Ethics in Health
Care;" Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics and Public Policy 14, no. 1 (2000):
245-303; G. J. Annas, Standard of Care: The Law of American Bioethics (New York:
Oxford University Press, 1993).





n41  "Biomedical ethics" is also sometimes used.





n42  See Rothman, supra note 38, at 102; for information on the difficulty of
defining "medical ethics;" see Jonsen, supra note 39, at ch.1; for a "contract"
theory of medical ethics, see Veatch, supra note 37.





n43  For an interesting discussion of "Bioethics as a Discipline," see Jonsen,
id., at ch. 10.





n44  This discussion is not meant to be an exhaustive exploration of the field
of bioethics, but rather to provide a brief overview of certain core concepts
and methods of bioethics. There are any number of sources readers may turn to
for a more in-depth exploration, some mentioned in references in this paper.
Other leading treatises include (but are not limited to), R. B. Baker and L. B.
McCullough, eds., The Cambridge World History of Medical Ethics (New York:
Cambridge University Press, 2008); B. Steinbock, ed., The Oxford Handbook of
Bioethics (New York: Oxford University Press, 2007); B. Steinbock, J. D. Arras,
and A. J. London, eds., Ethical Issues in Modern Medicine, 6th ed. (New York:
McGraw-Hill, 2003); E. H. Loewy, Textbook of Healthcare Ethics (New York: Plenum
Press, 1996).





n45  T. Shannon, ed., Bioethics, 4th ed. (Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 1993): at
3-5; see Vaughn, supra note 37, at 31-36. For a more in-depth discussion, see
also references, id.





n46  See T. L. Beauchamp and J. F. Childress, Principles of Biomedical Ethics,
6th ed. (New York: Oxford University Press, 2008); see also Shannon, id., at
5-10.





n47  "Autonomy" seems an obvious value, but can be tricky as applied. How much
capacity does a patient need to autonomously make a decision? What if one's
wishes are not clearly known and the family cannot agree on a decision? Or what
if the patient is an adolescent, on the cusp of legal adulthood? These are the
sorts of cases that vex the treatment team and may result in an ethics consult
(and certainly have been known to cause many a legal issue as well).





n48  See A. R. Jonsen and S. Toulmin, The Abuse of Casuistry: A History of Moral
Reasoning (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1988).





n49  It is also worth noting that medical schools include some sort of ethics
training, as do schools of nursing and health professions, with the aim that all
entering health care professionals be capable of ethical analysis.





n50  Smaller health care institutions, while perhaps lacking this formal ethics
committee structure, will have a process to evaluate ethics cases.





n51  For a discussion of the role of ethics committees, see C. J. Dougherty,
"Institutional Ethics Committees," in S. G. Post, ed., Encyclopedia of Bioethics
, 3rd ed. (Woodbridge: MacMillan Reference, 2003): at 444-447. See also B.
Hosford, Bioethics Committees: The Health Care Provider's Guide (Rockford, MD:
Aspen, 1986) (discussing factors influencing growth in number of ethics
committees, how they are formed, key functions, legal issues, and special
types).





n52  See K. A. DeVille, "Lawyers and Bioethics: Balancing Being Lawyers and
Conferring with Medical Ethics Advisors," Defense Counsel Journal 68, no. 4
(2001): 466-473. See also Hosford, id., at 129-136.





n53  NCMLP, Medical-Legal Partnership Network Annual Partnership Site Survey --
March 2009, available at
<http://www.medical-legalpartnership.org/mlp-network/network-site-sur-vey> (last
visited October 7, 2010).





n54  . For an informative summary of the clinical ethics consultation process,
see G. A. Kanoti and S. Younger, "Clinical Ethics Consultation," in Post, ed.,
supra note 51, at 439-44.





n55  Section IV of this article includes case examples with an ethics consult.





n56  Prominent models for clinical bioethical analysis may be found in A. R.
Jonsen, M. Siegler, and W. J. Winslade, Clinical Ethics: Approach to Ethical
Decisions in Clinical Medicine, 4th ed. (New York: McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1998); J.
C. Fletcher, P. A. Lombardo, M. F. Marshall, and F. J. Miller, eds.,
Introduction to Clinical Ethics, 2nd ed. (Hagerstown: University Publishing
Group, 1997); M. P. Aulisio, R. M. Arnold, and S. J. Younger, Ethics
Consultation: From Theory to Practice (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University
Press, 2003). See also L. C. Kaldijan, R. F. Weir, and T. P. Duffy, "A
Clinician's Approach to Clinical Ethical Reasoning," Journal of General Internal
Medicine 20, no. 3 (2005): 306-311; B. Lo, Resolving Ethical Dilemmas: A Guide
for Clinicians, 3rd ed. (Philadelphia: Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, 2005): at
7, Table 1-1.





n57  . See, e.g., D. Sontag, "Immigrants Facing Deportation by U.S. Hospitals,"
New York Times, August 3, 2008.





n58  Intended here is a "bioethics" (i.e., a health care related ethics)
consult; however, within hospitals and health systems, which would be less aware
of "legal ethics" related consults, typically one would refer to this as an
"ethics consult" (vs. bioethics consult).





n59  The assumption is made that the lawyer and Ruth entered into a retainer
agreement defining the scope of the representation, even in this limited
capacity.





n60  Discussed infra Sec. 11.5.





n61  A process and form has been developed to facilitate this communication and
translate it into a formal medical order, in New York known as the "MOLST"
(medical order for life-sustaining treatment). N.Y. Pub. Health Law § 2977(13)
(McKinney Supp. 2009). This additional sort of "paperwork" has its own critics,
but physicians should be aware of policy support of formal documentation of
patient wishes.





n62  At this point, the PCP may have an obligation to report child neglect
pursuant to his state's mandatory child abuse and neglect reporting statute.
Generally, mandatory reporters (those defined by statute) are required to report
abuse, neglect, injuries detected that are inconsistent or at variance with
explanations provided, and children who are placed in imminent risk of harm.
Many state reporting schemes require that a parent, guardian, or someone
responsible for the care and protection of the child cause the abuse, neglect or
imminent risk of harm. As a result, the mere fact that a minor is engaged in
potentially illegal conduct (e.g., statutory rape) may not implicate child
welfare reporting laws in many states because the conduct complained of does not
emanate from parental malfeasance or parental nonfeasance.





n63  The codification is the beginning of the process for resolving many ethical
legal issues, not the source of resolution.





n64  See Annas, supra note 40, at 6 ("[t]he law is mandatory, setting standards
that can only be breached at the risk of civil or criminal liability. Ethics is
aspirational, setting forth universal goals that we should try to meet, but for
which we suffer no temporal penalty when falling short.").





n65  See E. A. Egan, K. Parsi, and C. Ramirez, "Comparing Ethics Education in
Medicine and Law: Combining the Best of Both Worlds," Annals of Health Law 13,
no. 1 (2004): 303-325.





n66  See, for example, Anderson et al., supra note 5; Norwood and Paterson,
supra note 5; E. T. Tyler, 'Allies Not Adversaries: Teaching Collaboration to
the Next Generation of Doctors and Lawyers to Address Social Inequality,"
Journal of Health Care Law and Policy 11 (2008): 249-294.





n67  See Tyler, id., at 252.





n68  There are valid differences of opinion amongst those involved in MLPs about
whether the "training" in interdisciplinary collaborations should be during the
professional school training or when the professionals are in practice. The
authors believe that it is important to have it during the professional school
training so that it affects and influences the training and socialization of the
professionals.





n69  Some of the issues that should be addressed in these protocols include the
interaction with the referring source (i.e., what information provided by the
healthcare professional as part of the referral and what information is reported
back by the lawyer to the healthcare professional) and the respective roles in
interdisciplinary case consultations.





n70  See Norwood and Paterson, supra note 5.





n71  See, e.g., Chapter 8, Laws of 2010, adding N.Y. Public Health Law Article
29-CC ("The Family Health Care Decisions Act"), at sec. 2994-m.





n72  S. P. Simmons, Report to the House of Delegates, 1998 A.B.A. Comm'n on
Multidisciplinary Practice.





n73  S. L. Brustin, "Legal Services Provision through Multidisciplinary Practice
-- Encouraging Holistic Advocacy While Protecting Ethical Interests," University
of Colorado Law Review 73 (2002): 787-865.





n74  We do recognize the "not another commission" argument against this
recommendation, but stress that this proposed commission would be formed with
the specific goal to address the sorts of non-profit multidisciplinary practices
that MLPs represent, and that are of growing use.





n75  See H. A. Wydra, "Keeping Secrets within the Team: Maintaining Client
Confidentiality While Offering Interdisciplinary Services to the Elderly
Client," Fordham Law Review 62 (1994): 1517-1545, at 1537-1541.


                              217 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 21, 2007 Monday

At a glance

SECTION: IRELAND; Election2007; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 531 words


What happened yesterday

Fianna Fáil

Fianna Fáil will not accept Sinn Féin support for a Fianna Fáil minority
government in any shape or form after the election, three senior Cabinet
ministers said. Mary Hanafin said: "We are giving a very clear message: that
Fianna Fáil will not go into government with Sinn Féin, or go into government
dependent upon Sinn Féin."

Fine Gael

Expressing his confidence of victory, party leader Enda Kenny said he had been
confident of victory for quite some time. "A real catalyst in this election has
been the alliance with the Labour Party." Asked about Bertie Ahern's declaration
that coalition with Labour was still an option for him, he said: "I would say to
the leader of Fianna Fáil, 'Dream on, baby'."

Labour Party

Private hospitals co-located beside public hospitals as proposed by the outgoing
Government would cost at least EUR 145 million a year, Labour health spokeswoman
Liz McManus alleged. "No proper estimates are available as to the potential cost
and no assessment has been done of the impact on public hospitals or our
existing private health insurance system."

Progressive Democrats

Voters will have elected a weak, inexperienced and divided government if they
elect Fine Gael, Labour and the Greens, PD leader, Michael McDowell told a party
rally last night in Dublin. "Uncertainty would lead to recession. The
construction sector would experience a slowdown followed by a meltdown. The
Rainbow would end in a crock but not of gold."

Green Party

To coincide with his party's launch of proposals for ethical reforms, Trevor
Sargent placed a brown envelope, labelled "backhanders" and filled with notes,
into a bin outside Leinster House. He said it was a symbol of the kind of
ethical reform the Greens want to bring about in Irish political life: ". . . a
change of government means a change of policies and if you were to ask Fianna
Fáil to buy the ethical reforms that we're putting out here, that would be one
hell of a change."

Sinn Féin

The party said it did not believe assertions of Fianna Fáil and others that they
would not go into government with Sinn Féin after the election. The party's
candidate in Dublin Central, Mary Lou McDonald MEP, said: "Frankly I do not
accept the protestations of some parties that they simply will not look at Sinn
Féin."

What happens today

Fianna Fáil: Ministers Brian Cowen and Micheál Martin will be highlighting
Fianna Fáil's economic message while Taoiseach Bertie Ahern will be canvassing
in the northwest and in Cavan/Monaghan .

Fine Gael/Labour: The leaders of Fine Gael and Labour, Enda Kenny and Pat
Rabbitte, will highlight the importance of the vote transfer pact between the
two parties.

Progressive Democrats: Minister for Health Mary Harney will attend a press
conference in Dublin where the focus will be on the party's "positive agenda for
better healthcare for patients".

Green Party: Environment and energy spokesmen Ciarán Cuffe and Eamon Ryan will
revisit the issue of climate change with other party candidates at a rally in
Dublin on the theme "It hasn't gone away, you know".

Sinn Féin: Mary Lou McDonald is setting out her party's policies on neutrality
and international affairs in Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                            December 17, 2012 Monday

AKU symposium explores ethical challenges in health care organisations

SECTION: Vol. 12 No. 528

LENGTH: 347  words


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organised by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond
the scope of conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to
clinical service, research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics
Committee Symposium held at Aga Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Centre for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do",she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

AKU symposium explores ethical challenges in health care organisations

SECTION: Vol. 12 No. 527

LENGTH: 347  words


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organised by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU.

She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held at Aga
Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Centre for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do",she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

AKU symposium explores ethical challenges in health care organisations

SECTION: Vol. 12 No. 527

LENGTH: 347  words


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organised by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU.

She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held at Aga
Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Centre for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do",she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright (c) 2017 Maryland Law Review
                              Maryland Law Review

                                  SPRING, 1991

                               50 Md. L. Rev. 859

LENGTH: 15239 words

SYMPOSIUM: HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES AND THE LAW: THE BIOETHICS MOVEMENT AND
HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES

NAME: JOHN C. FLETCHER, PH.D. *

BIO:



   * Ph.D., Professor of Biomedical Ethics and Religious Studies, University of
Virginia.  Director, University of Virginia Center for Biomedical Ethics.

 TEXT:
 [*859]  INTRODUCTION

   This Article responds to Susan Wolf's analysis of the strengths and
weaknesses of hospital ethics committees.  Her argument is that a kind of
identity crisis exists among these rapidly proliferating groups.  n1 When
decisionmakers in very hard cases ask for their help, are these committees
advisory only or do they exist to adjudicate and protect patients' interests?
n2 Wolf argues the latter case, and she finds little evidence of ethically sound
due process procedures for case review in the vast majority of committees.  n3 I
agree with her major argument that ethics committees exist to protect patients
and to be a force to work for the best outcome in cases where the patient's best
interests are in dispute.  This argument is consistent with the purpose of
clinical ethics.  n4

    [*860]  Identity crises or confusion about what roles are appropriate for
ethics committees to play can be minimized if one understands the functions
performed by such committees in the past and those to be carried out in the
future.  My response to Wolf begins in Part II with a historical perspective on
the "bioethics" movement, its major concerns, and the enduring institutional
expressions of these concerns.  It then moves in Part III to an agenda for
national and regional action.  Strategies to start or strengthen ethics
committees in health care institutions have a high priority within this larger
agenda.  One strategy is to strengthen the committee by defining its place of
pre-eminence within an institutional ethics program that also serves the
community.  Although most ethics committees in hospitals or nursing homes are
isolated, unrecognized, and unrelated to clinical and other crucial activities,
this situation can be changed by systematic intervention and hard work.  Three
other major issues on the agenda are also discussed.  Hopefully, this Article
will illuminate more clearly the role and future of hospital ethics committees.

   Wolf's diagnosis of the "identity crisis," which involves a conflict between
the ethics committee's roles as "consultation model" and "adjudicatory model,"
n5 can almost always be resolved in favor of patient interests if the ethics
committee has won the strong support of leaders in the institution and in the
community.  Wolf is correct that the committee's role must include case reviews
with procedures that adequately protect the patient's due process rights.  n6
However, serious committee review of cases, in either the adjudicatory or
conflict resolution model ought only to occur after prior ethics  [*861]
consultation efforts that involve the patient, family, and others have been
inadequate to assist decisionmakers in resolving the ethical problem.  Ethics
consultation at the bedside can be done by an ethics committee subgroup
specializing in such encounters, or by a consultation service accountable to the
committee.  In most cases, this timely and personal service will be sufficient
to assist the person most involved in the case to identify, think through, and
attempt to resolve the ethical problems in the case.  Thus, optimally the ethics
committee case review is a second-tier of conflict resolution that occurs after
prior ethics consultation, provided on behalf of the committee, has proven
insufficient to resolve conflict.  n7

   Resolution of ethical issues in clinical settings will always remain a
volatile area.  The basic tensions in competing ethical positions and arguments
for divergent options that arise in the care of particular patients cannot be
avoided.  Even when the utmost care is employed during consultations and
committee deliberations, those who give advice on clinical-ethical problems
approach these issues from a variety of perspectives, and their suggestions and
counsel will continue to fuel heated debate.  Although there is rarely one
correct way to resolve an ethical dilemma, the committee must reach a conclusion
based on what members believe is the best possible outcome.  And to make a
decision means to cut off options.  Depending upon the nature of the case, some
options and the values and principles that underlie them must be forsaken.
Grief over the loss of valued options in a contested decision is as real as
grief over the loss of any other real entity or person.  Ethics alone cannot
address the loss of values and the finiteness of human existence.  Ethics does
not subsume the meaning or purpose of human existence.  T. S. Eliot may have had
this reality in mind when he wrote these lines:

   Footfalls echo in the memory

   Down the passage which we did not take

   Towards the door we never opened

   Into the rosegarden.  n8

   I.  BIOETHICS AS A PLURALISTIC MOVEMENT

   Bioethics was a child of the 1960s, a time of turmoil, rapid international
cultural change and revolutionary zeal.  The rapidity and  [*862]  dilemmas of
cultural change, were captured in Margaret Mead's famous line that "everyone
born and bred before World War II is an immigrant in time."  n9 Although
bioethics drew some intellectual resources from the ancient discipline of
medical ethics, its major themes have their roots in the 1960s movements for
civil rights, women's rights, and consumer interests.  American culture, its
institutions, its chronic racism, and the morality of the Vietnam War were under
radical criticism and reform.  My characterization of bioethics as a pluralistic
movement fits in part with the analysis of Renee Fox, an astute social
chronicler of bioethics in the United States, who describes this period and its
"manifestations of bioethical concern."  n10 The pluralism of thought within the
bioethics movement perhaps is not always apparent to Fox.  When describing a
social movement, however, one has considerable latitude.  It is broad enough to
include conservative and liberal religious thinkers as well as those -- like
myself -- who seek significant reform of national, regional, and local health
care patterns.  Fox tends to view bioethics as dominated by analytical
philosophers who reinforce individualism and lack appreciation for the social
context of ethical problems in health care.  n11 If the bioethics movement today
includes all of those who labor in the areas of research ethics, patient care
ethics, American health care reform, religion and philosophy, then "pluralism"
is a fitting term.

   Social movements depend upon, interact with, and react to political
movements.  One can better understand bioethics -- in its local, regional, and
national expressions -- as a pluralistic movement responding in part to national
political movements.  Today, local and regional interests in bioethics are
stronger, in part because of the politics of the 1980s, which were marked by a
resurgence of "American and family values" and regional, local, and special
interests.  Such special values cut towards special interests and regionalism.
The politics of the 1960s and 1970s, despite its turmoil and conflict, was more
focused on structural values -- like respect for persons, justice, and equality
-- that cut towards sets of more general  [*863]  interests and the renewal of
national institutions and liberal democracy.  Renewal of national institutions
that belong to all the people -- the branches of national and state government,
public health, public education, public welfare, and public safety -- has been
muted, even abandoned in the 1980s, as these structural values were muted.  The
1980s also saw nationally elected officials withdraw from active support of an
enduring national forum in which to debate and consider bioethical issues.  n12
The avoidance of ethical labors at the national level -- and its replacement by
moralism and bureaucratic fiats -- is especially apparent in the lack of
coherent public policy on research activities involving the human embryo, fetus,
and fetal tissue transplants.  The need for a national forum for civil bioethics
debate of these issues and the restoration of the freedom of scientific inquiry
at the federal level must be on the bioethics agenda.  Cessation of disciplined
debate and suppression of research in these areas harm the quality of ethical
and scientific considerations in the whole body politic.  Whenever scientific
research and ethical debate is stifled on the national level, it also endangers
the freedom of research and information on the local level.  Local and regional
bioethics groups, including ethics committees in health care institutions, can
study these two issues and express their concerns to elected and appointed
officials.

A.  The Objective of Bioethics

   The role of ethics committees in health care can be understood, in part, by
viewing them as one outcome of an older movement of social forces arrayed to
implement the objective of "bioethics."  n13 Bioethics is not strictly an
academic discipline in the traditional sense, as ethics is a branch of
philosophy or religious studies.  It is true that bioethics is being studied in
many interdisciplinary programs.  Real changes in curricula and faculty
assignments have occurred in the name of bioethics.  The scholarly literature in
bioethics is enormous and still growing rapidly.  n14 A second edition  [*864]
of an Encyclopedia of Bioethics is now underway.  The first edition, published
in 1978, took five years to produce and publish.  n15 It defined bioethics as
"the systematic study of human conduct in the area of the life sciences and
health care, insofar as this conduct is examined in the light of moral values
and principles."  n16 This definition, however, is overly confined to
intellectual activity.  Ethics and politics are inextricably linked, as
Aristotle's writings convey, although Alasdair McIntyre stresses that the Greek
word used by Aristotle for politics "covers both what we mean by political and
what we mean by social and does not discriminate between them."  n17 Bioethics
in the context of this Symposium is best understood as a series of actions with
an objective that is ethical and politico-social in nature.  Those attracted to
bioethics can view themselves as a group of persons taking part in such a series
of actions over a period of time.

   The general objective of bioethics, arising from the special dilemmas of
human freedom in the late twentieth century, is to guide the life sciences,
including medicine and its institutions, into practices and actions that respond
to and embody some key structural values and ethical principles of democratic
societies -- without unjustifiably infringing on the freedom of those engaged in
these disciplines to seek knowledge and healing within these general limits.
n18 This objective of bioethics combines two goals in creative tension: the goal
of ethical guidance and the goal of protection of freedom to do scientific
research and to practice the health sciences (including medicine) in an optimal
cultural climate.  This article will show how academic and scientific freedom
has been violated in the United States in federally-funded fetal, embryo, and
fetal tissue research,  [*865]  with great losses of benefits to patients,
families, and society.  This situation ought to be of utmost concern to all who
espouse the objective of bioethics.

   Since the 1960s, the ethical principle of respect for persons and their
autonomous choices has guided significant changes in research and practice
procedures.  As illustrated below in a brief history of bioethics, respect for
and protection of research subjects and patients was and remains one of the
bioethics movement's primary concerns.  The ethical gains of the past must not
be lost.  However, the ethical imperatives of the present and future require
that the bioethics movement in the United States balance the principle of
respect for persons with the principle of justice.  Unfair access to adequate
health care (and to the benefits of clinical research) for millions of Americans
is arguably our most egregious social problem.  n19 Our society's tolerance of
unequal access to health care and unequal opportunities to participate in
research poses the single greatest threat to the well-being of the next and
future generations in the United States, especially because of the lack of
adequate access to preventive prenatal care and genetic services.  n20

   In addition to these enormous inequities, the contradictions posed by the
over-restrictiveness and even suppression of clinical research in reproductive
genetics and embryology in the federal sector manifest an urgent need for
national action to address this bioethical issue.  Also, local and regional
efforts to develop institutional ethics programs that will serve their
communities are needed.  n21 Major resources of the bioethics movement need to
be committed to these issues in the near future.  Ethics committees, the subject
of Wolf's paper, will do their work in a larger cultural climate in which these
issues circulate and demand attention.  And, to  [*866]  the extent that ethics
committees are a consequence of the bioethics movement, their work will be
affected by the objectives of that movement.  The next Part will trace briefly
the history of the bioethics movement with the aid of the works of Fox and
others.  n22 It focuses on the four main stages of the movement, the principal
concern of each, and the institutional changes that endured.

   II.  FOUR STAGES OF BIOETHICAL CONCERN

A.  Research Ethics

   The earliest bioethical problem concerned the lack of sound guidance in
research ethics and the need to shape a body of research ethics to protect human
subjects and investigators.  This issue surfaced after the Nuremberg war crimes
trials and crested in the early to mid-1960s.  n23 Henry Beecher was the leader
who sounded ethical alarms and educated other scientists to this concern.  n24
However, far too little credit has gone to leaders who initiated policy and
social changes that laid the groundwork for institutional review boards and
research ethics policy in the United States.  n25

   In the late 1950s and early 1960s, there was a vigorous debate about how best
to protect research subjects from researchers' zeal and how to protect
researchers themselves from conflicts of interest that arose when conducting
experiments with their own patients.  Was the best protection in "informed
consent" and the consciences of responsible investigators?  Or was it primarily
in prior group review of research, supplemented by these other two elements?
The first principle of the Nuremberg Code,  n26 requiring an absolute approach
[*867]  to the research subject's voluntary informed consent was the focus of
much debate suggesting that informed consent was the primary way to protect
subjects.  In my view, this emphasis was mistaken and overlooked the opportunity
in the planning stages of research to protect subjects and balance the interests
of researchers.  A disinterested group of peers, including laypersons, should
conduct a group review session to scrutinize potential risks to the subjects
before the research begins.  Only after the research risks and benefits have
been anticipated should attention be given to the arrangements for and content
of informed consent.  Group review also should consider when the research should
start and how subjects will be recruited and selected.

   In 1966, after the occurrence of several disasters caused by the lack of
well-articulated research ethics,  n27 a Public Health Service policy was
promulgated to the effect that any grant proposal or contract to involve human
subjects in research could be considered only after a local prior group review
had found the proposed project and its plans for informed consent ethically
acceptable.  n28 Policy makers finally faced the primary ethical question in
research: ought the project be done at all? The self-interest of researchers
must be checked and balanced by a countervailing interest in the protection of
human subjects.  This check and balance system guards against the researchers'
own vulnerability to excessive risk-taking in the name of science.

   In 1974, federal law and regulations made each grantee institution
responsible for ensuring that it had an interdisciplinary institutional review
board with at least one member coming from the public to conduct prior group
review.  n29 These bodies are publicly regulated in that the National Institutes
of Health (NIH) has authority  [*868]  to review the membership and to stop
research under certain conditions.  n30 Federal regulations prohibit the conduct
of research with human subjects absent institutional review board approval.  n31
Today the institutional review board remains the institutional expression of the
decisions and events of this period and the locus of accountability for
institutional research ethics.

   In 1975, federal regulations mandated the creation of an Ethics Advisory
Board (EAB) to advise the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) on research proposals that presented significant ethical issues
with long-range consequences, such as research involving human embryos, fetuses,
prisoners, and children.  n32 This national group was designed to be a forum for
national debate and advice.  An EAB functioned between 1977 and 1979 but was
allowed to lapse and has not been rechartered, in violation of federal law and
regulations.  n33 The suppression of research in the federal sector and the
collapse of all national forums designed to discuss bioethical issues ought to
be of major concern to local and regional groups.

B.  Education in Ethics and Humanities

   The second major bioethical concern was to improve and expand ethics and
humanities education among medical and nursing students.  n34 In the late 1960s
and 1970s, many educators started "humanities programs" in medical and nursing
schools.  The Society of Health and Human Values, founded in 1968, paved the way
for many of these changes.  Many ethics programs especially those set up in
academic medical centers, had their origins in such educational efforts.  Some,
like Albert Jonsen, who pioneered the area of ethics consultation were not
physicians, but were educators at the time they first received requests for
consultation.  n35 Virtually all medical and nursing schools today have some
course that focuses on the study of ethical problems, and many have courses in
other aspects of the humanities.  The institutional expression of this second
[*869]  phase of bioethical concern was a change in the curricula and faculties
of medical and nursing schools in the United States.

   Other key educational institutions were founded in this period, as well.  The
founding of the Hastings Center in 1969 and the Kennedy Institute of Ethics in
1971 were further expressions of public and academic concern for education.
These institutions played a prominent role in the dissemination of research,
discussion, and literature about ethical issues in medicine and other life
sciences.  Without them, the growing literature and dialogue about bioethical
concerns could not have been possible.  The Park Ridge Center, a third major
institutional force, has emerged in the 1980s, and gives expression to broad
religious themes in the ethical analysis of health, health care, and research.
Today, there are more than a hundred bioethics organizations of various types in
the United States and Canada.  n36

C.  Ethical Concerns in Patient Care and Access to Health Care

   The third stage of bioethical concern focuses on ethical problems in patient
care and inequities in the delivery of health care in the United States.  In the
last decade, the dominant ethical issue in patient care in hospitals and
long-term care facilities was that of foregoing life-sustaining technologies.
Possibly beginning with the Karen Ann Quinlan case, but prefaced by issues of
patient selection for dialysis and transplants, concern about ethical issues in
the care of terminally ill or incapacitated patients has dominated patient care
ethics.  n37 At the same time, a contradictory problem loomed large -- outside
the institutions' doors, the greatest ethical issue was access to basic health
care.

   During this period, the hospital ethics committee was born.  n38  [*870]  The
Massachusetts General Hospital was one of the first to report that an optimum
care committee  n39 assisted with controversial decisions in its intensive care
units.  This committee and others like it that serve hospital staff and patients
were the forerunners of the hospital ethics committee, an institutional
expression now well-described in the literature.  n40 The President's Commission
for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral
Research found that institutional ethics committees promoted good decisionmaking
practices in hospitals.  n41

   Although most ethics committees have arisen from within institutions
themselves, there are two important exceptions.  In the early 1980s, the HHS
attempted to make rules requiring "infant care review committees" to provide
advice on selective non-treatment choices for handicapped newborns.  n42 This
attempt eventually was overturned in American Academy of Pediatrics v. Heckler.
n43 Today, Maryland is the only state to require such bodies.  Since 1985, state
law has required all hospitals to have a patient care "advisory committee."  n44
Diane Hoffmann's evaluation  n45 of these committees in Maryland, the District
of Columbia, and Virginia found: (1) a very low utilization rate;  n46 (2)
infrequent use by patients and families;  n47 (3) a lack of awareness of the
existence of the committees by health care professionals;  n48 and (4) few
hospitals in the District of Columbia or Virginia with formal means of notifying
patients and families  [*871]  of the committees' services.  n49 Maryland's
hospitals perform better in notifying patients and families, as reported by
eighty-eight percent of this state's hospitals.  n50 State laws soon may require
such groups in all health care facilities.

   Senators Danforth and Moynihan introduced a bill known as the Patient
Self-Determination Act of 1989,  n51 which, after amendment and passage,  n52
required each health care facility receiving Medicare and Medicaid funds to
implement an educational program designed to assist all patients over eighteen
years old in understanding and considering the need for advanced directives for
care at the end of life and for durable powers of attorney for health care
decisions.  n53 A component of the bill that would have mandated the creation of
hospital eithics committes ethics committees  n54 was deleted in conference
because of two countervailing forces: was deleted in conference because of two
countervailing forces: first, the threat that the Health Care Financing
Administration would gain the power to regulate the committees if the law had
passed in that form and second, because of concern among smaller hospitals about
the costs of an ethics program.  n55 Memories of the excesses and ideological
problems associated with federal involement involvement with infant care review
committees in "Baby Doe" cases were sufficient to compel the removal of this
aspect of the bill, despite arguments that excesses in regulation regulations
could be confronted by court action as was done in the "Baby Doe" era.  n56

   Inadequate and unfairly restricted access to basic health care is another
dominant ethical concern in the United States today.  More Americans are
affected adversely by this social problem than by any other.  n57 A grassroots
bioethics movement has developed in response to this tragic problem.  Local and
regional groups have organized  [*872]  "town meetings" and other fora to make
the populace and legislatures aware of the inequities in access to health care.
Oregon Health Decisions is the prototype of this kind of movement, which finds
expression in many states today.  n58

D.  The 1990s: The Next Stage of Bioethical Concern

   In the 1990s the bioethics movement needs to: (1) place access to adequate
health care and preventive strategies in health care as the highest priorities
in local, regional, and national activities; (2) strengthen local institutional
ethics programs in health care institutions that also serve their communities;
(3) restore freedom of scientific inquiry and federal support for research
activities involving the human fetus, embryo, and fetal tissue transplant; and
(4) restore one or more fora for debate and dialogue about bioethical issues at
the national level.  The final Part of the Article discusses each item of this
proposed agenda.

   III.  A BIOETHICS AGENDA FOR THE 1990s

A.  Universal Access to Health Care with Preventative Strategies

   The highest priorities on the bioethics agenda for the 1990s are reforms to
ensure fairer access to health care and to implement preventive strategies.  It
is unfair to restrict access to health care to those able to pay for it when an
individual's economic opportunity itself depends in great measure on his or her
health and educational status.  Other nations with universal health care provide
free services to Americans who become ill in their midst.  Since these nations
(e.g., Germany, France, United Kingdom, Scandanavian nations, Japan, etc.) do
not spend nearly as much on health care as the United States, it is only logical
to raise the question as to why we cannot do the same for aliens and strangers
who become ill in the United States.

   The adequacy of health care in a developed nation ought to be evaluated in
terms of the following criteria: (1) fairness of access to adequate health care,
measured by the opportunity to be seen by, consult with, and be treated by
qualified physicians and other licensed  [*873]  health care professionals
concerning duly diagnosed health needs; (2) fairness in distributing among all
sectors of society the economic burdens of health care, research, and education
of health care professionals; (3) scaled preventive strategies to ameliorate the
causes of disorders and conditions that carry the greatest mortality and
morbidity for human beings; and (4) well-tested approaches to prenatal care and
genetic services for those who need them most.  n59

   These basic concerns and the growing health needs of the American people
gradually can empower leaders in government, industry, and labor in the United
States to shape and effect a universal approach to health care and preventive
strategies -- and not just a reimbursement plan.  In any reformed system we must
assume that in addition to other preventive strategies, adequate prenatal care
and genetic services (for example, screening, counseling, prenatal diagnosis,
and treatment for genetic diseases) will be included in a basic "floor of
services" that will be available to all pregnant women and to all individuals
and families at a higher genetic risk, affected by a genetic disorder, or
carrying genes that make them more susceptible to harm from common disorders or
hazards in the workplace.

   This concern for access to health care and prevention is both ethical and
political in nature; it is based upon claims of justice as fairness and
predictions that continued refusal to address the moral and economic crises in
health care will lead to a variety of harms and avoidable disasters.  Even
barring other major social or biological calamities, unless present trends
change, the contradictions and costs that exist in the present arrangements will
become too burdensome to persist into the twenty-first century.

   The moral case for a universal health plan grounded in justice as fairness
has been argued in a broad body of literature and commentary.  n60 This
literature describes health care institutions as driven to use technology
largely to postpone death, rather than motivated to prevent or ameliorate the
major causes of harm to human health.  Of special political note, this
literature describes vast waste and administrative burdens in health care, as
well as harsh inequities  [*874]  that reflect economic, racial, and educational
differences.  n61 The moral case for judgment and reform is clear.  The burden
to rebut the compelling arguments in favor of these changes rests on those who
oppose a national health plan.

   Beyond the fairness issues, the success of human gene mapping and the growing
scope of testing for genetic diseases will also ease the way for development of
a more universal plan.  The health care plan of the future will probably see an
equal emphasis on personal responsibility for health and a recognition of the
role that genetics plays in disease.  In the future, more Americans will see
that they are not to blame for cancer, diabetes, heart disease, or other common
disorders.  Genetics is a great equalizer in the realm of disease.  Eventually,
most people will understand that they suffer from diseases as a result of some
genetic predisposition.  At that time, insurers will be forced by a more
enlightened nation not to exploit persons at higher risk with the highest
premiums.  We will need a sufficient pool of social insurance to share and bear
these risks and burdens.  n62

   An important caveat to this arguement is that progress toward a national
health plan may take many years, and controversies will arise about the
inclusion of genetic services in the plan because of their present association
with abortion.  For example, health planners in the Bush Administration envision
only a modicum of genetic services in the national health plan in the year 2000,
such as screening maternal and newborn serum for alpha-fetoprotein.  The
planning documents are devoid of any references to genetic screening of
carriers, prenatal diagnosis, abortion, or genetic therapy.  n63 Americans can
learn much about the role of genetic services by studying the total health care
systems of other nations.  n64

    [*875]  B.  Strengthening Local Institutional Ethics Programs

   A second objective of the bioethics movement in the next decade is to
organize outreach and training resources to provide health care institutions
with an opportunity to start or strengthen their own institutional ethics
programs that also serve the local communities.  For this task to be
accomplished, older bioethics centers -- especially those in clinical settings
-- will need to prioritize service and outreach efforts alongside their
traditional activities of research, teaching, and policy analysis.

   A programmatic approach, with strong institutional and community support,
will check and balance the self-protective character of some ethics committees
that Wolf describes.  The word "program" implies a planned approach that an
institution's leaders place in a "must do" category, rather than an ad hoc "nice
to do" category.  The strength of the combined elements in a program will
undergird and broaden the effectiveness of the ethics committee.  Too many
hospital ethics committees fail or flounder for lack of institutional support
and recognition, as well as underuse of their central functions.  n65 Too many
ethics consultants in health care operate in the absence of identifiable
programs or structures of accountability.  By making ethics programs a priority,
those necessary elements can be knit together for a systematic approach in
hospitals and communities to service, education, and research on ethical
programs in clinical care.  The time has come for ethics programs to be part of
the culture of health care and to gain enough independence and community support
to be viewed as credible institutions.  In the 1990s, ethics programs must
become accepted actors in the health care arena and the communities they serve,
just as prior group review is part of the culture of research and researchers.

   A full institutional ethics program has five necessary elements: (1) a duly
appointed and constituted interdisciplinary ethics committee with community
members; (2) a clinical ethics and health care law education program for
professional staff and community members; (3) ethics consultation on request;
(4) at least two resource persons within the institution with advanced education
in clinical ethics and health care law; and (5) resources to evaluate the four
elements of the program and to conduct research on the dynamics and causes of
ethical problems that arise in the clinical and community settings.

    [*876]  1.  Institutional Ethics Committees. -- Some of the causes
contributing to the need for institutional ethics committees are:

   (1) new choices about the uses and applications of powerful medical
technologies,

   (2) ethical pluralism,

   (3) the value of patient self-determination,

   (4) the value of sharing decisionmaking with family,

   (5) court and national commission recommendations,

   (6) the perceived threat of medical malpractice suits, and

   (7) media attention given to ethical issues in public life.

   The ideal composition and activities of ethics committees has been well
described elsewhere.  n66 The ethics committee has four major functions: (1) to
provide a forum to which any member of the institution or community can bring an
ethical issue related to patient care; (2) to sponsor or provide education for
the staff and community on ethical issues and related health care law or policy;
(3) to sponsor or provide ethics consultation upon request; and (4) to assist in
the development of policies and guidelines on issues with ethical content.

   In addition, the ethics committee also ought to oversee the other four
elements of the ethics program discussed in the following sections.  The ethics
committee in a health care setting should be defined and constituted as an
official committee of the institution (with all of the protections afforded
hospital committees by state law), responsible to the governing body of the
institution, and connected by function to the medical or clinical staff of the
institution.  Placing ethics committees under the control of the medical or
clinical staff rather than making them directly accountable to the governing
body would stifle their independence in many settings and would erode stronger
community support and credibility.  Community support for the institutional
ethics committee can be garnered in a number of ways, for example by holding
town meetings, inviting community members to observe committee meetings, asking
community leaders for ideas, inviting community members to take part in the
committee's educational programs, and using the ethics consultation process when
appropriate.

    [*877]  2.  Education in Clinical Ethics and Health Care Law. -- The ethics
committee must sponsor and provide the second element of the program: education
in the form of an on-going course or annual series of programs in clinical
ethics and health care law for professional staff and, if possible, for the
community as well.  The goal of this aspect of education is to expose the staff
and the community to the most common ethical problems.  Staff education is vital
because physicians, nurses, and other clinicians are the people best able to
identify and resolve ethical problems that arise daily in clinical care.  These
same professionals must learn to identify legal issues in their medical cases,
become less afraid of legal threats, and know when to seek legal advice.
Ideally, the educational program or course will become so well regarded and
evaluated that eventually it will become part of the orientation and continuing
education process for health care professional associated with the institution.

   One approach to teaching clinical ethics and health care law to health care
professionals suggests holding training sessions and small group meetings to
discuss issues such as:

   (1) communication to promote informed consent and shared decisionmaking, and
how to address major breakdowns in communication,

   (2) truth-telling and disclosure dilemmas,

   (3) privacy and confidentiality,

   (4) determining patient capacity,

   (5) informed consent to treatment,

   (6) refusal of treatment

   (7) foregoing life-sustaining treatment,

   (8) terminal illness,

   (9) reproductive health care choices,

   (10) access to health care,

   (11) controlling the costs of health care, and

   (12) allocation of health care resources.  n67

   The list includes "major breakdowns in communication" as an ethical rather
than an "emotional" problem.  The rationale for this characterization is that
good communication between health care professionals and their patients is
necessary to informed and shared decisionmaking.  When communication breaks
down, shared decisionmaking is impossible.  When poor communication threatens
the  [*878]  integrity of the physician-patient relationship, the threshold of
an ethical problem has been reached.

   Practical education in the above areas, based on cases that clinicians can
identify as paradigms, help to equip them for the everyday tasks of working
through ethical problems and familiarize them with the relevant legal issues
that arise within such cases.  If staff members are prepared for everyday
problems, they will be more likely to recognize situations in which they should
request ethics consultations.

   3.  Ethics Consultation: Definition and Need. -- Possibly a major reason why
ethics committees have received unfavorable evaluations by clinicians and others
results from the built-in inadequacies of whole committees as primary providers
of ethics consultation.  n68 The function of consultation on a request to assist
with ethical problems that arise in the care of particular patients must be
differentiated from the function of the ethics committee as a forum where anyone
can bring an ethical issue for discussion.  Consultation can be provided in a
number of ways: (1) the whole committee can act as a consultant, under the
leadership of the chairperson, who is the contact person for consults; (2) a
sub-group of the committee can provide consultation under the leadership of the
chairperson or a designated leader, using the whole committee as a second-tier
when needed; (3) the ethics committee can delegate consultation responsibilities
to an ethics consultation service (whose members may differ from or include some
of the committee members) that acts on behalf of the committee, reports to it,
and evaluates when a second-tier consultation by the entire ethics committee is
necessary; or (4) ethics consultation can be delegated to one or more
individuals.  The fourth option may be a good choice for small institutions, but
should not be used without committee oversight of the consultants' activities.

   Differentiation between the consultation function and the committee function
is important.  The ethical problems that arise in patient care may involve very
personal and private material.  n69 Often the parties already are angry with one
another and have exchanged threats of various types, including threats to sue.
The prospect of  [*879]  entering a conference room and sharing these private
disputes with a large number of strangers raises anxieties and creates a
"tribunalistic" flavor .  Also, many physicians may prefer not to bring this
dispute into a committee setting initially, but would be open to consultation in
the traditional sense.  Such consultation must be personal, timely, and must
take place in or near the patient's room in the hospital or nursing home.

   Ethics consultation involves the provision of specialized help on request, to
identify, analyze, and resolve ethical problems that arise in clinical care.
n70 There are numerous compelling needs for ethics consultation.  The major need
for such assistance arises when good faith attempts to resolve ethical problems
fail and parties are involved in a dispute that materially affects the
continuity of care of the patient or concerns a problem of conscience for one or
more of the health care team.  Ethics consultation also is needed to resolve the
very complex cases that occur rather frequently in health care situations today.
Consultation helps to keep health care providers' fears of liability from
interfering with good medical practice and to reduce the number of "unnecessary"
malpractice suits -- suits that arise because ethical problems left unresolved
at the bedise smolder and then flame into disputes.  Ethics consultation --
informed by health care law -- often can clarify misunderstandings of law,
reduce legal threats, and resolve the problems in the case on ethical grounds.
Figures from the Bureau of Insurance in Virginia on the incidence of settlement
of medical malpractice suits show that in sixty-one to seventy-two percent of
the cases settled between 1985 and 1987, no money was awarded to the plaintiffs.
n71 Whether many of these cases involved resolvable ethical disputes remains
unknown pending further study, but such a hypothesis must be advanced.
Moreover, prevention of unnecessary malpractice suits through the use of ethics
consultation services would lower the costs of health care and reduce a trend
toward "defensive medicine."

    [*880]  In addition to is usual functions as a forum for discussion of
ethical issues, policy development, and health education, the ethics committee
should provide or oversee ethics consultation on request.  The ethics committee
must also study how best to provide ethics consultation in the institution.

   Whichever methodology is used, the primary responsibility for ethics
consultation should reside in the ethics committee, which should be accountable
for the quality of the consultations it conducts or authorizes.  The committee
must oversee the activities of the consultants to prevent the potential harms
that can arise from the following situations: Unchecked ethical bias of one or
more consultants; role confusion that results in ethics consultants issuing
medical orders or giving legal advice; consultants operating in a loose,
undefined manner without clear guidelines for proper consultation procedure; or
ethics consultants becoming involved in cases without the knowledge of the
attending physician or the patient.

   Each institution must promulgate a policy statement to define the goals,
functions, and responsibilities of its institutional ethics committee.  The
existence of a policy on ethics consultation reassures consultants that they
have institutional support.  The policy also will help to protect them and
others involved in the case from ethical or legal challenges made during or
after the consultation.

   An institutional policy statement on ethics consultation should have seven
features:

   (1) a philosophy locating responsibility for ethical decisionmaking with
clinicians and patients,

   (2) a statement of encouragement to clinical staff to request consultation
under certain conditions,

   (3) assurances that anyone who requests a consultation will be protected from
intimidation,

   (4) an ethically and legally sound approach to receiving requests for
consultation,

   (5) a protocol for ethics consultation,

   (6) a statement that ethics consultation will be provided free of charge, and

   (7) an accountability structure for ethics consultation.  n72

   The institution must rely on educated clinicians to respond to ethical
problems and encourage them to request ethics consultation,  [*881]  especially
in three situations: when their best efforts to resolve an ethical problem are
unsuccessful and the problem is provoking a dispute in which they are involved;
when a patient has no guardian, family member, or appropriate surrogate
decisionmaker; and when a very complex case with ethical problems arises.

   The policy of no billing for ethics consultations is based on the principle
that it is the hospital's obligation to make ethics consultation services
available to patients, much as religious and social work organizations provide
professional services without direct charge.  The decision not to charge for
consultation services is also appropriate because some ethical problems are
systemic and are not caused by the individual patient.  n73 However, although
patients should not be charged separate fees for ethics consultations, their
hospital bills will reflect the costs of the salaries and facilities needed to
support these services.

   4.  Resource Persons in Clinical Ethics. -- As the institutional ethics
program is strengthened, it will require continued nurturing.  Each institution
will need resource persons to support and implement the elements in the program,
in addition to a strong ethics committee chairperson who is able to relate as a
peer both to clinical staff and administrators.  An institutional ethics program
requires at least two resource persons, in addition to an effective chairperson,
to fulfill these roles.  Ideally, one resource person should be a physician and
the other should be another health care or health-related professional, such as
a nurse, administrator, a chaplain, or social worker.  The more solid their
community connections, the stronger will be their abilities to strengthen those
aspects of the program that involve community members.  The institution must
recognize and finance the time that the resource persons and chairpersons spend
in performing their functions.

   These resource persons should be trained at existing clinically-based
bioethics centers.  The training should enable local resource persons to:

   (1) assist the members of the ethics committees to educate themselves
concerning relevant issues,

   (2) teach in the clinical ethics education program,

   (3) keep up with ethics and health care law, and literature,

   (4) speak in the hospital and community on request, and

   (5) serve as ethics consultants or as resources to those who are consultants.

   This training program can be one element in an outreach program for health
care institutions whose leadership desires to strengthen or start an ethics
program.  n74

   5.  Evaluation and Research. -- The fifth feature of an ethics program is the
capacity to evaluate the efficacy of the four aspects of the ethics program,
specifically the strengths and weaknesses of case consultation and of the
clinical ethics education program.  Ethics programs also can sponsor research on
the causes and dynamics of the most frequent ethical problems that arise in
health care institutions.

C.  Remedies for Suppression of Research in Reproductive Biology in the Federal
Sector

   The bioethics movement needs to turn attention and resources to the fact that
in the federal sector, basic and clinical research in reproductive biology is
suppressed unjustifiably.  Scientific freedom, one of the central tenets of the
bioethics movement, is being violated in this area of science.  Ironically, a
bioethics movement that began by helping to restrict research needs today to
help to free a crucial area of science from unreasonable bans, moratoria, and
lack of support.  Also, since Rush v. Sullivan,  n75 control and suppression of
physician communication about abortion services with patients served in
federally-funded family planning clinics has been added to suppression of
scientific activities with the fetus or embryo.  The growing incidence of
violations of scientific freedom, free speech, and professional responsibility
ought to be of paramount concern.  This issue cuts across research, patient
care, and community  [*883]  medicine.  These actions fundamentally violate a
key element in the objective of the bioethics movement.

   How did this situation develop?  A process of restricting investigative
research concerning the fetus and human embryo that was developed in the 1970s
has gradually become a de facto policy of suppression.  n76 In the 1970s two
Congressionally appointed groups made recommendations that cautiously encouraged
and also sharply restricted fetal and pre-embryo research.  n77 The
recommendations for fetal research of the National Commission for the Protection
of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavorial Research were adopted as federal
regulations in 1975.  n78 One of the key recommendations was the formation of an
Ethics Advisory Board (EAB) to advise the Secretary of Health and Human Services
on ethical problems in research, including fetal and embryo research.  n79 In
effect, almost no fetal research and no embryo research at all could be done
without EAB approval and advice to the Secretary.  The modest encouragement of
these regulations for limited investigational fetal research was then undone by
bureaucratic fiats and actions of Congress in the 1980s that remain unchanged.
n80 One major bureaucratic fiat has been the disbanding and refusal to recharter
an EAB, after a brief existence between 1977 and 1979.  Another fiat has been
the refusal of any HHS Secretary to approve the EAB's recommendations to
Secretary Califano in 1979 to permit federal funding to study in vitro
fertilization and untransferred pre-embryos.  n81 As a consequence, American
research in reproductive biology and allied scientific fields has lost
significant ground.

    [*884]  Webster's defines suppression as: "1a: to put down or out of
existence by or as by authority, force or pressure; b: to force into impotence
or obscurity."  n82 Both definitions apply to fetal research in the federal
sector today.  Only a small amount of federally funded investigational fetal
research has occurred since it was permitted and restricted by federal
guidelines.  n83 A review of extramural grants by the National Institutes of
Child Health and Human Development for projects on high risk pregnancy and fetal
pathophysiology for 1983-84 showed that of 183 projects, no more than three
involved instances of human fetal research that even approached the threshold of
minimal risk.  n84 In this period investigators developed the chorionic villus
sampling approach to prenatal diagnosis using new methods from molecular biology
for direct diagnosis of fetal DNA.  n85 However, institutional funds and patient
fees supported this research.  Also at this time some positive results were
attained in fetal therapy.  n86 However, with the exception of one experiment in
one case of fetal therapy  n87 the federal role in research on fetal therapy was
minimal and advisory only.

   Three types of reforms are needed in the area of federal fetal regulations.
One is to create a specific framework for the definition of "minimal risk," the
threshold at which investigational fetal research is permitted.  n88 The second
is to allow greater than minimal research risks in the first trimester of
pregnancy, a level now permitted in research with living children.  n89 A third
is the lack of a standard to permit approval, after national review, for
selective exposure of fetuses to be aborted to higher research risks before
exposing fetuses intended for delivery to such risks.

    [*885]  However, the most ethically troubling problem in the field of fetal
research is the injustice done to open debate about the ethics of specific
projects by removal of the EAB.  The resolution of public ethical problems
requires a proper national forum for debate and compromise.  However, today no
national forum for specific projects exists.

   "To force into impotence" aptly describes the result of a 1975 ban on use of
federal funds for research with the human pre-embryo.  n90 The NIH, the nation's
premier biomedical research agency, is impotent to provide peer review and
funding of research affecting infertility, human genetics, cancer, and AIDS.
Although at least 5000 children have been born after in vitro fertilization
(IVF),  n91 the NIH has not been able to contribute in any direct way to
improving the science or efficacy of this technique.  There is a major need for
research to improve the generally poor results of in vitro fertilization and
other infertility treatments and to reduce their very large costs.  Infertility
affects 2.4 million married couples of reproductive age and an unknown number of
potential parents among unmarried adults in the United States.  n92 However,
this need remains unmet due to the ban on the use of federal funds to support
these activities.

   "To put down . . . by authority" best describes a moratorium first imposed in
May 1988 by the Assistant Secretary for Health on any research funded by the
Public Health Service using fetal tissue obtained after elective abortion for
transplantation into human beings.  n93 In November 1989, the moratorium became
a ban  n94 by order of the HHS Secretary that overrode the December 1988
recommendations of an expert advisory panel convened by the NIH.  n95

   The laws of the individual states are radically different from  [*886]  those
of the federal government.  All fifty states adopted the Uniform Anatomical Gift
Act in the 1970s, permitting research involving the abortus with the consent of
the parent(s).  n96 Subsequently, five states prohibited research with the dead
abortus after induced abortion, except research involving pathological
examinations or autopsies.  n97

   Huge moral contradictions exist in United States research policy.
Investigators in federally supported studies are permitted to take more than
minimal research risks with living children with cancer.  In fact, in Phase I
cancer trials, researchers can give an agent that is toxic and will, in some
cases, lead to the death of the child before a cancer-induced death.  However,
researchers are not permitted to touch a human embryo ex utero with intent to do
research to find out how cancer begins.  Some cancers begin in the embryo.  How
will we ever understand how to treat cancer unless we know how it begins?  They
also may not subject a first trimester fetus which is to be aborted to any
research risks they would not also undertake with the fetus to be delivered.
n98

   These issues in research ethics affect the ethical climate of every health
care institution with the capacity to do fetal, embryo, and fetal tissue
transplant research.  Members of ethics committees should discuss this situation
and their responsibilities towards scientists in the institution and in the
federal sector.

D.  Restoration of a National Forum for Bioethical Issues

   There has been no successor to the national bioethics bodies of the 1970s and
early 1980s.  The Congressional Biomedical Ethics Board (CBEB), authorized by
Congress in 1985  n99 and constituted in 1988, collapsed in 1989 under the
weight of abortion controversy before being able to begin its public work.  n100
The CBEB's three mandates were to prepare reports for Congress on human genetic
engineering, to review regulations governing fetal research and the  [*887]
role of the Secretarial waiver for projects involving more than minimal risks,
and to review regulations on the feeding and hydration of dying patients.  n101
However, the short-lived CBEB should not be mistaken as an intended replacement
for the EAB.  The EAB was supposed to recommend ethically controversial
scientific guidelines for research to the Secretary of HHS and to advise him on
research policy matters.  n102 The CBEB would have advised Congress only on
ethical and scientific standards to govern fetal research and other problems as
mandated by Congress.  n103

   Recently, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the
American Fertility Society moved to establish a national ethics advisory board
to monitor fetal tissue transplant research and embryo research.  n104 This plan
by scientific leaders whose research is most affected by the separation of
federal and private support is similar to an arrangement (Voluntary Licensing
Authority) that prevailed in the United Kingdom after the government took no
immediate steps to implement the findings of the Warnock Report that approved
limited research involving human embryos.  n105

   In a democracy such as ours, a national body is needed to provide an open
forum for debate and recommendations on the issues originally referred to the
CBEB.  Such a forum also provides a place to discuss and formulate plans of
action on the critical and timely issue of access to health care.  The absence
of such a national body is causing great harm to the country.  Nothing less than
restoration of a national body will suffice, although great care must be taken
to minimize political manipulation of this body.  Although political action to
stimulate the desire for change will be necessary, local hospital ethics
committees and institutional review boards must voice their needs for clearer
national guidelines.

   CONCLUSION

   In this article, I do not dispute Susan Wolf's argument for due process and
protection of patients' rights within ethics committees.  My approach to the
issue, though, differs from hers.  Rather than focusing on the schizophrenia
that tends to burden committees' activities  [*888]  today, I place the
committee in a historical and evolutionary perspective.  Ethics committees are
in the process of evolution, and the issues they address are features on the
social and political landscape of bioethics.  These issues will affect the
evolution of committees, just as the committee decisions will reshape the
issues.  To use Wolf's nesting rights metaphor, I want to understand the tree
that the nest will be built in -- the better to build the nest and attach it
firmly to the tree.

   Above, I propose both a national bioethics agenda for the 1990s and a
programmatic approach for individual ethics committees and their institutions.
The two are inseparably linked by a commitment to raise awareness of the role of
bioethics in medicine within the medical, lay, and political communities.  My
stress on such broad educational efforts within the community and with
clinicians is particularly responsive to Wolf's argument for due process within
the ethics committee.  It suggests that many of the difficult cases committees
confront can be effectively addressed in their early stages by increased
sensitivity to bioethical dilemmas in patient care.  The programmatic approach
attempts to treat the cause of the schizophrenia within committees rather than
responding to symptoms.

   In an institutional ethics program with strong bonds with the community,
clinicians will better know how and when to ask for bedside consultation that is
more effective and engaging than a full committee proceeding.  The committee, by
restricting, not only can minimize legalistic confrontations between patients
and clinicians, but also can free resources for the tasks of educating the
community and preparing clinicians better to identify and respond to ethical
problems in patient care.

    [*889]  APPENDIX A

   University of Virginia Health Sciences Center Ethics Consultation Policy

February 9, 1990

   Primary responsibility for identifying and resolving ethical problems in the
clinical setting (conflicts of values, principles, or interests) rests with the
professional staff in concert with patients, and, where appropriate, their
families or other representatives.  The Ethics Committee of the Health Sciences
Center provides assistance with ethical problems pertaining to patient care
through its interdisciplinary Ethics Consultation Service (ECS) which is
available on a 24-hour basis to hospital staff, patients, and patients' families
or other representatives.

   Health Sciences Center staff are encouraged to seek timely involvement of the
ECS in ethically troublesome situations.  The Health Sciences Center assures
that persons requesting ethics consultation may do so without intimidation or
fear of reprisal.

   Ethics consultation seeks to facilitate communication and shared
decisionmaking in patient care; to foster greater awareness among health
professionals of the relationship of values (their own and their patients') to
health care decisionmaking; to prevent harm to patients, health professionals,
and the institution; and to teach health professionals to recognize and resolve
ethical problems.  The recommendations of ethics consultants are advisory only.
The process of ethics consultation is intended to supplement and support -- not
supplant -- existing departmental and institutional mechanisms for making
decisions and resolving conflicts in clinical practice.

Procedure

   1.  The ECS is a service of the Ethics Committee and reports directly to it.
The ECS helps those persons directly involved in a patient's care to identify,
analyze, and resolve ethical problems pertaining to the care of that patient.
Clinicians are particularly encouraged to seek assistance from the ECS when:

   a.  the best efforts of the health care providers to resolve an ethical
problem have reached an impasse;

   b.  the ethical problem involves a serious disagreement or dispute among the
health care providers;

   c.  the case is unusual, unprecedented, or very complex ethically;

   d.  the patient is incapacitated and has no family, guardian, or surrogate
decisionmaker.

    [*890]  2.  Requests for ethics consultation may be made by health care
providers, patients, family members or guardians, students, or others with a
legitimate interest in the patient.

   3.  Requests for ethics consultation are made by calling the ethics
consultant on-call (consultants are available 24 hours a day).

   4.  The ECS adheres to the following protocol in a formal consultation:

   a.  The attending physician will be informed that a request for consultation
has been made and he/she will have an opportunity to discuss the situation with
the primary ethics consultant.

   b.  The patient and/or family (if the patient is incapacitated) will be
informed that a consultation has been requested and will be encouraged to
participate.

   c.  The charge nurse will be informed of the time and place of the
consultation.

   d.  The primary consultant will place a summary of the consultation and any
recommendations in the patient's chart.  This note will be countersigned by the
ECS director or his designated alternate.

   e.  If the ECS team is unable to resolve the problems in a particular case,
the chairman of the Ethics Committee will be so notified and may then convene an
ad hoc group, as outlined below, to assist in achieving resolution.

   (1) Upon referral of a case, the chairman of the Ethics Committee may choose
to appoint an ad hoc group of at least five persons to review and discuss the
case further.

   (2) This committee, selected by the chairman of the Ethics Committee or his
designated alternate, shall include the following members: a physician, who
shall chair the group; a nurse; and three or more members selected from among an
ethicist, a member of the clergy, a lawyer, a hospital administrator, another
member of the clinical staff, and a community representative.  Committee members
may but do not have to be members of the Ethics Committee.  This committee may
at any time ask the chairman of the Ethics Committee to appoint to it additional
members (e.g., persons with special skills or knowledge).

   (3) The committee shall be available on a 24-hour basis for prompt meetings
about the case in question.

   (4) If the committee convenes meetings, it shall conduct at  [*891]  least
one meeting which is open to the patient and/or the patient's family (or
appropriate representative) and the physicians, nurses, and other health care
providers involved in the case.  Except as provided in this policy, the
committee may decide for itself all procedural questions pertinent to the
meetings about the case.

   (5) In meetings about the case, the chairman of the committee shall ask one
member to serve as special advocate for the patient.

   (6) The committee shall help ensure that the patient and the family or
appropriate representative have been fully informed of the patient's condition,
prognosis, and treatment options, and that all parties have been appraised of
all appropriate available health care and support services.

   5.  The ECS is also available for consultation on ethical problems related to
clinical research (a) prior to the submission of research proposals to the Human
Investigation Committee or (b) after approved research has begun.

   6.  There shall be no charges, billing, or fees for service for ethics
consultation.

   7.  The ECS is not intended or authorized to provide legal advice on patient
care.  Legal questions and concerns regarding patient care should be referred to
the University General Counsel through the office of the hospital's
Administrative Resident.

    [*892]  APPENDIX B

Developing Hospital Ethics Programs in Virginia

   "Developing Hospital Ethics Programs" (DHEP) is a statewide outreach program
of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the University of Virginia (U.Va.
Center).  It is designed to assist hospitals in identifying their specific needs
with regard to strengthening or starting an ethics program, and in educating and
training two appointed resource persons, who will become fellows of the U.Va.
Center in a work-study program that will result in a plan for on-going support
for the hospital from DHEP.  During 1990-92, the program involves 20 hospitals,
10 in each full calendar year.  What follows is a phase-by-phase program plan.
n106

Project Phases

   Phase I (January 1990-June 1990). -- The first phase is designed to assist
each hospital with a needs assessment to evaluate its readiness for an ethics
program and to rank priorities among the features of the program.

   Phase II (July 1990-March 1991). -- In July, the hospital's chief executive
officer (CEO) and the hospital ethics committee will identify and appoint two
resource persons (twenty total).  Upon their appointment, these persons will
become Virginia fellows and come weekly for thirteen weeks, starting in
September 1990, for education and training to respond to the needs and
priorities of the sponsoring institution by developing a DHEP plan.  By March
15, 1991, a mid-way evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses of a proposed
DHEP plan will be completed by the local hospital ethics committee and hospital
CEO.

   Phase III (April 1991-December 1991). -- The twenty fellows, assisted by
U.Va. Center staff and working with their home hospital ethics committees, will
implement the first stage of a DHEP plan, including an evaluation component to
be completed by December 1991.

   Phase IV (by March 15, 1992). -- The U.Va. Center's DHEP project will be
evaluated by local assessment of the first stage of a  [*893]  DHEP plan for
that hospital, plus telephone or personal interviews with the twenty fellows,
hospital ethics committee chairpersons, and U.Va. Center staff.  The evaluation
will be done by an independent evaluator in the humanities to be selected.  A
written report will be prepared by the evaluator.

Project Activities

   Phase I. -- The goal of this phase is an assessment, in a participatory
process, of the hospital's readiness to support the evolution of a full ethics
program.  A simple five-part needs assessment will be given to all health care
professionals in each hospital.  Each hospital will receive a research report
that will rank the ethical problems (as seen by different professionals) that
most need attention, as well as the needs of professionals and the hospital for
a forum to raise issues, for education in ethics and health law, for ethics
consultation, and for guidelines on ethically important policy issues.  This
phase ends with a ranking of priorities for development of the local hospital
ethics program.

   Phase II. -- Two appointed persons will come to the U.Va. Center as Virginia
fellows, supervised by the Coordinator for Outreach Programs who will be
assisted by other faculty in four areas of expertise most required in clinical
ethics and ethics consults: biomedical ethics, health care law, clinical
knowledge, and interpersonal skills.

   In Phase II, the visiting fellows will engage in three activities.  First,
they will take a basic clinical ethics and health care law course.  Second, they
will complete an initial thirteen session cycle of a Virginia fellows seminar on
"Hospital Ethics Programs" designed to cover what is known about the five
elements of a program and to focus on their institutions.  The seminar will be
the major resource for developing a DHEP plan with an evaluation component.
n107 And third, they will observe the U.Va. hospital ethics program, its
hospital  [*894]  ethics committee and ethics consultation service classes, and
activities in the U.Va. Health Sciences Center relating to biomedical ethics and
health law.

   During this period, a member of the Educational Team will make one site visit
to a participating hospital.  The purpose of the visit will be to coordinate a
meeting of the hospital ethics committee and the resource persons and to help
them to compose the first draft of a DHEP.

   The fellows will work together in pairs, with the help of the seminar
leaders, to develop a DHEP plan for their hospital.  The plan will be evaluated
for strengths and weaknesses by the local hospital ethics committee and the
hospital CEO by March 15, 1991.

   Phase III. -- After the mid-way evaluation, each pair of fellows will begin
to implement the DHEP plan.  They will return to the U.Va. Center for eight
weekly seminars in April and May, 1991 to complete their seminar studies of
hospital ethics programs and to report on problems and progress to date.  The
content of the last cycle of seminars must not be planned prematurely.

   During the summer of 1991, U.Va. Center staff will conduct a final site visit
to assist the hospital ethics committee and resource persons with the plan, as
well as in planning for future components of their program.

   The hospital CEO and the chair of the hospital ethics committee, along with
the two fellows, will be invited to the U.Va. Center for a two-day conference in
November 1991 to report on the progress of their ethics programs.  At this time,
a full picture of progress to date should emerge.

   Phase IV. -- Final project evaluation will take place.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawTreatmentPatient ConsentInformed ConsentPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareMaternity & ChildrenPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareServices
for Disabled & Elderly PersonsCare FacilitiesNursing Facilities

FOOTNOTES:




n1  See Wolf, Ethics Committees and Due Process: Nesting Rights in a Community
of Caring, 50 MD. L. REV. 798, 805, 820-22 (1991).




n2  See id. at 814-20.




n3  See id. at 802-03.




n4 " Clinical ethics" is an interdisciplinary activity to identify, analyze, and
resolve ethical problems that arise in the care of particular patients.  The
major thrust of clinical ethics is to work for outcomes that best serve the
interests and welfare of patients and their families.  This activity is related
conceptually to biomedical ethics, a broader, interdisciplinary branch of ethics
that has evolved in the last twenty years to study ethical, legal, and social
issues raised in the life sciences, including medicine.

   My own tendency is to encourage "realism" in clinical ethics.  Realism is
intended in the usual meaning of "Be a realist," that is, be concerned to get
the facts of the problem or case straight; to ascertain the patient's
preferences; to identify the ethical problems in the context of the case; to
weigh the merits of competing arguments and sets of interests against standards
that arise from practical experience; and, in the most complex cases, to be able
to accept a rough approximation of an ideal resolution after evaluating all of
the real options -- that is, realists are willing to compromise.

   Realism in ethics is wary of positions that are impracticable or overly
theoretical, visionary, and sentimental.  Moral conflicts are conflicts of
desires, interests, and principles.  These conflicts are very hard to unravel
and understand.  The purpose of theory in clinical ethics is to deepen and
strengthen the understanding of such conflicts, but not to dominate or overwhelm
the decisionmaking process.  The most elemental purpose of morality itself is to
protect human beings and other species from harm.  The basic purpose of ethics
(not morality, which is better understood as a kind of institution within
institutions) is to protect human beings, societies, and other species from the
harms that follow when real moral conflicts are avoided or obscured.  Ethics is
reflection that involves the whole person in moral problems, and in the
evaluation of the fitness for survival and evolution of the moralities required
by societies.  Avoiding real analysis of moral conflicts allows the basic causes
of these special disputes to grow, to obscure legitimate claims, and to drown
these claims with moralism.  Moralism is the language of avoidance of the honest
labors of ethics.  The first task of ethics is to provide insight into everyday
moral problems and the fitness of the moral guidance societies make for
themselves and their members.  This task must be undertaken in special settings,
like the clinical setting, and must include the persons most involved --
clinicians and their patients.

   For this reason, one must be wary of the term "ethicist" to describe what any
one person does in the clinical setting.  Clinical ethics is a group activity,
and contributions are made to it from the disciplines of medicine, nursing, law,
theology and religious studies, philosophy, the social and behavioral sciences,
and others.  Ethics is the business of everyone concerned with the welfare of
the patient, not just those with special training in the history and methodology
of ethical reasoning.  The role of those who specialize in nurturing the
activity of clinical ethics is better understood as that of a "consultant in
clinical ethics," than of an "ethicist." This term avoids the implication of
elitism or domination of the process of clinical ethics.




n5  See Wolf, supra note 1, at 814.




n6  See id. at 847-52.




n7  See Povar, Evaluating Ethics Committees: What Do We Mean By Success?, 50 MD.
L. REV. 904, 915-16 (1991).




n8  Eliot, Burnt Norton, in T. S. ELIOT COLLECTED POEMS 1909-1962 175 (1963).




n9  In 1970, Margaret Mead described the character of the era in which bioethics
was born: "all . . . are equally immigrants into the new era -- some come as
refugees and some as castaways . . . everyone born and bred before World War II
is . . . an immigrant in time . . . struggling to grapple with the unfamiliar
conditions of life in a new era." M. MEAD, CULTURE AND COMMITMENT 72 (1970).




n10  R. Fox, Advanced Medical Technology -- Social and Ethical Implications, in
ESSAYS IN MEDICAL SOCIOLOGY 413 (1979).




n11  See Fox & Swazey, Medical Morality Is Not Bioethics -- Medical Ethics in
China and the United States, 27 PERSP. BIOLOGY & MED. 336, 354 (1984).




n12  See infra subpart III(c).




n13  Van Rensselaer Potter was probably the author of the term "bioethics," but
his claim to have given birth to a field that is supposed to accompany the term
is hard to support.  Potter, Bioethics: The Science of Survival, 14 PERSP.
BIOLOGY & MED. 127 (1970).  See Fox, supra note 10, at 413 n.1.  In my view,
Joseph Fletcher's book, Morals and Medicine, was the most important early
written work in the post-World War II examination of medical ethics and the
physician-patient relationship.  It appeared just before the rise of concern
about research ethics and the explosion of knowledge in the life sciences in the
1960s.  See J. FLETCHER, MORALS AND MEDICINE (1954).




n14  The largest collection is housed in the National Reference Center for
Bioethics Literature, Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Georgetown University,
Washington, D.C. 20057.  A user can also dial (800)-MED-ETHX.  A grant from the
National Library of Medicine of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) supports
this collection of documents.  Volume 15 of the Bibliography of Bioethics has
2400 citations listed in over 70 subject areas, and is available from the
Center.  See 15 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF BIOETHICS (1989).




n15  ENCYCLOPEDIA OF BIOETHICS (W. Reich ed. 1978).




n16  Id. at xix.




n17  1 A. MACINTYRE, A SHORT HISTORY OF ETHICS 57 (1966) (emphasis in original).




n18  This definition of bioethics combines two factors: action and systematic
reflection on ethical guidance.  See R. FOX, supra note 10, at 413-14; T.
BEAUCHAMP & J. CHILDRESS, PRINCIPLES OF BIOMEDICAL ETHICS 21 (3d ed. 1989).  The
emphasis on "unjustifiable infringement" on freedom of clinicians and scientists
reflects a strong commitment to the academic and scientific freedoms underlying
the bioethics movement.  When scientific freedom is restricted or infringed, it
needs to be done in the context of a reasoned and systematic argument.  See id.
at 53.  Such reasoned and systematic argument is conspicuously missing from
government actions and statements that attempt to suppress reproductive biology
research in the federal sector.




n19  See Bayer, Callahan, Caplan & Jennings, Toward Justice in Health Care, 78
AM. J. PUB. HEALTH 583 (1988).




n20  See INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE, PRENATAL CARE -- REACHING MOTHERS, REACHING
INFANTS (1988).

   In 1985, 76.2 percent of all United States infants were born to women who
began prenatal care in the first trimester of pregnancy, 18.1 percent were born
to women who delayed care until the second trimester, 4.0 percent to women who
obtained care only in the third trimester, and 1.7 percent to mothers who had no
prenatal care at all.  When key statistics are analyzed to determine rates of
adequate care rather than trimester of onset, a slightly different picture
emerges.  In 1985, only 68.2 percent of all women obtained adequate prenatal
care, 23.9 percent had an intermediate level of care, and 7.9 percent of all
pregnant women had inadequate care.
Id. at 17.




n21  See infra at 875-78 (discussing institutional ethics programs).




n22  See generally Callahan & Campbell (eds.), Theology, Religious Traditions,
and Bioethics, HASTINGS CENTER REP., July-Aug. 1990, special supp., at 1; Fox,
supra note 10; Toulmin, How Medicine Saved the Life of Ethics, 25 PERSP. BIOLOGY
& MED. 736 (1982).




n23  See, e.g., I. LADIMER & R. NEWMAN, CLINICAL INVESTIGATION IN MEDICINE:
LEGAL, ETHICAL AND MORAL ASPECTS 116-19 (1963); Langer, Human Experimentation:
Cancer Studies at Sloan-Kettering Stir Public Debate on Medical Ethics, 143
SCIENCE 551 (1964).




n24  See Beecher, Ethics and Human Experimentation -- Henry Beecher Revisited,
317 N. ENG. J. MED. 1195 (1987); D. ROTHMAN, STRANGERS AT THE BEDSIDE 70-100
(1991).




n25  Two of these persons were James Shannon and Luther Terry, who respectively
held the positions of director of the NIH and Surgeon General in the mid 1960s
when the policy on prior group review was being shaped; cf. Fletcher, The
Evolution of the Ethics of Informed Consent, in RESEARCH ETHICS 222 (K. Berg &
K. Tranoy eds. 1983).




n26  See M. PAPPWORTH, HUMAN GUINEA PIGS 188 (1967).  The "so-called Nuremburg
Code is a judicial summary of the expert testimony presented in the case against
the Nazi doctors accused of war crimes. . . .  The code consists of ten clauses
of which the first is the most important and is developed in the greatest
detail. . . ." The first clause states that the voluntary consent of the human
subject is absolutely essential.




n27  Id. (documenting experiments made on hospital patients).  Patients died as
a result of investigators taking

   risks with patients of which those patients . . . [were] not fully aware, or
not aware at all, and to which they would not [have] consent[ed] if they . . .
[had been] aware; . . . subject[ing] them to mental and physical distress which
. . . [was] in no way necessitated by, and ha[d] no connection with, the
treatment of the disease from which they . . . [were] suffering; and in some
cases deliberately . . . retard[ing] the recovery from that disease so that
investigation of a particular condition . . . [could] be extended.
Id. at 3.




n28  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.103 (1990)+.




n29  See Protection of Human Subjects, 45 C.F.R. § 47.107; see also SURGEON
GENERAL, U.S. PUB. HEALTH SERVICE, DEP'T OF HEALTH, EDUCATION & WELFARE, PPO NO
. 129, INVESTIGATIONS INVOLVING HUMAN SUBJECTS, INCLUDING CLINICAL RESEARCH:
REQUIREMENTS FOR REVIEW TO INSURE THE RIGHTS AND WELFARE OF INDIVIDUALS (1966);
National Research Service Award Act of 1974, Pub. L. No. 93-348, § 472, 88 Stat.
342 (1974).




n30  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 46.112 (1990).




n31  See id. § 46.103.




n32  See id. § 465.204.




n33  See id.




n34  See, e.g., Pellegrino, Human Values and the Medical Curriculum - An
Educator's Response, 209 J. A.M.A. 1349 (1969) (one of 20 articles in that issue
of J. A.M.A. addressing this movement in the health sciences education
community).




n35  See Jonsen, Can an Ethicist Be a Consultant?, in FRONTIERS IN MEDICAL
ETHICS: APPLICATIONS IN A MEDICAL SETTING 157-71 (V. Abernethy ed. 1980).




n36  See KENNEDY INSTITUTE OF ETHICS, INTERNATIONAL DIRECTORY OF BIOETHICS
ORGANIZATIONS (1989) .




n37  PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION FOR THE STUDY OF ETHICAL PROBLEMS IN MEDICINE AND
BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVORIAL RESEARCH, DECIDING TO FOREGO LIFE-SUSTAINING TREATMENT
(1983) [hereinafter PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION, DECIDING TO FOREGO LIFE-SUSTAINING
TREATMENT] .




n38  The first reference to the need for such committees was in a law review
article by a Texas pediatrician.  See Teel, The Physician's Dilemma: A Doctor's
View: What the Law Should Be, 27 BAYLOR L. REV. 7 (1975). See also B. HOSFORD,
MAKING YOUR MEDICAL DECISIONS: YOUR RIGHTS AND HARSH DECISIONS TODAY 126 (1982)
("[W]hen Karen Ann Quinlan was moved to Morris View Nursing Home, administrators
there set up an ethics committee with the membership that Dr. Teel had
recommended.").  The confusion between what the New Jersey justices wanted from
the committee (that is, to settle the issue on Ms. Quinlan's prognosis), and the
self-understanding of the committee as a source of advice to physicians and
patients, is also a matter of record.  See id. at 127.




n39  See Optimum Care for Hopelessly Ill Patients: A Report of the Clinical Care
Committee of the Massachusetts General Hospital, 295 NEW ENG. J. MED. 362
(1976).




n40  See, e.g., R. CRAIG, C. MIDDLETON, L. O'CONNELL, ETHICS COMMITTEES, A
PRACTICAL APPROACH (1986); INSTITUTIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEES AND HEALTH CARE
DECISIONMAKING (R. Cranford & A. Doudera eds. 1984); B. HOSFORD, BIOETHICS
COMMITTEES: THE HEALTH CARE PROVIDER'S GUIDE (1986).




n41  PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION, DECIDING TO FOREGO LIFE-SUSTAINING TREATMENT, supra
note 37, at 162-63.




n42  See 45 C.F.R. 1340 (1990); Murray, The Final, Anticlimactic Rule on Baby
Doe, HASTINGS CENTER REP., June 1985, at 5.




n43  651 F. Supp. 395, 399-400 (1983) (striking down as arbitrary and capricious
a regulation concerning life-sustaining medical treatment to be used to preserve
lives of severely mentally or physically defective newborns, where agency
apparently had failed to consider the disruptive nature or propriety of its
action).




n44  MD. HEALTH-GEN. CODE ANN. § 19-371 (1990 & Supp. 1990).




n45  Hoffmann, Does Legislating Hospital Ethics Committees Make a Difference?: A
Study of Hospital Ethics Committees in Maryland, the District of Columbia, and
Virginia (1991) (to be published in a forthcoming issue of Law, Medicine &
Health Care) (unpublished manuscript on file at the Maryland Law Review).




n46  Id. at 26.




n47  Id.




n48  Id.




n49  Id.




n50  Id.




n51  See S. 1766, 101st Cong., 1st Sess. (1989).




n52  The bill was finally passed as part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act OF of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-508, § 4206, 104 Stat. 1388 (1990).




n53  Id Id. § 4206(a)(1), 104 Stat. at 1388.




n54  See S. 1766, 101st Cong., 1st Sess. §§ 3(a)(3), 4(b)(3) (1989).




n55  This information came from a personal communication I had with Gaelynn
DeMartino, a representative of the American Hospital Association, Washington,
D.C. (Feb. 22, 1991).  See also Hoffman, Regulating Ethics Committees in Health
Care Institutions -- Is It Time?, 50 MD. L. REV. 746, 753 n.46 and accompanying
text (1991) (providing an account of the legislative process).




n56  See Capron, The Patient Self-Determination Act: Not Now, HASTINGS CENTER
REP., Sept.-Oct. 1990, at 36; Fletcher, The Patient Self-Determination Act: Yes,
HASTINGS CENTER REP., Sept.-Oct. 1990, at 34; see also supra note 43 and
accompanying text.




n57  See 1 PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION FOR THE STUDY OF ETHICAL PROBLEMS IN MEDICINE
AND BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH, SECURING ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE: A REPORT
ON THE ETHICAL IMPLICATIONS OF DIFFERENCES IN THE AVAILABILITY OF HEALTH
SERVICES 49-113 (1983) [hereinafter SECURING ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE].




n58  Jennings, A Grassroots Movement in Bioethics: Community Health Decisions,
HASTINGS CENTER REP., June-July 1988, special supp., at 1-16 (stating that the
Oregon Health Decisions program organizes participatory fora at the grassroots
level throughout the state, thus bridging the gap between health care providers
and consumer groups, and between experts and "ordinary" citizens).




n59  These four criteria stem from reflections on the literature cited infra
note 60 and supra note 57




n60  See D. CALLAHAN, SETTING LIMITS: MEDICAL GOALS IN AN AGING SOCIETY (1987)
[hereinafter SETTING LIMITS]; D. CALLAHAN, WHAT KIND OF LIFE?  THE LIMITS OF
MEDICAL PROGRESS (1990); N. DANIELS, JUST HEALTH CARE (1985); C. DOUGHERTY,
AMERICAN HEALTH CARE: REALITIES, RIGHTS, AND REFORMS (1988); 1 SECURING ACCESS
TO HEALTH CARE, supra note 57, at 11-46; Outka, Social Justice and Equal Access
to Health Care, 2 J. REL. ETHICS 11 (1974); Wikler, Philosophical Perspectives
on Acccess to Health Care: An Introduction, in 2 SECURING ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE,
supra note 57, at 107, 129-42.




n61  See, e.g., C. DOUGHERTY, supra note 60, at 7, 15, 142, 178, 209 n.30
(discussing burdens due to racially based unequal access, health care costs and
administrative waste); D. CALLAHAN, SETTING LIMITS, supra note 60, at 115-17,
119-23 (discussing financial pressure on the government due to indiscriminate
spending on health care and general administrative burdens).




n62  See Fletcher & Wertz, Ethics, Law, and Medical Genetics: After the Human
Genome Is Mapped, 39 EMORY L.J. 747, 756-58 (1990 .




n63  Public Health Service, Bureau of Maternal and Child Health,
Promoting/Preventing Disease: Year 2000.  Objectives for the Nation (1990)
(draft memorandum).  Today, the United States is the only developed nation whose
elected leaders, because of moral opposition to abortion, plan to reduce genetic
services.  Americans will eventually decide -- in their own enlightened
self-interest -- to chart the course of the nation's health in more moderate
ways, inclusive of genetic services and other forms of health care grounded in
preventive medicine and public health.




n64  See generally D. WERTZ & J. FLETCHER, ETHICS AND HUMAN GENETICS: A
CROSS-CULTURAL PERSPECTIVE (1989).




n65  See supra notes 46-49 and accompanying text.




n66  See supra note 40; see also Kanoti & Vinicky, The Role and Structure of
Hospital Ethics Committees, in HEALTH CARE ETHICS: A GUIDE FOR DECISION MAKERS
293 (G. Anderson & V. Glesnes-Anderson eds. 1987).  For the best practical guide
to ethics committees' work, see J. ROSS, C. BAYLEY, V. MICHEL & D. PUGH,
HANDBOOK FOR HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES (1986).




n67  See INTRODUCTION TO CLINICAL ETHICS AND HEALTH CARE LAW (J. Fletcher & M.
White eds. 1991) [published by Ibis Publishing Co., copy available c/o In-Print,
7 Elliewood Ave., Charlottesville, VA 22903].




n68  See, e.g., Lo, Behind Closed Doors: Promises and Pitfalls of Ethics
Committees, 317 NEW ENG. J. MED. 46 (1987); Siegler, The Progression of
Medicine: From Physician Paternalism to Patient Autonomy to Bureaucratic
Parsimony, 145 ARCH. INT. MED. 713 (1985); Moreno, Ethics By Committee: The
Moral Authority of Consensus, 13 J. MED. & PHIL. 411 (1988).




n69  See C. CULVER, ETHICS AT THE BEDSIDE (1990).




n70  A joint planning session of board members of the Society for Bioethics
Consultation (SBC) and invited guests agreed on this definition in May 1988,
prior to the Second National Conference on Ethics Consultation in Health Care.
The Society is a nonprofit, national organization that exists to encourage
ethics consultation in health care and the continuing education of those who
provide it.  Membership is open to interest persons by writing to: Laurence
O'Connell, Ph.D., President, SBC, c/o Park Ridge Center, 676 St. Clair, Suite
450, Chicago, IL 60611.  For papers from the first National Conference on Ethics
Consultation in Health Care, see J. FLETCHER, N. QUIST & A. JONSEN, ETHICS
CONSULTATION IN HEALTH CARE (1989).




n71  STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION, REPORT TO THE GOVERNOR AND THE GENERAL
ASSEMBLY OF VIRGINIA ON ALTERNATIVE PREMIUM DISTRIBUTION METHODS FOR MEDICAL
MALPRACTICE INSURANCE, H. DOC. NO. 33 12 (1989).




n72  See generally J. FLETCHER, N. QUIST & A. JONSEN, supra note 70; see also
e.g., infra, Appendix A (policy statement adopted at the University of Virginia
Health Sciences Center).




n73  One such common systemic ethical problem often arises in cases involving
conflict about foregoing life sustaining treatment.  It is the policy in most
hospitals that unless there is a written order to the contrary, a patient will
be resuscitated, and medical personnel are trained to act immediately to
resuscitate.  This institutional position created ethical problems for many
patients who had not prescribed specific instructions in advance, but who, had
they been able to speak, would have refused to be resuscitated.  Another common
systemic problem involves the obligation of confidentiality, described in most
medical codes of ethics and believed by most patients, which frequently is
breached during routine medical care in modern hospitals -- perhaps more than
100 persons see the patient's chart and know initimate details about the
patient's life.  See Siegler, Confidentiality in Medicine -- A Decrepit Concept,
307 NEW ENG. J. MED. 1518 (1982).




n74  The statewide outreach program of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the
University of Virginia is entitled "Developing Hospital Ethics Programs." In the
next year, DHEP will complete a two-year project to assist 20 community and
private hospitals in Virginia to start or strengthen institutional ethics
programs.  See infra Appendix B.




n75  III S. Ct. 1759 (1991).




n76  See J. Fletcher, Restriction and Suppression of Fetal and Pre-Embryo
Research 1974-1990, University of Iowa, Conference on the Beginning of Human
Life (Nov. 4-7, 1990) (copy on file with Maryland Law Review).




n77  These two national groups and their reports are THE NATIONAL COMM'N FOR THE
PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS OF BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVORIAL RESEARCH, U.S. DEP'T
OF HEALTH, EDUCATION & WELFARE, PUB. No. 76-127, REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
RESEARCH ON THE FETUS 61-68 (1975), and the ETHICS ADVISORY BOARD, REPORT AND
CONCLUSIONS: HEW SUPPORT OF RESEARCH INVOLVING HUMAN In Vitro Fertilization and
Embryo Transfer (May 4, 1979).




n78  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 46.201-.211 (1990).




n79  See THE NATIONAL COMM'N FOR THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS OF BIOMEDICAL
& BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH, U.S. DEP'T OF HEALTH, EDUCATION & WELFARE, PUB. NO.
(05)76-127, REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS: RESEARCH ON THE FETUS 70 (1975).




n80  For a good history, see ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL COLLEGES, FETAL
RESEARCH AND FETAL TISSUE RESEARCH (1988).  For congressional action, see Health
Research Extension Act of 1985, Pub. L. No. 99-158, § 498, 99 Stat. 820, 877
(1985) (restricting fetal research).




n81  ETHICS ADVISORY BD., U.S. DEP'T OF HEALTH, EDUCATION & WELFARE, REPORT AND
CONCLUSIONS: HEW SUPPORT OF RESEARCH INVOLVING HUMAN In Vitro Fertilization and
Embryo Transfer 100-14 (1979); see also 44 Fed. Reg. 35 (1979).




n82  WEBSTER'S THIRD NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY 2298 (3d ed. 1981).




n83  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 46.201-.210 (1990).




n84  Fletcher & Schulman, Fetal Research: The State of the Art, The State of the
Question, HASTINGS CENTER REP., Apr. 1985, at 6, 8.




n85  See D. WEATHERALL, THE NEW GENETICS AND CLINICAL PRACTICE 114- 19 (1985).




n86  See Fetal Therapy, 29 CLIN. OBSTET. & GYNEC. 481-614 (1986).




n87  Evans, Chrousos, Mann, Larsen, Green, McCluskey, Loriaux, Fletcher, Koons,
Overpeck & Schulman, Pharmacologic Suppression of the Fetal Adrenal Gland In
Utero: Attempted Prevention of Abnormal External Genital Masculinization in
Suspected Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia 253 J. A.M.A. 1015-20 (1985).




n88  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.102(g) (1990) ("minimal risk" means that the risks of
harm anticipated in the proposed research are not greater, considering
probability and magnitude, than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or
during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or
tests).




n89  See id. § 46.405 (HHS will conduct or fund research in which the
institutional review board finds that more than minimal risk to children is
presented by an intervention or procedure that holds out the prospect of direct
benefit for the individual subject or by a monitoring procedure that is likely
to contribute to the subject's well-being).




n90  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.208 (1990).




n91  OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, U.S. CONGRESS, OTA-BA-358, INFERTILITY:
MEDICAL AND SOCIAL CHOICES 293 (1988).




n92  Id. at 3.




n93  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.210 (1990) (stating "[a]ctivities involving the dead
fetus, mascerated fetal material, or cells, tissue, or organs excised from a
dead fetus shall be conducted only in accordance with any applicable State or
local laws regarding such activities.").




n94  MEMORANDUM FROM THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR HEALTH TO THE DIRECTOR, NIH,
REPORT OF THE HUMAN FETAL TISSUE TRANSPLANTATION RESEARCH PANEL ESTABLISHING
TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON USE OF HUMAN FETAL TISSUE IN TRANSPLANTATION RESEARCH
(1988).




n95  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO THE DIRECTOR, NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF
HEALTH, HUMAN FETAL TISSUE TRANSPLANTATION RESEARCH (1988).




n96  See, e.g., CAL. HEALTH & SAFETY CODE §§ 7150-7158 (West 1970) (providing
that a decedent may donate his body, and including a stillborn infant or fetus
within the definition of "decedent").




n97  These states are Arizona, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Oklahoma.  However,
the Illinois law permits experimental transplantation with tissue of
spontaneously aborted fetuses.




n98  See supra at nn.93-95 and accompanying text.




n99  See Health Research Extension Act of 1985, Pub. L. No. 99-158, 99 Stat. 820
(1985).




n100  Cook-Deegan, Abortion Politics Deals Death Blow to Bioethics Body Set Up
by Congress, 4 KENNEDY INSTITUTE OF ETHICS NEWSLETTER 4, 5 (1990).




n101  See id.




n102  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.204 (1990).




n103  See id.




n104  See Groups Plan Advisory Board for Fetal Tissue Research, Wash. Post, Jan.
8, 1991, at A3.




n105  THE ILA SECRETARIAT, IVF RESEARCH IN THE U.S. [Report published by The
Interim Licensing Authority, 20 Park Crescent, London, WIN 4AL, United Kingdom].




n106  As the dates indicate, the DHEP program is well under way.  However, in
order to preserve the essential forward-looking character of a "plan" this
Appendix adopts the future tense of the original.




n107  Topics for the hospital ethics program seminar include:

   September 1990: Four overview sessions on hospital ethics committees,
education in clinical ethics and health law, ethics consultation, and the
biomedical ethics resource person;
October 1990: The same four sessions repeated in the context of their hospitals
using needs assessment and priorities data;
November 1990: Four sessions to develop DHEP plans in four areas, plus a
tentative design for evaluation;
Final: Plan the schedule for the last eight sessions of the fellows' seminar for
phase III.


                              222 of 997 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright (c) 1994 Saint Louis University School of Law
                       Saint Louis University Law Journal

                                   Fall, 1994

                              39 St. Louis L.J. 65

LENGTH: 6232 words

SYMPOSIUM: ETHICS AND HEALTH CARE REFORM: INSTITUTIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS

NAME: DENNIS BRODEUR, Ph.D.*

BIO: *Senior Vice President-Stewardship of the SSM Health Care System. Father
Brodeur teaches as an adjunct faculty member at Saint Louis University's Schools
of Law and Public Health.

TEXT:
 [*65]

    THERE are different ways to identify, analyze and resolve ethical questions
raised by health care reform. One can begin with certain assumptions about the
nature of the physician-patient relationship, or the purpose of medicine, and
conclude that there are certain ethical imperatives.  n1 These include retaining
freedom of choice by both patient and physician, universal access to a defined
benefit package, ensuring quality services based on outcome measures,
establishing an affordable system either as a whole or individually for each
recipient of care, and avoiding the rationing of care as an evil, or creating
the ethical parameters within which care should be rationed. In addition,
attention can be focused on personal responsibility for one's health status and
the mitigating factors that affect health status such as education, employment,
housing, or the environment.

    Another approach focuses more on public policy or political issues which
shape the debate. What is the appropriate role of government? How should the
system be financed? Are employer mandates necessary to ensure health care
coverage for all? Who should be subsidized in such a plan? Are there limits to
the amount of health care dollars spent in society?

    Both the ethical imperatives and the political directions are shaped by
those who participate in the health care debate. This article attempts to sketch
the ethical questions, contributions and directions that should be addressed by
the formal, organized, institutional forces in the health care arena;
particularly institutions but also professional associations. What should these
groups advocate for in their political and ethical discourse? What does it mean
when organized, institutional health care groups advocate a particular health
care reform proposal? How does organized medicine impact the community it serves
and does organized medicine use its power, its wealth, and its profession [*66]
for a common good? What does this mean for the patient, the patient's family,
and for society?


   ROOTS

 Today, hospitals are the "single largest category of national health spending."
n2 Consequently, they have much to lose in a reformed health care system, but
they potentially have much to contribute to the shape of the "new" system. The
question is whether these institutions will work only for self-preservation or
self-interest or whether they will work for an overall improvement in the health
status of society and the institutional changes needed to realize this end.
Similar questions can be raised about long-term care facilities, free standing
ambulatory care centers, managed care organizations, and any of the numerous
"institutional" aspects of contemporary health services.

    The connection between health care institutions, medical care, and health is
relatively recent. Historical and sociological studies of the rise of health
care institutions  n3 identify the early purpose of these institutions as
"homes" for the poor and sick who, for whatever reason, were not cared for at
home. People who needed shelter as they recuperated - or more often died - found
hospitals a safe haven. These institutions were frequently run by religious
women of various denominations and were voluntary in nature (as opposed to tax
supported). With the advent of medical education, better infection control
procedures, surgery, anesthesia, and "miracle drugs," hospitals moved from the
periphery of society to play a pivotal role in promoting healing. As such, these
institutions embodied the dreams and values of a society.  n4 Health care
institutions contributed to the development of the common good. At its center,
health care institutions were mission driven, morally committed organizations
whose purpose was to serve.

    These commitments are questioned, criticized, and/or challenged today. The
non-profit community service organization is viewed as a center for science and
technology, as a big business that is too wealthy, as no longer serving the
needy or poor, as too costly for individuals and society, and as no longer
discerning a "privileged non-profit" place in the community.  n5  [*67]

    The traditional role of hospitals and other health care institutions as
servants of the community should be the source of institutional advocacy and
participation in the ethical concerns of health care reform. The voice of the
institution should be heard in a self-critical examination of the institution's
own need for reform and as an advocate for communal change that will improve the
health status of communities.


   REFORM COMMITMENT

 Much of the recent political debate is not about true health care reform but
rather about expanding certain entitlements to all people (universal access to a
benefit package), changing the financing structures (mandatory insurance, sin
taxes, other taxes), and the way money is dispersed to cover health services.
Adopting these changes does not create health care reform in any systematic
manner, nor does it necessarily create healthier communities. Even if all people
are easily able to receive all presently available health care services that
does not necessarily create a healthier family, community, or society.

    Other goals must be pursued if true health care reform is to occur. Charles
Dougherty outlines six key values that are at stake in health care reform.  n6
These values help outline the ethical commitments which health care institutions
should voice in the public debate. Perhaps the most significant value Dougherty
outlines is a commitment to the common good.  n7 This value requires a shift
from the more individualistic thinking commonly found in today's health care
system which emphasizes individual rights of patients, physicians, and payors to
a balance of individual rights with concern for the community's benefit -
healthy living, preventive medicine, and consensus on what promotes a healthy
community.

    In a recent study for the Healthcare Forum  n8 it was reported that an
absence of disease is not enough to create health in a community.  n9 To have a
healthy society, an absence of disease must also be coupled with concerns about
quality of life, including reduction in crime rates, violence, and gun shot
injuries; safety for children and communities; the protection and promotion of
neighborhoods, family values, education; economic opportunity; and housing.  n10
[*68]

    It would be a mistake to medicalize all of these concerns or to make all of
these issues the responsibility of health care institutions.  n11 However,
unless health care institutions participate in a reform process that pays
attention to many of these issues - even with some possible reduction of money
available for traditional medical services - costs will continue to escalate,
healthier communities will not be developed, and the problems of today's health
system will be exacerbated. Health care institutions must help forge a consensus
on how to mobilize personal and public resources to meet some of these needs, to
provide appropriate education, and to transform the current medical setting.
There will still be a need for high quality, technologically sophisticated
medical centers and services. Health care institutions will not be obsolete, but
their shape, size, and delivery patterns must change. Questions of
affordability, universal access, and quality will remain. Consequently,
universal access and finance reform are necessary. But by themselves, access and
finance reform are not sufficient changes.

    A second ethical commitment which flows from a concern for the common good
is collaboration. No health care institution in an integrated delivery system
will be able to accomplish these goals alone. Partners will be needed if
communities and individuals are to benefit from a reformed system. Partnerships
imply mutuality or complimentarity of mission and service activities.
Partnerships could include schools, congregations, neighborhood centers of play
and culture, employers, payors and governmental agencies to mention a few.
Collaboration sometimes counters the competitive forces of the market place,
which, is often suggested as a way to reduce or control costs.  n12
Collaboration implies shared goals and purposes, legitimate collusion to deliver
services, and shared financial risks to promote health.

    Collaboration will force health care institutions to examine the manner in
which they describe the population they serve. This is a radical transformation
in thinking. Many institutions today continue to focus on certain insured
persons or families. Providing health care services is a primary goal but only
to those who come to the institution. The health care institution may seek out
some people but such advertising or marketing strategies are aimed at the
"right" people, payor mix, product line, or other category that enhances the
institution's life. Those health care institutions that change may focus on a
number of covered lives such as those in a managed care setting, or those whom
the institutions have accepted responsibility for in a capitated structure. This
change does not, however, address the health care institution's responsibility
for a community where some of the health care institution's activities [*69]
could possibly benefit a competing health care system or place a health care
institution at competitive disadvantage at least in the short run. Choosing how
the health care institution thinks about the population served is a fundamental
value question with obvious ethical implications.  n13

    A third set of values with obvious ethical implications involves the
reexamination of traditional patient/physician relationships. This value
concentrates on the traditional and more individualistic values of the
contemporary health care delivery system. The two previous values, more
communitarian in nature, need to be balanced by this perspective. Fundamental to
this value is a respect for the human dignity or the sacredness of life of each
individual who enters the health care setting and a concern for the welfare of
the patient generally expressed in the ethical requirements not to harm but to
benefit the patient in the services that are rendered.  n14

    These commitments also generally include the traditional values or ethical
principles expressed in the biomedical literature. These include appropriate
consent from competent patients before treatment, proxy consent for those
individuals who are without competence to consent to treatment, truthfulness and
confidentiality in the services provided, and a just allocation of resources
where allocation or rationing may be necessary. They also include an increased
commitment to patient responsibility for overall well being, including healthy
life styles, knowledge about the health care system, wise choices in the
expenditure of health care dollars, greater sensitivity to not requesting
services that are not likely to be of benefit, or to make demands that are not
helpful economically, institutionally, and communally.  n15

    Health care institutions as presently constructed are generally concerned
about the provision of services to those who enter the institution through the
emergency room, a doctor's office, or by some other avenue. Society has already
seen fit to ask the institution to shoulder some serious responsibilities about
education and choice which may affect individual patient care.  n16 As a result,
institutions must request information about whether or not an individual has
completed some legally acceptable form of advance directive upon admission to
the institution. Families whose loved ones die are approached, where medically
appropriate, to donate organs from the recently deceased in [*70]  order to
benefit others. Social service and pastoral care departments in hospitals
frequently provide multiple pieces of information about alternative care sites
for patients once they leave the acute care setting. However, these educational
and patient focused issues are always tied up with regulation and administrative
detail. The health care system of tomorrow must begin to find partners to
participate in serious education, not only about health and health promotion but
also about the limits of health care services and the rights and
responsibilities of patients prior to the time that they enter the institution.
Anecdotal experience seems to indicate that the emotional trauma that frequently
accompanies serious illness, a life threatening disease, or death makes the time
surrounding the illness or death a poor one to address some of these fundamental
ethical concerns. The new health care system must find alternative ways to deal
with these issues. Preferably, these issues should be addressed in community
settings apart from the health care institution. Again, this requires
collaboration and the inclusion of many who, to date, have not been significant
partners in the health care system of this country.

    This collaborative relationship will have to be "financed" and is likely to
change the financial patterns that presently exist. Institutional participants
in the health care reform debate will have to argue for more financial
resources, possibly at the risk of the institution's own dollars, to create
networks that promote the well-being of the community served. New networks may
not be "hospital" or "profession" centered, thus institutions may be required to
change the way they think about their missions and broaden the scope of their
activity beyond institutional or professional centers to the community served.


   MANAGED COMPETITION

 In many of the recent proposals for health care reform, including the Clinton
proposal, and in much of the literature of professional periodicals, managed
competition is touted as a way to harness market forces, to reduce cost, or to
at least slow the rapid inflation of health care costs. It is believed that
market forces are the best way to regulate health care and to control costs. If
individuals are forced to choose health care plans based upon quality outcomes
and competing costs, competitive and integrated health care plans will develop
and be aggressively pursued by the present health care organizations, as well as
by the professions, payors, and patients.

    In analyzing this issue, several points need to be kept in mind. First, it
is important to recognize that any type of financing mechanism has possible
built-in ethical conflicts. In the fee for service tradition, individual
physicians or institutions can be encouraged to provide more and sometimes
unnecessary services simply because payment is attached to each service,
diagnostic test, or therapeutic intervention. Ethical abuse occurs where
individuals perform unnecessary diagnostic tests or therapies because
professionals and institutions will financially benefit from the provision of
these services rather than because patients need them.  [*71]

    Society's response to traditional fee for service financing was to develop
managed care options. Managed care is also open to abuse through financial
incentives to primary care physicians not to treat or not to refer to
subspecialists. Managed care also provides incentives to attempt to practice
medicine beyond one's competencies. Other health maintenance organizations hold
a percentage of physicians' salaries at risk and then distribute or deny
payments based on utilization and on the managed care organization's financial
performance. While some managed care settings are undoubtedly excellent and have
provided excellent care for recipients, the possibility of ethical abuse exists.

    Similar things can be said about the suggestions to move to a capitated
payment system. Undoubtedly, a capitated payment system will reduce some of the
excess utilization and waste in the system, but capitation runs the risk of
undertreatment based upon the financial resources available to treat a patient
or a population.

    The fact is, wherever medicine, physician, health care institutions, and
money coalesce there will be some temptation to act unethically in order to
maximize profit for personal or institutional benefit. The ethical response to
this takes many forms. One is an appeal to the professional status and the
promise of physicians and other health care professionals to view the profession
as a service or covenant. The service orientation minimizes gouging or personal
profit.  n17 One can establish regulatory mechanisms through federal and state
governments or through other payor mechanisms with the hope of curtailing
unnecessary services and eliminating unethical practice. One can even attach
civil and criminal penalties to unacceptable performance;  n18 however, whatever
financial payment is used, there will be some "incentive" to engage in
questionable behavior. The development of clinical paths and outcome measures
provide yet another opportunity to structure appropriate diagnostic and
therapeutic interventions along the lines of professional expertise, while
leaving latitude for professional judgment. Regardless of the response one
gives, ethical behavior is, in part, dependent upon the virtues, character, and
integrity of the institutions and professionals. Consequently, institutions need
to examine the ethical implications of possible payment and financial mechanisms
and design a system that upholds the fiduciary and value base of the healing
professions.

   RATIONING

 Any discussion of the financial realities of health care reform raises
questions about the unspeakable "R" word - rationing. These questions are com
[*72]  plex. The first difficulty is in defining the term rationing. I suggest
that rationing means that some possibly beneficial services will be denied to
some or all members of the population. I would suggest, along the lines of the
Catholic Health Association's rationing guidelines,  n19 that the need for
rationing must be publicly demonstrated, be an open process, be accountable, and
be inclusive to all members of society. Of course, there are competing
definitions of rationing, and this makes the debate more complicated.

    Some people argue that no rationing is necessary. If society were to
eliminate fraud, abuse, and waste in the present health care system, while at
the same time engaging in tort reform and other changes, then sufficient dollars
would be found to cover everyone in the population. Rationing is socialized
medicine, government interference, and bad medicine.

    Sometimes people confuse rationing with the planned distribution of certain
services which may impinge upon geographical access. For example, services may
seem to be rationed if some institutions are not allowed to provide highly
technological services when these services are centered in university based or
urban institutions. Individual limitations will exist because of geographical
access, transportation, a desire to live in a sparsely populated rural
community, or other personal life style choices. Even the best imaginable system
is likely to create such problems. These questions have to be put on the table
for prolonged public debate. Health care institutions and professionals may be
in a position to do this if they enter into community educational debates about
the distribution of acute care health centers and professionals. Key to this
debate will be a discussion of the "freedoms" argued for, in particular, by
physicians. "No one should tell a doctor where to practice," the argument would
likely state. Society would then be confronted with whether to accommodate
transportation and other related geographical concerns in the system, tell the
average citizen that where one lives could limit access to certain services
unless one has disposable income, or limit choices in physician practice. The
ethical dilemma is how to balance individual choice with societal needs.

    The rationing issue also raises questions about acceptable tiers of health
care. Should there be one tier of health care in the country for all people with
the possibility that those who have more money could then purchase addi-tional
amenities only but not better health care services? Or will there be multiple
tiers representing the best the country can do. I suspect that the deeply
ingrained American culture will only be satisfied with a tiered health care
system with possibly three tiers in the political arena.

    The bottom tier would be that which is likely to be provided primarily by
governmental subsidy of either health services, an insurance product such as
Medicaid or Medicare, or some combination of the two. This tier will be [*73]
available to the poor, and those who do not have the financial resources to be
able to purchase additional coverage or insurance. Much of middle America,
especially those for whom the bulk of health care insurance is paid by an
employer will feel that it deserves more than the poor do. This middle level
will probably experience greater out of pocket expenditures both for the
insurance product and for co-payments for services, but this will be "gladly"
borne by those who are solidly middle and upper middle class if they receive
more care, or care based on personal choice. In the third tier would be the
wealthy who are able to afford any service, wherever it is offered, and will
feel that it is their right to expend their income in whatever care setting they
deem best. Thus, a single tiered health care system providing a very high basic
benefit package to all people with individuals able to purchase only amenities,
such as cosmetic surgery, private and carpeted rooms, or certain other personal
services, is likely to be unacceptable to most, and too expensive for all.

    Choices about the number of tiers of care expose fundamental assumptions
about equity, equality, and the ethical values placed on access to health care.
The more one believes that health care is a basic good in life the less likely
one is to accept many tiers of care. The more one views health services as a
market commodity the more one is willing to accept disparity in available health
services. If equity is the guiding ethical principle of justice, an acceptable
benefit package is all that is needed. If equality is the guiding justice
principle, a single tier of service is more desirable.  n20

    Institutions and professionals who address this question will have to
establish value-laden definitions about the nature of health care, prevention,
access, and the benefit package. Whatever is moral or just may give way to what
is politically feasible. It is precisely in this decision about what access to
health care demands that the rationing question is most visible.


   INTERNAL CONCERNS

 It was stated above that health care institutions that enter into the ethical
discussions about health care reform should articulate values not only in
external political matters involving the development of a health care policy,
but should also articulate values that are internally self-critical. At least
three ethical discussions are worthy of note: choice, employer responsibilities,
and ethical matters in business concerns.

    Choice is a difficult concept in health care reform, in part, because of the
individualistic nature of American society.  n21 Many individuals participating
in the health care debate point to freedom and choice as a fundamental value
[*74]  commitment that should be maintained in any new structure. Physicians
want to be able to choose whom they treat and whom they will not. Institutions
want to have freedom of choice about service lines, geographical location, and
the range of services offered. Patients want to be free to choose their own
physician, their own hospital, and their own insurance plan.

    Realistically, choice is already highly circumscribed in much of the
delivery system. Most individuals do not have free reign on all health care
choices they wish to make. Often, employers or insurers choose panels of
physicians who are acceptable in a health care plan and those hospitals or
institutions in which one can be hospitalized or receive services. In addition,
there are pre-certification requirements before hospitalization and certain out
of pocket contributions that may increase when one goes outside of the health
maintenance organization, the approved hospital, or the approved panel of
physicians. Hospitals are circumscribed by who they can accept with the
expectation that payment will be made. Hospitals that do not have contracts with
certain managed care organizations or with certain insurance companies do not
get fully reimbursed for services that are rendered and must depend upon the
ability of patients to meet out of pocket expenditures or write off certain
charges as bad debt or as "charity." Physicians have been excluded from certain
health maintenance organizations, independent practice associations, certain
physician hospital organizations, or other mechanisms through which patients are
referred. Those physicians who accept Medicare or Medicaid accept certain levels
of payment for care given and as a result often close their practice to
additional Medicaid recipients in particular, but also to Medicare patients or
to other individuals who do not have the "right" kind of insurance. Choice is
elusive.

    To a certain extent, the question of choice is a fundamental question of
great ethical importance in a health care reformed system. If health care
institutions wish to transform themselves into institutions that assume greater
responsibility for the health care status of communities then choice may not be
an issue. Physicians who align themselves with hospitals as hospital employees,
or who band together in clinics trying to capture capitated payments at the
front end and to control utilization, will find themselves unable to choose as
freely as they may wish in their individual practice. Whether health care
institutions, physician clinics, and other delivery networks exist for their own
gain or for community benefit will most likely color the way the issue of choice
is resolved in health care reform. The reason that this is an internal ethical
issue is because the question of choice goes to the heart of the institution's
mission, vision, service sector, and the obligations of professional groups.

    If health care reform honors the value tenets of traditional medicine,
coverage and access may have greater ethical value than freedom of choice.
Groups would then allocate appropriate financial coverage for groups and
communities served. Adequate financial coverage would include profit and [*75]
salary considerations. These considerations would affect the professionals' and
the institutions' ability to have fiscal resources available for new technology
and to provide for employee compensation, investor returns in proprietary
organizations, and the ability to "grow" larger. Such concerns would then have
to be measured against costs to the employers, the individuals, and the
government. Resolution of conflicts between providers and payors will not be
easy. Where does the professional or institutional organization want to stand?
These organizations must address the ethical questions of service, self
preservation, the societal value of the healing professions, and the
organizations through which these services are rendered. Answering such
questions is not easy, especially if one believes that physicians,
administrators, and others make too much money, are not appropriately
distributed, or are not societally valuable enough to justify the cost.

    The second ethical concern for health care institutions is its role as
employer. In many cities and towns, health care institutions of all types, as a
conglomerate or individually, represent one of the most significant employers.
As health care reform takes place, there may be a need for fewer employees in
the health care system. When one couples this issue with the fact that health
care institutions frequently spend more than fifty percent of their operating
costs on human resources, concerns about the ethical obligations of these
institutions as employers are raised. Unfortunately, there is often a tendency,
because of the high percentage of costs associated with human resource issues,
to make financial cuts in operating budgets on the back of employees. More often
than not, it's the lesser paid employees who pay a hefty price for economic
change while many high priced executives either have golden parachutes or more
secure economic and employment settings.

    Health care institutions must ask questions about the institution's ethical
obligations to deal with employees fairly in changing economic times. This
includes traditional concerns for early retirement, appropriate outplacement
settings, and most especially, for cross-training. These programs are needed to
provide employment opportunities for those who have given much of their
professional life to health care and whose talents are needed in new delivery
systems. For example, as new technologies developed in the past, individuals
were trained for these new positions out of old ones. This experience probably
needs to be repeated but perhaps on a grander and more aggressive scale than has
been the case with the introduction of new technology.

    In addition, if community health status and employment are connected, as
they seem to be, then unemployment in a community will exacerbate health
problems which probably need to be addressed before decisions for layoffs or
downsizing are developed. This will sometimes require institutions to balance
healthy operating margins with commitments to employees, pay increases for
highly paid executives with the employment opportunities for low-wage personnel,
and to have long range strategies that enhance the institution's effectiveness
in the community versus short term goals of profitability, to make [*76]
payments to investors in proprietary institutions, and to secure the
availability of medical services for the community.

    Finally, there are certain business ethics issues that must be addressed.
Institutions cannot be ambiguous about the change from the hospital paradigm to
a healthier community paradigm, and the need to collaborate to meet this type of
goal. This will require institutions to understand what the new core processes
of the health service sector are and how those core processes can be developed
and improved to provide high quality, reasonably priced services. It will also
require institutions to deal with ambiguous relationships in a time of change,
something with which well-established health care institutions have never had
great success. These issues are not only the issues of institutions but are also
of concern for clinic operations, doctors' offices, ambulatory care sites, and
any other service in which people are employed and participate in the delivery
of health care services. Change is necessary, but changes in the health care
setting are likely to impact not just the institution or the professions but the
well being of the community. Establishing a public policy position that improves
the delivery system, the community's health status, and is respectful to
employees requires a vision of the institution and the professions as a service
more than a business.


   CONCLUSION

 The ethical debates concerning health care reform are easier to construct when
they are focused on clinical outcomes, patient choice, physician
responsibilities, quality, affordability, and the other "buzz words" that
frequently are a part of ethical discourse in these matters. It is more
difficult to construct ethical reflections that involve the entire institutional
delivery system and its communal impact. Nonetheless, these institutional
questions have to be addressed if health care reform is to fulfill its shadowed
promise.

    The substantive ethical questions require institutions to be clear about
their vision - what do the health care institutions want to deliver and how do
they wish to participate with others in the promotion of healthier communities?
Next, they will need to develop strategies that reflect the ethical commitments
made by the institutions in both their role as a fundamental part of the honored
profession of medicine and their positions as primary players in the
construction of important social goods.

    Nothing will be more difficult than blending the traditional individual
rights oriented mind-set of the American public with the need for a careful
articulation of the social goods that are at stake in health care, especially if
market or competitive forces are used as a financial mechanism to contain cost
and deliver services. Health care institutions in their present structures and
in their transformed existence in the future are parts of larger communities.
The profession and the institution by their nature, in light of their power, and
by dint of their economic strength must ask questions about what they wish to
[*77]  advocate, who benefits from their activity, and how we become a better
society for having engaged this public dialogue.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewHealthcare
LawTreatmentEnd-of-Life DecisionsDo-Not-Resuscitate OrdersPublic Health &
Welfare LawHealthcareGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Edmund D. Pellegrino & David C. Thomasma, A Philosophical Basis of Medical
Practice (1981); Tom L. Beauchamp & James F. Childress, Principles of Biomedical
Ethics (4th ed. 1994); Benedict M. Ashley & Kevin D. O'Rourke, Healthcare
Ethics: A Theological Analysis (3rd ed. 1989).




n2.  John K. Iglehart, Health Policy Report: The American Health Care System:
Community Hospitals, 329 New Eng. J. Med. 372 (1993).




n3.  See Paul Starr, The Social Transformation of American Medicine (1982);
Rosemary Stevens, In Sickness and in Wealth: American Hospitals in the 20th
Century (1989); Pioneer Healers: The History of Women Religious in American
Health Care (Ursula Stepsis & Dolores Liptak eds., 1989).




n4.  See, e.g., Charles J. Dougherty, Ethical Values at Stake in Health Care
Reform, 268 JAMA 2409 (1992).




n5.  For a discussion of non-profit health care institutions in society, see
Michael O'Neill, The Third America: The Emergence of the Non-Profit Sector in
the United States (1989).




n6.  These include (1) respect for the dignity of persons, (2) caring in
therapeutic relationships, (3) protection of the least well off, (4) service to
the common good, (5) containment of health care costs, and (6) simplicity in
system of health care provision. Dougherty, supra note 4, at 2410-11.




n7.  Id.




n8.  What Creates Health? Individuals and Communities Respond, A National Study
Conducted by DYG, Inc. for the Health Care Forum (1993).




n9.  Id. at 4.




n10.  Id.




n11.  Id. at 4-10.




n12.  See, e.g., John K. Iglehart, Health Policy Report: The Struggle Between
Managed Care and Fee For Service Practice, 331 New Eng. J. Med. 63 (1994); Jim
McDermott, Caring for the Uninsured and Underinsured: Evaluating Health System
Reform: The Case for a Single Payor, 271 JAMA 784 (1994).




n13.  Dougherty, supra note 4, at 2410-11.




n14.  See Beauchamp & Childress, supra note 1, at 106-82.




n15.  No one has resolved the difficult problem of trading off the traditional
values or ethical principles of the biomedical literature with a need for
rationing in health care resources. While many different authors attempt to deal
with the rationing of health care, disagreement exists about whether rationing
is even necessary. This may be the most intractable problem of the contemporary
health care setting.




n16.  Numerous examples of institutional responsibility for education and choice
in health care and ethical matters can be seen in the required organ donation
questions for the recently hospital deceased as well as in the Patient
Self-Determination Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. 1395cc (1992).




n17.  See, e.g., Marc A. Rodwin, Medicine Money and Morals: Physicians'
Conflicts of Interest (1993).




n18.  Id. at 179-248.




n19.  The Catholic Health Ass'n of the United States, With Justice for All? The
Ethics of Healthcare Rationing 19-26 (1991).




n20.  Dougherty, supra note 4, at 2410-11.




n21.  See Robert N. Bellah et al., Habits of the Heart: Individualism and
Commitment in American Life (1985).


                              223 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Southland Times (New Zealand)

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

Ethical considerations

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 261 words


I am concerned about the apparent lack of ethical considerations shown in the
Southern District Health Board's decision to undertake abortions at Southland
Hospital.

Firstly, they appear to have had no regard to the legal requirement to have,
'full regard to the rights of the unborn child'.

Secondly, the lack of any announcement of the board's decision on a matter of
great public interest was insulting to the public at large and in particular to
the members of the deputation that travelled to Dunedin to present a case.

It brings no credit to the board members that the first indication of this
decision came in this column in a letter from a Whangarei resident.

Thirdly, there is the claim that their decision was based on a directive from
the Government when the deputy prime minister stated unequivocally that there
was no such directive.

Fourthly, is the lack of consideration for the majority of hospital staff who
are opposed to abortion and will have to work alongside people who are
facilitating it.

Fifthly, at a time of financial difficulty, it does not seem ethical to provide
a life-ending procedure at the expense of life enhancing procedures.

Finally, the board seems to have given no consideration to the effect on new
mothers who will be sharing a ward with those who are having an abortion,
particularly on the mothers of premature babies.

On a more positive note, it was wonderful to read your front page story on July
4 about the 10-year- old girl whose weight at birth was similar to many others
whose lives have been aborted.

DAVID MCPHERSON

Waianiwa

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               February 25, 2008

Letters to the Editor - Feb. 25, 2008

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18 Vol. 51 No. 8

LENGTH: 618 words



HIGHLIGHT: 'Less work for ethics committees as consensus replaced controversies'
and other items

Less work for ethics committees as consensus replaced controversies

Regarding: "Willing, but waiting: Hospital ethics committees" (AMNews, Jan. 28):
Ethics committees have lost their bearings for two reasons.

First, the controversial ethical issues that they were formed to address --
controversies over the ethical appropriateness of withholding or withdrawing
various medical treatments under various circumstances -- largely have been
resolved. Through input from legal, bioethical and religious leaders, we have
reached a societal consensus on most of the matters that were deeply divisive 20
years ago.

Today, cases like those of Karen Quinlan or Nancy Cruzan would not need to go to
ethics committees. Even the case of Terri Schiavo, for all the legal
maneuvering, ultimately reinforced the prevailing consensus. After all was said
and done, even Congress and the president couldn't stop the removal of Schiavo's
feeding tube.

A second reason why ethics committees are less active than they used to be is
that most hospitals now have palliative care services. These specialists do a
lot of the work that ethics committees once did. They help patients and families
come to decisions about what to withhold or withdraw.

Does this mean that there is nothing left for ethics committees to do? Probably
not. But ethics committees need to understand better the flashpoints of
disagreement that arise in hospitals today with regard to end-of-life
decision-making.

Those disagreements likely are quite different now than they used to be. But
they are unlikely to have gone away entirely.

John Lantos, MD, Kansas City, Mo.

Financial transparency is essential to creating best possible health system

In the debate about the promises and perils of a single-payer health care system
for the United States, I have been surprised to hear so little about a vital
function our present system cannot provide: priority setting by democracy.

Currently, financial decisions that have major impact on the dynamics and
capacity of health care delivery are made strategically by market-driven
business entities, the processes of which often are private and the data usually
proprietary. This necessarily interferes with any effort by physicians, patients
or their advocates to set or enforce a meaningful agenda for health care at the
state or national level. Accountability to the true needs and priorities of our
society is nominal.

No system guarantees perfect decisions, but in a single-payer system the
decision-making process at least would be in the public record, open to
scrutiny. Obvious examples include how reimbursement rates are set, premiums
calculated, formularies structured, covered versus noncovered benefits
determined, and investments in health infrastructure allocated. Without this
information, our discourse about health care goals is purely academic.

Just as a free press has been essential to protecting our political vitality, a
transparent health care financing system will be essential to optimizing the
application of finite resources for our medical common good.

Andre Gerard, MD, Healdsburg, Calif.

Turnabout is fair play when medicine meets anonymous online venting

Regarding "Insurers' online forums invite patients to vent" (AMNews, Jan. 28):
America is a heterogeneous society with many differing values of what is
appropriate medical care and behavior.

If patients may use fake names to critique physicians, then let's balance the
field and allow physicians using fake names to post critiques of patients. Among
many other things, this would quickly make public persons abusing and exploiting
physicians' good will and dedication in order to fraudulently obtain narcotics.

Earl J. Carstensen, MD, Aurora, Colo.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                  July 7, 2008

AMA meeting: AMA OKs palliative sedation for terminally ill

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jul. 7, 2008

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 28 Vol. 51 No. 25

LENGTH: 953 words



HIGHLIGHT: The seldom-used technique is deemed ethical because the aim is to
relieve intractable symptoms, not hasten death.


  When all else fails to control patients' pain at the end of life, it is
appropriate for physicians to sedate such patients to unconsciousness, according
to new ethical policy adopted at the AMA Annual Meeting in June.

The rarely employed practice of palliative or terminal sedation is sometimes
perceived as speeding the dying process, leading critics to dub it a form of
physician-assisted suicide. But evidence of such a hastening effect is lacking,
according to a Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs report adopted by the
House of Delegates.

"These are unusual circumstances that require us to urgently relieve these
symptoms by sedating patients to unconsciousness," said CEJA member H. Rex
Greene, MD, a Lima, Ohio, oncologist and palliative medicine specialist. "This
is not intended to end life."

The ethical opinion says physicians are obligated to offer palliative sedation
as a last resort when "symptoms cannot be diminished through all other means of
palliation, including symptom-specific treatments." Such symptoms include pain,
shortness of breath, dyspnea, nausea and vomiting. Between 5% and 35% of hospice
patients have intractable symptoms in the last week of life, according to a 2000
Annals of Internal Medicine study.

Doctors should consult with a multidisciplinary team or a palliative care expert
to determine that sedation to unconsciousness is the right course of treatment,
the policy says. The rationale for the sedation should be documented in the
medical record, and patients or their surrogates should consent to the
procedure.

Physicians also should talk with patients about whether the sedation will be
intermittent or constant, and whether to withdraw or withhold other
life-sustaining treatments.

Treating patient pain

The policy draws the line at using palliative sedation to combat emotional
distress some terminally ill patients experience at the end of life. These
symptoms are better addressed with social and spiritual supports, the CEJA
opinion stated. Lastly, palliative sedation "must never be used to intentionally
cause a patient's death."

The policy "protects patients from inappropriate use of palliative sedation,"
said California delegate Melvyn Sterling, MD, a palliative care specialist. "It
provides guidance to hospitals that might otherwise be reluctant to allow this
to occur, and it provides protection to the entire health care team involved,
who might otherwise allow terrible suffering to occur."

The American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine and the American Academy
of Pain Medicine support the use of palliative sedation to unconsciousness. The
AMA opposes euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide as being "fundamentally
incompatible with the physician's role as healer."

Delegates also directed the AMA to study alternatives to "do not resuscitate"
orders. The resolution said DNR terminology "is both confusing and misleading to
patients and families because of the negativism in wording, which suggests that
something is being denied, and the implication that all care, including comfort
measures, is to be withheld."

Alternatives to be studied include "allow natural death," "limitations of
emergency treatment" and "physician orders for life-sustaining treatment." In
panel testimony, most delegates agreed the study was needed, but others said
altering the terminology will do little to make talking with patients and
families easier.

"If we think changing the name changes the task, then we are deluding
ourselves," said Michael A. Williams, MD, a delegate for the American Academy of
Neurology. "There is no form we can have that will make the complex challenges
of this go away."

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: To better halt the spread of chlamydia and gonorrhea, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention recommends expedited partner therapy, in which
doctors give patients antimicrobials for their sex partners. The practice, while
effective, may undermine informed consent and continuity of care, and violate
state laws.

Proposed action: New ethical policy saying doctors should only use EPT if they
believe a patient's partner would otherwise not seek treatment. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Some hospitals have asked medical staff members to provide personal
financial information as part of conflict-of-interest policies apparently aimed
at shutting out doctors who work for competitors.

Proposed action: A Board of Trustees report recommending that only physicians
seeking to serve in a hospital leadership position be required to disclose
employment, ownership or financial interests, or leadership positions at another
hospital. Also, the information requested should be no different from that
requested of nonphysicians. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Treating peer physicians poses special challenges to clinical objectivity
and confidentiality.

Proposed action: New policy saying doctors should not hesitate to treat peers in
emergencies, but should beware of the risk of biased treatment recommendations,
take care to respect privacy, and share decision-making as they would with other
patients. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Drug- and device-maker funding of graduate and continuing medical
education may undermine physicians' professional integrity and subtly bias
doctors' practice patterns in ways that are not in patients' best interest.

Proposed action: A new ethical opinion calling on doctors, medical schools and
organized medicine groups to end industry funding of residency positions and
clinical fellowships, educational programs and physician speakers' bureaus --
except when new diagnostic or therapeutic devices and techniques are introduced,
as industry representatives may be the only experts available to teach doctors
about them. [ Referred ]

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                    October 13, 2005 Thursday, FINAL Edition

Frist using fine print to cover ethical lapses;
The Senate majority leader had a responsibility to avoid even the appearance of
a conflict.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 426 words


Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn., defends his handling of his personal financial
holdings - and the conflict created by them - by talking about limits, both in
terms of ethics rules and options. Unfortunately for the senator, however, no
such limits exist.

The latest revelation concerning the embattled Senate majority leader comes in
an Associated Press story examining Frist's interest in a privately-owned
hospital chain, HCA Inc. Rather than have his shares in the company managed by a
blind trust, Frist's ownership interest in the chain was held by a family
investment partnership run in part by his brother.

According to experts interviewed by the AP, that raises ethical concerns. As
Frist was voting on issues affecting the profitability of hospitals, his family
was in control of his shares in a hospital chain. With a real blind trust, Frist
would have no possible influence over the trustee controlling his investments.

A member of Frist's staff pointed out that Senate rules did not allow for
placing the private holdings at issue within a Senate-approved blind trust. The
spokesman added that Frist didn't control the assets and disclosed the holdings.

That reaction suggests that Frist did all he could to avoid a conflict, but
that's obviously not so.

For starters, he could have simply abstained from any votes or deliberations on
matters affecting hospital finance. True, that would have taken him out of major
debates over issues like Medicare, but it would have resolved any ethical
concerns.

Frist also could have sold his shares long ago when he realized the Senate's
blind trust system wasn't set up to oversee private holdings of this nature.

To some, those choices sound extreme, but Frist is making decisions that affect
the lives of millions of Americans. If they're to have confidence in the leader
of the U.S. Senate, he has to avoid the appearance of a conflict. What he did
with respect to these HCA shares falls well short of that.

Frist is already in trouble for allegedly requesting that trustees sell off
publicly traded HCA stock, defeating the purpose of a "blind" trust over which
he was supposed to have no day-to-day control.

Now, it appears, he has been lax in monitoring other potential conflicts.

One supposes Frist could argue that Senate ethics rules are arcane and that his
holdings were complex. But accountability to the public starts with stepping
away from the fine print and looking at a potential conflict with a working
ethical compass. Somehow, Senate Majority Leader Frist lost his way.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2005 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                              227 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

National Steering Committee to review ethical and legal perspectives of
healthcare in India

BYLINE: EH News Bureau

LENGTH: 743  words


Discuss on how to ensure quality, ethical, easily accessible and affordable care
to all

The inaugural meeting of the National Steering Committee to Review Ethical and
Legal perspectives of Healthcare in India was held recently in Bengaluru. The
committee, consisting of all major medical and hospital societies in the
country, led by the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) and the
Indian Medical Association (IMA), discussed the present scenario among the
medical fraternity, and has representation from the Association of National
Board Accredited Institutions (ANBAI), Christian Coalition for Health India
(CCHI), Consortium of Accredited Healthcare Organizations (CAHO), Academy of
Hospital Administration (AHA), All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS),
Association of Otolaryngologists of India (AOI), Association of Physicians India
(API), Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Medical Officers Association of
ESIC, Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI),
Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), Indian Orthopedic Association (IOA), Indian
Society of Anesthesiologists (ISA), and Indian Radiological and Imaging
Association (IRIA). All these major societies will liaise with their
subspeciality associations so that the entire medical community will be involved
in this important exercise

It was reiterated that the patient is the focus, and as health professionals,
all efforts should be made to ensure provision of quality, ethical, easily
accessible and affordable care to all. This would include standardisation of
care with minimum levels as appropriate.

Communication to and with patients, and their relative and attenders was one
area, which needed improvement. Unethical practices, like taking and giving of
commissions etc. are not acceptable, and also are cause for increased cost of
healthcare.

Recent awards of huge amounts as compensation for medical negligence have been
making the news. Members noted that these verdicts have resulted in a huge
increase in the number of cases filed against doctors, as well as a significant
increase in the premiums paid to insurance companies. Unfortunately, this
results in more expensive medical care, which is borne by the patient as is
evident from the experience in US and other developed countries. In addition,
hospitals and doctors are now reluctant to take on complicated cases for fear of
medico-legal issues, and many have stopped practice. In India, this only adds to
the already severe shortage of specialists. Again, it is the patient who
suffers, deprived of adequate medical care of an acceptable standard. Another
recognised factor for increased cost in these situations is practice of
defensive medicine, an example of which is getting excessive investigations done
by the clinician for fear of being questioned in the court of law.

One solution discussed by the committee was that it may be desirable to place a
cap on the amount that can be awarded in cases of medical negligence, as
practiced in countries such as the US. Dr Marthandam Pillai, President, IMA,
noted that capping could be a reasonable and balanced solution to the problem by
placing a limit on the amount that can be awarded against a hospital or doctor
by any court. The current type of award for medical negligence is unsustainable
and puts a lot of pressure on doctors. Putting a cap on compensation could act
as a deterrent and remind the medical fraternity of the consequences of medical
negligence but without hampering their daily practice, as is currently the case.

Dr Devi Shetty said that 80 per cent of hospital births in India are in
hospitals or nursing homes which have 30 or less beds. These smaller healthcare
facilities in rural and semi-urban areas which provide care to the majority of
patients in our country may have to shut operations if subjected to frivolous
and exorbitant lawsuits.

Dr Alexander Thomas, Executive Director, AHPI mentioned that over the last few
months, IMA and AHPI have set up a working group to tackle the issue. Much work
has already gone into this endeavor by eminent lawyers and medical personnel.

Other solutions recommended to address this issue were to set up arbitration
centers in hospitals, appointing of an Ombudsman in each state and setting up of
a fund where patients would get immediate compensation for catastrophic events.

Professor and Advocate Dr Joga Rao and Dhyan Chinnappa, Senior Advocate also
spoke on the occasion.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2015 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           February 11, 1988 Thursday

PEOPLE WATCH   Medicine, ethics and the law come together in a voice of reason

BYLINE: STEVIE CAMERON; GAM

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: Montreal PQ


STEVIE CAMERON
  MONTREAL
   Day after day, ever since the Supreme Court of Canada announced its
stunning decision on abortion two weeks ago, many Canadians have been
listening to one clear, compassionate voice exploring the issue.

As Margaret Somerville , a Montreal lawyer and professor, races from
one interview to another, it's hard to turn on the television or radio
without hearing her. Quite suddenly Ms Somerville has become Canada's
best-known expert on medical ethics. As we all struggle in our own minds
with the explosion of ethical dilemmas raised by abortion, euthanasia,
biotechnology,  in vitro fertilization, AIDS and the costs of universal
access to medical care, such people help us understand what is happening.

Unfortunately, people like Ms Somerville are rare. This cheerful
Australian, who is 45 and holds professorships in both the law and medical
faculties at McGill University, has extraordinary qualifications - a
degree in pharmacology, a law degree and a doctorate in medical law and
ethics. (Along the way she became an expert on antiques and wrote a
cookbook.)
   Last week in Philadelphia she gave a keynote address at the American
Bar Association's national conference on birth, death and the law; today
she is in Italy for an international AIDS conference. In March she will be
one of three Canadians at an emergency AIDS meeting called by French
President Francois Mitterrand in France.

Two years ago, with money from McGill and Montreal hospitals, and with
support from the faculties of medicine, law, research, religious studies
and philosophy, Ms Somerville founded the McGill Centre for Medicine,
Ethics and Law . Here she has brought together a talented group of experts
to help hospitals and other institutions answer desperate ethical
questions.

Here you will find Dawson Schultz, a Texan with degrees in philosophy,
zoology and religious studies, who is the clinical ethicist at the
Montreal Children's Hospital; and ethicist Benjamin Freedman, who came to
McGill from the Westminster Institute, an ethics centre at the University
of Western Ontario in London. Then there is Edward Keyserlingk, who was
with the Law Reform Commission in Ottawa, and Patricia Illingworth, from
McGill's philosophy department.

What makes this centre different from places like the Westminster
Institute, or McGill's Centre for Bio-Ethics in the Clinical Research
Institute of Montreal, is that it covers so many disciplines and serves so
many different groups, from individuals and governments to drug
manufacturers, hospitals and professional associations.

Its first project was a $615,000 study of the legal, ethical, social
and economics issues raised by the fatal acquired immune deficiency
syndrome in Canada.

Now the demand for its services is staggering.

"We're not into dictating the right answers," Ms Somerville cautioned
in an interview. "What we do is set up a framework to help people deal
with these issues."

The group works out of the Lady Meredith House on Pine Avenue, one of
the great Westmount houses built of red brick, with turrets and gables. A
curving staircase lit by spectacular stained-glass windows takes visitors
up to the centre's third-floor offices. The sun streams in and you can
smell fresh coffee; any unease about the centre's authority over life and
death fades.

Ms Somerville's pink-and-grey office, with its books, paintings and
cosy sofas, is equally reassuring. A deep drawer in her desk is lined with
a soft mat; that's where her red Abyssinian cat likes to snooze.

"I won't work in a place that isn't decorated," she said. "One of the
aims here is to be civilized. There is a lot of laughter here."

The feeling is one of informality mixed with intense effort. Next door,
a group is working on a proposal from the federal Government to establish
a computerized AIDS communications system. Ms Somerville has escaped the
meeting, but people pop in every few minutes and urgent phone messages
pile up.

To get a glimpse of her life, look at her diary for late August. This
was when she went to Ottawa to address the Canadian Bar Association on
surrogate motherhood; she left the platform after her speech to get to the
Canadian Medical Association meeting in Charlottetown. Three days later
she was in South Korea to give a paper on AIDS and human rights,
travelling on to Tokyo to take part in a seminar on violence in the
family.

Thirty hours later she was giving a paper in London, Ont., for the
Canadian Psychiatric Association before heading home to Montreal for four
days. Next stop was Texas for a technocracy and ethics conference; then Ms
Somerville was off to Australia and New Zealand for more conferences. What
it added up to was two trips around the world in four weeks. Back at
McGill she teaches, runs the centre (despite her cheerful lack of
enthusiasm for administration) and does hours of research every day.

One recent paper on medicine in the 1990s summed up many of her
concerns. "I called it AAART," she said, "which stands for AIDS, aging,
allocation (of resources) and reproductive technology. They are serious
challenges to the science of medicine. AIDS has no cure. Aging brings the
problem of whether to prolong life. Allocation means we have more demand
for medical services than we are willing to pay for. Reproductive
technology can create unnatural events and alter genetics."

Given these issues, it is amazing that people can even smile in this
building. But there is great optimism and energy here. It seems a shame
the centre is not looking at ethics in government as well as in medicine.
Given the gleam in Ms Somerville's eye when the subject is raised, it may
well be the next step.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1988 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             National Post (Canada)

                    December 5, 1998 Saturday FINAL EDITIONS

Campaign targets complacent investors: Ethical Funds Inc. is now managing
$2.1-billion in assets, compared with $80-million two years ago, thanks to its
aggressive and emotional advertising strategies

BYLINE: Susan Heinrich

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. D10

LENGTH: 1161 words


It starts off looking and sounding like a public service announcement. The
images flash quickly throughout the 30-second television ad: The grieving woman
in the hospital waiting room, crying. The still body of the older woman as the
sheet is drawn over her head by a hospital attendant. And a single cigarette,
which bleeds as a scalpel cuts its white paper skin.

'Smoking killed Susan Graham's mother,' begins the narrator. 'But long before
that she hated the way tobacco companies hook kids and raise health costs for
everyone.' Then the narration take an unexpected turn, pulling in the tuned out
viewers: 'Yet every year she unknowingly sends them a donation through her RRSP.

 Know where your money goes with Ethical Funds. Do the right thing.'

It is one of four television ads that ran this fall for Ethical Funds Inc., the
Vancouver-based mutual fund company. The ads got noticed. That was the
intention. 'The message here is know where your money goes,' says John
Linthwaite of Ethical's marketing group. 'And many people don't.'

Ethical Funds is trying to convert all those investors who consider themselves
socially responsible people, but never thought of going the next step and
synchronizing their values with their investment portfolios.

The ads are meant to move people to action, said Bruce Fraser, the creative
director of Glennie Stamnes Strategy, the Vancouver advertising agency that
created the campaign. 'We are not out to shock people, but we want to snap them
out of their day-to-day complacency and get them to act,' he said. 'When it
comes to financial products it takes a little more to move people to action.'

This is Ethical Funds' second national ad campaign, but its first foray into TV.

 The four 30-second ads began running in September and are now tapering off: all

 scheduled ahead of the RRSP ad rush. 'There is just too much clutter in the
RRSP season,' said Mr. Linthwaite.

For Ethical Funds, that clutter created an opportunity to stand out, says Mr.
Fraser. 'I guess one of the biggest advantages we have is that mutual funds
advertising is a terribly cluttered, boring, homogenous category, with a lot of
silver-haired men, a lot of cliches.'

Another theme in this year's ads was child labour. Both magazine and TV spots
hit viewers with the issue of child workers: an ugly blemish on the face of
capitalism. Ethical Funds tried to draw attention to it through the ads and by
donating part of the revenue from its new Registered Education Savings Plan to
UNICEF for children's education programs in developing countries.

Ethical Funds is one of only two fund companies dedicated to socially
responsible investing in Canada. The other, Clean Environment Mutual Funds, has
a slightly different focus.

Ethical sells eight funds, all managed with strict criteria. They invest only in

 companies that encourage progressive industrial and labour relations,
environmental protection, and operate in countries that support equal
opportunities. Managers avoid companies that derive income from tobacco related,

 military, or nuclear power products. As the TV ads say: non-nuclear,
non-oppressive, non-weapons, non-tobacco.

Last year's print ad campaign caught attention as well, with one ad in
particular causing a stir. It showed a group of young teens smoking; the
headline read: Not In My Portfolio. 'There was something about showing preteens
smoking in a financial category that really shook people up,' said Mr. Fraser.

All the scuttlebutt surrounding the Ethical ads has been great for the fund
group.

Sales have grown significantly in the past two years since the company began
advertising. As of the end of November, the assets in its funds are about
$2.1-billion, compared with $803-million only two years ago.

Ethical funds are sold primarily by credit unions across the country, although
they are becoming more widely available through discount brokers and some full
service investment dealers. The company was established in 1992 as a subsidiary
of Credential Group, a national body of about 500 of the 1000 credit unions
across the country.

Like the mutual funds sold at banks, Ethical Funds are no-load, meaning
investors don't pay to buy or sell them. That has kept them off the shelves of
many stockbrokers and fund dealers who are compensated with sales commissions.

The only province where the funds are not available is Quebec. And because the
ads aired nationally, requests have been flooding in. 'We know from our Web site

 the ads are reaching people,' said Laurie Yaworski, president and chief
executive of Ethical. 'People are sending us messages asking, 'When are you
going to sell the funds in Quebec?' ' The company is considering that expansion.

Another indication they had been noticed was when the hit CBC television comedy
show This Hour Has 22 Minutes did a spoof of one of the TV ads. 'They did a
really good job,' said Mr. Yaworski. 'They called it 'Unethical Funds.' '

Jokes aside, Mr. Linthwaite said there was some debate over how emotional the
ads should be. One scene was ultimately cut from the ad with the woman in the
hospital waiting room. 'The initial concept was to have her cry,' says Mr.
Linthwaite. 'She was a wonderful actress and the tears just poured out. We
thought it was just too emotional.'

The end result seemed to strike the right chord with investors. The company
received only a handful of complaints from people who were upset by the ads.

Ethical is still a small fund player compared with many of its competitors. Mr.
Linthwaite says there are naysayers who question how funds saddled with
restrictions can produce returns on a par with funds that have free reign to buy

 anything. The funds stand on their own he says. Several of the eight funds are
above average performers and the rest are on a par with the average return of
competitors.

Still, Mr. Linthwaite is commonly asked 'Can you get good returns in ethical
funds?'

'There is still a cynicism there,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo: Ethical Funds Inc. / A nurse draws a sheet over
the face of a woman in Ethical Funds' advertisement against tobacco company
investments.; Black & White Photo: Ethical Funds Inc. / A woman cries in a
non-tobacco ad.Financial Post

TYPE: Business

                    Copyright 1998 Financial Post DataGroup,
                    A division of The National Post Company
                              All rights reserved.


                              230 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Beacon (Ashtabula, Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             May 6, 2015 Wednesday

Compassion, dedication and commitment top the list of nurses' needed qualities

BYLINE: Dave Deluca, Star Beacon, Ashtabula, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 673 words


May 06--Ethical practice and quality of care are the emphasis of this year's
National Nurses week, which runs from May 6-12, and Ashtabula County Medical
Center's nurses work at providing both.

For the last 13 years, nurses have earned the top spot as the public's most
honest and ethical profession in America in an annual Gallup Poll. This year's
theme recognizes nurses' adherence to the theme, "Ethical Practice, Quality
Care."

ACMC Director of Nurses John Engelmann (RN) said ACMC was unique in that it
offered more types of care than most community hospitals. That makes the
challenges ACMC nurses face greater.

"We have hospice, a cardiac/catheter lab, an OB department, Behavioral Medicine
and other things you don't often see in a community hospital," he said. "These
are things you usually find at the Cleveland Clinic and larger facilities."

Engelmann has been with ACMC for 21 years. He said ACMC was like a small city
unto itself, with its components all dependent on each other and working
together.

"People are more aware of medical techniques and technology now," he said.
"Nurses' responsibilities are greater because each technique and technology
creates a new ethical responsibility in creating a positive patient experience.
We all have to work together to bring that about."

Tina Phelps (RN), ACMC's manager of nurses, said nurses make ethical decisions
every day.

"We make these kinds of decisions constantly," she said. "As a nurse, it's an
honor to be in a patient's space. And it's not just the patient's wishes that
must be honored, it's the family's, too."

Jenn Turner (RN), of the Cardiac Catheterization lab, said honoring both the
family's and patient's wishes were among the top challenges of the job.

"It's very challenging. I have patients that come in and they look just fine.
Then we take a picture of their arteries and realize they have serious
problems," she said, adding, "Of course doctors diagnose and do much of the
work, but we have to explain to them and their families why they need care and
help them with their care path."

She said it was often a difficult job explaining to families what their loved
ones might have to go through and preparing them for the experience.

Phelps said patients are now more aware now of the needs of their individual
care paths and the overall direction of their care.

"This is another way we deal with ethics every day," she said. "It's more than
reassurance, it's helping them and their families deal with their medical issues
on a human, emotional level."

Sandy Sposito (RN), of ACMC's Patient Experience/Volunteer Services, was given a
Faces of Caring Award at ACMC's Tuesday Nurses Day Award Luncheon. The award is
sponsored by Cleveland Magazine, the Cleveland Clinic and the Greater Cleveland
Nurses Association. Sposito has worked with ACMC for 41 years, with 25 years as
a registered nurse.

"To handle all these challenges, nurses need compassion, commitment and
dedication," she said. "In the culture of nursing, the patient always comes
first."

She said being a nurse was a privilege as well as a responsibility.

"For all the challenges and responsibility we face, it is still an honor and
privilege to be a nurse and be involved with a patient's care," she said. "When
you make the decision to become a nurse, it's not something you take lightly."

Phelps said good nursing required teamwork among nurses, doctors and hospital
staff.

"Nurses represent one slice of the team," she said. "Nurses and staff must all
work together to bring about the best patient experience."

She said being a nurse required humility and dedication to service.

"In the end, it's a difficult job, but well worth it," she said.

Sposito echoed that sentiment.

"We recognize that being a caregiver is a huge responsibility and challenge, so
we honor each other during Nurses Week," she said. "I'm very happy -- and
grateful -- to have been a nurse."

___ (c)2015 the Star Beacon (Ashtabula, Ohio) Visit the Star Beacon (Ashtabula,
Ohio) at www.starbeacon.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20150506-OB-Compassion-dedication-and-commitment-top-the-list-of-nurses-needed-q
ualities-0506-20150506

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OB


                           Copyright 2015 Star Beacon


                              231 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           January 4, 2006 Wednesday

Ban on poaching nurses ignored

BYLINE: John Carvel, Social affairs editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 191 words


Ethical guidelines to stop hospitals poaching nurses from the poorest countries
are being ignored by private recruiting agencies, the Royal College of Nursing
warns.

The college highlighted figures posted yesterday on the website of the NHS
Employers' organisation, showing that only 140 of the 800 agencies supplying
temporary staff to hospitals and nursing homes had agreed to comply with the
government's ethical code.

Agencies can supply staff to private sector hospitals and care homes even if
they have not signed the code. Overseas nurses who have worked briefly in the
private sector can later move into the NHS.

NHS Employers said only 47 agencies provided references from NHS organisations
confirming they complied with the code, which includes a ban on active
recruitment in sub-Saharan Africa and other countries short of medical staff.
About 3,300 nurses and midwives from countries on the banned list joined the UK
nursing register in 2004/5.

Janet Davies, the RCN's executive director, said: "Our principle concern is that
the code of practice . . . allows for backdoor recruitment from countries on the
Department of Health's banned list."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             January 6, 2013 Sunday

Gifting a bundle of joy to needy couples;
Saga of medicine in Pinkcity: Business Connect Initiative

BYLINE: Anaita Gaur

LENGTH: 266  words


This state-of-the-art, world class assisted reproduction centre is situated at
S.K. Soni Hospital, Sikar Road, Vidhyadhar Nagar, Jaipur at a convenient
distance from the railway station and bus stand.  We pride ourselves on our
highly qualified, skilled, and successful professional team whose members have
worked abroad in IVF units. We provide a range of fertility treatments to suit a
variety of clinical problems. Our aim is to provide comprehensive fertility care
with cutting edge technology in the most cost-effective way and in ethical and
transparent environment. Our vision is to provide treatment to infertile couples
worldwide.

Dr. Anita Gour, MS, DNB, MRCOG (UK) with 17 years of clinical experience is a
certified fertility specialist from the British Fertility Society and the Royal
College of Obst & Gynaecology, London, United Kingdom. She specialized in
Assisted Reproduction at Homerton University Hospital, London. She was trained
in Reproductive Medicine and Endocrinology at Newham University Hospital,
London, and Addenbrook's Hospital, Cambridge.

Services and Facility:-

IUI

IVF

ICSI

PESA/TESA

SEMEN BANK

EGG DONATION

SURROGACY

ISO 9001:2000 Certified Hospital

Excellent Success Rate

Ethical and Transparent Environment

BFS (British Fertility Society) Certified specialist

Senior Embryologist with international experience

World class centre with cutting edge technology

Affordable Treatment

In past 10 years medicine field has been significant growth

Our Mission is to provide infertile couples the best possible fertility
treatment with the highest possible rate of success at affordable cost.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                August 25, 2014

MYH Suptd issues notice to doctors under scanner

LENGTH: 347  words


Indore: MY Hospital Superintendent PS Thakur, on Saturday issued a notice to the
doctors concerned of the hospital to provide details of their Clinical Trial
Agreements (CTA) within seven days. He also sought minutes of ethical committee
meeting of the hospital.

Superintendent Dr PS Thakur reportedly issued the notice to the then HoD of
Medicine Dr Ashok Vajpai, HoD of Paediatric and HoD of Ophthalmology to provide
CTAs to the hospital administration. The notice has been served by the hospital
admn following orders of State Information Commissioner, GK Dandotiya.

While hearing the complaint of RTI activist and whistle blower Dr Anand Rai, the
State Information Commissioner has ordered Dean of MGM Medical College, Director
of Medical Education and Superintendent of MY Hospital to provide the CTAs.
Every hospital ideally has an ethics committee which discusses ethics related to
drug trials and other issues.

It is to be noted that Dr Rai had submitted RTIs for seeking information about
the drug trial agreements of the doctors of Medicine, Paediatric and
Ophthalmology Departments and the minutes of various meetings of Ethical
Committee which had given the permission of drug trials, in the year 2010.

The MY Hospital and MGM Medical College administrations refused to provide the
information to Dr Rai on the basis of 8(1)(A)(A) claiming it as a secret
information.

After which Dr Rai appealed to the first information officer but in vain.

"The information demanded by me is related to larger public interest but the
college and hospital administrations were trying to avoid the matter as they are
not taking the RTI Act seriously. I had mentioned the rules of MCI and the norms
of RTI act in my appeal with the State Information Commissioner," Dr Anand Rai
said.

The SIC had also asked the DME, Dean and MY Superintendent that why action
should not be taken against them. According to experts, with the revelation of
CTA, how much fees was taken by the doctors for clinical trials and what had
been promised to provide the subjects on having adverse effect will come to
fore.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                          February 20, 2008 Wednesday

GROUPS WANT LEGAL PROOF OF SERVICES

BYLINE: SUE VORENBERG

SECTION: BOOKS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 968 words


HOSPITAL MERGER

Reproductive, end of life issues still concern coalition

Proof: Hospital officials' assurances not yet legally binding

It's not that we don't like you; it's just that we don't trust you.

That's the message a coalition of community groups say they would like to convey
to St. Vincent Medical Center and Christus Health before the two private
nonprofits enter into a partnership agreement that could threaten reproductive
services and end of life care at the hospital.

The groups, which include the American Civil Liberties Union of New Mexico,
NARAL Pro-Choice New Mexico, the Southwest Women's Law Center and several
others, want to see what's in the binding agreement between the two parties --
at least the parts relevant to key community issues -- before they'll feel
comfortable supporting the merger, said Peter Simonson, executive director of
ACLU of New Mexico.

They're concerned that Roman Catholic ethical and religious directives will
override the hospital's ability to provide contraception, sterilization
procedures and the application of living wills since St. Vincent will fall under
those directives in the merger.

So far, representatives of the hospital have said that's not going to happen,
and any problem areas will be moved to a new nonprofit organization called SVH
Support Co., which won't be under direct control of Christus.

But none of those assurances have been in legally binding documents.

"The hospital and Christus have been asking the community to simply trust that
they'll continue end of life care and reproductive health services to
perpetuity, but they're not willing to write those into an agreement," Simonson
said. "We've made that request repeatedly. We've asked to see the contract to
see how Catholic ethical and religious directives will be applied."

The coalition will hold a public meeting tonight at 6 p.m. at the Unitarian
Universalist Congregation of Santa Fe, 107 Barcelona Road, designed to educate
the public about the issues of concern, said Heather Brewer, executive director
of NARAL Pro Choice New Mexico.

"We have no problem with how St. Vincent has conducted this process," Brewer
said. "But we're starting to find that the devil is in the details. We want to
make sure that although people have heard the meaningful assurances from St.
Vincent, unless those are in writing, they aren't really meaningful."

The partnership agreement is still in due diligence and hasn't yet been
formalized, said Arturo Delgado, a spokesman for St. Vincent. There is no
deadline by which the partners have to sign the agreement, he added.

The investment by Christus will remove $37 million in debt the hospital carries
from projects such as its cancer center and emergency department remodeling and
will also pay for further hospital expansion projects.

St. Vincent and Christus don't plan on showing the agreement to anyone and
aren't legally bound to do so, he said.

St. Vincent posted a document on its Web site at www.stvin.org titled "Here it
is in Writing" that tries to reassure the public about some of the concerns.

The document says family counseling, contraception and end-of-life care will be
provided according to state law.

But some of the wording is a little suspicious, Brewer said.

"The (ethical and religious directives) provide that 'there should be a
presumption in favor of providing nutrition and hydration to all patients,
including patients who require medically assisted nutrition and hydration, as
long as this is of sufficient benefit to outweigh the burdens to the patient.'
The ethical and religious directives conform to current practices on this
point," the document says.

The Web site statement also isn't legally binding despite it being a step in the
right direction, Brewer said.

"It's great that they put that on the Web site, but unfortunately what they put
on the site doesn't guarantee that an elderly patient gets the end of life care
that they need," Brewer said.

Because St. Vincent gets federal, state and community funding, it should have
some sort of ethical obligation to prove its protecting the community as it
says, Simonson said.

"Right now, though, we're just trying to prevail upon their desire to be
faithful to the community's best interests," he said.

The other problem is that while St. Vincent representatives have said they can
dissolve the agreement at any time, the reality is that would be a very
difficult thing to do, Simonson said.

"Is it realistic to think that Support Co. could unwind itself from its
arrangement with Christus? It's not going to have a staff, a manager or support
for that capability," he said. "I think it's unrealistic to think Support Co. is
capable of buying out Christus, taking over the hospital or continuing on its
own."

That's why its important to make sure the agreement resolves community issues
before it's signed, he said.

"There are examples where Christus and other Catholic health groups have changed
the rules of the game once a merger is complete," Simonson said.

He pointed out a case where Christus acquired McCuistion Regional Medical Center
in Paris, Texas, made similar guarantees and then "two years later announced it
would remove maternity services that would let a woman have a tubal ligation
after giving birth," Simonson said.

Even if the guarantees are in writing in the contract, it's still not an
"iron-clad guarantee" that the Catholic Church won't try to overturn some
hospital practices, he added.

"Contracts can change," Simonson said. "But we would hope they would at least
disclose the relevant parts of the contract that would assuage the community's
concerns for now."

IF YOU GO

What: Community meeting sponsored by groups concerned about St. Vincent-Christus
merger

When: 6 p.m. tonight

Where: Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Santa Fe, 107 Barcelona Road

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The New Mexican


                              235 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday

Irregularities at cancer institute: Panel to probe allegations

BYLINE: Hiral Dave

LENGTH: 320  words

DATELINE: Rajkot


The state government has formed a high level inquiry committee to look into the
alleged irregularities in administration and clinical trials at the V R Desai
Cancer Research Institute (VRDCRI).

Anju Sharma, Director, state Rural Health Mission, has been appointed head of
the committee, which has the Health Department director and regional joint
charity commissioner as members.

Sharma said the panel will look into various allegations, including financial
and clinical trial irregularities at VRDCRI, which is the only cancer specialty
hospital in the Surashtra-Kutch region. The institute is run by the Rajkot
Cancer Society (RCS). She said: "We are yet to visit the hospital."

Kishor Ghiya, one of the founding trustees of the hospital, has accused top
hospital authorities of practising illegal clinical research for private drug
companies under the Human Right Ethical Committee, and commercial use of the
trust-run hospital.

According to Ghiya, due to the ongoing commercial activities, like clinical
tests for private companies, the trust has lost the benefit of Income Tax
exemption from this year.

He has further alleged that the Human Research Ethical Committee (HREC), usually
comprising leading local doctors and academicians to keep a tab on clinical
trials, is functioning on the direction of VRDCRI Director V D Gupta and details
like clinical research and its accounts have not been shared with the trust
members.

"It's not a question of commercial use of a charitable trust, but the fact that
the lives of several thousand patients coming for diagnosis at the institute
that has been put at risk," said Ghiya.

He said the I-T Department has not renewed the tax exemption benefit due to the
ongoing clinical research, which is a commercial activity.

When The Indian Express had first reported about the alleged irregularities in
April 2009, the authorities claimed they had dissolved HREC and stopped the
trials.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 28, 1987

Law Report: The right to have a baby

BYLINE: By SHIRANIKHA HERBERT, Barrister

LENGTH: 1128 words


Queen's bench Division
 Regina v Ethical Committee of St Mary's Hospital,
 Manchester, ex parte Harriet
 Before Mr Justice Schiemann

 26 October 1987

Where a hospital's ethical committee is set up as an advisory body and a forum
for discussion, rather than a decision making body, the court will not compel
the committee to give advice, or to embark upon an investigation, as to whether
treatment should be given or refused in a particular case.

THE FACTS

The applicant wished to have a child but had difficulty in conceiving. Her
social services department to be allowed to adopt or foster were refused because
of her criminal convictions for running a brothel and soliciting for
prostitution, and her allegedly poor understanding of the role of a foster
parent.

The applicant then sought to be considered for in vitro fertilisation (IVF)
under the National Health Service. In January 1983 she was put on the waiting
list, and in March 1984 a laparoscopy was performed upon her. In July 1984 she
was seen for the first time by the doctor at the IVF unit. In August 1984 her
past convictions were disclosed to a counsellor at the unit.

In December 1984 the doctor saw the applicant again and informed her that it
would not be possible to treat her because of an infection her husband had and
because she had a liver function abnormality.

In March and June 1985 the hospital's ethical committee, which had been
established in the light of the report of the Warnock Committee of Inquiry into
Human Fertilisation and Embroyology (Cmnd 9314), met, and the applicant's case
was probably discussed. Both doctors who were in charge of the IVF unit were on
the committee. The committee emphasised that doctors retained the right to
decide upon treatment vis a vis their clinical judgment.

In September 1985 the applicant and her husband were for the first time informed
of the actual reason for refusal to treat her, namely that adoption agencies had
refused to consider placing children with them.

The applicant sought judicial review of the decision refusing her treatment.

THE DECISION,

Mr Justice Schiemann said that the applicant made no complaint as to the general
policy that couples accepted on the waiting list for IVF must, in the ordinary
course of events, satisfy the general criteria established by adoption societies
in assessing suitability for adoption.

THE CLAIM AGAINST THE COMMITTEE,

There was no statutory duty on anyone to set up the committee and there was no
statutory duty imposed on the committee either to decide or to advise.

The applicant submitted that, once the committee had been asked for advice on
whether treatment should be given to a particular individual, it was obliged
itself to investigate the matter and give advice following such investigation.
The judge rejected that submission. The committee's function was to provide a
forum for discussion among professionals. It was essentially an informal body.
If the committee in a particular case refused to give advice or did not have a
majority view as to what advice should be given, then the courts could not
compel it to give advice or embark upon a particular investigation.

On behalf of the committee it was submitted that judicial review did not lie to
review any advice given by the committee. The judge was doubtful about accepting
that submission in its full breadth. If the committee had advised, for instance,
that the IVF unit should in principle refuse all such treatment to anyone who
was a Jew or coloured, then the courts might well grant a declaration that such
a policy was illegal.

But that was not the situation in the present case. Here the complaint was that
the committee's advice was that the doctor must make up her own mind as to
whether treatment should be given. That advice was unobjectionable.

It was also submitted that the applicant should have beem given an opportunity
to put evidence and submissions before the committee. The judge rejected that
submission. If it was right that the committee was set up to provide a forum for
professionals to talk things over and to provide general guidelines, then the
court should be slow, if indeed it had the power, to force such a committee to
receive representations before it decided not to give advice.

Where, as here, the committee advised the decision taker that it would be proper
for her to reconsider her decision in the light of any new material which the
applicant put before her, there was even less reason for the court to interfere.

THE CLAIM AGAINST THE DOCTOR

The applicant submitted that where a doctor was making a decision removing a
woman from the IVF list, and was taking that decision exclusively or mainly on
social grounds which involved issues of contested fact, then the doctor had a
duty to act fairly.

On behalf of the doctor it was submitted that the doctor/patient relationship
was outside the purview of administrative law. For the purposes of this
judgment, the judge was prepared to assume that the applicant's submission was
correct. But even on that assumption he was not prepared to grant the applicant
relief. There were arguable grounds for criticism of the doctor's decision in
December 1984 not to treat the applicant. That decision was made without first
giving the applicant an opportunity to try and establish that the case was an
extraordinary one in some way, and that therefore she should be accepted for
treatment even though she did not satisfy the general criteria established by
adoption societies in assessing suitability for adoptions.

There were no further arguable grounds for criticism of the doctor's decision
not to inform the applicant until September 1985 of the true reason for the
refusal of treatment. She was misled and was understandably furious that time
went by in what now appeared to have been shadow boxing. However, doctors'
decisions as to whether to give or refuse treatment were not ones which, once
made, rendered the doctors powerless to change their views in the light of new
arguments and new facts.

It was not, and could not be, suggested that no reasonable doctor could have
come to the decision to refuse treatment to the applicant. In those
circumstances there was no reason to grant the relief sought against the doctor.
In consequence there was no need to decide the question whether or not in
principle judicial review would lie in respect of such a decision.

The application was dismissed. Appearances: Mr Louis BlomCooper QC and Mr Edward
Fitzgerald instructed by Hepworth & Halpern, Manchester, for the applicant; Mr
Rodger Bell QC and Mr Bruce Caulfield instructed by the Solicitor North West
Regional Health Authority for the committee.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              237 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

Oklahoma business briefs, Sept. 19

SECTION:

LENGTH: 515 words



Oklahoma briefs

OKC inpatient facility sold

An Oklahoma City inpatient facility leased to Mercy Rehabilitation Hospital was
among five health facilities in four states that have been acquired by a real
estate investment trust for about $131.1 million. CNL Healthcare Properties,
which focuses on senior housing and health care facilities, has acquired two
specialty hospitals and three inpatient rehabilitation hospitals. The Oklahoma
City hospital contains 53,449 square feet. "This addition to our medical
portfolio gives us the opportunity to invest in two specialty hospitals and
three inpatient rehabilitation hospitals that will diversify and add to our
growing number of healthcare assets," said Kevin Maddron, senior vice president
of CNL Healthcare Properties. "The properties have highly qualified tenants in
place that are focused on providing patients with the best possible treatment
and care." The other facilities are in Texas, Nevada and Indiana.Tulsan has spot
in Staples' raceA creation by a Tulsa inventor and entrepreneur designed to make
the Apple iPad a true handheld device is among the leaders of a national
contest. James Hill entered his nHand device, which includes a detachable tablet
handle and a three-way stand, in Staples' Crowd2Shelf national contest on Sept.
1 and is in second place with nearly 5,000 votes. nHand is the only Oklahoma
product entered in the contest. Votes may be cast and more information found on
Hill's nhand device at www.fundable.com/get-n-hand. The products with the most
votes, sales and judge excitement will be featured on the shelves of Staples
nationwide.OSU to honor businessmanSTILLWATER - Oklahoma State University's
Center for Ethical Leadership will host Frank Morsani, former chairman of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, at a Student Leaders Luncheon set for Tuesday in
Taylor's Dining Room on campus.

Morsani, who has owned more than 40 companies, will speak about his experiences
in leadership while at OSU and afterward, as chairman of the board of the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce. He received his Bachelor of Science in Trade and Industrial
Engineering from OSU and went on to work for Ford Motor Co. Recognized for his
philanthropy at OSU, Morsani also received an honorary doctorate from the
university in 2010. "Frank Morsani is the epitome of the classic cowboy way,"
said Stephen Haseley, Center for Ethical Leadership manager. "He has an
interesting career history to share that illustrates integrity, honor and the
courage to hope, even when he was the only one with hope." Those interested in
attending the Student Leaders Luncheon should RSVP to Nichole Brown in the
Center for Ethical Leadership office at (405) 744-5485 or by email at
ngbrown@okstate.edu.OK's senators are honoredBoth of Oklahoma's U.S. senators
were honored Thursday by the National Federation of Independent Business. U.S.
Sens. Jim Inhofe, R-Tulsa, and Tom Coburn, R-Muskogee, were named as Guardian of
Small Business for their voting records on behalf of small-business owners. The
group will present the award to 45 senators.

From staff reports


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday

Ethical, mental health issues on agenda for national gathering of parish nurses

SECTION: CITY; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 606 words


ROTHESAY - Ethical and mental issues, and spirituality, will top the agenda next
month for a national gathering of those involved in parish nursing ministry.

"The Parish Nurse: Facing Ethical and Mental Issues" has been chosen as the
theme of the four-day Canadian Association for Parish Nursing Ministry's
conference and national general meeting, scheduled for Thursday, June 6, to
Sunday, June 9, at the Villa Madonna Retreat House.

Fifty-five parish nurses have registered for the event.

Beth Lawson, national convention chairwoman and parish nurse at Trinity Anglican
Church in Saint John since September 2008, says several top-notch speakers have
been lined up for the public portion of the gathering - known as Education Day -
on Friday, June 7.

They include Father Mark Miller, a highly respected ethicist who currently works
in Toronto as the superior of his Redemptorist Province, as well as part-time
ethicist at the Centre for Clinical Ethics at St. Joseph's and St. Michael's
hospitals.

Miller, who is passionate about Catholic and faith-based health care,
palliative/hospital care and parish nursing, will open the Education Day
dialogue by speaking on the topic of "Christian Ethics" from 9:30 a.m. to noon.

Dr. Tim Christie, regional director of ethics services for the Horizon Health
Network in New Brunswick, and Stephen P.H. Slyke, a member of the faculty of
nursing at UNB Fredericton, will address concurrent sessions of the delegates
from 1 to 3 p.m.

Christie, formerly director of ethics at the Atlantic Health Sciences
Corporation, will speak on "Methodone Clinics: Affects on the Community," while
Van Slyke, who has worked in the area of psychiatric and mental health nursing
for 26 years, has chosen "Mental Health Challenges: Recovery and the Parish
Nurse" as his topic for the day.

"Spirituality and You" is the subject of the final Education Day address, at 4
p.m., by Sister Anne Somers of the Sisters of Charity of the Immaculate
Conception. Somers has worked as a mediator, facilitator, educator, spiritual
director and retreat director.

Lawson said parish nurses who attend the conference will also have plenty of
time to engage in worship and fun events, including a riverboat cruise of the
Kennebecasis River and Tea for Two and walkathon fundraisers.

"Our conference is an opportunity for parish nurses across the country to share
with one another their diverse ministry experience and, also, to experience
fellowship with one another," Lawson said.

Quoting an old saying that says, "If you've seen one parish nurse, you've seen
one parish nurse," Lawson said it holds a lot of truth.

"That's because each parish nurse ministers in the community they work in and
the ministry can be very different depending on where they're situated," she
said.

"For example," she added, "in my position here, Trinity Church is situated in
the south end where many people don't have doctors and they need a lot of help
making their way through the red tape of the mental health system.

"Here at Trinity, as well as caring from the congregation, I also do a lot of
outreach ministry whereas, another parish nurse that may minister in a more
affluent area, there may be other needs that come to her. She may be more
involved with families and children and that type of thing."

Lawson said she chose Villa Madonna for the national get-together "because of
its beautiful setting, which lends itself to prayer and nature walks, and for
it's hospitality and good home-cooked meals."

The Education Day events are open to the public at the cost of $75, plus meals.
Anyone interested may pre-register by visiting the CAPNM website: capnm.ca.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2013 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             August 24, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Help with ethical dilemmas;
BREAKING HEALTH NEWS

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 136 words


THE General Medical Council has launched a series of online tutorials which
tackle tricky ethical scenarios.

The tutorials include child protection, whistle-blowing and addiction and will
be added to the case load already featured on the GMC's interactive learning
website.

Jane O'Brien, assistant director standards and fitness to practise, said: "The
new scenarios featured on GMP in Action will be happening right now in surgeries
and hospitals across the UK.

"There are rarely black and white answers to a medical ethical dilemma and so
GMP in Action allows the doctor to explore the issue from different viewpoints
and see how certain courses of action can have varying consequences.

"We want to build on the tremendous success of GMP in Action by adding scenarios
that tackle real dilemmas that doctors face."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             July 18, 1999, Sunday

Ethics girl

BYLINE: Sally Kinnes

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 900 words


Does television really need another medical drama? The makers of Life Support,
whose central character is a female medical ethicist, certainly think so.

It's hard to imagine any television controller looking at the schedules and
diagnosing an urgent need for a medical drama. Medical series are more common
than measles. We've had doctors as fallen heroes (The Heart Surgeon, BBC1),
doctors as sick as their patients (Psychos, Channel 4), and doctors as
accident-prone, womanising nincompoops (Doctor in the House, so contagious, it
produced a decade of spin-offs on both ITV and BBC). There has been black umour
(Cardiac Arrest, BBC1) and belly laughter (Surgical Spirit, ITV). And when
television doctors have survived all that the living can throw at them, they
have become pathologists and found new life in the dead (Silent Witness and
McCallum).

Dangerfield (BBC1) survived the transplant of its leading star (Nigel Havers
replacing Nigel Le Vaillant with scarcely a drop of blood), and Always and
Everyone (ITV) has made new advances in portraying gore. Its prosthetics expert
discovered that mashed banana looks like human fat, and that dissected rhubarb
looks just like muscle.

Doyen of the genre is Casualty (BBC1), still going strong after 13 years, and
which has just given birth to a spin-off, Holby City (BBC1). But then, after
more than 250 episodes, its crew must know more about hospitals than the health
secretary.

None of this, however, has stopped the BBC commissioning a new six-part medical
series called Life Support. Ever since Emergency - Ward 10 became ITV's first
long-running soap in 1957, wheeling on the stethoscope-wielders has been one of
the quickest routes to ratings success. Audiences are addicted.

Every medical series needs to present itself as a special case. Life Support is
set in Glasgow, where it rains as much as it snows in the Chicago-based ER. The
spin is that the central character is a clinical ethicist, who looks at the
moral dilemmas involved in medical practice. And she's a woman, too (Dr
Katherine Doone, played by Aisling O'Sullivan). This puts her on a collision
course with the hospital's all-male old guard, especially the obnoxious bighead
and consultant anaesthetist, Kamran Blake (Art Malik).

In episode one, two ambulance drivers (Douglas Sannachan and Matthew Costello)
hear a thud on the roof, and watch as the windscreen slowly begins to run with
red. Doone's first patient has arrived.

It is, however, nurse Elaine MacKenzie (Jackie Kane), who faces the series'
first ethical dilemma. The almost-dead patient is her boyfriend: the ethical
dilemma is whether to turn off his life-support machine.

Producer Margaret Enefer, who developed the idea, says the ethicist steers a
middle course between doctors who say, "here's what's wrong, you decide", and
doctors who barely listen to their patients at all. "One of the reasons I wanted
to make the series was that my father died very suddenly in hospital," says
Enefer. "The hospital rang my mother at 4.30am and said, 'Your husband's just
passed away', to which she replied, 'But he's supposed to be coming home
today'." There was no ethical issue involved, but Enefer found the hospital's
rudeness and arrogance shocking. An ethicist, she feels, could have acted as
intermediary and explained - where the doctors could not - why they had done
what they did. Medical arrogance is something that Malik (still best known for
his role in The Jewel in the Crown), knows all about. "My father was an eye
surgeon and his view was that there was only one thing a consultant would aspire
to, and that was to be God himself," says Malik. "His response to ethics was
very much, 'The only ethical question you need to ask is do we or do we not have
a responsibility to care for those who are ill?' His answer was yes."

The NHS does not yet run to keeping a medical ethicist on staff, but for two
years, the John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford found the money to employ as an
ethicist Dr David Cook. Consultant to the series, Cook sums up his role by
saying: "I was recently invited to speak at a medical conference.

And when I asked why they wanted me, the doctors said, 'So we can sleep at
night'."

Cook has had his fair share of personal ethical dilemmas. In an incident that
has its parallels in the series, there came a point when his own mother was
being kept alive on a heart- lung machine. "They said, ' You've got to decide
when to turn off life support'. They do not let the mothers of medical ethicists
die."

The producers are hoping that the series will encourage viewers actively to
discuss the issues involved - which is always a tall order. The danger is that
these issues will seem one-dimensional. And the series gets off to the creakiest
of starts by introducing Doone in a lecture hall, laboriously explaining her
role. David E Kelley's sophisticated American series, Chicago Hope, would never
have made the same mistake. Chicago Hope may have been overtaken by ER, but it
had a highly sophisticated way of picking its way through ethical dilemmas.

Katherine Doone, meanwhile, needs to work on her social skills. There's no
problem thinking you are right - most of the best fictional doctors are
egomaniacs - but she lacks the charm to go with it. No wonder she gets on her
colleagues' nerves. * Life Support, Monday BBC1, 9.30pm


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Television

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited


                              241 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 16, 1998 Wednesday

Research overseers create ethics guide  Medical field gets strict rules for
clinical trials

BYLINE: CAROLYN ABRAHAM Medical Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: Toronto


After four years of collaborating, Canada's three main research bodies -- the
Medical Research Council of Canada, the Natural Sciences and Engineering
Research Council, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council --
have written an ethics policy to dictate how clinical trials should operate.

The policy document is to be plunked down this week on the desks of medical
researchers, hospital officials and university executives across the country.

Many have been eagerly expecting it. After all, any tool that may help untangle
the ethical knots of using human subjects to test new therapies is bound to be
useful, especially now.

With more researchers teaming up with pharmaceutical companies as government
funds decline, concerns about protecting patients and maintaining academic
freedom have moved to the forefront.

Every academic institution in the country will be expected to be in compliance
with the new policy by September of 1999, or risk losing funding from these
councils.

The policy spells out how patients should be informed that they can pull out of
a clinical trial any time they wish. It also outlines what other information
should be included in a patient's consent form. It addresses more recent ethical
problems surrounding research involving women of child-bearing age and human
genetics. And it also stipulates a researcher's moral obligation to publish and
share research results -- even if the results are negative.

"This is absolutely essential for us to have in having a health-care system with
an ever-changing basis of knowledge," said Dr. Francis Rolleston, director of
ethics and international relations with the MRC.

Dr. Andrew Baker, who led the symposium and is also chairman of the Research
Ethics Board at Toronto's St. Michael's Hospital, said the policy will be
regarded as "the authority" when research projects are submitted for approval.

The MRC last issued ethics guidelines in 1987. Like medicine itself, much has
changed since then.

In fact, the timing of the new policy, titled Ethical Conduct for Research
Involving Humans, could not have been better. In the past few months, the
ethical dangers of clinical research have swung from the abstract to the
headlines.

In June, the huge multinational drug firm Bristol-Myers Squibb Canada Inc. tried
unsuccessfully in court to stop publication of an independent report on
cholesterol-lowering drugs prepared by the Canadian Co-ordinating Office for
Health Technology Assessment. While the drug company framed the controversy
around a difference in scientific opinions, the researchers presented their case
as an issue of freedom of speech.

Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children, meanwhile, continues to investigate a
dispute between one of its doctors and a pharmaceutical company over a clinical
trial involving a drug for a rare blood disorder. When Dr. Nancy Olivieri
suspected the drug was harming patients taking it, Apotex Inc. threatened her
with legal action if she made her concerns public.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 2, 1998 Wednesday

Sick Kids should come clean

BYLINE: Michèle Brill-Edwards

SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 636 words

DATELINE: Ottawa


Re A Doctor Takes On A Drug Company (Aug. 13); Sick Kids Plans External Review
of Clinical Trials (Aug. 21); and Researchers At Sick Kids Threaten To Leave
(Aug. 28):

Protecting human safety is often at odds with protecting profits in drug
development. That's not news. But the striking ethical failure of the Hospital
for Sick Children's hierarchy to defend patient safety and research honesty in
the face of unethical drug-company pressure is news, ominous news.

Canada's flagship medical research organization quietly accommodated the
company, a major funder of the hospital and University of Toronto. Unauthorized
research space in the hospital was provided to the company's vice-president.
Hospital research staff published their own version of Nancy Olivieri's research
results, without Dr. Olivieri's knowledge or consent, undermining her safety
warnings.

Most inexcusable, hospital officials twice pressed Dr. Olivieri to resign, while
the company threatened suit.

This moment of truth in medical ethics finally exposes the thinking of research-
hospital management in the new era of increasing private-sector dominance of
public institutions.

Sick Kids has been entrusted to serve the public interest in conducting ethical
research to help children around the world. Yet the hospital's management now
appears to have quietly placed the public interest at the financial mercy of the
private, for-profit research sector -- the pharmaceutical industry -- in
carrying out research.

If the new research about a drug looks like bad news, it appears this hospital's
management no longer sees its duty to defend the need for warning signals,
responsibly voiced, to the hospital's own research subjects or to the thousands
of children around the world taking the company's drug. And if one of the
world's top researchers has the courage to serve that duty alone, management
simply lets her twist in the wind. It appears that top management will
accommodate the corporate sponsor instead. And if that results in public
outrage, then management will "review policy."

Can the hospital and its mother ship, the University of Toronto, recover their
ethical credibility with public donors and children's parents? Yes, with prompt,
honest action.

First, apologize. Acknowledge that patient safety and research integrity were
jeopardized by corporate pressure to silence important research results on risk.

Second, initiate an independent investigation with the results to be made
public. Who permitted the company's pressure on Dr. Olivieri and championed the
company's interests, and why? Over 120 of Dr. Olivieri's concerned colleagues
are demanding to know and are baffled by management's silence. (The "policy
review" proffered recently by the hospital is in the classic style of
bureaucratic escape: It specifically excludes investigating the Olivieri case.)

Third, state publicly the hospital's own performance standards for responding to
corporations seeking to influence the scope of drug research done by hospital
research staff and the scope and/or language of the published results.

Finally, install new leadership. Leaders of integrity, committed to honesty and
safety in research, are needed now to restore public trust in HSC and protect
HSC's world-renowned researchers who (thankfully) defend the public interest in
medical research. HSC is a beloved institution because it has served the public
interest. Anyone in the hierarchy who needs that spelled out doesn't belong
there.

This watershed event signals that medical research integrity in Canada is
imperilled by corporate pressure. The board of the Hospital for Sick Children
has a special duty now to send a clear message that pharmaceutical firms are not
to dominate and control, but are to respect the ethics of public research, at
Sick Kids and across Canada.

MD,

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday
                                 Mumbai Edition

DOCTOR'S DAY - 'Medics dream of minting money as med edu cost rises'

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 458 words


Consumer activist Asha Idnani has a pet peeve against doctors. "Why do they
charge thousands of rupees from a patient for a post-operation visit to his/her
hospital room when all they do is ask the patient how he or she feels, check the
file and breeze out," she asked.

She is not the only one. Given the incidence of attacks on doctors by patients
or their relatives, it's obvious that many share her unhappiness with the
medical system in general and doctors in particular. "I recently heard a
resident doctor in a public hospital shouting at an accident victim who was in
obvious pain to shut up or be thrown out. His attitude was wrong," said a social
worker who helps poor patients get admitted to hospitals.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day on Wednesday , the poor state of doctor-patient
relationship couldn't have been clearer. The general belief, as a new campaign
launched by the Network of Doctors for Ethical, Rational and De-commercialised
Healthcare on Wednesday shows, the once god-like doctor has metamorphosed into a
commercial, profit-oriented businessman who prescribes extra medicines, tests
and procedures for patients. "It's a free-for-all market medicine where
doctor-entrepreneurs are seeking bank loans with high interest that have to be
repaid," said Dr Sanjay Nagral, a surgeon who is on the editorial board of the
Indian Journal of Medical Ethics.

Dr Abhay Shukla of the Network of Doctors for Ethical, Rational and
De-commercialised Healthcare said, "The growth of corporate hospitals and the
proliferation of private medical schools are responsible for distorting medical
practice in such a way that costs have all gone up." Doctors in corporate
hospitals are given a target of, say , admitting five patients every day . "So
the minute a patient walks in, the doctor is wondering about ways to get him
admitted," he added. Moreover, medical students in private colleges have to pay
a donation of Rs 50 lakh

to Rs 1 crore for a seat. "Such a doctor will only dream of minting money ,"
added Dr Shukla.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day , the network has started a letter campaign for
the end of commercialization of medical practice and the return of ethical
practice. The network, made up of doctors, has asked its other colleagues to put
up the letter in their clinic to prove their support.

Dr Nagral said, "The gap between doctors and patients is huge. Doctors believe
they are all-knowing and patients know nothing. Doctors believe they have to
speak with an air of finality and brusqueness to appear all-knowing." Patients
have over the years become alert and don't consider their doctor to be the final
word."But most medical professionals still behave like they did in the past,
resulting in the present impasse," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday
                            All-round Metro Edition

HIV experts line up to refute denier

BYLINE: Jeremy Roberts

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 522  words


ROYAL Perth Hospital has been urged to cease all support for a staff member who
denied the existence of HIV while giving evidence in court.

Flinders University emeritus professor Peter McDonald, who conducts research on
HIV-AIDS, said members of The Perth Group, led by Eleni Papadopulos-Eleopulos,
''should not be tolerated by their institutions who are employing them as
scientists and medical professionals''.

''The hospital can withdraw supplies and decree they must never indicate any
association with Royal Perth Hospital in any communication they make, either in
writing or on the internet,'' Professor McDonald said.

Ms Papadopulos-Eleopulos, who is a medical physicist at RPH, has been giving
evidence in the appeal of Andre Chad Parenzee, 35, who has been convicted of
exposing three women to the deadly virus by failing to tell them he was
HIV-positive.

She has testified for the defence that HIV does not exist, does not cause AIDS
and is not sexually transmitted.

Her testimony, along with that of her colleague at The Perth Group, emergency
doctor Val Turner, has spurred at least seven eminent Australian HIV-AIDS
researchers to give evidence for the prosecution.

That evidence starts today with a video link-up from the South Australian
Supreme Court in Adelaide to David Cooper, director of the National Centre in
HIV Epidemiology and Clinical Research at the University ofNSW.

Immunologist Gustav Nossal is expected to give either written or oral evidence
next week, along with renowned HIV-AIDS researcher and University of Melbourne
associate professor Elizabeth Dax.

Professor McDonald will also take the stand, but yesterday he expanded on claims
made in court by the prosecution that The Perth Group was misrepresenting
published scientific papers to support its claims about HIV and AIDS.

He called for Australian ethical standards, as set out by the National Health
and Medical Research Council, to be applied to The Perth Group.

A council spokesman said ethical standards were not enforceable upon scientists
unless they received council funding. The Perth Group does not.

The current joint NHMRC-Australian Vice-Chancellors Committee guidelines on
ethical standards, which dates from 1997, says: ''A researcher shall not with
intent deceive, or in reckless disregard for the truth, omit a fact so that what
is stated or presented as a whole states or presents a material or significant
falsehood.''

RPH executive director Philip Montgomery said: ''Royal Perth Hospital does not
support The Perth Group's views on HIV, and group members have been instructed
that they will not use any hospital resources for work related to their private
research.

''Furthermore, the staff have also been instructed that their private research
should not be linked in any way to Royal Perth Hospital.''

Ms Papadopulos-Eleopulos strongly denied misrepresenting others research,
admitting that she accurately represents data from papers but may disagree with
the ''analysis and speculation'' of the papers' authors.

And she said an agreement with the hospital made in 1988 allowed her to publish
research admitting her link to the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             August 19, 1994 Friday
                                  Late Edition

RESEARCHERS FACE GREATER SCRUTINY

BYLINE: MELISSA SWEET Medical Writer

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 443 words


They may not realise it, but when patients leave hospital they often leave
behind parts of themselves which may be used in future medical research.

Blood and tissue samples collected for tests as part of a patient's health care
are often stored for years afterwards and may later be used in research
providing insights into diseases ranging from AIDS to leukaemia .

Most people have no idea their "bits" are being used in this way, and
researchers have not worried too much in the past about the ethics involved
because the samples were anonymous. Now the National Health and Medical Research
Council (NHMRC) has begun work on guidelines for the use of stored body fluids
and tissues in research.

Dr Rob Loblay, the author of a draft NHMRC discussion paper, Guidelines on the
Use of Patient Tissue in Research, emphasised that researchers were already
ethically bound to obtain patient consent when collecting samples specifically
for use in a study.

The ethical dilemma arose with retrospective studies, when researchers wanted to
"go back in time" and look at stored patient samples or records which were not
originally collected for the purpose of their studies.

Dr Loblay, an immunology researcher and member of Royal Prince Alfred Hospital's
ethics committee, said this had not caused researchers any ethical angst in the
past.

But there was pressure to be more sensitive, partly because of advances in
molecular biology which allowed researchers to find out a great deal about
someone from a small blood or tissue sample - for example, whether they were
genetically programmed to develop various diseases.

"There is also a heightened awareness of ethical issues in the profession and
the community at large," Dr Loblay said.

But the discussion paper does not propose that researchers be required to obtain
informed consent from patients or their relatives for all retrospective studies.

That would "kill a lot of research out of hand" because of the logistical
difficulties involved, Dr Loblay said.

Instead, the draft guidelines recommend that ethics committees in hospitals and
other research institutions vet proposals for retrospective research and decide
whether permission should be obtained from patients or their families.

In practice, Dr Loblay expects that most retrospective projects would go ahead
without donors' knowledge or consent, although researchers would face greater
scrutiny.

The NHMRC also hopes to stimulate greater public awareness of the use of body
tissues and has discussed whether patients should be encouraged to state if they
do not want their body fluids or tissues used in research, for religious, moral,
cultural or ethical reasons.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1994 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      The Observer (Gladstone, Queensland)

                            October 9, 2010 Saturday

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 861  words

Praise for Gladstone Hospital staff

OVER the years I have read complaints about our hospital. Well I am here to
praise the wonderful staff. From the doctors and nurses right down to the
cleaning staff.

I have just come out of hospital after spending two-and-a-half weeks in there. I
could not have had better treatment then I got while I was in there.

Right from the time I was in accident and emergency until I was discharged I
cannot fault the care I received. The nursing staff on floor 1 are the most
caring, wonderful people I have met. Nothing was too hard for them to do for me.
Even a cuddle when I was feeling down.

My only criticism is the conditions these wonderful people have to work under.
They are understaffed, some working very long hours because there is no funding
for extra staff and beds. There was a constant game of musical beds where the
staff were trying to fit more sick people in.

The government or powers that be need to look into our hospital, open up more
beds employ more staff and take the pressure off these very hard-working nurses.
Sue Holmes

Gladstone

No such place as an ethical fur farm

I READ your article "No Fur, Franks" with great interest and I applaud the
People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) for their persistence in drawing
attention to designers such as Camilla Franks who continue to support the fur
trade despite having knowledge of the extremely cruel nature of the industry.

Animals in fur farms are kept in horrific conditions; while they are awaiting
their fate they are kept in filthy wire cages and denied shelter, freedom to
move as well as access to adequate food, water and veterinary care.

The distress caused by such conditions often causes these animals to
self-mutilate resulting in further mental and physical anguish.

Because the majority of fur farms are in countries where there are no laws to
ensure humane slaughter, most animals are bludgeoned, beaten, electrocuted or
drowned to death and in some cases even skinned alive.

Franks' claim that the fur used in her collections is only sourced from humane
fur farms is a clear indication that she currently lacks the compassion to
change her ignorant stance on the issue.

As an international designer, Franks has a responsibility to understand that
there is no such place as an "ethical fur farm" and that no matter what
proportion of her collections feature fur, until she eliminates all fur products
from her designs she is still supporting this horrific industry.

I am optimistic and hopeful that PETA's continued efforts to raise awareness of
the fur issue will place enough pressure on the consumers and stockists of
Franks' collections to stop supporting her brand until she develops a sound
conscience and stops supporting the fur industry.

Sally Healy

Southport, Qld

Qld children 10 times more likely to suicide

ON a day when a "breach in political advertising guidelines" was one the main
thoughts on the LNP's and government's mind, I would like your readers to know
that there were other more serious and substantive issues brought to the floor
of Queensland Parliament by the Independents.

Take for example the question I put to the Child Safety Minister, Phil Reeves,
about our state's obscene child and youth suicide rates. I was shocked and
deeply disturbed when I discovered that Queensland's child suicide rate (average
of 16 per year) according to the independent Commission for Young People, was
almost double that of other states.

And when you consider credible international studies like the OECD's with the
Queensland Government's own figures, it made me very alarmed and sad to realise
that children under the protection of the Bligh Government are approximately 10
times more likely to die from suicide than other Australian children.

This stems from the fact that the majority of Queensland children who suicide
are officially known to the Department of Child Safety.

I thought that the floor of parliament would be the right place to discuss this
crisis befalling our children in state care, but according to the Child Safety
Minister, Mr Reeves, it wasn't. As part of his reply he said, "I do not think
that highlighting the issues that the Member for Burnett has does anything for
their cause".

Quite obviously, Reeves thinks that by ignoring the unusually high suicide rate
of children he is responsible for, the problem will go away or solve itself.

Rob Messenger MP

Independent Member for Burnett

Inspirational women opposing fly in, fly out

I WAS a very proud member of the Moranbah community last night when I attended
the community meeting in Moranbah who are opposing BMAs proposal for 100 per
cent fly in, fly out for the Caval Ridge Mine.

What an inspirational group of women, who are leading the way in fighting for
our families' lifestyle choices to ensure a liveable and sustainable future for
families now and into the future.

We are a strong community and together we will lobby the government for their
support in opposing this proposal for the benefit of our children and future
generations who choose to live in coal mining communities.

Leah Bull

Moranbah

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OGO


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday

Maternity hospital masters differ over suicide provision in planned legislation;

Medical experts address Oireachtas committee on first day of hearings

BYLINE: Michael O'Regan

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 599 words


There were differences between the masters of two Dublin maternity hospitals on
the suicide provision in the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Bill during the
first day of the abortion legislation hearings in Leinster House yesterday.

The Oireachtas committee on health, under the chairmanship of Fine Gael TD Jerry
Buttimer, was hearing medical submissions on the heads of the Bill. There will
be further hearings on Monday and Tuesday.

Dr Rhona Mahony, master of the National Maternity Hospital, said the life of the
foetus must be vindicated where it was practicable.

"This obligation has underpinned my own clinical practice over 17 years and will
continue to do so," she added. "In current practice, all efforts are exhausted,
within the medical margins of safety, to prolong pregnancy in the foetal
interest."

Dr Mahony said this was regardless of the indication for termination of
pregnancy which, in the context of the legislation, would be to save a woman's
life. Neonatal survival was now possible from as early as 23 weeks' gestation.

It was her experience that the majority of women did not wish to lose their
babies, but they did not want to die, she said. She added that one could be
forgiven for thinking that the Bill was about the risk of suicide in pregnancy.

"It is not," she added. "It is about saving women's lives, regardless of whether
that risk to life is physical or mental."

Dr Mahony said a woman who was intent on suicide was indeed at risk of dying.
She needed to be assessed appropriately, believed, and expert psychiatric care
provided.

Dr Sam Coulter Smyth, master of the Rotunda Hospital, said the loss of life from
self-destruction was an extraordinarily rare situation, with incidence of
suicide in pregnancy of the order of one in a half-million pregnancies, as per
UK figures.          'No evidence'         "Our psychiatric colleagues tell us
that there is currently no available evidence to show that termination of
pregnancy is a treatment for suicidal ideation or intent and, as obstetricians,
we are required to provide and practise evidence-based treatment," he added.

"It, therefore, creates an ethical dilemma for any obstetrician who is requested
to perform a termination of pregnancy with the treatment of somebody who has
suicidal ideation or intent.''

Dr Coulter Smyth said he was sure the legislation was designed to create clarity
and reassurance for both health professionals and patients alike.
Ethical issue         The fact that there was no gestational limit relating to
suicide was a major ethical issue for obstetricians. He said that delivering a
baby of 25 weeks' gestation, in the case of a woman deemed to be suicidal, could
lead to death because of extreme prematurity, cerebral palsy or other
significant developmental issues.  He added that his overriding concern related
to the lack of evidence to show that termination was of any assistance in that
area of self-destruction and pregnancy.

"In relation to infrastructure and resources, it is my view, and the view of
many of my colleagues, that the inclusion of suicidality within the legislation
may, and I stress may, in the long term, lead to an increased demand for
termination in this country," he added.

He said in excess of 5,000 women annually go to the UK to have termination
procedures performed.

"We cannot be certain how many of these women would decide to use the current
legislation as a means of obtaining a termination in this country," he added.

He said he welcomed the fact that the legislation provided for a termination of
pregnancy in an emergency situation.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 25, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Discharged to die;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 355 words


Sir, My neighbour is involved in the care of a man who was discharged after ten
weeks in hospital for treatment of a stroke ("One in three patients dies within
a year of discharge from hospital", Mar 19). His post-discharge care from the
local authority stopped once he was deemed able to live alone in a bed-sit -
although unable to go shopping because of mobility problems. My neighbour was
told that voluntary organisations would take over some of his care but that
further help would have to be paid for - not an option in his case. When she
went to see him this week his only food was two ready-meals, ten days out of
date. His flat needed cleaning but no one from the voluntary organisations is
supposed to help domestically and no one is insured to take him out, so he just
stares at the four walls.

Many patients are not sent out of hospital with the expectation that they are
terminal, but the level of care is so abysmal that death becomes inevitable. In
my experience as a hospital consultant, we didn't operate on elderly patients
with the aim that they would be dead within a few months. Lack of care in the
community may well be a huge contributory factor.

Jane stanford London SW13 Sir, Your article) reinforces the fact that despite
most of us wanting to die at home, busy hospital wards will continue to be the
place where many of us will die.

It is therefore imperative that hospital staff provide high quality,
compassionate care for their dying patients. The recent Neuberger Report
emphasised that the ethical framework underpinning the guidance within the
Liverpool Care Pathway was sound and in accord with the guidance from the
General Medical Council. There are still misunderstandings and criticisms of
anticipatory prescribing, clinically assisted hydration and the use of
medication to relieve anxiety and distress for the dying.

To move forward decisively in improving care for the dying, NHS England must
provide clear explanations of these difficult ethical issues while putting in
place measures to improve the organisational governance within which care is
provided.

dr gerard corcoran Formby, Merseyside

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 June 29, 2009

AMA meeting: Delegates see boosting quality of care as duty

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jun. 29, 2009

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: Chicago



HIGHLIGHT: A new AMA ethics policy lays out steps physicians should take to make
sure patients get the correct treatments.


  The commitment to provide quality care to patients has long stood as a core
tenet of the medical profession, but physicians increasingly have come under
scrutiny on this front. Research shows that patients receive only about half of
clinically recommended care and finds wide regional variations in medical
utilization with little effect on health outcomes.

Government and private payers are stepping up pressure on doctors to improve
care. Now the AMA says improving quality is not just a matter of technical
competence but also an ethical duty, according to new policy adopted at the
Association's Annual Meeting.

Delegates approved a Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs report saying
doctors should work to ensure that patients get care that is safe, effective,
timely, efficient and equitable.

"This report addresses physicians' ethical obligation to provide quality care,"
said CEJA member Hilary Fairbrother, MD, MPH, an emergency medicine resident.
"This means getting the right care to the right patient at the right time."

According to the new ethics policy, doctors should:

     ·     Keep current with best practices and take part in education,
          certification and quality improvement activities.
     ·     Communicate effectively with patients, families and other
          professionals, and coordinate care appropriately.
     ·     Monitor the quality of care they deliver through case review, peer
          review and other improvement tools.
     ·     Implement quality and performance improvement measures in their daily
          practices.


In reference committee testimony, Georgia pediatrician Joy A. Maxey, MD, said
her state delegation supported the proposal. She argued that the AMA needed to
take a strong stance on doctors' unique role in medical quality.

"Physicians are the definers of what constitutes quality when it comes to
providing medical care to patients -- not industry, not insurance companies, not
government, but physicians and their associated professional organizations," Dr.
Maxey said.

The print version of this content appeared in the July 6, 2009 issue of American
Medical News.

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: Breaches of electronic medical records security can compromise privacy
and harm patients physically and emotionally. When such breaches occur, what
responsibilities do physicians have toward their patients?  Proposed action: An
ethical policy recommending that physicians promptly inform patients of any
breach and the potential for harm, describe how the breach happened and what
steps patients can take to minimize any adverse results. [Adopted]

Issue: Physician assistants and nurse practitioners are increasingly taking on
ownership roles in practices such as retail health clinics. This gives rise to
the ethically problematic situation where a doctor is hired to supervise the
work of a midlevel practitioner who also owns the practice and is the
physician's employer.  Proposed action: An ethical policy that acknowledges the
conflicts inherent in such an arrangement. The opinion says physicians have a
duty to always exercise their independent professional judgment in patients'
best interest, even if it puts them at odds with their employers. [Adopted]

Issue: Some hospital patients with racial or other prejudices are hostile to the
physicians assigned to care for them or refuse their treatment, but hospitals do
not have uniform guidelines to address these situations.  Proposed action:
Direct the AMA to work with other organizations to encourage hospitals and
health systems to adopt policies allowing patients to change doctors and have
mechanisms to address abusive patient behavior and ensure continuity of care for
a patient who declines care from the attending physician. [Adopted]

Issue: So-called chimeric embryos -- created when human genetic material is
introduced into a nonhuman embryo or transferred into an enucleated nonhuman
egg, creating a hybrid -- are being explored as an alternative to stem cell
research techniques that destroy human embryos.   Proposed action: The Council
on Ethical and Judicial Affairs said there is a lack of policy or scientific and
ethical consensus on chimeras, and the issue affects few physicians. The council
proposed examining the issue as part of its review of opinions relating to
medical genetics in the AMA Code of Medical Ethics. [Adopted]

Issue: Working with patients to plan in advance for end-of-life care situations
is a legally complicated and ethically fraught area for doctors.  Proposed
action: Direct the AMA to develop an educational session on advance care
planning at an upcoming Annual or Interim Meeting and ask CEJA to update its
ethical guidance on end-of-life issues. [Adopted]

Retrieve Attachment

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Desperate times call for a miracle; 'Saviour sibling' only hope for
eight-year-old battling leukemia

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Canwest News Service; Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 1207  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER -- Parents Mike and Pam Obadia are opting for desperate -- and
controversial -- measures to boost the survival odds of their son, who's been in
a five-year battle with leukemia.

Eight-year-old Benjamin is currently receiving chemotherapy treatment at B.C.
Children's Hospital in Vancouver after suffering a relapse of the acute
lymphoblastic leukemia he first got in 2002.

A bone-marrow transplant would improve the odds of finally beating the cancer,
but there are no family matches and an international registry of volunteer
donors has also not turned up any, after nearly two years of searching.

So even though the odds of fertility success are ever so slim because of Pam's
age (47), the couple will try to create a "saviour sibling" -- a term used to
describe a test-tube baby created to save an older, sick sibling through donor
stem cells from the newborn's umbilical cord. But the couple from Port
Coquitlam, has to go to Chicago for the procedure, which will cost up to
$30,000.

Doctors at Children's and Women's Hospital in B.C. aren't prepared to aid their
quest because of ethical and moral concerns about creating -- and exploiting --
a life to potentially save another.

"We have to do this to exhaust all the possibilities to help Benjamin," says
Pam. "It's not like we are trying to create a designer baby. We want another
child, we will love another child. If we succeed . . . (it) may help with
Benjamin's illness."

When he relapsed nearly two years ago, his younger sister, who was then four,
was overcome with sadness and confusion. She asked her parents "why the doctors
gave Benjamin his cancer back."

They told her that the drugs weren't strong enough. This time around, Benjamin
is on a regimen of about six drugs, sometimes requiring hospital stays. So far,
Benjamin has endured 295 courses of chemotherapy, 263 needles, 16 blood
transfusions and 13 bone-marrow biopsies. His life and cancer treatment are
documented on a website at www.mobadia.ca.

The couple readily admit they are grasping for a miracle.

"Though we've been told our chances are nil and it will cost us $30,000, we will
try anything to save our son," says Mike, "and we will also try naturally to
have a child and take our chances that it will be a match."

The process begins with conventional in vitro fertilization in which embryos are
created in a laboratory with the mother's eggs and father's sperm. But the next
step is controversial; doctors at the Reproductive Genetics Institute in Chicago
then screen embryos to look for one that is a tissue match. The matched embryo
would then be implanted in the uterus and when the baby is born, umbilical cord
stem cells would be harvested.

Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) has been available for genetic
screening of inherited diseases for about 15 years, but only in recent years has
it been used as well to make saviour babies. The Chicago clinic has done at
least three dozen such tissue-typing cases.

Dr. Paul Rogers, medical director of pediatric oncology at B.C. Children's
Hospital, said the medical centre here has never offered the procedure for
cancer patients. B.C. Children's Hospital did, however, use the umbilical-cord
blood from a naturally conceived newborn to transplant into a sibling, who was
then cured of his life-threatening disease.

Lori d'Agincourt-Canning, a clinical ethicist at B.C. Children's and Women's
Hospitals, said it has not become standard because of cost, moral and ethical
issues.

"We understand that parents will seize on anything to help their sick children,
but the (uninsured) costs to them are so high that we don't want to create a
burden on parents who cannot afford this," she said. "There are also ethical
concerns about whether it is right to conceive a child for the sake of another.
What if something goes horribly wrong? What if the sick child gets sick again
after a transplant? Do we presume we have the right to seek yet another donation
from the saviour child if the effects of the first wane?"

But she concedes that the Obadia case should prompt the hospital to conduct a
review on the potential harms, benefits and ethical issues. After that, some
guidelines and policies could be formed.

Pam Obadia hopes the hospital will, at the very least, tell parents about the
procedures. She's distressed that PGD for tissue typing wasn't mentioned to them
by oncologists at Children's Hospital two years ago when Benjamin relapsed. At
that time, she might have had slightly better odds of getting pregnant.

Dr. Tim Rowe, head of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at UBC, who is
not involved in the case, said it is "almost certain" that she won't produce
"viable embryos."

"So you have to wonder about the ethics of the Chicago company that is willing
to take that much money from a couple facing almost certain odds of pregnancy
failure," he said.

Echoing the perspective of the hospital's ethicist, he said: "This is the kind
of story that pulls at everyone's heart strings. Yet there are deeper concerns
here, like what if a saviour child does not help save the older sibling's life?
Think about the guilt that child might feel."

(Vancouver Sun)

pfayermanpng.canwest.com

SIDEBAR: Creating a saviour baby

With in vitro fertilization (IVF), eggs and sperm are incubated in a fertility
clinic laboratory to create embryos.

At the stage when the fertilized embryos, or pre-embryos, are just a handful of
cells, DNA material is extracted and, only days after fertilization, tests are
done to determine which embryo to select for implantation in the mother's
uterus.

In the event that the mother becomes pregnant with a baby who is a tissue match
for her sick child, the newborn would become a stem-cell donor, with stem cells
harvested from its umbilical cord at birth.

The process to screen for tissue matching is called Pre-implantation Genetic
Diagnosis (PGD). It is a form of prenatal genetic testing performed on eggs or
embryos during IVF.

PGD was initially invented to identify and select out embryos that carry
serious, life-limiting or life-threatening genetic diseases, including
Huntington disease, Fragile X, thalassemia, cystic fibrosis, neuromuscular
dystrophy and Tay-Sachs. Only embryos that do not carry the genetic markers for
certain inherited disorders are implanted into the mother's uterus.

While the primary purpose of PGD is to select embryos free of serious genetic,
inherited diseases, PGD is now being taken a step further as doctors are using
it to find embryos that are a tissue match for an ailing sibling.

Generally speaking, bone marrow and umbilical-cord-blood stem-cell transplants
help cure or cause a remission of leukemia in children who have relapsed once,
like Benjamin Obadia, about 50 per cent of the time. While every case is unique,
with chemotherapy and no transplant, there is about a 25 to 40 per cent chance
of long-term remission, so a transplant on top of chemotherapy offers an
advantage.

Studies have shown that the chances of women older than 44 having babies using
their own eggs drop close to zero, even with high-tech fertility treatments.
Women age 45 and over have a 53.2 per cent miscarriage rate, and women in their
late 40s also face a one-in-13 risk for chromosomal abnormalities in their
fetuses.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Canwest News Service Photo; The Obadia family battles Benjamin's leukemia
together ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 12, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

LIFELINE

BYLINE: David Landis

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 209 words


INSURING HOSPITAL CARE: The type of hospital treatment you get may depend on
your insurance, suggests a study in today's Journal of the American Medical
Association. The study of 37,994 patients by researchers at Boston's New England
Medical Center showed that privately insured patients are more likely to get
expensive heart treatments than uninsured or Medicaid patients. Privately
insured patients are 80% more likely to have an angiogram, 40% more likely to
undergo bypass surgery and 28% more likely to undergo angioplasty. Findings
''raise the issue of how financial incentives influence the medical
decision-making process,'' Dr. Mark Wenneker says.

 PET CAUSE: Lots of animal-loving celebs will get awards at Saturday's 10th
anniversary gala of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals in Washington,
D.C. Among them: Chrissie Hynde of the Pretenders, k.d. lang, River Phoenix and
ex-Go-Go Jane Wiedlin. But you're probably wondering: What's on the
''cruelty-free'' dinner menu? Melon soup, sauteed potato and corn cake with
vegetables and black beans, potato tart with leeks and tofu, ravioli filled with
ratatouille, carrot and asparagus mousse, salad and rolls. And, for dessert,
tofu ice cream with toppings. Bon appetit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; color, USA TODAY (K.D. Lang)

CUTLINE: K.D. LANG: Will get animal rights award

TYPE: Lifeline

                      Copyright 1990 Gannett Company Inc.


                              252 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             March 24, 2008 Monday
                                National Edition

Donor, recipient want transplant to 'inspire'; Ethical concerns blocked
operation in Toronto

BYLINE: Randy Boswell, Canwest News Service

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 711  words


A long-suffering Canadian woman and the Christian activist from Australia who
gave up one of his kidneys to save her say they want to "inspire" the world with
their controversial transplant --performed on Thursday in Cyprus after a Toronto
hospital refused to do the operation last year on ethical grounds.

Sandi Sabloff, a Toronto woman in her fifties, and Ashwyn Falkingham, a
23-year-old member of the Jesus Christians -- an Australia-based religious group
dedicated to organ donation as a supreme act of generosity and faith -- spoke
with Canwest News Service this weekend while recovering from surgery at a
transplant centre in Nicosia.

Ms. Sabloff praised her donor and the Jesus Christians in general, who give up
their kidneys "out of spiritual and religious conviction, and just personal
goodwill--because they are saving somebody's life. They are truly saving lives,
and that's more than I can say for our government."

Mr. Falkingham said: "I just think it's really important to get the message out
there that this is something people can do. It's almost like we've become so
afraid that there may be money being exchanged or some coercion, that we've
forgotten that this is something people can do to help someone out, and that
there are many people who would step forward."

After finding each other in 2006 at an Internet site that links kidney patients
with potential donors, Ms. Sabloff and Mr. Falkingham searched for a hospital to
carry out the transplant to extend her life and fulfil his dream of giving the
ultimate gift.

The surgery, unusual because it involved two strangers rather than two relatives
or close friends, had been scheduled for last April at the Toronto General
Hospital. But it was called off at the last minute amid concerns raised by Mr.
Falkingham's mother that the Jesus Christians -- dubbed a "kidney cult" by
critics of their doctrine of self-sacrifice -- might have coerced him into
making the donation.

The cancellation prompted a yearlong hunt by the retired sales executive and her
would-be Good Samaritan for a hospital willing to perform the transplant.

Their quest finally ended at the Paraskevaidion Surgical Transplant Centre in
Cyprus, where chief surgeon George Kyriakides conducted the operation on
Thursday.

"I'm doing great," Ms. Sabloff said on Saturday. "When you have a major
operation, you're in pain -- and I'm in pain. However, our results are
absolutely excellent."

Mr. Falkingham, who had the support of his parents for the operation this time,
said: "It was a really good match -- better than we'd expected. Everything is
working out really well. It's an amazing experience."

The Australian added, with a laugh: "I'm feeling great, though a lot of that has
to do with the painkillers."

Ms. Sabloff said she was still "furious" with Toronto hospital officials and the
Canadian health care system that her transplant had to be performed overseas.

"This should never have happened," she said.

She added that she and Mr. Falkingham are hoping that "we can publicize the fact
that organ donation can save many, many lives --and our government at this point
in time is sitting on its butt and doing nothing" to encourage live-donor
transplants between willing strangers.

"We do not have a national registry -- they've talked about it, and they have
done nothing," she said. "If we had a national registry we wouldn't be literally
throwing organs into the garbage. That is what is truly happening. People die
every single day when we can prevent this."

More than half of the 30 members of the Jesus Christians -- from Britain,
Australia, Kenya and the United States -- have provided a kidney to recipients
around the world, the donations often a source of great ethical agonizing.

After its decision not to go through with the Falkingham-Sabloff transplant last
year, Toronto General Hospital president Dr. Bob Bell told Canwest News Service
that when transplant decision-makers review any proposed surgery, "it is crucial
that we maintain total unanimity" before a donation is approved.

"It's a difficult ethical determination," he said at the time, noting hospital
officials must be convinced "the person providing the tissue or organ is doing
it purely for altruistic reasons -- particularly if they don't know the
recipient."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 16, 2017 Friday

Hospital won't pull down hoarding on 'docs' cut'

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 364 words


MUMBAI: A city hospital has refused to remove a hoarding it put up about cut
practice despite the Indian Medical Association's (IMA) displeasure.The IMA had
written to the hospital, asking it to remove the hoarding near the airport that
said, `Honest Opinion. No Commission to Doctor'. Dr Ramakant Panda, vice
chairman of the Asian Heart Hospital that put up the hoarding, said he had
received calls from IMA members as well in this regard. "But we also got
positive feedback from many young doctors who are unable to set up their own
practice because of cut practice," he said.On Tuesday, the heart institute wrote
to the Maharashtra Medical Council with 38 doctors signing the letter.Dr Jayesh
Lele of the state IMA said his association is against cut practice but the
hoarding is nothing but an advertisement.

"The ethical ru les of advertising should be applied here. How can an ad blame
others and suggest that it is the only hospital being ethical?" asked Dr Lele.He
said the national IMA as well as several other medical associations will take up
the issue further.Meanwhile, Dr Sanjay Nagral, transplant surgeon and editorial
board member of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, said cut practice is
medicine's worst kept secret. "Cut practice is widely prevalent. It is a
public-interest issue because it affects the cost of care; doctors and hospitals
factor in the commission while making a patient's bill. Moreover, it also
affects the quality of care. It isn't the best specialist who is recom mended to
you, but the one who pays the biggest commission," he said.He said cut practice
has become a bigger problem than before. "It is not only widely prevalent, it
has changed from being a payment from one doctor to another doctor to assume an
industrial proportion. Now, hospitals are doing it," said Dr Nagral. "Cut
practice has now become the centre of healthcare."The Asian Heart Institute's
letter to the Maharashtra Medical Council said, "We appeal to you to
aggressively peruse and eliminate this unethical practice. All doctors should
unite to curb this menace and will be happy to extend our full support to MMC in
this endeavour."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         TendersInfo - Project Notices

                             July 16, 2016 Saturday

Supply of Proprietary and Ethical (Branded) Medicines for various hospitals /
dispensaries of Chhattisgarh State Power Companies for the year 2016-17

LENGTH: 82  words


Tenders are invited for Supply of Proprietary and Ethical (Branded) Medicines
for various hospitals / dispensaries of Chhattisgarh State Power Companies for
the year 2016-17
Approx cost : 45.00 lakh
Major organization : CHHATTISGARH STATE POWER HOLDING COMPANY LIMITED

Address : 2nd floor vidyut Sewa Bhawan
Danganiya
Raipur 492013
Chhattisgarh

Country :India
Tender notice number : 01-03/Medicine/Ethical/TS-17

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2016-08-17

Tender documents : T34507357.png

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 81


                          Copyright 2016 Tenders Info
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                August 29, 2001

Study finds major flaws in hospital waiting system
Harvard group urges Government to recognise ethical responsibility

BYLINE: By KATHRYN HOLMQUIST

SECTION: CITY EDITION; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 641 words


The hospital waiting list crisis must be "depoliticised" and dealt with by the
Government as a purely ethical issue, according to a new report on the problem.

A team of management experts linked to Harvard University has found fundamental
flaws in the operation of the waiting list system, in a major study of Irish
hospital and outpatient services.

Waiting times are frequently significantly longer than officially stated, the
group has concluded. In a research paper, following a Harvard case study of the
acute hospital service, the waiting system is described as "flawed, unequitable
and in need of re-engineering".

The team uncovered what it says is a three-month "unofficial waiting list" which
must be endured by public patients before they ever reach the official waiting
list.

Waiting lists are a management issue as much as a funding problem, says the
report of the Harvard Association of Ireland, Waiting Lists: Analysis,
Evaluation and Recommendations, by Prof Ray Kinsella, director of the Centre for
Insurance Studies in the UCD Graduate School of Business.

The association, a group of Harvard graduates in the Republic, volunteered to
address the issue of long hospital waiting lists, notably for public patients.
They gathered 50 senior managers from across a range of business and technology
disciplines unrelated to the health service.

The analysis of the system was conducted by 50 middle-management professionals
from a wide range of manufacturing and service industries. They interviewed "key
stakeholders" in the acute hospital process, such as hospital consultants,
hospital managers, GPs and patients.

The current waiting list of 26,000 people is "totally skewed" towards the
eastern region, the researchers report. People from outside Dublin are seeking
treatment at specialist units in the city, blocking access for people from the
eastern region, it adds.

Waiting-list data are unreliable and "you cannot manage what you cannot
measure", it says. Their report, which has been seen by The Irish Times and is
due to be published soon, advises the Government to "depoliticise" the
waiting-list issue by developing an equitable and transparent "single national
waiting list". This would be administered directly by the Central Statistics
Office and could be viewed on a website by doctors and the public, it suggests.

A "large swathe" of people who cannot afford private health insurance are being
marginalised in large numbers on waiting lists. "That's why waiting lists are
not simply an expression of 'excess' demand, or a crude rationing device to
accommodate demand within the finite resources available to Government: they are
an ethical issue, the incidence and impact of which is proportional to the size
of the list, and waiting time," the report says.

The report calls on the Government to recognise its ethical responsibility "to
ensure timely, universal access to the acute system on the basis of clinical
need".

The Government should consider reducing the number of health boards and adopting
a policy of "total management" of the acute hospital system. It must focus on
"commissioning" healthcare rather than "arbitrarily giving money in the hope
that it will make some impact".

It also identifies serious problems in outpatient departments, which are holding
patients in a "waiting-list loop" that keeps them returning again and again
because proper diagnostics and senior personnel are unavailable. Once listed as
waiting, patients categorised as "routine" are "left waiting for years, without
realistic expectation of treatment".

Calling for a fair and transparent system of assessing patients' true needs and
readiness for surgery, the report expresses concern that "he/she who shouts the
loudest may gain faster access while a less vocal person may be disadvantaged".

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


                              256 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 16, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Doctors Say Drug Trial's Approval Was Backdated

BYLINE: Joe Stephens, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1100 words


The Nigerian doctor who supervised a 1996 Pfizer Inc. drug experiment on
desperately ill children said in an interview that his office created a
backdated ethics approval document that the American pharmaceutical company
later used to satisfy U.S. regulators and to justify its conduct of the human
testing.

Abdulhamid Isa Dutse, the physician who oversaw the test of the antibiotic
Trovan on children with meningitis, said the letter may have been written as
long as a year after the test was completed when Pfizer officials asked him for
proof the test was reviewed by a Nigerian ethics board. Nigerian officials are
now examining the roles played by Dutse and others in conducting the American
company's drug trial, which was the subject of an investigation by The
Washington Post.

Pfizer spokesman Andy McCormick said last week that he was unaware of possible
irregularities in the Nigerian ethics approval document. "We are currently
investigating it. We are cooperating with the authorities in Nigeria," he said.

The New York-based company gave the letter to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in 1997 during an audit of records supporting its application to
use Trovan for treatment of children during a meningitis epidemic. U.S.
regulations require that if a company intends to use foreign medical research to
support a drug application, the experiments must be reviewed and formally
approved in advance by an ethics committee.

FDA officials last week declined to comment on the Pfizer case, but one official
said it is a violation of federal law to knowingly submit false documents to a
government regulatory agency.

Typed on the letterhead of the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital and dated March 28,
1996 -- six days before Pfizer's experiment began -- the letter said the
hospital ethics committee had reviewed the plan to test Trovan on 100 children
with meningitis and found the protocol to be "adequate." The letter gave
permission for the test to proceed.

But Sadiq S. Wali, the hospital's medical director, recently told The Washington
Post the document was "a lie." He said the hospital had no ethics committee at
the time Pfizer's test was underway and did not organize it -- or create the
letterhead stationery bearing his name that was used in the approval letter --
until months later.

"The hospital is quite clear: We had no ethical committee," he said in a
telephone interview.

Reached by telephone in Kano last week, Dutse said it was "possible" that the
approval letter was drafted up to a year after the trial.

Dutse, who was listed as Pfizer's "principal investigator," said he felt that
the letter reflected the informal approval he had obtained from three doctors,
who reviewed Pfizer's test plans and told him they saw no ethical problems. No
records were prepared at the time, he said.

But one of the doctors Dutse cited, Idris Mohammed, last week disputed Dutse's
account. Reached in London, Mohammed said: "There was no ethical committee at
the time of the trial, none met, and no approval was properly given for the
trial."

In fact, Mohammed said that he challenged the legality of Pfizer's experiment
while it was underway and that he demanded unsuccessfully to see documents
proving it had been properly authorized.

"You shouldn't try an experiment in an epidemic," said Mohammed, a medical
professor who now heads the Nigerian federal immunization program. "You needed
to give these patients something that was proven."

Mohammed said that in 1996 he took his concerns to a senior official in the
Nigerian government -- then controlled by a military dictator, Gen. Sani Abacha
-- but was overruled.

Since the experiment, Pfizer repeatedly has cited the Nigerian committee's
approval as proof its experiment was ethical. The testing was carried out on
children and infants during a record-breaking meningitis epidemic that killed
more than 15,000 Africans.

The Post's Dec. 17 article recounted how Pfizer physicians tested the company's
then-unapproved antibiotic in the impoverished northern Nigerian state of Kano.
The drug was later associated with liver damage and deaths in the United States
and its use was restricted.

Pfizer described the Nigerian test as a humanitarian venture, but medical
specialists and international aid workers attacked it as unethical and
challenged the company's claim that the children knew they were part of an
experiment.

Pfizer officials have said that the Nigerian ethics committee approved giving
some Nigerian children an oral formulation of the antibiotic instead of a
fast-acting intravenous version used in U.S. meningitis tests.

A Pfizer spokeswoman also said the ethics committee decided there was no need to
warn Nigerian parents that young lab animals given Trovan-class antibiotics had
suffered joint damage. American parents were told of the lab animal results in a
subsequent Trovan trial.

After receiving a copy of the ethics approval letter from The Post, Wali said he
confronted Dutse and the doctor "did admit to me he was wrong," although he
provided few specifics.

Tim Menakaya, Nigeria's health minister, said he had appointed a federal
investigative panel charged with determining whether the trial was conducted
legally and, if so, whether the experiment was "morally right."

"I am investigating all of it," Menakaya said.

The probe is headed by Abdulsalami Nasidi, a senior health official who said
that he, like Mohammed, considered the experiment to have been unethical in 1996
but failed in attempts to block it.

"It is a very serious problem; procedures were not followed," Nasidi said. "We
are going to get to the root of the problem."

Nasidi said that his investigation, whose findings will be forwarded to Nigerian
President Olusegun Obasanjo, failed in initial attempts to locate "detailed
evidence" that Pfizer's investigators had secured the needed authorization
before launching the experiment. Dutse said he spent two days last week
addressing a closed session of the panel.

The Post's investigation has generated a flurry of stories in the Nigerian
press, which have reported that "widespread condemnation rages." Editorials have
called for international investigations, federal lawsuits and criminal
prosecutions.

Nigerian newspapers -- always fiery and at times less than entirely factual --
have quoted parents who contend their children had serious disabilities or died
after treatment.

"The government has a duty to tell us whether our children were used as guinea
pigs and, if so, who committed such criminality and who is liable," said the
Vanguard newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              257 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

'Medics dream of minting money as medical education cost rises'

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 465 words


MUMBAI: Consumer activist Asha Idnani has a pet peeve against doctors. "Why do
they charge thousands of rupees from a patient for a post-operation visit to
his/her hospital room when all they do is ask the patient how he or she feels,
check the file and breeze out," she asked.

She is not the only one. Given the incidence of attacks on doctors by patients
or their relatives, it's obvious that many share her unhappiness with the
medical system in general and doctors in particular. "I recently heard a
resident doctor in a public hospital shouting at an accident victim who was in
obvious pain to shut up or be thrown out. His attitude was wrong," said a social
worker who helps poor patients get admitted to hospitals.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day on Wednesday, the poor state of doctor-patient
relationship couldn't have been clearer. The general belief, as a new campaign
launched by the Network of Doctors for Ethical, Rational and De-commercialised
Healthcare on Wednesday shows, the once god-like doctor has metamorphosed into a
commercial, profit-oriented businessman who prescribes extra medicines, tests
and procedures for patients. "It's a free-for-all market medicine where
doctor-entrepreneurs are seeking bank loans with high interest that have to be
repaid," said Dr Sanjay Nagral, a surgeon who is on the editorial board of the
Indian Journal of Medical Ethics.

Dr Abhay Shukla of the Network of Doctors for Ethical, Rational and
De-commercialised Healthcare said, "The growth of corporate hospitals and the
proliferation of private medical schools are responsible for distorting medical
practice in such a way that costs have all gone up." Doctors in corporate
hospitals are given a target of, say, admitting five patients every day. "So the
minute a patient walks in, the doctor is wondering about ways to get him
admitted," he added. Moreover, medical students in private colleges have to pay
a donation of Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore for a seat. "Such a doctor will only
dream of minting money," added Dr Shukla.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day, the network has started a letter campaign for
the end of commercialization of medical practice and the return of ethical
practice. The network, made up of doctors, has asked its other colleagues to put
up the letter in their clinic to prove their support.

Dr Nagral said, "The gap between doctors and patients is huge. Doctors believe
they are all-knowing and patients know nothing. Doctors believe they have to
speak with an air of finality and brusqueness to appear all-knowing." Patients
have over the years become alert and don't consider their doctor to be the final
word. "But most medical professionals still behave like they did in the past,
resulting in the present impasse," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             March 24, 2008 Monday
                            All But Toronto Edition

Kidney donor, recipient want to 'inspire'; Samaritan Act; Ethical concerns
blocked operation in Toronto

BYLINE: Randy Boswell, Canwest News Service

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 712  words


A long-suffering Canadian woman and the Christian activist from Australia who
gave up one of his kidneys to save her say they want to "inspire" the world with
their controversial transplant -- performed on Thursday in Cyprus after a
Toronto hospital refused to do the operation last year on ethical grounds.

Sandi Sabloff, a Toronto woman in her fifties, and Ashwyn Falkingham, a
23-year-old member of the Jesus Christians -- an Australia-based religious group
dedicated to organ donation as a supreme act of generosity and faith -- spoke
with Canwest News Service this weekend while recovering from surgery at a
transplant centre in Nicosia.

Ms. Sabloff praised her donor and the Jesus Christians in general, who give up
their kidneys "out of spiritual and religious conviction, and just personal
goodwill -- because they are saving somebody's life. They are truly saving
lives, and that's more than I can say for our government."

Mr. Falkingham said: "I just think it's really important to get the message out
there that this is something people can do. It's almost like we've become so
afraid that there may be money being exchanged or some coercion, that we've
forgotten that this is something people can do to help someone out, and that
there are many people who would step forward."

After finding each other in 2006 at an Internet site that links kidney patients
with potential donors, Ms. Sabloff and Mr. Falkingham searched for a hospital to
carry out the transplant to extend her life and fulfil his dream of giving the
ultimate gift.

The surgery, unusual because it involved two strangers rather than two relatives
or close friends, had been scheduled for last April at the Toronto General
Hospital. But it was called off at the last minute amid concerns raised by Mr.
Falkingham's mother that the Jesus Christians -- dubbed a "kidney cult" by
critics of their doctrine of self-sacrifice -- might have coerced him into
making the donation.

The cancellation prompted a year-long hunt by the retired sales executive and
her would-be Good Samaritan for a hospital willing to perform the transplant.

Their quest finally ended at the Paraskevaidion Surgical Transplant Centre in
Cyprus, where chief surgeon George Kyriakides conducted the operation on
Thursday.

"I'm doing great," Ms. Sabloff said on Saturday. "When you have a major
operation, you're in pain--and I'm in pain. However, our results are absolutely
excellent."

Mr. Falkingham, who had the support of his parents for the operation this time,
said: "It was a really good match -- better than we'd expected. Everything is
working out really well. It's an amazing experience."

The Australian added, with a laugh: "I'm feeling great, though a lot of that has
to do with the painkillers."

Ms. Sabloff said she was still "furious" with Toronto hospital officials and the
Canadian health care system that her transplant had to be performed overseas.

"This should never have happened," she said.

She added that she and Mr. Falkingham are hoping that "we can publicize the fact
that organ donation can save many, many lives -- and our government at this
point in time is sitting on its butt and doing nothing" to encourage live-donor
transplants between willing strangers.

"We do not have a national registry -- they've talked about it, and they have
done nothing," she said. "If we had a national registry we wouldn't be literally
throwing organs into the garbage. That is what is truly happening. People die
every single day when we can prevent this."

More than half of the 30 members of the Jesus Christians -- from Britain,
Australia, Kenya and the United States -- have provided a kidney to recipients
around the world, the donations often a source of great ethical agonizing.

After its decision not to go through with the Falkingham-Sabloff transplant last
year, Toronto General Hospital president Dr. Bob Bell told Canwest News Service
that when transplant decision-makers review any proposed surgery, "it is crucial
that we maintain total unanimity" before a donation is approved.

"It's a difficult ethical determination," he said at the time, noting hospital
officials must be convinced "the person providing the tissue or organ is doing
it purely for altruistic reasons -- particularly if they don't know the
recipient."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              June 6, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Catholic hospital bars contraception advice

BYLINE: Julie Robotham HEALTH EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 589 words


CANCER doctors are on a collision course with a Catholic health organisation
over new religion-based rules which prohibit them recommending contraception to
patients taking a drug derived from thalidomide, which can cause severe birth
defects. Under a clampdown at Newcastle's Calvary Mater Hospital, doctors
recruiting patients into clinical trials may no longer distribute information
about contraception. Instead they are allowed to offer a "statement of
reproductive risks", which advises participants to avoid pregnancy but gives no
information on how to achieve this.

Michael Seldon, a staff specialist haematologist at the hospital, which operates
as part of NSW Health and is the city's only cancer treatment centre, said he
was considering defying his bosses and providing the information anyway when the
first Newcastle patients suffering myelodysplastic syndrome, multiple myeloma or
chronic lymphocytic leukaemia join national trials of the drug lenalidomide
within weeks. The drug's chemical structure is extremely similar to thalidomide,
and the risk of birth defects such as limb and heart deformities is considered
so serious that its manufacturer, Celgene, advises even men who have had a
vasectomy to use a condom. It insists women have two negative pregnancy tests
before starting treatment, and then use two forms of contraception
simultaneously. Dr Seldon, a practising Catholic, said he wanted to offer the
specific advice. "It puts me in an invidious position [but] ethically I don't
believe I have any option," he said. He saw no religious reason to withhold
information on contraception, which people were free to reject. "When you start
imposing your views on someone it starts to become non-Christian." Stephen
Ackland, an oncologist at the hospital and chairman of the cancer research
program at the Hunter Medical Research Institute, said he was concerned the new
rules could "deny or delay patients' participation in the research". But only
written information was restricted, and doctors could still speak to patients
about contraception. Bogda Koczwara, president of the specialist doctors' group
the Clinical Oncological Society of Australia, said giving advice on avoiding
pregnancy was "a necessary duty of care ... That is what we'd expect from our
members ... If there are clinicians who feel in a quandary here then that is a
concern." But Martin Laverty, chief executive of Catholic Health Australia,
defended the hospital: "Scientists, ethicists, academics should feel very free
to criticise it, but appreciate a Catholic hospital is built on those [ethical]
foundations." The Newcastle situation had been "a legitimate testing of the
boundaries of that ethical decision-making process". Bernadette Tobin, director
of the Plunkett centre for ethics at St Vincent's Hospital, said Catholic
hospitals had "a very long history of looking after the poor and the sick and
the disadvantaged" and society benefited from having "different concepts of what
is ethical in competition with each other". A spokeswoman for the Hunter New
England Local Health Network, which administers the hospital, declined to say
why the Calvary Mater was not obliged to give clinical trial participants the
same information as those treated in other NSW public hospitals. Ingrid Grenell,
a spokeswoman for Little Company of Mary Health Care, which operates the
hospital, said it was "widely known that Calvary Mater Newcastle is a Catholic
hospital and all of its activities are underpinned by Catholic ethos and
principles".

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 17, 2014 Saturday

Safety isn't foolproof in many hospitals: Survey

BYLINE: Sunitha Rao R

SECTION: BANGALORE

LENGTH: 415 words


BANGALORE: Only 32% of hospitals in Bangalore have put in place adequate
patient-safety measures like grab bars in toilets and free exit routes, a recent
survey by Acme Consultancy has revealed.

The study covered 25 large- and medium-size hospitals, both private and
government, and was conducted for three weeks during March and April. It
included both physical audit and patients' feedback.

"It's sad that hospitals aren't conscious about fire safety. The tragedy at
AMRI, Kolkata, stands testimony to this. Ideally, this study should have been
conducted by the government but we as a private player are voluntarily doing
this. The findings are alarming. We would want to take up the survey at the
highest level to ensure patients' safety," said Dr Giridhar Gyani, director
general, Association of Healthcare Providers - India.

The audit also looked at waiting time, nurses' skills, hygiene factors, ethical
issues, doctors' communication skills, parking facilities, availability of all
services under one roof and emergency services.

When it came to patient-friendly measures, only 16% of the hospitals surveyed
had valet parking, while 36% gave appointments with specific timings for OPD
consultations. Only 56% of the patients surveyed seemed satisfied with the
waiting time. Interestingly, the study found that government hospitals are more
ethical compared to the private ones. Government hospitals enjoyed a high level
of trust.

The study also too a closer look at the gap between expectation and reality.
"This gap is zero in government hospitals, implying that they've been able to
live up to their patients' high expectationsmore than private hospitals

. Generally, expectations from government hospitals are minimal and, in fact,
patients are surprised when the standards are good," said BG Menon, managing
director, Acme.

The government hospitals surveyed are Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health,
Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest diseases, National Institute of Mental Health
and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans). "Some corporate hospitals didn't show the
willingness to participate, claiming they had the best of services.The hospitals
which participated were keen to know if they met the national standards.

After three months, we will conduct an indicative survey to know if the
hospitals have worked on the loopholes pointed out," Menon added.

A similar survey is currently underway in Chennai and will be replicated in
Kochi in the next three months.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                                National Edition

No more live animals at Canadian med schools; Final universities switch to human
simulators

BYLINE: Tom Blackwell, National Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 515  words


Another two Canadian universities have agreed to stop using live animals in
traumamedicine training courses, marking the end of the practice completely in
this country, according to the doctor-led animal-rights group that has lobbied
for the controversial change.

Doctors and other trauma trainees at Quebec's University of Sherbrooke and Sacré
Coeur hospital in Montreal have begun practising on human-like, computerized
simulators instead of pigs or dogs.

It means none of the 22 Canadian universities and hospitals that offer the
Advanced Trauma Life Support program uses animals any longer, said Dr. John
Pippin, a spokesman for the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine in
Washington, D.C. Last year, the use of animals in medical-school training also
came to a close in Canada, he said.

"We're confident that now Canada, bless them, is leading the way," Dr. Pippin
said.

The committee advocates vegetarian or vegan diets, more ethical human research
and an end to the use of animals in medical study and education. Though it has
some ties with the controversial People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
(PETA), the group tends to couch its arguments in terms of good health and
science, rather than simply what is good for animals.

The changes to the trauma courses have been controversial, though. McMaster
University in Hamilton made the switch last year, complaining that many of the
students felt the simulators were a lesser option, and that the new policy came
only after "threats" from the American organization.

The university's veterinarian also noted that the conditions under which pigs
had been treated - including being anesthetized while trainees operated on them
and killed before regaining consciousness - were far more humane that those of
hogs slaughtered for meat.

The University of Sherbrooke did come under pressure from the committee to
abandon use of animals in training, but ultimately made the decision as part of
a broader move to employing simulators, said Dr. Pierre Cossette, dean of
Sherbrooke's medical school.

"It's the best way, educationally speaking, to do that type of teaching and
learning," he said. "For us, it was a nobrainer . The fact it helped save some
animals was a good thing on top of that."

Not only do the simulators - sophisticated dummies connected to a computer -
mimic human anatomy, but they provide electronic feedback to trainees on the
impact of their work, Dr. Cossette said.

A handful of studies that surveyed small numbers of trainees have suggested that
simulators are at least a good alternative to live animals. A U.S. Air Force
study published this year, though, found a slight advantage for medical trainees
who had learned two emergency procedures on pigs, rather than simulators.

The committee is setting its sights on a goal that is exponentially more
controversial: ending use of animals in medical research entirely. But Dr.
Cossette, the Sherbrooke dean, rejected the idea, saying medical advances

are simply not possible without animals.

"We cannot do magical thinking about this," he said.

tblackwell@ nationalpost. com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital cancels 'kidney cult' transplant

BYLINE: Randy Boswell, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 386  words


Canada's largest organ transplant hospital has cancelled an operation that would
have allowed a young Australian man to demonstrate his Christian faith by
donating one of his kidneys to a desperately ill stranger in Toronto .

The case has been tracked by an Australian film crew because the would-be donor,
22-year-old Ash Falkingham, of Sydney, belongs to the controversial Jesus
Christians, the so-called "kidney cult," whose members believe that giving up an
organ to save someone's life is an act of devotion to God and humankind.

The Toronto General Hospital cancelled the scheduled transplant following
accusations of religious brainwashing, appeals from Falkingham's mother and
stepfather to stop the surgery, and extensive psychiatric assessments of the man
after his arrival in Canada.

The decision has left the Toronto woman, Sandi Sabloff, devastated, she said in
an interview yesterday. "I'm not in good shape."

More than half of the 30 members of the Jesus Christians, from Britain,
Australia, Kenya and the U.S., have donated a kidney, the donations often a
source of great ethical agonizing. The group's Australia-based leader,
60-year-old David McKay, gave one of his kidneys in 2003 at Minnesota's Mayo
Clinic, where a doctor said there was "much teeth gnashing" among hospital
officials before the operation was approved.

In keeping with its policy of confidentiality, the Toronto General Hospital
refused to divulge details about the case. But hospital president Dr. Bob Bell
said yesterday that when transplant decision-makers review any proposed surgery,
"it is crucial that we maintain total unanimity" before a donation is approved.

"It's a difficult ethical determination," he said, noting that hospital
officials must be convinced that "the person providing the tissue or organ is
doing it purely for altruistic reasons."

The story of the planned Toronto kidney transfer was detailed last night on the
Australian Broadcasting Corporation documentary program Australian Story.

"When I tried to donate a kidney in Australia, there was this legal sort of
hurdle that I had to get over, of forming a long-term friendship with my
recipient," Falkingham says in one scene, according to a script provided by the
ABC to CanWest News Service. "And so that's why I am going to Canada, going
overseas to donate."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Ash Falkingham: Parents say he is a victim of religious brainwashing. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      IPR

                      July 30, 2015 Thursday 4:37 PM  EST

Intellectual Property India Publishes Patent Application for 'Ethical Electronic
Health Networks' Filed by Navdeep Singh Sandhu

LENGTH: 240  words

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India


MUMBAI, India, July 30 -- Intellectual Property India has published a patent
application (447/DEL/2013 A) filed by Navdeep Singh Sandhu, Chandigarh, Punjab,
on Feb. 18, 2013, for 'ethical electronic health networks.'

Inventor includes Navdeep Singh Sandhu. The application for the patent was
published on July 3, under issue no. 27/2015. According to the abstract released
by the Intellectual Property India: "Ethical Electronic Healthcare Networking is
advanced, affordable, smart, intelligent, transparent and highly accountable
healthcare system. Ranging from the Doctors, Laboratories, Pharmacists,
Surgeons, Physicians everyone related to the healthcare system more accountable,
more ethical and sincere. It aims at bringing the multi specialty hospitals to
the doorsteps of all who need them. Various OPD s will be started afresh and
many of the OPD of government agencies and NGO can be used with their approval
in spreading this network to every place required. The Online profile related to
healthcare will be for all and that too at very minimum prices which can be
helpful for all in storing their important information related to their health
and other investigations related to the health of an individual through online
portal, mobile and web applications which will be made available very soon." For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 25, 2017 Tuesday

Paper urges Afghan army, police to launch aggressive attacks against Taliban

LENGTH: 637 words


Text of editorial headlined "Taliban's ethical and political defeat" by Afghan
independent and secular Hasht-e Sobh daily on 24 July

The Taliban entered a local hospital in Taywara District in [western] Ghowr
Province and killed patients and medics and this shows that this group's
political and ethical defeat have reached its peak. This group is ethically and
political defeated each time and has been defeated in national narrative, in the
public opinion and in the collective wisdom. The Taliban group cannot deny their
political and ethical defeat even if they capture more deserts, mountains and
local units. Although they launch extensive propagandistic warfare, they cannot
repair their political and intellectual defeat in minds of the people. The
Taliban's political and ethical defeat in the national narrative and in the
minds of the Afghan people is irreparable. This major defeat cannot turn into
victory through capturing and destruction of local units in remote areas.

The Afghan people have found their way. Ensuring of stability and formation of a
strong democracy committed to law and free determination of the Afghan citizens
are the national aspirations of the Afghan people. The Afghan people want to
address their intellectual, political and cultural differences through a
democracy full of tolerance and want to rebuild their country. They will no
longer submit to the ideology of the Taliban and other terrorist groups. They
know that groups such as the Taliban make their country fall victim to
ideological beliefs and ideology of groups. The Afghan people have the bitter
experience of ideology and dependence on the greedy neighbours and do not want
to repeat it.

In addition to the fact that the Taliban want to make the country fall victim to
ideological beliefs, they are also at the service of foreign intelligence
agency. The foreign intelligence agency has used the Taliban as a tool for its
foreign and security policies and use them as a proxy force. These facts can
further explain the Taliban's torching of the local administration in Taywara
district of Ghowr Province and massacre of the patience and medics of the
hospital there. Anyone who is not ideologically affected does not torch a
hospital and for those who are not ideologically affected, blood of a human
being is more valuable than political and ideological values. Otherwise, those
who love their country and has not been affected by ideology do not get ready to
hire foreigner and destroy their country.

The fact that local administrations are captured and are changing hands in
far-flung areas increase pressure on the security forces but this incident
cannot lead to strategic collapse of the system. The Afghan security forces
defend their country and will not let their country once again turn into
pastures of ideologists and gunmen of the neighbouring countries.

The Defence Ministry should take serious measures to prevent changing hands of
local administrations in remote areas and should review the plan for deployment
of forces and defence. If is very necessary that our security forces should take
aggressive measures with NATO support and they should not give an opportunity
for the Taliban and their affiliated groups to carry out attacks. The security
forces should carry out consistent attacks against those terrorist groups which
move from one place to another and launch attacks so that they cannot make local
units collapse. The Afghan army and police have many resources and they can
create new capacities and act aggressively by benefiting from the opportunity of
NATO's advisory presence. The security forces should completely come out of the
defensive position and in this case, we will not face the repeated phenomenon of
collapse of local administrations.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 24 Jul 17

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2017 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 19, 1987, Tuesday, Final Edition

Are DRGs Harming Medical Ethics?

BYLINE: Physicians Weekly, a Whittle Communications Pub.

SECTION: HEALTH; PAGE Z17; HEALTH POLICY

LENGTH: 619 words


Yes.Cost cutting is needed. But the diagnosis related groups (DRG) system as now
defined has serious negative aspects. These carry ethical implications, and the
danger of ethical compromise certainly exists.

In my department, we work with older patients whose legs are threatened by poor
blood supply and gangrene. We do many complicated bypass operations on them. In
most cases, we save their legs. Their average hospital stay is 19 days. But
these patients fall under the same DRG as those undergoing simple bypass
operations, who are out of the hospital in seven days.

Seven days is what our hospital gets paid for, so it ends up losing money on our
bypass operations. The hospital doesn't want us to compromise our care, but it
can't operate in the red. Sooner or later, we may be told to limit our
procedures and start cutting off more legs.

But even cutting off legs isn't a way to cut health costs. A large percentage of
amputated patients can't be taken care of at home and end up in nursing
facilities. So dollars "saved" by DRG pressures will be spent elsewhere in the
health system.

In the past, there were financial incentives to keep patients in the hospital as
long as possible. With DRGs, there are other financial incentives -- and they
lead to poor care.

Patients are being discharged early, and some have medical problems as a result.

Also, the tendency is to do more operations on patients who need them much less
or not at all. If one operates on patients who don't really need it, they do
well and the doctor and hospital do well. Almost any surgeon can operate on easy
patients. It's the sick ones who are a challenge -- and prohibitively expensive.

Frank J. Veith

Professor of surgery and chief of cadiovascular surgery,

Monefiore Medical Center -- Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York

No.Anytime money changes hands, there's a potential for ethical compromise --
but no more so under the DRG system than under the old one. Most doctors used
good judgment before; most use it now. The charge of physicians' compromising
their ethics would be much greater if there were a change in the way they
themselves get paid.

Under the old cost-inflating system of reimbursement, there were strong
financial incentives to keep patients in the hospital as long as possible. DRGs
are an attempt to correct that, in part by reducing hospital stays. So far,
hospital dollars are being saved.

Despite some publicity to the contrary, there is no firm evidence that DRGs have
lowered the quality of care. As far as we know, hospitals aren't selectively
admitting the easier patients.

There are anecdotes about patients being pushed out of hospitals early -- but
there aren't many such incidents. And wer're testing brochures for patients that
explain their rights under the prospective payment system.

Too, there was a fear that hospitals and doctors might boost admission rates
with unnecessary procedures as a way of getting around the DRGs. That hasn't
happened either.

Doctors feel pressured under DRGs. They don't have as much flexibility as
before. But I don't think that has to compromise their ethics.

For instance, if they're pressured not to perform certain operations or to
discharge patients earlier, they can document what their patients need in the
medical record. If cost-containment pressures do raise ethical questions, there
are countervailing pressures on doctors as well -- the malpractice fear,
patients' rights measures, peer opinion and their own sense of professionalism.

Dr. Steven A. Schroeder

Professor and chief of general internal medicine, University of California at
San Francisco; member of the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: QUESTION, FEATURE

                       Copyright 1987 The Washington Post


                              266 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 15, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

JANE PHILIPPI HANKE, 85; ARTIST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 273 words


Jane Philippi Hanke, a longtime artist in St. Louis, died of complications from
Parkinson's disease Wednesday (June 14, 1995) at Missouri Baptist Hospital in
Town and Country. She was 85 and had lived in Ladue for many years.

Mrs. Hanke's medium primarily was in abstract oil paintings and sculptures. Her
works were exhibited in traveling shows for the Missouri Council of the Arts, at
the St. Louis Art Museum and in a permanent collection in the Springfield Art
Museum in Missouri.

After attending Washington University School of Fine Arts, she began her career
as a fashion artist at the old Stix, Baer and Fuller department stores. She
later worked in similar posts at Famous-Barr and Leppert Roos furriers.

In the 1960s, she painted a mural on the wall at St. Louis Children's Hospital.

For more than 60 years, she was a member of the Ethical Society of St. Louis.
She helped design the interior and the landscaping of the group's building and
served as chairman of its membership committee. She also was a longtime member
of the St. Louis Artists Guild. She retired in the mid-1980s.

A memorial service will be at 10 a.m. Tuesday at the Ethical Society of St.
Louis, 9001 Clayton Road, Ladue. Her body was donated to Washington University
School of Medicine.

Among survivors are her husband of 59 years, Harold C. Hanke; a daughter, Karen
Weeks of Nashville, Tenn.; a son, Lon Hanke of Lincoln, Calif.; three
grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.

Memorial contributions may be made to the Ethical Society of St. Louis,
Washington University School of Fine Arts, or to a charity of the donor's
choice.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: OBITUARY

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              267 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                               December 21, 2014

More cases similar to pregnant woman emerge

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 347 words


Doctors in Ireland have dealt with a small number of similar cases to that of
the brain-dead pregnant woman which has revived the abortion debate in Ireland.

The woman who is in her 20s is on life support and around 16 weeks pregnant. She
is reported to be brain dead, which means she is now being mechanically
ventilated.

A similar case arose in 2001, with a brain-dead woman who was kept on a
life-support machine in a regional hospital against her husband's wishes because
she was pregnant.

Michael McDowell, who was attorney general at the time, was drawn into the case
and advised that the hospital should make its own ethical and medical judgments.

The facts of this case as now known would not prohibit the hospital from making
its own ethical judgment and from acting on it even to the point of withdrawing
the life support regime currently in place,   McDowell advised in a letter.

However, according to a report in the Irish Times at the time, constitutional
lawyer Gerard Hogan SC advised that under no circumstances should the ventilator
be switched off in the absence of a court order.

In the end, nature intervened in that particular case and the foetus died. The
case did not go to court.

The Sunday Business Post understands that there have been other similar cases
since where official advice has been sought, but there has been no actual
litigation on the question of a woman being kept alive to allow the foetus to
develop.

The family of the young woman at the centre of the current case want doctors to
accede to their request to switch off the ventilator.

However, doctors are concerned that a decision to end life support would breach
the right to life of her unborn foetus.

The woman's father said it was his hope that the High Court case that is due to
be heard this week would allow the family's wishes to be carried out.

The legal case is expected hinge on the court's interpretation of this phrasing
of a specific clause of the 1983 eighth amendment to the constitution, which
says that the right to life of the unborn should be protected    as far as
practicable  .

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday
                                 Travel Edition

Government needs support in its commitment to Medicare

BYLINE: STEPHEN LEEDER

SECTION: FEATURES; Health; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 996  words


SEVERAL recent newspaper articles have drawn attention to the increasing private
financial contribution to health care, and the reciprocal decline in the
proportion of public money so spent. The rise in private hospital care for
elective surgery, supported through publicly subsidised private hospital
insurance, is the most obvious example, but the switch from public to private is
more substantial and widespread than that.

Co-payments -- what we pay in addition to rebates for medical care and drugs --
have been rising faster in Australia in recent years than anywhere else. These
changes, perhaps manifestations of ''policy drift'' rather than anything
intentional, should not go unnoticed and unexamined.

First, the ethical basis for a universally accessible, publicly funded health
care system holds that health care should be available to all who need it,
irrespective of their financial status and place of residence.

This inconvenient truth derives from valuing equity. Change the ethical basis of
health care away from universal access and you change the credibility and
strength of equity in society.

True, we could make private health insurance available to everyone -- as has
been done in Massachusetts and may soon be done in California. That would be
equitable. But it would need to be a vastly superior product to what it is at
present. The difficulty arises when, as has been the case in the US until now,
private insurance depends upon an individual's ability, or his or her employer's
willingness, to pay for it and associated co-payments. Government payment for
all private health insurance costs for those who cannot afford it would make it
a means of universal access to health care.

Second, a move away from universal access to health care is a move towards the
way health care is funded in poor societies. It despises our affluence. Most
health care in less and least developed nations is purchased privately.
Government investment in health care, as a proportion of national budgets, is
lowest in the poorest nations, and highest in the wealthiest for good and
obvious reasons.

Once health care is no longer universally available, and access is determined by
cash in the patient's pocket, population health status declines. Poorer people
do not consult for medical problems early and treatments are deferred because of
cost, both with measurable impact.

We saw that in western Sydney during the demolition of Medibank: complicated
otitis media increased as universal health cover decreased. Poorer people missed
out on care. Scripts (more even than now) were not filled.

The relation of social class to health has many layers -- and by no means all
health inequality is caused by failing to provide universal health care. But
some of it is, especially the component related to care for the sick. Much of
the inequality has to do with the inadequacy of our preventive efforts with
economically less privileged people -- a problem virtually untouched by the
private sector.

Currently we spend only about 2 per cent of the public health budget on
prevention. Its major effect is on those who need it least.

In the US, average life expectancies are lower than those for many countries
that spend half as much on health care. Those countries spread the spend evenly
rather than investing it mainly in the care of the affluent.

Third, there is the economic argument in favour of universal health care.
Politicians and bureaucrats who are tone deaf to all of life's harmony save the
lower frequencies of economic fundamentalism should have impressed upon them the
productivity gains that follow from a universally healthy country. Young adults
dying or being disabled, especially if they are of working age, are not good
looks for the economy.

For infectious diseases, chronic diseases, cancer and mental illness, a huge
package of effective, efficient preventive programs sits on the shelf of
opportunity, and investment in these strategies would be a good use of public
money, which is said to be a major concern of those wanting to return payment
for health care to individuals. Investment in prevention rather than
overindulging highly expensive, often fruitless, technological fixes (many of
which have not been shown to be effective, let alone good value for money) would
require political fortitude. But it could be dressed in the garb of economic
rationality if necessary, especially secondary prevention in the care of people
with serious and continuing illnesses.

Investment in tobacco control strategies actually produces more benefits than it
costs. This has a 14-fold greater yield in terms of death and suffering
prevented than expanding mammographic screening.

Third and closely related to the second point, it is difficult to see how our
public-private health service can optimally manage the transitions that will be
demanded by the rising tide of chronic illness in the community unless attention
is paid to more effective secondary prevention and community care. Fewer than 20
per cent of people needing co-ordinated care in the community at present receive
it.

In response to the growing investment in private health care, Prime Minister
John Howard should be supported in his strong commitment to Medicare, not
because Medicare is perfect but because it is universal in its reach. It can be
revised, improved, changed, even renamed, so long as its universality is
retained. It needs to invest in new models of care, especially for chronic
illness, to establish its competitive value.

Attendees at expensive health industry conferences and prayer breakfasts lament
the fact that Medicare is still here and that the hoped-for bonanza of
privatised health care is yet to materialise. If the Prime Minister comes to
believe that no one cares about his commitment, the outcome is predictable.

Professor Stephen Leeder is director of the the Australian Health Policy
Institute and co-director of the Menzies Centre for Health Policy at the
University of Sydney

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                              June 4, 2010 Friday

Byron Williams: When hypothetical ethic debate collides with reality

BYLINE: By Byron Williams Contributing columnist

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 762 words


THE CLASSES I enjoyed most during seminary were ethics courses. We would debate
particular questions about morality addressing issues of good and evil; right
and wrong; justice and injustice.

Rarely was a definitive conclusion reached, no one had sole possession of the
truth; and the philosophical question was always hypothetical.

This latter point was particularly noteworthy because it allowed us the luxury
of debating our sense of morality without having to actually make a difficult
decision.

Sister of Mercy Margaret McBride, a Catholic nun and administrator at St.
Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Phoenix, was not so fortunate. Unlike
seminary, she was held accountable for her moral position.

Last November, a 27-year-old woman was admitted to St. Joseph's Hospital. She
was 11 weeks pregnant with her fifth child, and she was gravely ill. Doctors
informed her that if she continued with the pregnancy, her risk of mortality was
"close to 100 percent."

The patient was reportedly too ill to be moved to the operating room, let alone
another hospital, agreed to an abortion. Herein lies the moral dilemma: She was
at a Catholic hospital.

According to Catholic teachings, abortion under any circumstances is wrong.
Therefore, the official church position would mandate the correct solution would
be to let mother and child die.

However, the hospital felt the pregnancy could be terminated because of
Directive 47 in the U.S. Catholic Church ethical guidelines for health care
providers, allowing in some cases procedures that could kill the fetus to save
the mother.

Based on this directive, McBride, who was also the diocese liaison, gave her
approval for the procedure. The mother lived, but McBride was excommunicated.

According to the diocese, McBride was excommunicated because she "held a
position of authority at the hospital and was frequently consulted on ethical
matters. She gave her consent that the abortion was a morally good and allowable
act according to church teaching. Furthermore, she admitted this directly to
Bishop (Thomas) Olmsted. Since she gave her consent and encouraged an abortion
she automatically excommunicated herself from the church."

As a non-Catholic seated from my armchair perspective the punishment for McBride
seems excessive. I understand she violated Catholic teachings, but was there
something between doing nothing and excommunication that could have been handed
down instead?

I also understand Catholic teachings view McBride's action as consenting in the
death of an unborn child. Moreover, one cannot do evil to bring about good   the
end cannot justify the means.

But a strict adherence to Catholic teachings, where one allows the mother and
child to die, hardly seems practical, especially when presented with that
scenario in the moment.

Though I risk stating the obvious, there is a moral inconsistency in the
treatment of McBride. If the decision to excommunicate her was based on
violation of strict Catholic teachings, it was far more public and punitive than
anything done to the priests, who were allowed to molest children, in some
cases, for decades.

The misogynistic double standard is painfully glaring.

One individual makes a difficult decision that is far more complex than
searching for the right answer in an ethical handbook and is kicked out of the
church. But those who knowingly abused their authority and trust with the most
vulnerable members of their community in many cases were allowed to continue
their ministry, and none received the punishment handed down to McBride.

The Catholic abuse scandal continues to be a global phenomenon that also
provided a cover-up that went well beyond the local parishes involved.

But moral inconsistency is hardly the exclusive domain of Catholicism, it is
common to all who participate in reality. Moreover, it seems the decision to
excommunicate McBride was correct based on the teachings of the church.

Some would argue McBride was guilty of an infraction equally as abhorrent as the
abusive priest. But doesn't one's heart and intent count for something?

Unfortunately for McBride and her diocese, this was not a hypothetical to be
debated in seminary or a philosophy course. It was rare a moment when one's
beliefs were put to the test in the heat of a crisis.

But like my memorable ethical debates, while there is a truth in this matter to
be realized by each individual, "the" truth, which is so desperately sought,
remains just beyond the reach and comprehension of everyone concerned.

Contact Byron Williams at 510-208-6417 or e-mail him at byron@byronspeaks.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Novation Named to Ethisphere's 2012 World's Most Ethical Companies List

LENGTH: 574  words


New Delhi, March 19 -- Novation, the nation's leading health care supply
contracting company, announced today that it has been recognized as one of the
2012 World's Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute, the leading
business ethics think-tank.

Out of a record number of nominations for the award, Novation secured a
hard-earned spot on the list by implementing and maintaining ethical business
practices and initiatives that are instrumental to the company's success,
benefit the hospital members they serve and raise the bar for ethical standards
within the industry.

Additionally, in November 2011, Novation earned the coveted Ethics Inside
Certification from the Ethisphere Institute. Novation is one of only twelve
companies that have earned both honors. Ethisphere, the provider of independent
verification of corporate ethics and compliance programs, awards Ethics Inside
Certification exclusively to companies that not only have implemented adequate
standards, systems and programs to reasonably prevent compliance failures and
ethical breakdowns, but that can also demonstrate the existence of a superior
employee and leadership culture that promotes ethical business practices.

"Only twelve companies have earned both the Ethics Inside Certification and the
World's Most Ethical Companies award at the same time. And Novation is the only
company to have both recognitions in the category of healthcare services," said
Alex Brigham, executive director of the Ethisphere Institute. "Novation
recognizes the important role corporate responsibility and a strong ethical
foundation play in improving the bottom line of its customers. As more and more
organizations strive for this honor each year, Novation's inclusion as a World's
Most Ethical Company for 2012 and its Ethics Inside Certification designation
demonstrate its industry-leading commitment to ethics and dedication to
integrity."

"Everyone at Novation is extremely pleased to receive this prestigious honor,"
said Jody Hatcher, President and CEO of Novation. "Being named as one of the
World's Most Ethical Companies goes to the very heart of our mission and values.
The customers we serve are America's academic medical centers and not-for-profit
community hospitals - the ones who produce the next generations of physicians
and provide care for the most vulnerable in our society. It is our
responsibility to apply the highest standards of integrity to every aspect of
our business."

This is the sixth year Ethisphere has published the WME rankings. Ethisphere
reviewed hundreds of companies and evaluated a record number of applications
utilizing its propriety methodology through in-depth research and multi-step
analysis, naming the companies that surpassed their industry peers to this
year's World's Most Ethical Companies list. The 2012 list features companies in
more than three dozen industries, including 40 companies headquartered outside
the United States.

The methodology for the WME ranking includes reviewing codes of ethics,
litigation and regulatory infraction histories; evaluating the investment in
innovation and sustainable business practices; looking at activities designed to
improve corporate citizenship; and studying nominations from senior executives,
industry peers, suppliers and customers.

Read about the methodology and view the complete list of the 2012 World's Most
Ethical Companies at http://www.ethisphere.com/wme.

copyright contify.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               June 15, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT   EDITION

JANE PHILIPPI HANKE, 85; ARTIST

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 04D

LENGTH: 273 words


Jane Philippi Hanke, a longtime artist in St. Louis, died of complications from
Parkinson's disease Wednesday (June 14, 1995) at Missouri Baptist Hospital in
Town and Country. She was 85 and had lived in Ladue for many years.

Mrs. Hanke's medium primarily was in abstract oil paintings and sculptures. Her
works were exhibited in traveling shows for the Missouri Council of the Arts, at
the St. Louis Art Museum and in a permanent collection in the Springfield Art
Museum in Missouri.

After attending Washington University School of Fine Arts, she began her career
as a fashion artist at the old Stix, Baer and Fuller department stores. She
later worked in similar posts at Famous-Barr and Leppert Roos furriers.

In the 1960s, she painted a mural on the wall at St. Louis Children's Hospital.

For more than 60 years, she was a member of the Ethical Society of St. Louis.
She helped design the interior and the landscaping of the group's building and
served as chairman of its membership committee. She also was a longtime member
of the St. Louis Artists Guild. She retired in the mid-1980s.

A memorial service will be at 10 a.m. Tuesday at the Ethical Society of St.
Louis, 9001 Clayton Road, Ladue. Her body was donated to Washington University
School of Medicine.

Among survivors are her husband of 59 years, Harold C. Hanke; a daughter, Karen
Weeks of Nashville, Tenn.; a son, Lon Hanke of Lincoln, Calif.; three
grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.

Memorial contributions may be made to the Ethical Society of St. Louis,
Washington University School of Fine Arts, or to a charity of the donor's
choice.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              272 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 15, 1991 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

Breakthrough on postponed pregnancy

BYLINE: Kevin Norbury

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 625 words


RESEARCHERS at the Royal Women's Hospital believe they may have perfected the
freezing of mature human ovum, paving the way for women to postpone having
children until later in life. The technology could extend the natural
child-bearing age of some women by more than 10 years.

An IVF pioneer, Professor Carl Wood, told `The Sunday Age' this week that he had
been approached by businesswomen wanting to defer having children while they
concentrated on their careers. They had asked him about the possibility of
freezing their eggs.

Professor Wood also said that giving professional women the option of putting
off having children until they were ready was "certainly one of the reasons" for
the research.

Until now only embryos have been frozen with success, because they have been
found to be more resilient than the actual egg. But researchers would prefer to
freeze eggs rather than embryos because of the legal and ethical problems
embryos create.

Although there are rare examples of "change-of-life babies" at 50 and beyond,
specialists say 50 would be "the top limit" for any woman wanting a child by egg
implantation, because that seemed to be the natural child-birth limit.

Mr Ian Johnston, an infertility specialist involved in the research, said
scientists at the Royal Women's Hospital had been freezing mature eggs, using
different freezing methods and preparations, for about three years. He said the
latest tests indicated that the eggs were "surviving well".

Researchers are waiting for a reply from the Waller Committee, which is
considering social, ethical and legal issues in infertility research in
Victoria, for permission to take the experiments a step further _ to create a
test-tube embyro and carry out tests on it.

Mr Johnston, chairman of the Royal Women's reproduction and biology unit, said
many researchers had been hesitant about freezing mature eggs (eggs ripe for
fertilisation) because of the damage often caused to the chromosomes in the
freezing and thawing process.

"We have the technique which appears to be able to allow us to freeze and thaw
mature eggs," Mr Johnston said. "The next step is to fertilise the egg ... to
see if penetration by the sperm is a success." Professor Wood said that by
freezing eggs taken from women when they were younger would enable them to give
birth much later without the fear of having a child with genetic abnormalities,
such as Downs syndrome. It would also remove the ethical and legal problems
associated with embryos if the eggs were no longer wanted.

Existing legislation does not allow the collection of eggs from unmarried women,
but Melbourne infertility specialists hope this may be overcome. They believe
that women living in de-facto relationships will be included in suggested
amendments to the Victorian Infertility Act by the advisory committee on
infertility.

An IVF gynaecologist, Dr John McBain, suggested last week that women who faced
becoming sterile by reaching menopause, or as a result of medical treatment, may
soon be able to have eggs stored. But scientists needed to test their embryos
beyond 22 hours to ensure the eggs were not damaged by freezing.

While infertility specialists are excited about the latest breakthrough, Dr
Bernard Clarke, director of the Bioethics Centre at St Vincent's Hospital, said
he had "fundamental reservations" about women freezing eggs to use later.

"The social implications of that procedure are enormous and so are the ethical
implications," he said.

The author of books on the reproductive techniques, Dr Renate Klein, a lecturer
in women's studies at Deakin University, said she was concerned about the
prospect of freezing immature eggs "which opened doors to a whole, really
terrifying field of manufacturing people to measure".

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1991 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

NATIONAL STEERING COMMITTEE REVIEWS ETHICAL AND LEGAL PERSPECTIVES OF HEALTHCARE
IN INDIA

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: India


India, July 14 -- The inaugural meeting of the National Steering Committee to
Review Ethical and Legal perspectives of Healthcare in India was held recently
in Bangalore. The committee, consisting of all major medical and hospital
societies in the Country - led by the Association of Healthcare Providers India
(AHPI) and the Indian Medical Association (IMA), discussed the present scenario
among the medical fraternity, and has representation from the Association of
National Board Accredited Institutions (ANBAI), Christian Coalition for Health
India (CCHI), Consortium of Accredited Healthcare Organizations (CAHO), Academy
of Hospital Administration (AHA), All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS),
Association of Otolaryngologists of India (AOI), Association of Physicians India
(API), Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Medical Officers Association of
ESIC, Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI),
Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), Indian Orthopedic Association (IOA), Indian
Society of Anesthesiologists (ISA), and Indian Radiological and Imaging
Association (IRIA). All these major societies will liaise with their
subspecialty associations so that the entire medical community will be involved
in this important exercise

It was reiterated that the patient is the focus, and as health professionals all
effort should be made to ensure provision of quality, ethical, easily accessible
and affordable care to all. This would include standardization of care with
minimum levels as appropriate.

Communication to and with patients, and their relative and attendees was one
area, which needed improvement. Unethical practices, like taking and giving of
commissions etc. are not acceptable, and also are cause for increased cost of
healthcare.

Recent awards of huge amounts as compensation for medical negligence have been
making the news. Members noted that these verdicts have resulted in a huge
increase in the number of cases filed against doctors, as well as a significant
increase in the premiums paid to insurance companies. Unfortunately, this
results in more expensive medical care, which is borne by the patient as is
evident from the experience in US and other developed countries. In addition,
hospitals and doctors are now reluctant to take on complicated cases for fear of
medico-legal issues, and many have stopped practice. In India, this only adds to
the already severe shortage of specialists. Again, it is the patient who
suffers, deprived of adequate medical care of an acceptable standard. Another
recognized factor for increased cost in these situations is practice of
defensive medicine, an example of which is getting excessive investigations done
by the clinician for fear of being questioned in the court of law.

Dr. Devi Shetty-a well known name in the healthcare sector, said that 80% of
hospital births in India are in hospitals or nursing homes which have 30 or less
beds.Thesesmallerhealth care facilities in rural and semi-urban areas which
provide care to the majority of patients in our country may have to shut
operations if subjected to frivolous and exorbitant lawsuits.

Dr. Alexander Thomas Executive Director of AHPI mentioned that over the last few
months, IMA and AHPI have set up a working group to tackle the issue. Much work
has already gone into this endeavor by eminent lawyers and medical personnel.

Professor and Advocate Dr.JogaRao andMr. DhyanChinnappa, Senior Advocate also
spoke on the occasion.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Web Newswire. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Sunday Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                        2 - State - Main Country Edition

AROUND YOUR NATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 505  words


In case you missed it . . . the stories that made headlines interstate last week

Heritage nod to the mother ship

Sydney

The wreck of HMS Sirius, mother ship of the First Fleet, has been given National
Heritage Listing. A few weeks after arriving at Botany Bay the Sirius left to
establish settlement at Norfolk Island and was lost on rocks at the island
(pictured) on March 19, 1790.

Million dollars in pocket change

Perth

The world's biggest and heaviest coin has been produced by Perth Mint. The
1012kg, 80cm wide bit of loose change took 18 months to create and has a
denomination of $1 million.

Ethical tags new step in fashion industry

Sydney Shoppers will be able to tell if the clothes they are buying have been
ethically made under a new labelling system launched by Workplace Relations
Minister Chris Evans last week. Ethical Clothing Australia, a federally funded
union and industry body, unveiled tags for garments ethically produced in
Australia. The Textile Clothing and Footwear Union of Australia said the ``meet
your maker'' campaign was about ensuring ethical labour standards were practised
in every step of the clothing supply chain.

Stroke units vital in patient recovery

Sydney

An audit of 188 hospitals across australia found just 58 per cent of the 26,000
stroke patients treated this year were admitted to stroke units despite the
crucial role they could play in saving lives. Even in hospitals with stroke
units, nearly one third of stroke patients were being treated in general wards.
National Stroke Foundation chief executive Dr Erin Lalor estimated 800 people
were either dying or being left disabled because they could not access stroke
units.

City locks down as leaders gather

Perth

The CBD went into lockdown as the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting began
with a lavish opening ceremony that featured bells ringing and orchestral music.
The leaders of more than 50 Commonwealth nations were introduced and treated to
a performance by Aboriginal dancers. The talks centred on human rights,
Commonwealth reform, economic turmoil, climate change and other topics. The
Queen said she was delighted to join the leaders for a meeting she said promised
to inject new vibrancy into the Commonwealth.

App details unsafe and recalled goods

Canberra

A new app launched by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will
advise shoppers about recalled goods. The Recalls Australia software is designed
to quickly provide details on recalled items and advice on what to do if you
have already bought recalled goods. The app also allows consumers to report
potentially unsafe goods to the commission.

Inquiry into extent of insecure work

Canberra

Former deputy prime minister Brian Howe will head an independent inquiry into
insecure work. The ACTU commissioned the inquiry, saying there had been a
dramatic decline in permanent work and corresponding growth of insecure forms of
employment such as casual, contract work and labour hire. The inquiry will
examine the extent and causes of insecure work and its impact.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           September 8, 2007 Saturday

Shorvon case holds lessons on talent search

BYLINE: Daniel Koh Kah Soon

LENGTH: 222  words


I REFER to the letter, 'Medical council must respond in Shorvon case' (ST, Sept
6).

Apart from taking the necessary action to clear the misrepresentation made by
Professor Simon Shorvon in The Lancet, as suggested by Mr Joel Luis Da Costa,
the Shorvon case has shown up some important lessons for Singapore in our search
for foreign talent.

Foreign talent should be welcome, but not everyone will do, even if that person
is a top scientist. The talent we employ should be, as far as we have the
instrument to ascertain, people of sound moral character, or at least people who
accept our laws and the ethical standards required for the job.

While many people might have assumed in the past that a place like Britain set
high standards for personal and professional ethics, it seems to me, from the
way the Shorvon case has been managed there, that the British - at least the
people and professional bodies involved - are prepared to accept a lower
standard of ethics to protect the interest of one of their own.

As an ethicist and a voluntary member of an ethics committee in one of our
hospitals, I am glad to say that the ethical standard I find in the local
hospital - which should be reflective of the general standard required of all
hospitals in Singapore, and any developed country - is of a high level which we
can all be proud of.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                      July 26, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Drug that caused birth defects urged for use in AIDS fight

BYLINE: THE INDEPENDENT

SECTION:  Pg. A7

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: London


Thalidomide, the drug responsible for causing severe malformation in thousands
of babies born in the 1950s and 60s, may be given to a group of HIV-positive men
to try to ward off AIDS.

Doctors at St George's Hospital Medical School and the Chelsea and Westminster
Hospital in London have applied for ethical approval to begin the drugs trial
that they expect to start at the end of next month.

Professor Angus Dalgleish, an AIDS researcher at St. George's, said he had been
applying to start a trial of thalidomide as an anti-AIDS drug for "the best part
of a year."

He said 40 patients had volunteered. The drug had been bought from a company in
Brazil and the EC had agreed to fund the study. "We're just waiting for final
ethical approval," he said.

"We're hoping to start as soon as possible, possibly the end of August. I think
it should be okay because we've had our submission before the ethical panel
several times now."

Thalidomide, which was initially sold as a sedative and is now used to treat
leprosy, is believed to "damp down" a part of the immune system that Dalgleish
believes is responsible for helping to bring on AIDS in people infected with
HIV.

Researchers at the Rockefeller University in New York reported earlier this year
that they believed thalidomide could alleviate the symptoms of AIDS and slow or
even halt its progress.

Dalgleish believes that HIV causes the body's immune system to attack its own
cells, similar to other so-called "auto-immune" diseases. However, many other
scientists disagree, which has frustrated Dalgleish's attempts to begin a trial
of thalidomide in the U.K., he said.



LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                  West Edition

Betting on miracle: a saviour sibling; Battle to save son's life raises ethical
and moral concerns

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Canwest News Service

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 1112  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER - Parents Mike and Pam Obadia are opting for desperate -- and
controversial -- measures to boost the survival odds of their son, who has been
in a five-year battle with leukemia.

Eight-year-old Benjamin is receiving chemotherapy treatment at B.C. Children's
Hospital in Vancouver after suffering a relapse of the acute lymphoblastic
leukemia he first got in 2002.

A bone-marrow transplant would improve the odds of finally beating the cancer,
but there are no family matches and an international registry of volunteer
donors has also not turned up any, after nearly two years of searching.

So even though the odds of fertility success are extremely slim because of Ms.
Obadia's age (47), the couple will try to create a "saviour sibling" -- a term
used to describe a test-tube baby created to save an older, sick sibling through
donor stem cells from the newborn's umbilical cord.

But the couple from Port Coquitlam, about 25 kilometres east of Vancouver, have
to go to Chicago for the procedure, which will cost up to $30,000.

Doctors at Children's and Women's Hospital in B.C. are not prepared to aid their
quest because of ethical and moral concerns about creating -- and exploiting --
a life to potentially save another.

The couple have fully weighed all the issues and are still convinced they are
doing what they must as parents who can't bear to lose a child.

"We have to do this to exhaust all the possibilities to help Benjamin," Ms.
Obadia said. "It's not like we are trying to create a designer baby. We want
another child, we will love another child. If we succeed ... [it] may help with
Benjamin's illness."

They haven't said much to Benjamin about their plan. They do not want to talk to
him about subjects like death, since he himself is so upbeat.

"As far as he is concerned, he's a child and only adults die of cancer. I think
it's a good thing that he's so positive," said Ms. Obadia, in an interview
between treatments at the hospital this week where Benjamin is having tests and
high-dose chemotherapy.

He's a boy who loves reading books such as The Spiderwick Chronicles and even
writes his own books, complete with illustrations of dragons and giant bugs.

When he relapsed nearly two years ago, his younger sister, who was then four,
was overcome with sadness and confusion. She asked her parents "why the doctors
gave Benjamin his cancer back."

They told her that the drugs were not strong enough. This time around, Benjamin
is on a regimen of about six drugs, sometimes requiring hospital stays. So far,
Benjamin has endured 295 courses of chemotherapy, 263 needles, 16 blood
transfusions and 13 bone-marrow biopsies. His life and cancer treatment are
documented on a Web site at www.mobadia.ca.

The couple readily admit they are grasping for a miracle.

"Though we've been told our chances are nil and it will cost us $30,000, we will
try anything to save our son," Mr. Obadia said. "We will also try naturally to
have a child and take our chances that it will be a match."

The process begins with conventional in vitro fertilization in which embryos are
created in a laboratory with the mother's eggs and father's sperm. But the next
step is controversial. Doctors at the Reproductive Genetics Institute in Chicago
then screen embryos to look for one that is a tissue match. The matched embryo
would then be implanted into the mother's uterus and when the baby is born,
umbilical cord stem cells would be harvested for transplantation.

Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) has been available for genetic
screening of inherited diseases for about 15 years, but only in recent years has
it been used as well to make saviour babies. The Chicago clinic has done at
least three dozen such tissue-typing cases.

Dr. Paul Rogers, medical director of pediatric oncology at B.C. Children's
Hospital, said the medical centre has never offered the procedure for cancer
patients. B.C. Children's Hospital did, however, use the umbilical-cord blood
from a naturally conceived newborn to transplant into an older sibling, who was
then cured of his life-threatening bone-marrow disease. In that case, the mother
was already pregnant when the older child got sick. In other words, the baby was
not conceived for the purpose of being a saviour child.

Lori d'Agincourt-Canning, a clinical ethicist at B.C. Children's and Women's
Hospitals, said it has not become standard practice because of cost, moral and
ethical issues.

"We understand that parents will seize on anything to help their sick children,
but the [uninsured] costs to them are so high that we don't want to create a
burden on parents who cannot afford this," she said. "There are also ethical
concerns about whether it is right to conceive a child for the sake of another.
What if something goes horribly wrong? What if the sick child gets sick again
after a transplant? Do we presume we have the right to seek yet another donation
from the saviour child if the effects of the first wane?"

Even when bone-marrow or umbilical-cord-blood stem-cell transplants are given to
patients, there is no guarantee of a cure, she said.

But she conceded that the Obadia case should prompt the hospital to conduct a
review on the potential harms, benefits and ethical issues. After that, some
guidelines and policies could be formed.

Ms. Obadia hopes the hospital will, at the very least, tell parents about the
procedures. She is distressed that PGD for tissue typing was not mentioned to
them by oncologists at Children's Hospital two years ago when Benjamin relapsed.
At that time, she might have had slightly better odds of getting pregnant.

Ms. Obadia says the hospital should at least list PGD in a patient information
package. She heard about it from a friend who had read an article about it. Ms.
D'Agincourt-Canning acknowledged the Obadias have raised a legitimate argument
as to whether parents deserve to be supplied with all information about
cutting-edge developments, even if they aren't available here. "This is the
first case of its kind we've been presented with," she said.

Dr. Tim Rowe, head of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at UBC, who is
not involved in the case, said it was "almost certain" that she would not
produce "viable embryos."

"So you have to wonder about the ethics of the Chicago company that is willing
to take that much money from a couple facing almost certain odds of pregnancy
failure," he said.

Echoing the perspective of the hospital's ethicist, he said, "This is the kind
of story that pulls at everyone's heart strings. Yet there are deeper concerns
here, like what if a saviour child does not help save the older sibling's life?
Think about the guilt that child might feel."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Black & White Photo: Stuart Davis, CanWest News Service; Eight-year-old Benjamin
Obadia, who has leukemia, is surrounded by his sister, Stephanie, mother, Pam,
and father, Mike, at their home in Port Coquitlam, B.C. Benjamin's parents want
to create a test-tube baby whose umbilical cord stem cells may save him. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Unproven vaccines can be used to fight Ebola

BYLINE: David Lucas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 432 words


THE World Health Organisation says it is ethical to use unproven Ebola drugs and
vaccines in the outbreak in West Africa provided the right conditions are met.

The UN agency issued the statement after holding a teleconference with experts
to discuss the issue.

In the biggest-ever outbreak of Ebola, two Americans have received an
experimental Ebola treatment never tested in humans and two more treatments are
reportedly on their way to treat two Liberia doctors.

The developments have raised ethical questions about whether it is right to use
untested treatments in people suffering from a disease that has no licensed
treatment. WHO said people can ethically receive such treatments but sidestepped
the questions of who should get the limited drugs and how that should be
decided.

WHO says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and
authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected or confirmed cases. The killer virus
was detected in Guinea in March and has since spread to Sierra Leone, Liberia
and possibly Nigeria.

The majority of Ebola victims are Africans, and some nations have protested that
their citizens are not getting access to the experimental drugs.

A Spanish priest, 75-year-old Miguel Parajes, who was reportedly given an
experimental treatment never tested in humans, has died in a Madrid hospital.
The hospital would not confirm that he had been treated with the drug, but his
order and Spain's Health Ministry said earlier that he would be.

"In the particular circumstances of this outbreak and provided certain
conditions are met, the panel reached consensus that it is ethical to offer
unproven interventions with as yet unknown efficacy and adverse effects, as
potential treatment or prevention," the UN said in a statement.

The panel said "more detailed analysis and discussion" are needed to decide how
to achieve fair distribution in communities and among countries, since there is
an extremely limited supply of the experimental drugs and vaccines.

Father Pajares had been helping to treat people with Ebola at the San Jose de
Monrovia Hospital in Liberia when he became ill, and was evacuated to Spain. He
worked for the San Juan de Dios hospital order, a Spainbased Catholic
humanitarian group that runs hospitals around the world.

Meanwhile, Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf has suspended all travel by
executive branch officials for a month. She also ordered those already abroad to
return home within a week "or be considered as abandoning their jobs".

Most airlines flying in and out of the Liberian capital of Monrovia have
suspended flights.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2014 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                January 28, 2008

Willing, but waiting: Hospital ethics committees

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jan. 28, 2008.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 12 Vol. 51 No. 4

LENGTH: 1930 words



HIGHLIGHT: Consultation services are widespread, but many doctors hesitate to
ask for ethics help. Questions about ethicists' training and performance
persist.


Since their rise more than three decades ago, hospital ethics committees have
sought to help physicians, patients and their families resolve ethical
disagreements and navigate the treacherous terrain that so often accompanies
medical care at the end of life.

The role of these committees was cemented in 1992 when the Joint Commission
mandated that health care organizations come up with some way of addressing
ethical concerns. Ninety-five percent of general hospitals surveyed in 1999 and
2000 offered ethics consultation or were starting up a consult service.

Yet at the median, these services handled only three cases in the previous year,
according to the survey of more than 500 general hospitals whose results were
published in February 2007 in The American Journal of Bioethics.

The use of ethics consultation services varies widely from hospital to hospital,
but physician experts and ethicists agree that they frequently are underused.
That leads, they say, to increased medical costs and ugly disputes among
physicians, patients and families.

Physicians' reluctance to seek aid when dilemmas arise is partly grounded in the
notion that a call for help is equivalent to hauling in the "ethics police." But
the problem, experts say, goes far deeper.

Too often, ethics consultants lack the resources, training and mediation skills
necessary to resolve disputes and address dilemmas in a timely and effective
manner. In addition, the journal article pointed out that fewer than half of
consultants have any formal training, and only one in 20 has a bioethics
certification or graduate degree.

Moreover, the evidence that ethics consultation actually improves patient
outcomes is thin. Many experts are at a loss on how even to go about measuring
its impact.

"If ethics committees were a drug," said Howard Brody, MD, PhD, director of the
University of Texas Medical Branch's Institute for Medical Humanities, "they
would not be approved."

A big reason that doctors don't ask for ethics advice more often is their
perception of the ethics consultants' role, according to Lainie Friedman Ross,
MD, PhD, associate director of the University of Chicago's MacLean Center for
Clinical Ethics.

"Rarely do ethicists tell you -- the physician -- what to do, but rather they
help you think about options and ways to negotiate compromise," Dr. Ross said
via e-mail.

Richard E. Thompson, MD, is a retired neonatologist and author of So You're on
the Ethics Committee? A Primer and Practical Guidebook. He said many physicians
worry that ethics committees are out to undermine their ethical responsibility
to the patient.

"The physician thinks, 'I've got this license, and it says that I'm supposed to
be making the decisions, and now I've got these nurses and preachers and social
workers who want to make these decisions.' It's a feeling of displacement," Dr.
Thompson said.

"It might look to a physician like, 'Someone's trying to tell me I did something
wrong.' If the committee takes that approach, shame on them. That's not the idea
at all."

Indeed, an American Society of Bioethics and Humanities position paper published
in 2000 dubs "authoritarian" an approach that puts the "emphasis on consultants
as the primary moral decision-makers." The ASBH, the organization that
represents clinical bioethicists, says consultants should gather the facts,
clarify the ethical issues and "help to identify a range of morally acceptable
options" in the context of a given case.

Arthur L. Caplan, PhD, director of the University of Pennsylvania's Center for
Bioethics, said physicians also fear that asking for ethics advice will grab the
attention of hospital lawyers.

"Doctors remain very wary of engaging the law, and too many ethics committees
and consult teams operate under the aegis or with the review of risk management
at their institution," Dr. Caplan said in an e-mail.

There also is an element of pride that makes physicians shy away from asking for
help, said Douglas S. Diekema, MD, MPH, a pediatric emergency physician and
ethics consultant at Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center in Seattle.

"Bioethics, in the eyes of most clinicians, is something they all do, in a way
that they wouldn't say they all do cardiology or pulmonary medicine," said Dr.
Diekema, director of education at the Treuman Katz Center for Pediatric
Bioethics. "Then it's hard to ask for a consult, because they're admitting they
don't know how to do it."

It is also difficult for physicians to know when a case presents an ethical
dilemma, said Dr. Brody, a retired family physician who has spent decades
serving on ethics committees.

"Bioethicists are extremely good if you come to us wearing a sandwich board that
says, 'I am an ethical issue.' Then we can give you good advice based on rules,
cases, ethics, with all the footnotes," Dr. Brody said. "But if what you want to
know is how to see what's an ethical problem, something that happens in the
clinical work flow and doesn't have 'ethics' printed at the top of the page,
then I'm not sure we know how to teach that."

Pay and performance

The principal question many doctors have about ethics consultations is whether
they are worth the trouble. A March 2004 Journal of General Internal Medicine
study did find that 72% of nearly 350 internists believed they learned something
from an ethics consult they experienced, and 86% said they likely would ask for
help again.

But a significant minority of doctors surveyed had reservations about using
ethics consultation, saying the process is too time-consuming and could worsen
the situation.

Only 18% of consultants receive extra pay for their ethics duties, and experts
say too many ethics committees are bare-bones efforts to satisfy the Joint
Commission mandate. That lack of funding is largely to blame for consultants who
are undertrained, pressed for time and not evaluated in a meaningful way.

The AMA has policy saying doctors should be paid for clinical ethics consults.
AMA policy also says all hospitals should provide and finance access to
consultations, which should follow explicit procedural and structural standards.

It is a challenge to set standards for ethics consultation, experts say, because
it is unclear how to determine which approaches work best.

"We're sort of groping in the dark in the sense that we don't have a lot of data
to tell us one way or the other what's a successful consult," said Kayhan Parsi,
PhD, an ethics consultant and director of the Loyola University Chicago Stritch
School of Medicine's Neiswanger Institute for Bioethics and Health Policy.

Testing consultants' performance is daunting, Dr. Brody said, because "it
assumes you have a yardstick of what counts as a successful resolution, and
that's demanding certainty over things where we on the ethics committee don't
claim to have any certainty."

Nonetheless, some researchers have tried. In one randomized controlled trial
studying seven intensive care units, the cases of more than 550 patients
receiving life-sustaining treatment were identified as posing some physician or
family dispute over the aggressiveness of care, palliative care or futile care.
Attending physicians for half the patients were offered an ethics consult, and
no action was taken for the control group.

The results, published in the Sept. 3, 2003, Journal of the American Medical
Association, showed no difference in mortality, but the intervention group did
experience slightly shorter stays in the hospital and the ICU, and less time on
the ventilator. Eighty-seven percent of doctors, nurses, patients and families
said the consults were helpful.

"Ethics consultations were useful in resolving conflicts that may have
inappropriately prolonged nonbeneficial or unwanted treatments in the ICU,"
concluded lead author Lawrence J. Schneiderman, MD, and his colleagues.

A similar project is under way at the Albany Medical Center ICU in New York. The
program will study the effect on length of stay of a multidisciplinary effort
combining the work of ethics consultants, pastors and social workers.

Ethics initiative

Perhaps the largest effort to standardize and measure the work of ethics
consultants is happening as part of the Dept. of Veterans Affairs'
IntegratedEthics Initiative. The VA began the initiative in May 2007. By
September of this year, it will record electronically all consultations and
their outcomes.

The VA has developed a 63-page primer and two-hour instructional video for its
consultants. Ethics coaches will visit VA medical centers to train consultants
on consistently following a step-by-step process when handling cases. They will
be expected to evaluate their own performance and skills, and physicians and
other health professionals will be surveyed for their feedback, said Ellen Fox,
MD, director of the VA's National Center for Ethics in Health Care.

"It is concerning to me that almost 20 years after the Joint Commission mandate,
there still are not widely agreed-upon standards for quality," she said. "That's
why in the VA we've issued these standards and will hold people accountable for
meeting them."

Dr. Fox, lead author of the study in The American Journal of Bioethics, said
proof of ethics committees' effectiveness is still largely anecdotal.

"The way to ensure that ethics consultation is utilized at an appropriate level
is to ensure that the quality of ethics consultation is very high," she said.
"Our strategy is to prove the value of it on the ground."

Awaiting activity

The Joint Commission in 1992 mandated that health care organizations have a
mechanism to address ethical concerns. Most general hospitals have ethics
consultation services. But few cases are heard each year.
Beds                 Offering consultation            Median number of cases
1-99                                   65%                                 1
100-199                                92%                                 3
200-299                                97%                                 6
300-399                                97%                                10
400-499                               100%                                12
500-plus                              100%                                15

Source: "Ethics Consultation in United States Hospitals: A National Survey," The
American Journal of Bioethics, February 2007

Inside the ethics committee

A look at the who, what and how of the ethics consultation process.
Who consults on ethical dilemmas?
Physicians                                                                34%
Nurses                                                                    31%
Social workers                                                            11%
Chaplains                                                                 10%
Administrators                                                             9%
Others                                                                     4%
What is their training?
Independent, informal education                                           45%
Formal, direct supervision from experienced ethics consultant             41%
Bioethics fellowship or graduate degree                                    5%
Other                                                                      9%
How many people consult on cases?
Small team                                                                68%
Full ethics committee                                                     23%
Individual consultant                                                      9%
What do they advise?
Recommend a single best course of action                                  46%
Provide a range of ethically acceptable actions                           41%
Make no recommendation                                                    13%

Note: Some percentages do not add up to 100% due to rounding.

Source: "Ethics Consultation in United States Hospitals: A National Survey," The
American Journal of Bioethics, February 2007

Asking not

A survey found 41% of physicians are hesitant to ask committees for help. Among
the reasons:
Too time-consuming29%
Make things worse                                                         15%
Unqualified                                                               11%
Unhelpful                                                                  9%
Offer solutions inconsistent with good practice                            9%
Difficult to access                                                        3%
Concerned about confidentiality                                            3%
Fear reprisal                                                              1%

Note: Other responses were offered by 22% of physicians; respondents could offer
multiple answers.

Source: "A National Survey of U.S. Internists' Experiences with Ethical Dilemmas
and Ethics Consultation," Journal of General Internal Medicine, March 2004

Weblink

Dept. of Veterans Affairs IntegratedEthics Initiative
(www.ethics.va.gov/ethics/integratedethics)

"Effect of Ethics Consultations on Nonbeneficial Life-Sustaining Treatments in
the Intensive Care Setting: A Randomized Control Trial," Journal of the American
Medical Association, Sept. 3, 2003
(jama.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/full/290/9/1166)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news feature

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           September 19, 2014 Friday

Oklahoma business briefs, Sept. 19

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 515 words


Oklahoma briefsOKC inpatient facility soldAn Oklahoma City inpatient facility
leased to Mercy Rehabilitation Hospital was among five health facilities in four
states that have been acquired by a real estate investment trust for about
$131.1 million. CNL Healthcare Properties, which focuses on senior housing and
health care facilities, has acquired two specialty hospitals and three inpatient
rehabilitation hospitals. The Oklahoma City hospital contains 53,449 square
feet.

"This addition to our medical portfolio gives us the opportunity to invest in
two specialty hospitals and three inpatient rehabilitation hospitals that will
diversify and add to our growing number of healthcare assets," said Kevin
Maddron, senior vice president of CNL Healthcare Properties. "The properties
have highly qualified tenants in place that are focused on providing patients
with the best possible treatment and care." The other facilities are in Texas,
Nevada and Indiana.Tulsan has spot in Staples' raceA creation by a Tulsa
inventor and entrepreneur designed to make the Apple iPad a true handheld device
is among the leaders of a national contest. James Hill entered his nHand device,
which includes a detachable tablet handle and a three-way stand, in Staples'
Crowd2Shelf national contest on Sept. 1 and is in second place with nearly 5,000
votes. nHand is the only Oklahoma product entered in the contest. Votes may be
cast and more information found on Hill's nhand device at
www.fundable.com/get-n-hand. The products with the most votes, sales and judge
excitement will be featured on the shelves of Staples nationwide.OSU to honor
businessmanSTILLWATER - Oklahoma State University's Center for Ethical
Leadership will host Frank Morsani, former chairman of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, at a Student Leaders Luncheon set for Tuesday in Taylor's Dining Room
on campus. Morsani, who has owned more than 40 companies, will speak about his
experiences in leadership while at OSU and afterward, as chairman of the board
of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. He received his Bachelor of Science in Trade
and Industrial Engineering from OSU and went on to work for Ford Motor Co.
Recognized for his philanthropy at OSU, Morsani also received an honorary
doctorate from the university in 2010. "Frank Morsani is the epitome of the
classic cowboy way," said Stephen Haseley, Center for Ethical Leadership
manager. "He has an interesting career history to share that illustrates
integrity, honor and the courage to hope, even when he was the only one with
hope." Those interested in attending the Student Leaders Luncheon should RSVP to
Nichole Brown in the Center for Ethical Leadership office at (405) 744-5485 or
by email at ngbrown@okstate.edu.OK's senators are honoredBoth of Oklahoma's U.S.
senators were honored Thursday by the National Federation of Independent
Business. U.S. Sens. Jim Inhofe, R-Tulsa, and Tom Coburn, R-Muskogee, were named
as Guardian of Small Business for their voting records on behalf of
small-business owners. The group will present the award to 45 senators.From
staff reports


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 15, 2015 Thursday

South Dakota: Avera Executive to Speak at Nursing Symposium

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Pierre: Mount Mary College, The State of South Dakota has issued the following
news release:



 The Mount Marty College Nursing Department welcomes Mary L. Hill BSN, MA, JD,
as the keynote speaker at the 2015 MMC Endowed Chair Nursing Symposium. Hill
will speak on the subject of, &ldquo;The Nurse as Moral Agent:  Ethics in
Nursing Practice and Leadership.&rdquo;





 A 7:45 a.m. morning session and a repeated 1:00 p.m. afternoon session will be
held on Thursday, November 5, at the Avera Sacred Heart Hospital Professional
Office Pavilion in Yankton.



 The purpose of this annual symposium is to identify ethical and moral
ideologies for nurses, nursing students, and nursing faculty and explore
methodologies and ethical principles to facilitate their role as moral agents in
the nursing field.



 Hill, described as a dynamic speaker and facilitator and reverently humorous,
is currently the Vice President of Ethics for Avera Health and is responsible
for the development and implementation of ethics integration throughout Avera
Health. She is an Adjunct Professor with Aquinas Institute of Theology teaching
Health Care Ethics. She is also the Formation Facilitator for the Ascension
Health Management Formation Program and Catholic health care ministries.



 Hill was the Deputy Health Commissioner for the State of Indiana under Governor
Mitch Daniels and the Director of Ethics Integration for St. Vincent Health/Hall
Render Law Firm based in Indianapolis. Hill is a Registered Nurse with
leadership experience in adult and geriatric psychiatry.



 This continuing nursing education workshop is provided by Avera Health.
Participants who attend either the morning or afternoon full workshop and
complete the evaluation will be awarded 3.0 hours of nursing continuing
education.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                        December 17, 1997, CITY EDITION

Patients at risk from blood product will be contacted and counselled - Cowen

BYLINE: By MICHAEL O'REGAN and MARIE O'HALLORAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS; DAIL REPORT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 743 words


Up to 467 patients who received a British blood product which carried a
potential risk of infection with CJD will be contacted and counselled, the
Minister for Health, Mr Cowen, told the Dail.

The figure has risen by almost 200 from the initial figure of 268 because the
Department discovered that hospitals could treat more than one patient with each
vial of the product Amerscan Pulmonate II, depending on the circumstances of
each patient.

Defending the approach he took in relation to the scare about the blood product,
Mr Cowen said that if he stood indicted for anything it was for taking the most
cautious approach possible. He stressed his approach was "proper, prudent,
appropriate an d sensitive". There were serious ethical issues which had to be
considered before a decision was made to remove the product and inform affected
patients.

He pointed out that in the US the advice to the Food and Drugs Administration
was that "given the level of risk, this product should not be withdrawn from
use". The Minister said the amount involved in each case was half a drop of
blood divided by 20,000, and there was no evidence to say it could be passed by
blood.

Opposition deputies criticised Mr Cowen for the delay in informing patients so
that they first heard about it on RTE television news. The Fine Gael health
spokesman, Mr Alan Shatter, said it was "scandalous" and the Department should
have acted sooner to inform people.

It was very unfortunate that it came into the public domain before the people
affected were contacted, the Minister said, but he was not in a position to act
until he was fully advised by the CJD committee. The Opposition did not take
account of the ethical questions involved, he said.

Outlining what happened, Mr Cowen said the Irish Medicines Board was informed by
the UK Medicines Control Agency about the product on November 18th and the
following day all nine hospitals involved withdrew the product.

The Department became aware of the need for a recall on November 26th. The
Department's assessment of the situation indicated that its handling raised
"complex medical, scientific and ethical issues" and decided to seek the advice
of the CJD advisory group which met on December 4th. "The group concluded that
the risk involved was unquantifiable but likely to be very low."

The following week, further consideration was given to the ethical issue "having
regard to the extremely low risk, the lack of a diagnostic test for new variant
CJD, the lack of any treatment and the unknown incubation period of the
disease".

Last Friday it was agreed patients should be informed of the facts and
appropriate mechanisms should be put in place as soon as possible to give effect
to this.

He said eight of the nine hospitals had identified all their patients and the
ninth had almost completed the task. A clinical information pack was being
prepared for each hospital. The hospital consultants would meet each patient
individually and brief them fully on their own circumstances. Counselling would
be arranged according to each patient's needs and wishes.

Ms Roisin Shortall, Labour's health spokeswoman, said a number of people had
phoned the Department during the past two days and were told they would be
better off contacting the hospital.

Mr Cowen said he apologised to anybody who received that response and he had
told the secretary general of the Department yesterday afternoon that medical
staff should be involved in dealing with such inquiries.

Mr Cowen rejected suggestions he had taken an approach inconsistent with his
actions two weeks ago over the risks involved with beef on the bone. He said he
had been entirely consistent and the beef on the bone issue was a matter of
general public health, while the CJD risk applied to a specific number of people
and required specific medical and ethical consideration.

Ms Liz McManus (DL, Wicklow) said the Department did not seem to have learned
any lessons from previous blood scandals. She asked when he was going to inform
all the people who had taken lung tests that did not involve this blood product
who need to be reassured. "The hospitals have no problem in finding these
patients in order to send them their bills," she said.

Mr Cowen said that when the hospitals have informed all the patients, the
Department will issue a statement so that all others who underwent lung tests
not including the Amerscan Pulmonate II would be reassured.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1997 The Irish Times


                              283 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Sunday News (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday

Recognized For Doing The Right Thing;
Samaritan Counseling Center Presents Its 2008 Ethics In Business Awards. Horst
Group St. Joseph Health Ministries J. Gary Langmuir

BYLINE: Dennis Larison

SECTION: D; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Businesses provide more than just products and services for their customers, and
jobs for their workers.

To a great extent, the way they conduct themselves sets the standard for the
community.

Thursday, three local exemplars of that principle were honored at the Lancaster
Country Club with 2008 Ethics in Business Awards. About 150 people attended.

It is the second year that Samaritan Counseling Center has presented the awards.

Basically, healthy businesses create a healthy community, said Anita Hanna, the
center's director of development. Most of the center's clients have jobs, she
said, and Samaritan started the awards because it recognized how much difference
working for good companies made in its clients' mental and physical health.

In tune with that theme, author Tom Morris told stories from his best-selling
book, If Aristotle Ran General Motors, before the awards were announced.

The for-profit award winner was the Horst Group. Also nominated this year were
Lapp Electrical Service Inc. and Rodgers and Associates.

The not-for-profit winner was St. Joseph Health Ministries. Also nominated was
Welsh Mountain Medical & Dental Center.

And the individual winner was J. Gary Langmuir. Also nominated were Chip Cargas,
Roger North and John Pyfer Jr.

A short documentary by Andrea Campbell of Natural Light Films was shown as part
of each award presentation to profile the winner's ethical and business
practices.

At the Horst Group, being ethical isn't just a sometimes thing, said John Rose,
its ethics officer as well as senior vice president and chief financial officer.
It's an all-the-time thing.

Every employee in Horst's three areas of business - Horst Construction, Horst
Property Management and Horst Insurance - is required to take its ethics course,
Rose explained during an interview before the awards ceremony. Horst employs 433
people.

The two things about ethics the company tries to stress the most are the
concepts of being ethical all the time and moral courage, he said.

As an example, Rose recounted an incident about three years ago in which Steve
Smith, Horst's controller, came to him after a sales-tax audit.

The audit had identified nearly $7,000 that Horst owed in sales tax, but in
going over the figures, Smith had discovered an additional $30,000 that had been
missed.

It was a situation in which the company could have paid the lower amount without
risk of consequence.

I looked at him, Rose recalled, and said, Steve, is there a price on ethics?'

Not only did Horst contact the state to explain the error and pay the full
amount, it also presented Smith with a Living Our Values Award at a companywide
gathering.

We wanted to send a message that we practice what we preach, Rose said. When the
company says doing the right things the right way in its vision statement, it's
more than just words.

Thirty thousand dollars additional to us, that's real money, he said.

Some of the comments Rose heard afterward, he said, were along the lines of Wow!
At my old company, that would have cost me my job.

That's where moral courage comes in. Rose said he believes every human being
knows what it means to be ethical. What Horst stresses is the moral courage to
act on that knowledge.

Every once in a while, Rose said, an employee comes to me and says, What's the
right thing to do here?' And I usually just throw it back on them - because they
know.

Nor does Rose think Horst is unique in its emphasis on ethics.

Lots of companies in town are very ethical, he said. To be recognized by an
outside source in a community where there are a lot of ethical companies ...
we're just honored and excited to get this award.

Our staff is very excited [about the award], Jennifer Thompson, president and
executive director of St. Joseph Health Ministries, said Wednesday. The ethical
decisions they make are just as important as the decisions we're making on
finances and governance.

The award, she said, will help increase the public's awareness of this
relatively new organization.

St. Joseph Health Ministries was founded to take over the outreach services of
St. Joseph Hospital when the hospital was sold in 2000 to Health Management
Associates, she said. The hospital was later renamed Lancaster Regional Medical
Center.

Since then, St. Joseph Health Ministries has focused its efforts on children's
dental health.

As an example of its ethical values, St. Joseph was cited for providing fluoride
varnish for its young clients' teeth even though Medicaid was not paying for
that product.

St. Joseph wants to provide the best products and services on the market, even
when the state and Medicaid's timeline doesn't coincide with the needs of
children, Thompson explained.

At the same time, she added, we were in touch with the state and insurance
providers saying, We need to improve this process.'

In addition to such advocacy and clinical services, St. Joseph puts a lot of
effort into educating schoolchildren and their parents about oral health.

People don't understand the connection oral disease has on other health issues,
such as heart disease, diabetes and cancer, Thompson said.

This year, St. Joseph provided services to 8,220 children in all 16 public
school districts in Lancaster County, including clinical care for 315 children,
said Ann Goropoulos, vice president of operations for St. Joseph.

Many of the children require 13 or 14 different dental procedures, Goropoulos
said, adding up to about $500,000 worth of free dental care in the past year.

Those clinical services are projected to increase substantially in the coming
year when St. Joseph adds a second mobile dental clinic.

St. Joseph is in the process of hiring five new people to work on the second
bus, which will increase its staff to 15 people, Thompson said.

The best way to instill a sense of ethics among employees is for the company's
leader to serve as their role model, J. Gary Langmuir said Thursday before the
awards presentation.

Langmuir is the owner, president, chief executive and chairman of Wohlsen
Construction Co., which employs about 250 people in Lancaster and New Castle,
Del.

That starts with Langmuir talking to new employees about the company's values
and its history, from its founding in 1890 by German immigrant Herman Wohlsen
through the generations of Wohlsens who preceded him as owners.

The other thing he does, Langmuir said, is take the time to explain his
decisions to his management team.

It all comes down to doing what he feels is right, Langmuir said. One of the
ways he does that is by putting himself in a client's shoes.

Most of the property owners that Wohlsen works for don't frequently do
construction projects, he explained, and they put a lot of trust in the
company's expertise to help them make the best decisions.

I like to think of their project as if it was my own, he said.

Part of that is giving the client a binder with the detailed information Wohlsen
used in formulating its bid, along with the bid itself.

If a particular feature of a building is costing significantly more than the
building as a whole, I want the owner to make an informed decision about that.
Langmuir said.

In one instance, the design called for windows a quarter-inch wider than the
standard size, he said. Changing the design saved the client several hundred
thousand dollars.

In another instance cited in the award presentation, Wohlsen passed a
significant saving in materials cost onto the client instead of pocketing half
of it as specified in the contract.

Langmuir explained that the saving was the result of a market fluctuation rather
than anything his company was responsible for. He felt the right thing to do was
credit the client with all the saving so some of the features the client had
wanted in the building but couldn't afford could be added back into the project.

In addition to the work he does for Wohlsen, Langmuir was also cited for the
time he spends on community boards.

That includes the James Street Improvement District, Pennsylvania Academy of
Music and Pennsylvania Chamber of Business & Industry, Langmuir said. And he was
the first chairman of St. Joseph Health Ministries' board.

It's interesting, Langmuir said, how many of the nominees for the Ethics in
Business Awards have interlocking connections.

These are folks you tend to recognize [as having] values very similar to your
own, he said. It reaffirms that what I'm doing is right.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Natural Light Films; Winners Of The 2008 Ethics In Business Awards Are
Depicted In These Freeze Frames From The Documentaries That Accompanied The
Presentations. Andrea Campbell
Left: Dentist Denise Alston And Dental Assistant Amy Thomas Provide Care For A
Child For St. Joseph Health Ministries. Below: Workers From Horst Construction,
Part Of The Horst Group, Work On A Project At Garden Spot Village. Below, Left:
J. Gary Langmuir Looks Over A Wohlsen Construction Project At Brethren Village
Retirement Community.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday

COMMENTARY: HOSPITAL MERGER WON'T CREATE ACCESS ISSUES

BYLINE: AVELINA BARDWELL AND JAMIE GAGAN

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 565 words


As physicians in the specialty areas of hospital care, emergency medicine and
obstetrics/gynecology, we were asked by St. Vincent CEO Alex Valdéz to advise
him and the hospital's board of directors about clinical care and access
questions, given a future relationship with Christus Health, a well-respected
Catholic health care organization headquartered in Texas.

Objectively, the relationship with Christus offers many opportunities -- most
importantly the ability to continue serving all people with compassionate care
regardless of the ability to pay. New dollars for future growth, programs,
education and opportunities to share best practices with a larger system are
important requirements of continued access and quality clinical care.

The main problem to address is how a relationship with Christus Health, a
Catholic health care organization guided by the Ethical and Religious Directives
(ERDs), can be compatible with all services that are, today, provided by St.
Vincent Regional Medical Center.

In accordance with the applicable laws of the state of New Mexico, St. Vincent
will have two entities supporting it, Christus Health and a newly formed
not-for-profit organization named SVH Supportco. With this structure, we are
comfortable that all the services St. Vincent Regional Medical Center provides
today will continue to be available without issue.

In the arrangement, SVH Supportco will be the not-for-profit organization that
will manage and oversee the provision of those services currently provided at
the hospital that are incongruent with the ERDs. This arrangement removes
Christus from involvement in the provision of care not permitted by the Ethical
and Religious Directives, and maintains access for the greater Santa Fe
community to all currently provided services. Key areas we have worked on
include family planning, contraception, sterilization procedures and end-of-life
care. Family planning and contraception will be provided according to state law,
and confidentiality of the patient-physician relationship. Emergency
contraception for victims of rape (which is allowed in Catholic hospitals) will
continue to be administered just as it is today. Any physician may provide any
prescriptions within the privacy and confidentiality of the physician/patient
relationship.

Sterilization procedures still provided in a hospital setting will be managed
and financially accounted for by SVH Supportco.

For end-of-life issues, the physician and family or close loved one (in
accordance with state law in definition) will continue to make decisions about
the transition from medical care to comfort care assuring that our loved ones
die with dignity. This process currently happens at St. Vincent and will
continue.

St. Vincent is negotiating a termination provision in its definitive agreement
with Christus that will allow St. Vincent to terminate the relationship with
Christus if the Ethical and Religious Directives and the method for addressing
such matters becomes problematic in assuring the community access to all
services currently provided by St. Vincent.

These are sensitive topics, yet with open ears, good help and advice, the
hospital is addressing all issues thoroughly so that the needs of the patient
remain the first priority.

Internal medicine Dr. Avelina Bardwell, emergency medicine Dr. Jamie Gagan, and
OB/GYN Dr. Cleve Pardue signed this commentary.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The New Mexican


                              285 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday

UCC ethics board calls for debate on stem-cell research

BYLINE: FIONA GARTLAND

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 389 words


POLICYMAKERS NEED to act responsibly and address the ethical issues surrounding
embryonic stem-cell research, the chairwoman of the University College Cork
(UCC) university research ethics board said yesterday.

Speaking at the launch of the Adelaide Hospital Society Health Policy Initiative
in Trinity College, Dublin, Dr Deirdre Madden said the State needed to have a
debate on stem-cell research.

Last November, UCC became the first third-level institution in the Republic to
allow embryonic stem-cell research.

After much debate, members of the 40-strong governing body voted by 16 votes to
15 to endorse a code of practice recommended by the university s academic
council.

Dr Madden, who was also a member of the Commission on Assisted Human
Reproduction, said the university took the decision in the absence of legal
guidelines to ensure researchers adhered to the highest ethical standards.

Researchers should know what they are allowed to do and what they re not allowed
to do,  she said.

She said UCC was conscious under the Universities Act that researchers needed to
research within the law.

Embryonic stem-cell research is not prohibited by law in Ireland, so legally our
researchers were entitled to engage in that sort of research,  she said.

Our policy aims to ensure that, in the absence of legislation, researchers at
UCC adhere to the highest ethical standards in their research.

Dr Madden said research should be facilitated, subject to regulation and ethical
oversight.

She acknowledged the huge divergence of views in society on what was a  very
difficult and sensitive area  and said Ireland faced similar challenges to other
countries that had debated stem-cell research.

Consensus has been difficult to achieve in every country in which this has been
debated, but I think we do have to have that debate,  she said.

Policymakers have to step up and act responsibly and engage with this debate and
ensure that the balance of conflicting ethical principles is addressed.

The Adelaide Hospital Society, which aims to advance healthcare, also announced
the appointment of a health policy advisory board yesterday.

In addition, the society published a study on fairness in the health service
Equity in Healthcare: a View from the Irish Healthcare System by Dr Samantha
Smith of the Economic and Social Research Institute.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 8, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Medical, religious ethics often are a tug-of-war;
The USA's Catholic hospitals forced to grapple with questions as old as the
church itself

BYLINE: Cathy Lynn Grossman

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 828 words


The case of an abortion at a Catholic hospital in Phoenix prompted an angry
bishop to rebuke the Sister of Mercy who allowed the surgery to save the
mother's life.

But you don't have to be a pregnant woman with a rare heart condition to be
affected by the questions raised at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center.

You don't even have to be Catholic.

If you are in a Catholic facility (where one-sixth of U.S. hospital beds are
located), the Phoenix case could make you question who has final say in
life-and-death decisions: You, or the local bishop?

What happens if your care choices, or your doctor's, clash with the ethical
dictates Catholic hospitals must heed?

The Catholic bishops' Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care
Services spells out a vision of life and the morality of care from conception to
"natural death."

Catholic teachings are clearly opposed to abortion and artificial contraception;
bishops likewise fought laws in Oregon and Washington state that allow doctors
to write life-ending prescriptions for dying patients.

In the Phoenix case, Bishop Thomas Olmsted said the abortion could never have
been justified, even if the mother would have died without it.

But moral theologians and ethicists say the bishops' directives are far more
nuanced than many people realize.

"It all comes down to how you define 'care' -- the most basic expectation any
patient brings to a hospital. And Catholic hospitals are known for very
competent, very personal care," says Kevin O'Rourke, a priest and professor of
bioethics at the Loyola Medical School in Chicago.

'Principle of double-effect'

In the Phoenix case, physicians concluded that only removing the placenta could
save the woman dying from pulmonary hypertension.

Sister Margaret Mary McBride, whose job was to represent Catholic teachings,
concurred that the lifesaving surgery was morally acceptable.  (She has since
been moved to a different position at the hospital.)

O'Rourke says McBride was relying on the accepted "principle of double-effect,"
in which the intention is not to kill the fetus but is a sad, secondary effect
of an essential treatment. The Diocese of Phoenix's statements show "they are
not well-schooled in bioethics," O'Rourke says.

Neither, of course, are patients and families who may face critical decisions in
Catholic hospital settings.

Bioethicist Nancy Berlinger praises Catholic hospitals' quality and scope of
care, but while they must follow church teachings, "they also have to follow the
rules of medicine. When an individual bishop decides to intervene, it's going to
be complicated, confusing and arbitrary."

"Autonomy is a strong feature of American culture. Allowing people to make
decisions about their own lives is a way that we honor a person. If you are very
sick, we don't like to think your self-determination is also on the line," says
Berlinger of the Hastings Center in Garrison, N.Y.

"The bishop's action was disruptive for the hospital and for current and
potential patients. This patient wanted to live. Your right to consider your own
beliefs doesn't allow you to control another person," Berlinger says.

Interpreting morality

That said, Lisa Cahill, professor of moral theology at Boston College, says
nobody can demand a treatment that might violate the ethical or religious
conscience of the provider. That, too, is immoral, she says; the patient will
have to look elsewhere for care.

The trouble comes when there's no time to move or no willing provider within
hundreds of miles. Then, Cahill says, "it really comes down to an interpretation
of the morality of the treatment or procedure, not only based on medical issues
but the full humanity of those involved."

The issues were in stark  relief during the contested treatment of Terry
Schiavo, the brain-injured woman whose husband and parents battled in the courts
over whether she should continue to be sustained on artificial food and
hydration with no prospect of regaining consciousness. Her husband, who
prevailed, said she no longer had a meaningful life and would have wanted to
die.

U.S. bishops revised their directives to spell out that artificial food and
hydration are "ordinary care" that hospitals and physicians are morally
obligated to provide.

But what if your advance directives say that you don't want to be kept alive by
these means?

Catholic Health Association policies assert that "in the vast majority of cases,
patients' advance directives will be honored."  Artificial food and hydration
would be  "morally optional" when such treatment is "excessively burdensome to
the patient" and when it provides "little or no benefit."

Resources on Catholic ethics in health care

*Bishops' statement on Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care
Services: www.usccb.org/chronological.shtml

*Catholic Health Association statements on ethics: chausa.org

*Background, resources from Phoenix diocese on case at St. Joseph's Hospital:
CatholicSun.org/2010/phxdio-stjoes

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Illustration by Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Jack Kurtz, Arizona Republic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

'Dead' patient comes around as organs are about to be removed

BYLINE: John Lichfield in Paris

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 583 words


France may have to reconsider its medical definition of death after a
heart-attack victim came alive in the operating theatre as doctors were about to
remove his organs for transplant.

The patient, whose identity has not been revealed, recovered after a long period
in intensive care and is now able to walk and talk.

The 45-year-old man owes his life to the fact that surgeons authorised to remove
organs for transplant operations were not immediately available. Under
experimental rules adopted in France last year, to make more organ transplants
possible, the man had already reached the point where he could be officially
regarded as dead. Similar rules - allowing the removal of organs when a
patient's heart has stopped and fails to respond to prolonged massage - already
apply in several other European countries, including Britain.

The case occurred at the Pitie-Salpêtriere hospital in Paris in January but was
not revealed at the time. The organisation that runs state-owned hospitals in
the Paris area - Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP) - referred the
case to its ethical committee on transplants. A summary of the committee's
debate, which came to no firm conclusion, has now been published on the AP-HP
website. "This situation [illustrates] the questions that remain in reanimation
... and what criteria can be used to determine that a reanimation has failed,"
says the report.

The ethical questions raised are complex, as the committee acknowledges that
doctors - and the state - have an obligation to the 13,000 people waiting for
transplanted organs in France. Last year 231 of these patients died because
organs did not become available. It was for this reason that France introduced
experimental rules allowing the removal of organs in nine hospitals from
so-called "stopped heart" patients.

The 45-year-old at the centre of the controversy collapsed close to the La
Pitie-Salpêtriere hospital. Efforts were made to revive him at the scene, and
more elaborate procedures continued at the hospital for 90 minutes. As surgeons
were preparing to remove his vital organs, the man began to breathe unaided. His
pupils moved and he showed signs of pain. His heart started to beat again. After
several weeks during which he was gravely ill, the man can now walk and talk. He
has yet to be told that doctors were ready to remove his organs.

Otherdoctors have seen similar incidents, according to the ethics committee
report. "During the meeting, other reanimators ... spoke of situations in which
a person whom everyone was sure had died in fact survived after reanimation
efforts that went on much longer than usual," the report said. "Participants
conceded that these were exceptional cases, but ones that were nevertheless seen
in the course of a career."

Le Monde said doctors had feared the new transplant rules would confront them
with cases of this kind. They believe the existing rules are imprecise and could
undermine public support for the removal of organs for transplant. They are
pushing for the issue to be discussed as part of a consultation next year on a
proposed, new law on medical ethics.

Professor Alain Tenaillon, the organ transplant specialist at the French
government's agency of bio-medicine, told Le Monde: "All the specialist
literature suggests that anyone whose heart has stopped and has been massaged
correctly for more than 30 minutes, is probably brain dead. But we have to
accept that there are exceptions ... There are no absolute rules in this area."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            February 26, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Religious groups in ethical tug of war; Assisted Dying: Catholic hospitals, care
facilities uneasy with new federal report on proposed legislation

SECTION: NEWS; Lori Culbert, Tiffany Crawford And Rob Shaw; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 462 words


St. Paul's Hospital and nine other Metro Vancouver medical facilities overseen
by the Catholic Church are caught in an ethical tug of war between the religious
objection to assisted suicide and a new federal government report that says
Canadians should have access to medically assisted dying.

Also Thursday, Providence Health Care made public a memo sent to doctors
reminding them that physician-assisted death "contradicts the basic tenets of
Catholic health care - wherein life is held to be sacred from conception to
natural death - and not permitted in Catholic health-care institutions such as
Providence."

The memo set off a firestorm of debate, as the federal report, tabled in
Parliament, said medical assistance in dying should be made available with few
obstacles to Canadians who are suffering from grievous and irremediable medical
conditions that cause enduring suffering.

The Supreme Court of Canada struck down the legal ban on physician-assisted
death last year. The recommendations from this report are to help the government
come up with replacement legislation by June 6. Providence will review
Thursday's parliamentary committee recommendations, work with the provincial
Health Ministry to "gain clarity" on this issue and is waiting for the new
federal legislation, said Shaf Hussain, the health authority's vicepresident of
public affairs.

Quebec last year became the first province to pass a law that requires publicly
funded health-care facilities to provide assisted suicide or provide a referral
to another facility.

B.C. Health Minister Terry Lake said Thursday there should be room for
conscientious objectors, and hinted at a compromise: "We can accommodate both
the patient and providers that find themselves in an ethical, moral, religious
dilemma."

Lake said it's possible to accommodate St. Paul's and Providence not
participating in physician-assisted dying by transferring a patient to another
health facility.

Patients have the right to refuse life-saving care, and it is "ethically and
legally appropriate" for physicians to abide by that, argued medical ethicist
Eike-Henner Kluge of the University of Victoria. But the Quebec law may pose a
challenge, he added, for some Providence leaders and doctors who may balk at
sending patients to a facility that will end their lives.

"Providence would also have to go along with that ... referring to a physician
who is willing to participate in assisted death," Kluge said.

Geoff Plant, former Liberal MLA and now chairman of the Province Health Board,
said in an email that the authority is "reviewing the various parliamentary
committee recommendations and waiting to see what the final legislation is."

DOCTOR-ASSISTED DEATH, Page 22 !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All
rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wayne Leidenfrost, PNG Files; Geoff Plant, former MLA and now chairman
of the Province Health Board, speaks at a news conference in 2015 about the
future of St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver. Plant said in an email Thursday that
the (health) authority is 'reviewing the various parliamentary committee
recommendations (about assisted dying) and waiting to see what the final
legislation is.';

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Vancouver Province
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           December 20, 2011 Tuesday

Sexual malfunction drug tried out on mentally ill patients in Indore

BYLINE: Ashish Gaur

SECTION: INDORE

LENGTH: 671 words


INDORE: As many as 233 mentally-ill patients were subjected to clinical trials
to check the efficacy of Dapoxetine, a drug to cure premature ejaculation, and
some anti-depressants.

The trials were conducted by Government doctors of the Mental Hospital attached
to the Mahatma Gandhi medical College in Madhya Pradesh but done at private
clinics.

Significantly, all these doctors had taken the approval for the clinical trials
from independent ethics committees attached to private hospitals, bypassing the
Mahatma Gandhi Medical College's own institutional ethics committee.

It was only last month that chief minister Shiraj singh Chauhan answered about
these trails, after a question raised in the Assembly about it had hung fire for
five long months.

The list tabled in Assembly mentioned five doctors of the Mental Hospital to
have been conducting the trails - Dr Ramgulam Rajdan, Dr VS Pal, Dr Ujwal
Sardesai, Dr Abhay Paliwal and Dr Pali Rastogi, all doing it in the private
clinics. As many as 42 mentally-ill patients were subjected to the trial to see
how effective Dapoxetine was, in premature ejaculation.

Crucially, all these Government doctors had taken the approval of only the
independent ethical committees based both in and out of the state. That apart,
the clinics were the trials were conducted have yet to get even the registration
certificate from the district chief medical and health officer.

Dr Sharad Pandit, chief medical and health officer told TOI that his office had
registered a few clinics on the recommendation of the MG Medical College dean.
But some doctors are receiving non-practicing allowance from the government and
so we did not register them" he said.

Two of the doctors involved claimed they did no wrong, "We did the trial in
private clinics, so we took the approval from independent ethics committees," Dr
VS Pal said. Asked why the MG Medical College's own institutional ethics
committee was bypassed, he refused to comment further.

Another, Dr Abhay Paliwal said : "We are allowed to conduct clinical trials at
private clinics. We followed all DCGI and ICMR norms to conduct trials on the
patients," he maintained. According to him, it was not necessary to take the
Medical College's own ethics committee, "as the trials were conducted at private
clinics''

Interestingly, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines say
that independent ethics committees are for those who work in institutes that do
not have their own institutional ethics committees.

Dr Anand Rai, a whistle blower and health activist alleged to TOI that these
doctors took the approval from independent ethics committees to avoid disclosure
of information under RTI. These doctors are employees of the government and
should have taken the mandatory approval from the ethics committee of their
medical college, as the ICMR guidelines say," he stressed.

He also pointed to a more basic question: "How can a mentally-ill patient tell
doctors about the results of a drug, given that they are already disturbed? Did
the doctors take the necessary informed consent of the mentally ailing patients
or their guardians, is a big question" he added.

Doctors who took approval from independent ethics committees

Dr Rajesh Bharani

Dr Rubina Vohra

Dr Atul Shende

Dr Salil Bhargava

Dr Ramgulam Rajdan

Dr V.S Pal

Dr Ujwal Sardesai

Dr Abhay Paliwal

Dr Pali Rastogi

Doctors who conducted trials on mentally-ill patients at private clinics

Names of doctors Number of patients

Dr Ramgulam Rajdan 86

Dr V.S Pal 25

Dr Ujwal Sardesai 42

Dr Abhay Paliwal 60

Dr Pali Rastogi 20

BOX 3

Independent ethics committees that approved the trials on the mentally ailing
patients

Bombay Hospital Ethics Committee, Indore

CHL Apollo Hospital Ethics Committee, Indore

Ethics Committee of Diabetes and Thyroid Hormone Research Institute, Indore

Aditya, Independent Ethical Committee, Ahmedabad

Ethical Committee- Kotbagi Hospital, Pune

Independent Ethical Committee- Dhanshree Hospital, Pune

Siddhant Independent Ethics Committee, Ahmedabad

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                            November 28, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ethical crisis looms over flu; Report warns pandemic will create excruciating
choices

BYLINE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA/WORLD; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 698  words

DATELINE: TORONTO


It's time to engage the public in open and frank debate on the excruciating
choices facing governments and health-care delivery systems in the event of a
flu pandemic, a new report suggests.

The document by the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics lays out
four key issues the authors think require an ethics-based debate:

* The duty of health-care workers;

* The use of liberty-restricting measures like quarantine;

* The implementation of international travel bans;

* The setting of priorities for rationing scarce medical resources such as
antiviral drugs.

But one of Canada's leading infectious diseases experts warned it is easier to
call for such deliberations than to actually have them.

Planners in the health-care arena shudder at the thought of having to decide
what to do when they've run out of life-saving mechanical ventilators and a
gravely ill 15-year-old comes through the emergency department door, Dr. Allison
McGeer admitted.

Do they take the oldest person on a ventilator in the hospital off it? Do they
call around to other hospitals to see if someone older still can be removed from
a ventilator across town?

"I think, at least among health-care workers, to even have the discussion
somehow creates a sense of playing God," said McGeer, head of infection control
at Toronto's Mount Sinai Hospital.

She's not certain the public wants to contemplate the scenario underlying the
tough choices either, noting a rising chorus of criticism that those warning of
the dangers of a pandemic are being unduly frightening.

"It's hard to have these discussions without being scary."

None of the 100-plus national pandemic plans that have been written to date have
a dedicated section aimed at helping people make ethical decisions should an
influenza pandemic trigger a public health crisis, noted Dr. Peter Singer, one
of the authors of the report.

"That's really sort of ironic because the ethical issues are ... going to be the
glue that holds a society together when it's struggling through a very, very
tough time if the pandemic in fact is severe," said Singer, director of the
bioethics centre.

A senior official said the Public Health Agency of Canada wants to put out parts
of the Canadian pandemic plan for public deliberation, including its policy on
who should get drugs like Tamiflu and under what circumstances.

"We have to further refine that, but then state it in such a way that we can go
out to Canadians and say: 'This is our position. What do you think of it?'" said
Dr. Paul Gully, deputy chief public health officer.

"It is not good enough to have these (ethical) issues in the back of the mind.
One actually has to demonstrate absolutely clearly that one had actually taken
them into account."

The duty of health-care workers to provide care is a key area that needs
clarification, according to the report, which raises a spectre few planners like
to acknowledge but many fear -- the prospect of some health-care workers
refusing to work during a pandemic.

It happened during SARS, said another of the authors, Dr. Ross Upshur. While
many hospital workers performed heroically, some overtly refused to treat SARS
patients or "distanced themselves from engagement."

The report notes that after the devastating Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918-19, the
Canadian Medical Association wrote into its code of ethics that "when pestilence
prevails" doctors have a duty to "face the danger ... even at the jeopardy of
their own lives."

That code has since been rewritten. And there is a general lack of guidance from
the organizations governing the medical professions as to how far the "duty of
care" extends, the report warns.

It calls on these groups to spell out clearly what members' responsibilities
would be in a major infectious disease outbreak. And it calls on governments to
do as much as they can to protect health-care workers and to offer disability
insurance and death benefits for those harmed or killed while working.

"The time to figure out what roles, responsibilities and expectations are going
to be is now," said Upshur. "Not when the emergency rooms are starting to fill
up. Not when we're trying to deal with intense numbers of very sick
individuals."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Metroland Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 6, 2004 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Smoking and surgery: an ethical dilemma;
Letters & Opinion - Editorial Opinion

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 500 words


Should surgeons refuse elective surgery to those who inhibit their own recovery?

Imagine if the ambulance service instituted a policy at road accidents of
deciding who they would transport to hospital first based on who was to blame
for the collision. There would, quite properly, be a measure of public outrage.
The suggestion that a wide range of elective surgical procedures should not be
offered to smokers poses a similar moral and ethical conundrum. The suggestion
has been seriously made by a group of doctors at the Concord Repatriation
Hospital in Sydney. Their proposal was published in yesterday's issue of The
Medical Journal of Australia. By their own admission, the authors concede that
such an approach is "controversial and overtly discriminatory". But, they add,
it is also solidly evidence-based. Their argument centres on studies that show
post-operative wound infection rates in smokers after surgery are routinely up
to eight times higher than among non-smokers. In a randomised study of joint
replacement surgery, where smokers quit even a matter of weeks before the
operation, the rate of infection fell from around 27 per cent to zero.
Complications such as infection after surgery delay the discharge of the
patient, inhibit recovery and consume hospital resources in terms of effective
rehabilitation and the increased cost of hospital care.

The extent to which doctors seek, and the wider community endorses, permission
for them to discriminate between patients is a matter ripe for community debate,
according to the MJA paper. Decisions are made every day in hospitals, doctors'
surgeries and on the side of the road at car accidents about who to treat - or
not treat - and in what order. There is nothing new in this approach to
determining treatment priorities. Indeed, medical triage during mass casualty
emergencies and in the busy emergency wards of hospitals is established practice
around the world. But in the context of elective surgery, as Dr Matthew Peters
and his colleagues suggest, what may be seen by the health care community as
discriminating may be regarded by smokers and the wider community as
discrimination. Yet in elective cases where smokers have a time frame that
allows them to quit (or at least attempt to do so) ahead of surgery, not doing
so is the equivalent of a doctor not using antibiotics to combat infection.

Given the demands upon the hospital system, placing smokers at the end of the
surgery queue is a tempting solution because they can take steps to improve
their chances and shorten hospital stays. But before any such approach could
become policy there must be a broad public debate. There must also be a
commitment from doctors and the general community to helping smokers kick the
tobacco habit. More troubling, perhaps, are the boundaries of this debate. What
of drinkers, the obese, the simply unfit or other at-risk patients? Judgements
based on who is more "deserving" of surgery pose ethical dilemmas for the whole
community.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

Marksberry assails Guthrie for gas price remark

BYLINE: Steve Vied, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 761 words


Sept. 30--U.S. 2nd Congressional District candidate Ed Marksberry took aim
Wednesday at his Republican opponent Brett Guthrie for a comment Guthrie made
nearly a month ago.

But Marksberry also turned his attention to the board of directors of Owensboro
Medical Health System, which he called on to adopt a lengthy set of
recommendations for public and nonprofit boards set down by Kentucky Auditor
Crit Luallen.

In a statement delivered at the Daviess County Democratic headquarters
Wednesday, Marksberry criticized Guthrie for a comment the incumbent made about
gas prices. Speaking at a town hall meeting at Western Kentucky
University-Owensboro on Aug. 30, Guthrie was quoted as telling the crowd, "$4
gas two years ago is what wrecked our economy. We were on the bubble then, but
this (gas prices) is what pricked the bubble."

"By not identifying any Republican Bush-era policies that led our nation's
economy into the ditch illustrates the problem," Marksberry said. "Common sense
tells us, you have to be able to identify the problem before you can fix it."

Asked to expand on his statement, Marksberry said everyone took a hit on gas
prices in 2008, but gas prices did not lead to the recession, while lack of
oversight of Wall Street was a culprit.

"When gas prices came back down, the economy did not turn around," he said.

Guthrie campaign manager Scott Jennings offered this response Wednesday: "The
recession was caused by several factors, but anyone who thinks $4 gas was
helpful to Kentucky families isn't living in the same reality as the rest of
us."

The second part of Marksberry's statement was to announce the launch of his
"Citizen's Responsibility Initiative," which he said encourages people to become
involved in the oversight of their community's institutions. It also urges more
transparency and oversight of the board of institutions. As part of the
initiative, Marksberry said his campaign was circulating a petition on its
website calling on the board of OMHS hospital to adopt Luallen's recommended
board guidelines. He challenged Guthrie to sign the petition.

Part of the petition's heading states, "We believe that the board of directors
of OMHS must adopt the recommended practices, such as not allowing staff
relationships to influence board members, to insure the highest ethical
standards."

Luallen produced the 32 recommendation following her office's investigations of
the Lexington Bluegrass Airport, Kentucky League of Cities and Kentucky
Association of Counties, all hit hard by spending problems. One of the
recommendations calls for boards to adopt a code of ethics for board members,
officers and employees related to "business conduct, integrity and ethics," and
specifically calls for statements regarding such things as conflicts of interest
and nepotism."

Marksberry stopped short of identifying who his petition was referring to at
OMHS when it mentioned "not allowing staff relationships to influence board
members." But he said nepotism has happened at high levels at the hospital.

"Nepotism is one of the first things you don't allow," he said. "We won't name
names."

The only obvious relationship between an OMHS board member and a high-level
hospital employee is that of board member Ann Murphy Kincheloe and her son Steve
Johnson, the hospital's executive director for community and governmental
affairs.

OMHS provided the following statement from spokesman Gordon Wilkerson in
response to Marksberry's petition:

"In accordance with the guidance of the Joint Commission for the Accreditation
of Healthcare Organizations, the Commission on Medicare and Medicaid Services,
the Internal Revenue Service and numerous other authoritative sources, the OMHS
board of directors has adopted policies that address conflicts of interest and
ethical behavior. Policies are evaluated on an ongoing basis. Included in
OMHS-approved policies are a comprehensive Conflict of Interest Policy and a
Code of Ethical and Professional Behavior to maintain the highest ethical
standards.

OMHS appreciates the work of Auditor Luallen and will continue to review the
recommendations."

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20100930-OW-Marksberry-assails-Guthrie-for-gas-price-remark-0930-20100930

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2010 Messenger-Inquirer


                              293 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             June 15, 2017 Thursday
                               Ahmedabad Edition

Hospital won't pull down cut practice hoarding

SECTION: TIMES NATION | MUMBAI

LENGTH: 361 words


A city hospital has refused to remove a hoarding it put up about cut practice
despite the Indian Medical Association's (IMA) displeasure.

The IMA had written to the hospital, asking it to remove the hoarding near the
airport that said, 'Honest Opinion. No Commission to Doctor'. Dr Ramakant Panda,
vice chairman of the Asian Heart Hospital that put up the hoarding, said he had
received calls from IMA members as well in this regard. \x93But we also got
positive feedback from many young doctors who are unable to set up their own
practice because of cut practice,\x93 he said. On Tuesday , the heart institute
wrote to the Maharashtra Medical Council with 38 doctors signing the letter.

Dr Jayesh Lele of state IMA said his association is against cut practice but the
hoarding is nothing but an advertisement.

\x93The ethical rules of advertising should be applied here.How can an ad blame
others and suggest that it is the only hospital being ethical?'' asked Dr Lele.
He said the national IMA as well as several other medical associations will take
up the issue further.

Meanwhile, Dr Sanjay Nagral, transplant surgeon and editorial board member of
the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, said cut practice is medicine's worst kept
secret.

\x93Cut practice is widely prevalent. It is a public-interest issue because it
affects the cost of care; doctors and hospitals factor in the commission while
making a patient's bill. Moreover, it also affects the quality of care. It isn't
the best specialist

who is recommended to you, but the one who pays the biggest commission,\x93 he
said. He said cut practice has become a bigger problem than before. \x93It is
not only widely prevalent, it has changed from being a payment from one doctor
to another doctor to assume an industrial proportion. Now, hospitals are doing
it,'' said Dr Nagral.\x93Cut practice has now become the centre of
healthcare.\x93

The Asian Heart Institute's letter to the Maharashtra Medical Council said,
\x93We appeal to you to aggressively peruse and eliminate this unethical
practice. All doctors should unite to curb this menace and will be happy to
extend our full support to MMC in this endeavour.\x93

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Singapore Government News

                     February 28, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Overcharging Behaviour

LENGTH: 330  words


Feb. 28 -- Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Er Dr Lee Bee Wah

MP for Nee Soon GRC

Question No. 993

To ask the Minister for Health (a) in the past five years, how many reports of
excessive charging by doctors in private practice have been received by the
Ministry; (b) whether there is a trend of doctors abusing their patients'
medical insurance coverage by overcharging them; and (c) what measures can be
taken to regulate such a practice.

Answer

1. MOH receives feedback on a variety of issues, including on doctor fees and
charges. Occasionally, there are cases relating to alleged over-charging.

2. Doctors are ethically responsible for charging fair and reasonable fees to
their patients. The Singapore Medical Council (SMC) Ethical Code and Ethical
Guidelines (ECEG) requires doctors to charge reasonably and ensure that their
fees are transparent and made known to patients in advance. The SMC can take
disciplinary action against errant doctors who do not meet these requirements,
and has done so before.

3. MOH is working with healthcare providers on ways to improve fee transparency.
MOH has published 'Total Hospital Bill" data for common conditions and "Total
Operation Fees" for common surgical procedures for both public and private
hospitals. MOH also requires all hospitals to provide patients with financial
counselling upon admission. In the outpatient setting, MOH requires all GP and
dental clinics under the Community Health Assist Scheme (CHAS) scheme to issue
itemised bills to CHAS patients, from January this year. These measures ensure
more fee transparency and enable patients to make more informed decisions.

4. MOH is also studying the recommendations from the Health Insurance Task Force
(HITF) relating to over-charging.

5. Each of us have to play our part to keep our healthcare costs sustainable,
while ensuring that patients continue to have access to good quality and
appropriate healthcare.

Source: Ministry of Health, Government of Singapore

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2017 Singapore Government News, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            February 5, 2016 Friday

Cervical cancer: US expert raises doubts over clinical trial on 2.24 lakh women

BYLINE: express news service

LENGTH: 460  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


It was a fiery one-on-one session between San Francisco-based pathologist Dr
Eric Suba and a team of medical oncologists from Tata Memorial Hospital with
allegations and counter-allegations over a 13-year-long clinical trial the
hospital conducted on 2.24 lakh women for understanding cervical cancer-related
mortality through different screening methods.

Suba, the director of clinical laboratories at the Kaiser Permanante Medical
Center who heads an NGO for prevention of cervical cancer, has come to Mumbai to
discuss three clinical trials on cervical cancer in India, with which he had
raised ethical issues and subsequently forced the Centre and the state
government to look into the trial reports. While the trial has been approved and
cleared by the government, with the visual inspection with acetic acid (VIA)
procedure for screening sanctioned in 15 states in India, arguments over the
ethical side of the clinical trial continue till date.

The United States Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) had also
investigated into the trials in which 1.38 lakh women were offered no screening
for cervical cancer while another lakh were offered cervical screening at Tata
Memorial Hospital.

According to Suba, the three trials held with participants from Mumbai in first,
villages in Osmanabad in second and Dindigul in Tamil Nadu in third did not
ensure an informed consent from women and followed "unethical practice" of
keeping one group in controlled group with no screening. The end result was to
check mortality between no screening group, group with VIA screening, group with
pap smear screening and group with human papillomavirus. At Tata hospital, the
trial ran from 1997 to 2015. Suba gave a presentation for an hour at KEM
hospital. He levelled direct charges of not getting informed consent from women
and of violating human right norms as per Helsinki Declaration's guidelines.

Soon after his presentation, Tata Memorial Centre director Dr Rajendra Badwe
explained that 22,000 women had benefited with the economical screening
intervention (VIA), which cost Rs 30 per women as opposed to Rs 700-800 for pap
smear, which is the adopted screening in the West.

"No ethical violations have been committed. Informed consent was taken," Badwe
said.

Badwe was supported by a team of oncologists who supported the trial's findings.
Dr S Shastri, trial's principal investigator, said, "The women who were given no
screening were monitored and could get access to hospital services any time.
Their health was not ignored," he said. A packed auditorium roared with opinions
from doctors, activists and oncologists. Suba now plans to pay a visit to a
village near Pune to check for himself how well the VIA screening is working for
the rural population.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 12, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Henry Schein Recognized by Ethisphere as One of the World's Most Ethical
Companies for Second Year in a Row

LENGTH: 583  words


New Delhi, March 12 -- Henry Schein, Inc. (NASDAQ: HSIC), the world's largest
provider of health care products and services to office-based dental, medical
and animal health practitioners, announced today that it was again named to
Ethisphere Institute's 2013 World's Most Ethical Companies Ranking for exemplary
ethical leadership, worldwide business standards and commitment to corporate
social responsibility.



Honored by Ethisphere in 2012 and 2013, Henry Schein continues to be recognized
for being a health care industry leader in upholding the highest ethical
standards and business practices. This year, Henry Schein was among 138
companies recognized by Ethisphere, a leading international think tank dedicated
to the creation, advancement and sharing of best practices in business ethics,
corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and sustainability. This is the
seventh year that Ethisphere Institute has published the World's Most Ethical
Companies Ranking.

"Since our founding eighty years ago, a deep commitment to the highest ethical
standards has always been a central part of the character of Henry Schein, and
this commitment forms the very foundation of our business model," said Stanley
M. Bergman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Henry Schein,
Inc. "We are very proud to again be honored by Ethisphere Institute in
recognition of our success in implementing exceptional worldwide business
standards as well as our enduring dedication to enhancing access to health care
for the underserved through our global corporate social responsibility program,
Henry Schein Cares."

Henry Schein Cares stands on four pillars: engaging Team Schein Members to reach
their potential, ensuring accountability by extending ethical business practices
to all levels within Henry Schein, promoting environmental sustainability, and
expanding access to health care for underserved and at-risk communities around
the world.

The evaluation criteria for the World's Most Ethical Companies Ranking includes
an in-depth assessment of Corporate Citizenship and Responsibility; Ethics and
Compliance Program; Culture of Ethics; Corporate Governance; and Reputation,
Leadership and Innovation. Based on the "Ethics Quotient" score derived from
this evaluation, the top percentile performers in each industry are further
evaluated through a stringent due diligence process.

Selected from thousands of nominated companies, Henry Schein was honored this
week at Ethisphere's Dinner Awards Ceremony at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in New York
City during the 5th annual Global Ethics Summit. For more information on
Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical Companies rankings, please visit
http://ethisphere.com/worlds-most-ethical-companies-rankings.

About Ethisphere Institute

The research-based Ethisphere Institute is a leading international think-tank
dedicated to the creation, advancement and sharing of best practices in business
ethics, corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and sustainability.
Ethisphere Magazine, which publishes the globally recognized World's Most
Ethical Companies Ranking, is the quarterly publication of the Institute.
Ethisphere provides the only third-party verifications of compliance programs
and ethical cultures that include: Ethics Inside Certification, Compliance
Leader Verification and Anti-Corruption Program Verification. More information
on the Ethisphere Institute, including ranking projects and membership, can be
found at http://www.ethisphere.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                December 1, 2008

AMA meeting: Delegates weigh ethics committee's role

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Dec. 1, 2008

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 17 Vol. 51 No. 45

LENGTH: 875 words

DATELINE: Orlando, Fla.



HIGHLIGHT: The CEJA open forum also explored the potential conflict of interest
facing doctors who are employed by nurses or PAs.


  Nearly all hospitals have ethics committees to help resolve dilemmas facing
physicians, patients and families, especially regarding end-of-life care. Yet
surveys have found the typical ethics consultation service handles only three
cases a year.

When should ethics services be consulted? Who should sit on ethics committees?
Should they tell doctors and patients what to do, or just offer advice?

These were some of the questions delegates debated at the AMA Council on Ethical
and Judicial Affairs' open forum during the Interim Meeting in November.

Richard Pieters Jr., MD, an alternate delegate for the Massachusetts Medical
Society, said the ethics consultations should be a function of the medical
staff. "I have a great deal of concern about the idea of the profession losing
control of ethics committees to trained ethicists," said Dr. Pieters, a
radiation oncologist. "It is important that the committee include people from
specialties who have an interest in the patients but who may not have had ethics
training."

Other delegates complained that ethics services too often operate in secrecy and
avoid cases that could pose challenges for the organization.

"How do you make an ethics panel stick to its job and solve the problems brought
to them?" asked Stephen L. Brotherton, MD, a delegate for the Texas Medical
Assn. "Physicians should get regular reports on what [ethics committees] are
doing and how they're dealing with different cases. Ethics belongs to the whole
community. It's not the committee's job to cover the hospital's butt."

Conflict with midlevel relationships

Delegates reacted passionately to another question explored at the forum -- can
physicians manage the potential conflict of interest that arises when employed
by nonphysicians they are responsible for supervising?

Nurse practitioners and physician assistants are increasingly setting up
independent practices and hiring doctors to provide legally required
supervision. Can doctors supervise the midlevel health professionals who are
paying them?

"I'm amazed that we even have to think about whether this is ethical or not,"
said Michael E. Greene, MD, an alternate delegate for the Medical Assn. of
Georgia. "To put doctors in the ... employee role of those they are supervising
is ludicrous."

Dr. Greene, a family physician, said the situation poses an untenable conflict
for doctors. "Yes, in a perfect world, my ethics say, 'We shouldn't do this or
that,' but then they say, 'Thanks very much. You're no longer employed here.' "

Michael A. Williams, MD, a delegate for the American Academy of Neurology, said
the relationship can be handled professionally.

"There is a lot of temptation to frame this as a scope-of-practice issue and a
financial issue," said Dr. Williams, an employed physician who supervises a
physician assistant. "But the physician responsibility in any kind of
relationship is the same."

Sham supervisory relationships formed to skirt the law are obviously wrong, Dr.
Williams said. But he argued it would be difficult for CEJA "to make the case
across the board" that it is ethically impermissible for doctors to supervise
midlevels who employ them.

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: The AMA's Code of Medical Ethics has not been comprehensively reviewed in
more than 30 years. Action: The AMA Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs will
undertake a three-year project to reorganize the code to make it easier to use
and to consolidate opinions and identify gaps in policy.

Issue: Drug- and device-maker funding of graduate and continuing medical
education can pose conflicts of interest for physicians and unconsciously bias
the content of educational activities. Action: CEJA and the AMA Council on
Medical Education are working together to issue recommendations at the 2009
Annual Meeting on how best to manage these conflicts. An open call for comments
will be posted to the AMA Web site.

Issue: Some hospitals, required to provide uncompensated long-term care for
immigrant patients have had the patients deported to home countries, where
appropriate care is often lacking. Proposed action: The AMA should adopt policy
opposing the deportation of patients. [ Referred for study ]

Issue: The AMA has no ethical policy explicitly outlining physicians' duty to
provide the right care to the right patient at the right time through continuous
quality improvement. Proposed action: A CEJA report spelled out physicians'
ethical obligation to provide high quality care. Some delegates objected that
the proposed policy placed untenable demands on doctors in underserved areas. [
Referred for study ]

Issue: Health care organizations are increasingly using "secret-shopper"
patients to report on physician and hospital performance in areas ranging from
customer service and patient-centeredness to hand hygiene and decor. Proposed
action: A CEJA report stated that secret-shopper patients could be used as one
way to assess and improve quality. But, the council said, these pseudo patients
should not deprive real patients from getting care and should be used only with
the approval of physicians. Delegates overwhelmingly objected that
secret-shopper patient programs are inherently deceptive and misallocate scarce
health care resources.[ Not adopted ]

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2007 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                  Winter, 2007

                      Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics

                            35 J.L. Med. & Ethics 53

LENGTH: 1083 words

THE PUBLIC'S HEALTH AND THE LAW IN THE 21ST CENTURY: FIFTH ANNUAL PARTNERSHIP
CONFERENCE: CONCURRENT SESSION: A. All-Hazards Emergency Legal Preparedness:
Health Departments, Hospitals, and Pandemic Flu: Overlapping Ethical and Legal
Questions

NAME: Robert Boyle, James Childress, Steven D. Gravely, Lisa Kaplowitz, Alan
Melnick, Mark Rothstein, and Ruth Gaare Bernheim (Moderator)
Edited by Briana Grovhoug Kennedy

TEXT:
 [*53]  Ruth Gaare Bernheim
The purpose of this session is to illuminate the overlapping legal and ethical
questions that hospitals, private providers, and health departments may face in
allocating scarce medical resources (such as hospital ICU beds, ventilators, and
medications) during public health emergencies. Issues include adjusting
standards of care and creating "agents of the state" with legal protections. The
goals of the session are to: (1) Explore the legal and ethical dimensions of
creating a framework and management plan for medical triage in an emergency,
particularly focusing on hospital management decisions and the relationships
between hospitals and health departments in a public health emergency; (2) Use
ethics guides to facilitate analysis and deliberation about the needs,
perspectives and interests of the various stakeholders, such as hospitals,
private physicians practicing in hospitals, the local health department, and the
state health department; and, (3) Explore the role of hospital ethics committees
in hospital organizational planning and in future allocation policies and cases
during a public health emergency.

   Today's session will focus on the "5th week" scenario -- the first wave of a
pandemic. We will focus on questions such as how hospitals should make triage
decisions and the role of the ethics committee in making these decisions. Also,
what is the role of the public health department and what is an acceptable
standard of care? As we know, medicine focuses on individual patient treatment,
informed consent, duty to treat, standard of care, and liability whereas, public
health focuses on population prevention, due process, and disability
discriminatory laws. In medicine you have the Hippocratic Oath. In public health
there is the professional code of public health.

   James Childress
Today I will discuss triage during an influenza pandemic. The language of
distribution includes allocation, selection, gate keeping, priority setting,
rationing, and triage. What is just care? It is formal justice where one treats
similar cases similarly and dissimilar cases dissimilarly? The material
criterion of justice is to identify characteristics that constitute relevant
similarities and differences. A medical triage will sort according to needs and
probable outcomes, given available resources. It is generally designed to do the
greatest good for the greatest number under conditions of scarcity, often in
emergency conditions. Social utility maximizes social welfare while medical
utility maximizes the welfare of persons suffering from or at risk of disease.
Factors of medical utility include medical need, probability of successful
outcome, and amount of resources required. Triage should be based on criteria of
medical utility and narrow social utility.

   Steven D. Gravely
Most healthcare services are delivered through the private sector. Healthcare
providers are held to a standard for the care they provide. They are expected to
discharge care in an appropriate manner. Liability and exposure are top
priorities of most healthcare providers. The standard of care represents the
duty healthcare providers owe to their patients. The issue is that when there
are not enough providers to go around, does the standard of care become
degraded? The standard of care varies from state to state. Sometimes the
presumption is that the standard of care is not situation specific. Given the
standard of care, how do you best position providers to operate at their best?
There should be documentation and a process in place  [*54]  so when a trier of
fact looks at the situation, he/she will be able to determine that providers did
their best, given the standard of care.

   Lisa Kaplowitz
People look to public health as a government link to healthcare. In Virginia,
the state Department of Health is the link between the state emergency response
system and the healthcare system. There is protection for healthcare volunteers
working under the umbrella of the health department. Public health is
responsible for tracking a pandemic, surveillance, investigation, giving
information to the public, infection control, vaccination, and managing the
stockpile. The state health department will advise the governor in the
declaration of an emergency.

   Alan Melnick
Today I will discuss using the principals of the ethical practice of public
health. The code of public health ethics was developed to address
population-based characteristics. The pandemic influenza dilemma is that there
will be decreased resources such as fewer beds, diminished ICUs, and fewer
mechanical ventilators. The public health code can help because decisions based
on epidemiology or legal authority alone do not have the best outcome. The
principals of the code of ethics address the identification of priority groups,
enforcement of priorities, and communication with the public.

   Robert Boyle
My focus is on ethical issues for hospitals and hospital ethics committees.
Staffing issues during a pandemic include not having enough nurses. As many as
30-40% of clinicians will not report to work because of school closure and
exhaustion. There is no agreement on the professional duty to stay and care for
patients. Also, there will be rationing issues such as ICU beds. The normal
ability of the healthcare system will increase to meet surge capacity. Hospitals
should use ventilators that are not state of the art or they should use manual
ventilation by a family member. There will be a need to modify the first-come,
first-served approach to a more utilitarian, a more justice-based system.

   Mark Rothstein
I am concerned with the rationing and staffing of healthcare during a pandemic.
Rationing decisions could involve such factors as the ability to pay, knowledge
(low health literacy may keep people from seeking care), and whether it is
appropriate to use only medical necessity to allocate resources. The utilitarian
view is that using social criteria to allocate resources promotes the greater
good. In practice, it is difficult to use this approach because of the
difficulty of drawing lines. The allocation criteria also may differ based on
the resources involved. Allocation issues with regard to staffing include the
following: regular staffing levels will be inadequate; the need to wear gowns,
gloves, and masks may require shorter shifts; and, cross-training healthcare
workers may help to fill gaps in staffing needs.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawManaged HealthcareGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawTreatmentPatient
ConsentInformed ConsentTortsNegligenceStandards of CareSpecial CareChildren


                              299 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday
                                 CITY-C Edition

Ethical objections in Phila. push study of out-of-control seizures to York
County

BYLINE: By Stacey Burling; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; P-com News Local; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 788 words


In a study in which Philadelphia's ethical objections forced local researchers
to do their work in York County, scientists have found that an easier way to
stop out-of-control seizures in an emergency worked at least as well as the more
difficult recommended approach.

Researchers at 17 institutions, including the Hospital of the University of
Pennsylvania and Temple University Hospital, compared giving antiseizure drugs
either intravenously or intramuscularly to patients having prolonged seizures
before they got to the hospital.

They found that giving a shot of midazolam (Versed) with an autoinjector was
more likely to stop the seizures before arrival at the hospital than giving IV
lorazepam (Ativan). Other outcome measures were similar. Both drugs are
benzodiazepines, a kind of sedative.

According to the study, published Thursday in the New England Journal of
Medicine, many emergency responders were already giving medicine by shots
because it is faster and easier to do properly. That method, however, is
off-label and had not been studied.

The new research found that 73.4 percent of patients were seizure-free when they
arrived at the hospital after paramedics had given them the shots. That compared
with 63 percent of patients who got the IV drug. Close to 450 patients got each
treatment. In 42 cases, paramedics were unable to start the IV care.

The study involved people in "status epilepticus," in the midst of seizures that
had lasted more than five minutes. Prolonged seizures can cause brain damage as
well as breathing and heart problems and aspiration pneumonia, said Jill Baren,
who directs emergency services for the University of Pennsylvania Health System
and was in charge of Penn's part of this study.

Funding for the work was provided by the National Institutes of Health and the
Department of Defense, both of which had an interest in developing treatments
for seizures caused by chemical weapons. The Department of Defense supplied the
autoinjectors, which are similar to EpiPens used by people who have serious
allergic reactions.

Baren said Penn worked with York Hospital and its ambulance crews because
Philadelphia's Department of Health, which said it feared lawsuits, would not
allow emergency medical crews that work for the Fire Department to participate.
Temple partnered with Narberth Ambulance, which took most of its patients to
Lankenau Hospital, said Nina Gentile, an emergency physician who was Temple's
lead investigator.

Baren said cities where all of the other research centers are based, including
Detroit, Atlanta, New York, Baltimore and Minneapolis, allowed their paramedics
to take part.

Penn had 30 patients in the study, which began in 2009, and Temple had eight.
Gentile said Temple likely would have had many more if the city had cooperated.
"Seizure is one of our more common neurological emergencies," she said.

The ethical dilemma stems from the fact that patients who are having such
seizures cannot give informed consent to participate in a clinical trial. In
situations like this, the government allows Institutional Review Boards (IRBs),
groups that oversee research, to make exceptions to the consent rules. That
makes it possible to investigate ways to improve care for patients in
life-threatening situations.

The process requires consultation with community leaders. Baren said talks with
seizure patients, their families, and Fire Department leaders went well, but
researchers could not convince the Health Department's IRB after two years of
negotiations. It had veto power because city employees would be involved.

Jeff Moran, a Health Department spokesman, said the IRB was "uncomfortable that
the study required exemption from informed consent." He said the city's Risk
Management Unit recommended against the study because of liability issues and
the Law Department also recommended against approval.

Gentile described the study as one that had the "direct potential for benefit"
for many patients and "very low risk for harm."

Baren said there had been no threats of suits in the study so far. "It was
unfounded, the whole issue of legal retribution," she said.

Baren said Philadelphia residents would benefit from studies that bring more
refined science to the first phases of treatment of trauma, septic shock, severe
blood loss, stroke, heart attacks, and other medical emergencies. The government
exception to informed consent rules, she said, was created to make such research
possible.

Paramedics in York were very enthusiastic about participating in "cutting edge"
research, Baren said. "I just think that it was sad that the medics here
couldn't do that."

Contact staff writer Stacey Burling at 215-854-4944 or sburling@phillynews.com.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           December 28, 2013 Saturday

Yet another rabies patient dies at Government Rajaji Hospital

BYLINE: V Devanathan

SECTION: MADURAI

LENGTH: 454 words


MADURAI: A 20-year-old youth from Madurai, infected with rabies virus
transmitted from his pet dog, died in a private cell meant for rabies victims at
Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Friday. Helpless, his relatives, friends and
doctors at GRH watched the youth die.

Doctors say a rabies patient cannot be saved. Preventive medicine alone is
available and death is sure if infected with rabies virus, they say.

In 2013, eight people admitted to GRH with rabies infection died in the private
cell.

The victim, Ragunath, had completed class 12 and was working as an earthmover
operator. He was bitten by a puppy while he staying at his grandfather's house
in Palamedu a month ago. Ragunath, son of Karuppusamy, a farmer, did not take it
seriously and did not even tell his family members that the puppy had bit him.
Doctors from the GRH said their enquiry revealed that the puppy died recently,
due to rabies. Ragunath developed health complications three days ago and was
admitted in a private medical college hospital in Madurai. He was shifted to GRH
on Friday, when the doctors learnt that he was infected by rabies.

GRH doctors say, on an average, 10 to 12 rabies patients are admitted to the
hospital every year and they all die within 24 hours of admission.

Doctors say people who get bitten by a dog must take vaccination irrespective of
whether the dog was a stray or a pet. If three injections are administered in
the first month, the person will be rabies free. In case of a pet dog, it should
also be vaccinated, they say.

Ironically, when doctors say there is no treatment for rabies victims who have
reached a terminal stage, a professor at Madurai Kamaraj University had claimed
that she has invented a cure. The ethical clearance committee at GRH needs to
clear her medicine.

T Anitha Sironmani, head and chairperson of department of genetic engineering,
MKU, obtained permission from Tamil Nadu government to apply her nanotechnology
medicine on rabies patients a while ago. She was allowed to test the medicine
with the permission of the patient and after clearance from the ethical
clearance committee at GRH. "I approached the ethical clearance committee
several times. They would allow the victims to die but would not let me try out
the medicine. I have tested my technology on a rabies-infected cow and it
worked," Sironmani told TOI.

Dr N Mohan, dean, GRH and Madurai Medical College, said the independent (ethical
clearance) committee consists of two retired professors, senior doctors and a
legal expert with me as coordinator. "There are certain procedures to be
followed. If she fulfils the requirements, she would be allowed to do the
experiment on patients," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                              May 24, 1993, Monday

Sextuplets issue needs full debate, says health chief

BYLINE: Tim Barlass

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 654 words


THE HOSPITAL where sextuplet mother Jean Gibbins received fertility treatment
today virtually admitted it was out of its depth when it came to selecting
potential patients for treatment.

Grimsby District Hospital said that infertility in women presented 'a complex
mix of clinical and ethical issues'.

And Roy Williams, chairman of Grimsby Health NHS Trust, said the whole issue
should become the subject of national debate.

Hospital managers met today to discuss the controversy fuelled by the births
after it emerged that parents Jean and Jan Vince are unmarried and live
separately.

The Trust's statement adds to the clamour for Health Secretary Virginia
Bottomley to implement new guidelines.

Miss Gibbins, 29, gave birth to the five girls and a boy 11 weeks prematurely in
St James's Hospital, Leeds on Wednesday.

All are said to be making satisfactory progress. It then emerged that Mr Vince,
36, who has a six-year-old son by Miss Gibbins, already has twin daughters and a
son by his ex-wife.

£'

Mr Williams said his health authority had debated the subject and attempts had
been made to 'prioritise' the range of treatments available. But the board had
found it impossible to define 'an exclusive set of precise ethical criteria' to
enable selection to be made.

'

He added: 'The resolution of the ethical standards for selection of women for
these treatments will have to be the subject of wide-ranging public debate.'

The controversy was further fuelled by a claim from the chairman of the
Community Health Council for Grimsby that lack of funding had recently led to
the cancellation of an operation.

John Colebrook said: 'We have a situation where an operation was cancelled only
to discover that money has been wasted on giving expensive fertility treatment
to a woman who already has a child, it does not make sense.'

Leader comment: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              302 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            July 14, 1999, Wednesday

Ethical problems over heart drug trial

BYLINE: By Medical Writer BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 275 words


TWO major public hospitals may be facing an ethical problem over the

trial of a drug that is a substitute for open heart surgery in elderly

patients.

The Queen Elizabeth and Royal Adelaide hospitals are part of a

12-month international study of perhexiline, a drug which treats

narrowing of the aortic valve, the main valve that regulates heart

blood flow.

The director of the QEH cardiology department, Professor John

Horowitz, said it was a frequent cause of cardiac disability and

death, particularly in the elderly.

He said valve replacement was a $20,000 plus open-heart operation that

usually could not be done safely in aged patients, most of whom had

other conditions.

Patients found to be unsuitable for surgery generally survived less

than two years.

Professor Horowitz is directing the international study in eight

hospitals in New Zealand, Sweden and the UK. There are plans to

recruit about 50 patients to test the drug's effectiveness.

"Preliminary trials show that perhexiline is dramatically effective

as an alternative to high risk surgery," Professor Horowitz said.

"Because of this there might be an ethical problem in giving some

sufferers a placebo just so the effectiveness can be scientifically

proven."

He said it was also likely the drug prevented valves from worsening

over a period of years.

An international committee was currently discussing whether the trial

may have to be stopped early so all participants could receive the

drug.

The study followed observations at the QEH by Dr Steve Unger that the

drug improved symptoms in patients suffering from inoperable aortic

problems.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1999 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              303 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Health bodies review ethical and legal perspectives of healthcare

BYLINE: Sumitra Deb Roy

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 422 words


MUMBAI:The National Steering Committee to review ethical and legal perspectives
of healthcare in India recently held its first meeting in Bangalore. The
committee, consisting of all major medical and hospital associations, reiterated
that as health professionals all effort should be made to ensure provision of
quality, ethical, easily accessible and affordable health care to all.

Led by the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) and the Indian
Medical Association (IMA), the committee said that healthcare professionals
should ensure patients get standardized care. The members also discussed how
communicating with patients and their kin was one area that needed major
improvement. The members discussed how accepting and offering commissions was an
outright unethical practice and indirectly responsible for the increased cost of
healthcare.

The body has representation from the Association of National Board Accredited
Institutions (ANBAI), Academy of Hospital Administration (AHA), Association of
Physicians India (API), Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Federation of
Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI), Indian Academy of
Pediatrics (IAP), Indian Orthopedic Association (IOA), Indian Radiological and
Imaging Association (IRIA), among other bodies.

In the meeting, an increase in litigations against doctors was extensively
discussed. Members noted that these verdicts have led to a significant increase
in the premiums paid to insurance companies. They also felt it was responsible
for doctors shying away from treating complicated cases.

One solution discussed by the committee was that it may be desirable to place a
cap on the amount that can be awarded in cases of medical negligence, as
practiced in countries such as the US. "Capping could be a reasonable and
balanced solution. Current compensations awarded for negligence is
unsustainable," said Dr Marthandam Pillai, president, IMA.

Renowned cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty said that 80% of hospital births in
India are in hospitals or nursing homes which have 30 or less beds. "These
smaller health care facilities in rural and semi-urban areas may have to shut
operations if subjected to frivolous and exorbitant lawsuits," he said. Dr
Alexander Thomas, executive director of AHPI mentioned that over the last few
months, IMA and AHPI have set up a working group to tackle the issue. Other
suggestions were to set up arbitration centers in hospitals, appointing an
Ombudsman in each state, etc.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

Doctors threaten mass walkout

BYLINE: Estelle Ellis; Michael Kimberley

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 613 words


Support for senior colleagues facing department action grows
 ellise@avusa.co.za
 DOCTORS have threatened to shut down public hospital services in Port Elizabeth
in support of their colleagues - three rebel doctors who have been threatened
with disciplinary action for speaking out about the dire staff shortage at the
medical facilities.


 Cardiologist Basil Brown, surgeon Sats Pillay and paediatric surgeon Lungile
Pepeta received letters last week asking them for reasons why they should not be
charged with misconduct.
 Now, 20 heads of different departments in the Port Elizabeth Hospital Complex
and junior doctors have threatened a mass walkout if action is taken against the
three.
 "If they are suspended or fired, we will all walk," a doctor, who did not want
to be named, said.
 Meanwhile, support for the doctors' decision to speak out about the staff
crisis at the complex is mounting, with many professional bodies calling on the
provincial Health Department to back down on its threats of disciplinary action
against the three specialists.
 Both department spokesmen, Sizwe Kupelo and Siyanda Manana, declined to comment
yesterday on developments in the disciplinary action against the doctors.
 The doctors were given 48 hours by the department last week to motivate why
disciplinary action should not be taken against them.
 Kupelo, however, said they would not be suspended pending possible departmental
action.
 SA Medical Association (Sama) acting chairman Dr Mark Sonderup backed the
doctors' actions.
 He said Sama would "ardently" oppose the department's attempts to discipline
them.
 "Appreciating the desperate situation they find themselves in, we fully support
our members' actions," he said.
 Sonderup said the department needed to remember doctors had a moral and ethical
duty to point out deficiencies that could cause harm to patients.
 "This is not a political issue but an ethical one."
 He said the doctors had not gone "rogue" to embarrass the department but had
been left with no choice.
 "Their actions followed very exhaustive processes and attempts at numerous
levels to try and resolve the core issues within the department," he said.
 "They were at the end of their tether and it is well documented ...
 "We support them and believe it was correct the doctors spoke out. It was their
ethical responsibility."
 SA Heart, the professional body for cardiologists in South Africa, said it was
deeply concerned about developments at the hospital complex.
 "The medical community in South Africa, especially the cardiac practitioners
working in the public sector, are under enormous pressure to render a service in
extremely difficult circumstances with staff, equipment and financial
constraints," it said.
 "In the public sector there is approximately one qualified cardiologist serving
an estimated two million people, with about 40% of all medical admissions having
a cardiac component.
 "It goes without saying that this has led to incredible stress on the part of
these cardiac health workers in the public sector - it is important that this is
recognised.
 "It is disappointing, too, that the department does not value the dedication of
professionals to serve the public.
 "The actions of the authorities are counterproductive and should rather focus
on solving the problems than wasting time on disputes."
 The SA Society of Psychiatrists in the Eastern Cape said: "A crisis of this
magnitude could have been averted through better budget, infrastructure and
human resource planning [by the department].
 "Lack of decisive, effective solutions to these issues have far-reaching
consequences that will be difficult for the Eastern Cape government to reverse."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2012 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 30, 1989 Thursday

Liver transplant from mother poses ethics question

BYLINE: PAUL TAYLOR; GAM

LENGTH: 556 words


BY  PAUL TAYLOR
 The Globe and Mail
    The first North American liver transplant from a living donor has
raised an ethical issue: In a bid to save another life, the healthy donor
put herself at risk.

In experimental surgery this week in Chicago, 29-year-old Teresa Smith
gave part of her liver to her 21-month-old daughter, Alyssa.

Until now, surgeons have relied almost exclusively on livers removed
from cadavers. Only a few transplants of liver tissue from living donors
have been attempted, in Brazil, Australia and Japan.

"By cutting into the donor we offend the primary rule of medicine:
above all do no harm," said Dr. Calvin Stiller, chief of the multi-organ
transplant service at University Hospital in London, Ont.

The transplant team at the University of Chicago Medical Centre decided
to start relying on family donors because some children are dying as they
wait for organs to become available.

"Based on an assessment of the benefits and risks, we felt it was
ethical to proceed with a series of transplants," said Dr. Peter Singer,
who acted as an adviser to the transplant team while he was a member of
the Centre for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago. He
recently became a member of the Centre for Bioethics at the University of
Toronto.

Dr. Singer said all ethical issues were carefully analyzed before the
operation. The conclusions of that review were published in August in the
New England Journal of Medicine.

Other hospitals are closely watching the progress of the mother and
child.

"We can not underplay the risks to the donor," said London's Dr.
Stiller.

In fact, during the 12-hour operation Monday, a complication cost Mrs.
Smith her spleen. The surgeons accidentally nicked it and it had to be
removed.

Although Mrs. Smith can live without a spleen, the mishap demonstrated
that the operation is by no means risk-free.

The Chicago team readily acknowledged that things can go awry. Dr.
Singer said the team estimated the risk that the mother would die at less
than 1 per cent and the risk of other complications slightly higher than 1
per cent.

Dr. Singer said he believes the risks can be justified. "There is a
reasonably high chance of the child dying if it (the transplant) is not
done - and a low chance of harm to the donor," he said, adding that 30 per
cent of children needing new livers die before one becomes available.

Benjamin Friedman, a professor of philosophy at the Centre for Medical
Ethics and the Law at McGill University in Montreal, also thinks that the
risk is justifiable.

"If a mother feels her sacrifice is well worthwhile, then that's all
that needs to be said," Prof. Friedman said.

Prof. Friedman pointed out that doctors have been removing other
organs, mainly kidneys, from living donors for some time. Kidneys come in
pairs and a person can live with just one.

He said that people can survive with only part of the liver, which has
eight segments, each with its own independent supply of blood.
Furthermore, a liver lobe can be cut off and grow back.

Even so, Dr. Stiller said, the risk to the donor is greater in a liver
transplant than in a kidney transplant.

"They are removing a part of a single, vital organ," he said.

Dr. Stiller said he believes the answer to a shortage of livers for
transplant lies not in putting the living at risk but in better efforts to
persuade people to donate organs when they die.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 27, 2013 Friday

Dec, 29 Readers' letters: Washington Hospital creates new form of fundraising

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 488 words


Fundraisers using names may be suspect

You've got to credit Washington Hospital with creating a new definition for
"contributions laundering" ("Hospital CEO reimbursed for 'gifts' to charity,"
Page A1, Dec. 26). I understand the practice of using "names" to prime
contribution pumps and have in the past contributed to organizations using this
technique. However, the practice of reimbursing those "names" for their presumed
contributions borders on fraud. It may not be entirely illegal, but it sure
looks like a mutation of "bait and switch." So, contributors beware. Perhaps we
should all refuse to contribute to any fundraiser using "jump-start" names,
unless that organization certifies in writing, that contributions from those
names are not being refunded. And, if you see Nancy Farber's name on the list --
keep your wallet in your pocket.

Marialis Seehorn

Sunnyvale

Kindness not a winning business model in U.S.

Edith Drewek (Letters, Dec. 25) writes that "competence, ethical judgment,
respect for privacy, kindness and a willingness to put individuals' real needs
before profit and pride" is badly needed. Sadly, that's not a winning business
model in the United States. Those values and America have morphed into a lazy,
dumbed-down, me-first tech-dependent state where big business and government are
virtually in lock step and place no value whatsoever on personal privacy,
ethical behavior or the hard work and needs of the common man.

John Blasik

San Jose

State of Silicon Valley better as city-state

Since investor Tim Draper has decided to open the door to the crazy idea of
splitting California, I'd like to take his thinking a step further: Let's
transform his proposed state of Silicon Valley into a full blown city-state, our
region from San Francisco to Monterey as an independent nation  much like
Singapore and Vatican City. Not only could we pass "remarkable legislation" and
make our own decisions, but we would send no tax dollars to either Sacramento or
Washington, D.C. The independent, wealthy city-state of Silicon Valley -- where
do I sign up?

Anthony Dominguez

San Jose

Lick Observatory deserves support

I read with dismay that shortsighted University of California budget cutbacks
threaten the existence of the Lick Observatory as a laboratory for teaching and
research. We should be proud that right here, adjacent to the Silicon Valley
centers of innovation, dedicated scientists have used the instruments and
facilities at Lick to collect important data yielding deep insights into the
structure of our universe. If we as a nation can spend $20 billion lighting up
small screens with video games, we should certainly be able to afford the couple
of million dollars needed to support the observatory. Please contact the
University of California and urge them to fully fund Lick Observatory and
continue California's pioneering efforts in exploring the outer edges of the
known universe.

Ed Taub

Mountain View

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

Townsville Hospital in poor health Hospital troubles persist

BYLINE: Rachel Toune

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 487  words


special report

THE Townsville Hospital is in crisis with 58 complaints to the Ethical Standards
Unit and three senior bureaucrats departing within the space of 12 months.

There were 43 cases of suspected official misconduct investigated and 17
separate ethical issues reported to the ESU, the watchdog for Queensland Health,
leading to two officers being suspended or stood down last financial year. Two
investigations are continuing.

Townsville Health Service District chief executive Mary Bonner leaves the city
on Friday following the recent departures of chief financial officer Wayne
Armistead and deputy executive director of medical services Dr Isaac Seidl.

The revelations follow a complex investigation into the hospital's
cardiothoracic surgery unit, with four heart surgeons and two principal officers
stood down amid accusations of bullying, mismanagement, staff in-fighting and
incompetence.

A source close to the hospital said a culture problem still existed but senior
public servants had been warned not to talk to media or they would face legal
action.

The source, who asked to remain anonymous for fear of retribution, said there
was a general perception Ms Bonner was leaving before ``s**t hits the fan''.

Queensland Health yesterday denied there was a culture problem, saying the three
staff members had left for personal reasons.

Ms Bonner said the number of ESU investigations was not unusual for a hospital
with more than 5200 staff.

``Any suggestion that two ESU investigations between 5200 staff means a systemic
or cultural problem is wrong,'' she said.

``Further, staff turnover in the district is no higher than normal. It is wrong
to suggest there is a staff retention problem at Townsville.''

Ms Bonner said Dr Seidl and Mr Armistead left for personal reasons.

``Dr Seidl followed his wife to a job overseas . . . Mr Armistead moved to a new
position interstate where he and his wife are closer to their adult children and
extended family.''

Ms Bonner yesterday announced Dr Andrew Johnson would act as the chief executive
following her departure and Dr Monica Trujillo would act in Dr Johnson's
position of executive director of medical services.

``Dr Johnson has been our head doctor for more than 10 years and is well
equipped to carry out the role of interim CEO,'' she said.

``Dr Trujillo is a highly skilled medical administrator who is very capable of
stepping into Dr Johnson's role while he is acting CEO.''

Ms Bonner said Dr Seidl's position had been filled on a temporary basis. ``We
anticipate making an announcement about a permanent appointee shortly,'' she
said.

The ESU reports to the Crime and Misconduct Commission with majority of
investigations finalised within 90 days.

There were 577 complaints about suspected official misconduct across public
hospitals in the state in 2009/10 and 286 ethical issues that did not involve
suspected official misconduct.

rachel.toune@townsvillebulletin.com.au

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday
                                 Fourth Edition

Full face transplant surgery approved

BYLINE: Patricia Reaney in London

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; International News; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 308 words


BRITISH surgeons have been given ethical permission to perform the world's first
full face transplants, a spokesman for the Royal Free Hospital in London has
said.

The face transplantation team, headed by Peter Butler, will be examining
potential recipients and will draw up a shortlist of patients in the coming
months.

"We have been given permission to go ahead with a series of four transplants," a
hospital spokesman, Neil Huband, said.

Last year surgeons in France performed the world's first partial face transplant
in a 15-hour operation on Isabelle Dinoire, who received a new nose, lips and
chin after being mauled by her dog.

The pioneering surgery - by Professor Bernard Devauchelle and his team at the
Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Amiens in northern France - sparked an ethical
debate and raised questions about the psychological impact of the surgery on
both the recipient and the donor's family.

The research ethics committee of the Royal Free Hospital in London gave the
go-ahead to Dr Butler and his team after they provided information and
clarification on several points.

At the end of last year, the team received permission from the committee to
recruit and evaluate potential patients for the transplants.

"The people we have already seen will be examined in detail and others will also
be examined. Within the next year or so we will draw up a shortlist," Mr Huband
said.

Although the microsurgery techniques needed for a full transplant are well
established, little is known about the psychological impact and long-term risk
of the drugs the patient will need to take to avoid rejection of the face.

More than 400,000 people in Britain have a facial disfigurement and 250,000
people are severely disfigured, according to the Face Trust, a charity set up to
fund research for surgical reconstruction and facial transplantation.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

World Health Organisation allow unlicensed Ebola drugs in west Africa

BYLINE: Sarah Boseleytheguardian.com

LENGTH: 570 words

ABSTRACT

Decision made after a Spanish missionary Miguel Pajares died after contracting
the virus in Liberia

FULL TEXT

Experimental, unlicensed drugs and vaccines can ethically be used in the Ebola
outbreak in west Africa, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has said following
a meeting of experts.

The decision was announced shortly after news of the death of a Spanish
missionary, who contracted the disease in Liberia. Miguel Pajares, a 75-year-old
priest, was evacuated to Spain and was due to be given the experimental drug
ZMapp at Madrid's Carlos III hospital. A spokesman could not confirm whether the
treatment had gone ahead or not before Pajares died.

Liberia has become the first African country to announce that it would use the
drug. It plans to give it to two doctors who have tested positive for Ebola.
There had been growing outrage the drug had only been made available to two
Americans and Pajares - all westerners who had been repatriated to their home
countries for treatment. Only limited quantities exist, however. The
California-based manufacturer of ZMapp, Mapp Biopharmaceutical, said it had run
out of treatment after responding to a request from an unidentified west African
country.

There will be pressure on the company to manufacture more, following the WHO
decision that its use, and that of other drugs yet to go through full clinical
and human trials, is ethical in the current outbreak.

The group of 12 international experts convened by the WHO concluded it was
ethical in the situation in west Africa to offer unproven treatments with as yet
unknown efficacy and adverse effects, either as treatment or prevention.

But they made clear high ethical standards must be observed. There must be
complete transparency about the implications of the treatment and patients and
their families must give informed consent - which means they must understand the
risks as well as the possible benefits. There must also be freedom of choice,
confidentiality, respect for the person, preservation of dignity and involvement
of the community, the WHO said in a statement.

"There was unanimous agreement that there is a moral duty to also evaluate these
interventions (for treatment or prevention) in the best possible clinical trials
under the circumstances in order to definitively prove their safety and efficacy
or provide evidence to stop their utilization," the statement went on.

Any experimental drugs will have to be given effectively as part of a clinical
trial, therefore. The group said ethical ways of gathering data from their use
in the difficult setting of an Ebola outbreak needed further discussion. There
also needs to be further consideration of which experimental drugs and vaccines
might be used and a fair way of distributing them given that demand is likely to
outstrip supply.

Pajares was one of three missionaries to test positive for the virus at the San
José de Monrovia hospital in Liberia. All three had been helping to treat people
infected with Ebola as part of their work with the San Juan de Dios hospital
order, a Catholic humanitarian organisation that runs hospitals around the
world. The two other missionaries, from Ghana and the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, who were not evacuated, have also died in recent days from the virus.

Pajares arrived in Spain with Juliana Bohi, a nun born in Equatorial Guinea who
holds Spanish nationality, who tested negative for the virus.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              310 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                            All but Toronto Edition

Patients increasingly at odds with physicians: Bioethics report

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 919  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA - Canada's health care system is increasingly gripped by ''ethical
challenges'' created by clashes between patients, their families and the medical
professionals treating them, a major new report says.

Such disagreements over treatments are most common in a hospital's
intensive-care unit, but they occur virtually everywhere in the system -- from
palliative care to mental health, and even in a family physician's office.

''It's floating under the surface like a shark,'' said Dr. Peter Singer,
director of the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics, and one of
the report's co-authors.

''These conflicts can be as serious as an emotionally charged fight over a
decision to withdraw aggressive treatment from a terminally ill patient in the
intensive care unit, or as mundane as a family physician refusing to acquiesce
to a patient's request for antibiotics for a viral infection."

The centre's report was published yesterday in the British journal BMC Medical
Ethics.

It says the ''end-of-life critical-care cases'' tend to be the most emotionally
charged and intractable, and often follow a pattern: A patient, perhaps with
cancer, is in the late stages of terminal illness and is hooked up to a
breathing ventilator in the ICU. The family is demanding ''everything'' be done
to maintain the patient's life, while the health professionals feel such
''aggressive interventions would amount to torture.''

''Emotions run high, conflict ensues, and communication inevitably breaks
down,'' the report says.

The health workers cannot understand the families' position and label them
''irrational'' or ''unreasonable,'' it says, while the families view the medical
staff as ''insensitive'' and ''disrespectful.''

''Sometimes families will go so far as to accuse the health care team of wanting
to withdraw treatment to save money or to give the resources to another
patient.''

The authors of the report surveyed 12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto
hospitals to rank the ''Top 10'' ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from waiting times to
medical errors -- provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Along with No.1, the patient-doctor conflicts, other issues cited include
waiting lists, access to care, a shortage of family doctors, and medical errors.

Dr. Singer said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

According to the report, very few members of the public are aware of the extent
to which there are conflicts between patients or their families and health care
professionals.

The report proposes several solutions, including educating health care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases, and
creating policies for health care facilities to provide guidance.

ETHICAL ISSUES:

The University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics has prepared a ''top 10''
ethical issues faced by the Canadian public and health-care professionals today.
Clashes between patients or their families and medical professionals rank at the
top of the list. The other ethical challenges, ranked by priority, are:

- 2. Waiting lists: The report observes that the wait lists that now plague the
system create ethical questions because, in some cases, the lengthy waits can
harm patients' health, impede their ability to return to work and contribute to
''psychological distress.''

- 3. Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system
has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment -- a discriminatory practice which must be openly acknowledged and
ended.

- 4. Shortage of family physicians: The shortage has become a ''significant
problem'' for the Canadian medicare system, especially since it is based on the
premise that patients deserve ''universal and reasonable access'' to medical
services.

- 5. Medical error: The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with
experts saying the system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug
prescriptions to performing surgery on the wrong patient. Ethical considerations
include ''under what circumstances, and how medical errors should be disclosed
to patients and/or families.''

- 6. Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

- 7. Informed consent: Patients are supposed to provide their ''informed
consent'' to a treatment before it is done, but many do not -- or cannot -- read
the forms they're asked to sign.

- 8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for ''fair compensation'' to
participants in medical research without the payments becoming a ''coercive
influence.''

- 9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable of making a
decision about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute, many of
whom find the responsibility onerous. As well, there is a legal hierarchy that
sometimes places the most intimate relationships (such as a spouse) near the
bottom of the list to qualify as the substitute.

- 10. Surgical innovation and new technologies: Doctors are faced with the
question: Should innovative surgical techniques be considered research and be
required to go through ethics approval before being used on patients?

Source: CanWest News Service

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White
Photo: A stethoscope.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2005 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     August 2, 1988, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Pickets protest in Niagara Falls as Henry Morgentaler honored

BYLINE: (STAFF)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 178 words

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS


   NIAGARA FALLS (Staff) - Dr. Henry Morgentaler was honored last night by an
international humanist organization as 17 pickets protested the right for women
to obtain abortions.

The International Humanist and Ethical Union, holding its tenth annual
conference this week at the State University of New York, gave an award to
Morgentaler, who performed abortions in defiance of Canadian law for many years
and is a pioneer in the pro-choice movement.

"It was a pretty orderly demonstration," said Niagara police guarding the
entrance to a hotel banquet room where Morgentaler spoke.

Morgentaler, one of the conference's most controversial speakers, said Canada
had no need of a new law to control abortion. He also rejected suggestions that
Canadian hospitals and clinics have been in chaos since the Supreme Court struck
down the abortion law this spring.

The humanists, whose members include Soviet physicist Andrei Sakharov and
several United Nations founders, are an international coalition of organizations
for non-religious ethical values.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              312 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                                   e1 Edition

SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 961 words


Apparently, the journal reports, in the US one may now consult an ethics
consultant in some hospitals when important and grave decisions are to be made.

Say your father is lying gravely ill in a private hospital, he is 88 years old
and is quite likely to die as various bits and pieces inside him are collapsing.
You are not sure whether aggressive treatment is necessary or even advisable.
Not being a doctor, you are not really sure what type of treatment he is getting
anyway, what care he should be getting and whether turning a procedure down is
in fact a decision to let him die rather than using life-support.

Come to think of it, you are not even sure if he is in the right facility.

These issues are fraught at the best of times and make up a good deal of the
subject matter of the discipline of bioethics.

Of course, these are hardly the only questions one will face, whether one is a
doctor, nurse, hospital manager or relative of a patient. There are clinical
decisions to be made as well as legal decisions. One may not just "turn off"
equipment here, as it may constitute murder!

Other legal issues are perhaps more acute in the US than in South Africa, such
as whether one will be sued if the advice turns out to be less than optimal or
the treatment recommended by a physician does not coincide with the opinion
given by the ethics consultant. If the physician is doing something blatantly
unethical - like not getting the required consent from the patient when he or
she is able - there are remedies both here and in the US.

Lawsuits seldom succeed here as ethics is often a foreign concept in private
health care and, as ever, doctors cover each other and refuse to testify against
one another.

The first giggle erupted as I thought how this might apply at a local hospital.

Funny bone?

If a victim of the recent xenophobic attacks had appeared at a trauma centre or
casualty department of a public hospital, how likely is it that the admissions
clerk would first have asked some interesting questions, such as "What is the
Zulu word for 'elbow'?", or "Where is your smallpox vaccination scar?" If the
answer gave an indication of "foreignness", what are the chances that the victim
would then have been refused treatment?

Or take someone who, having failed to get help at a clinic, has gone to a
private general practitioner, had tests done and been counselled. He then
presents at Johannesburg hospital with a medical certificate saying he is HIV
positive and that his immune status requires him to start antiretroviral
treatment at once - just as the national health plan allows for.

But the unwilling and rude "nurse" tells him to go to a clinic first, which is
neither necessary nor legal, and is certainly not ethical given the person's
parlous state. Fortunately, a more senior nurse catches the junior at it and
gives her hell.

I was still giggling when I thought of the rationing decisions taken in public
health facilities. I wondered which ethicists may have been consulted when each
decision was made and whether anybody could produce an ethical rationale for
most of these.

Consider the decision that if resources for a liver transplant are scarce, and
you are older than 65, then you will not qualify - with a few exceptions, that
is.

It has to be said here, though, that my own class in bioethics and health law at
Wits medical school is in fact full of public health employees, who probably
constitute the largest group of students on the course.

A second article that caused a giggle when it caught my eye would have had
Discovery Holdings chief executive Adrian Gore tripping on a stone on his
morning jog.

Laughable ratings

In the US there are several states, as well as organisations, that will rate
hospitals and treatment so that a patient will be able to determine, with useful
information, which hospital might produce best results.

The most recent organisation to do this is the Consumers Union, which publishes
Consumer Reports. It has an online service with simple and very useful
information, starting with demystifying concepts such as "conservative" and
"aggressive" treatment, which only doctors understand.

Another such organisation is Leapfrog, whose customers tend to be corporates.
Its comparisons look at several markers, including cost, quality of care and
outcomes.

Several years ago, Discovery Health Medical Scheme tried out a simple version of
the same concept and those ethical good folk - the doctors and private hospitals
- closed it down, claiming with serious faces that the methodology was rotten.

The next eruption of giggles was at the notion that the medical scheme may have
heard of the word "ethics" when deciding about treating patients in those
hospitals.

Producing even more laughter was the notion that schemes would queue to employ
ethics consultants, or that consultancy firms with health care divisions would
be aggressively looking for bioethicists to ensure that advice given is not only
financially sound, but ethical as well.

However, the giggles subsided and transformed when I thought of the fact that we
have 5 million or so people with HIV/Aids who will need to be treated by people
who cannot spell the word "ethics" in any language, let alone use the concept.

I remembered, too, that my collection of Human Rights Watch publications about
this country includes one written 10 years ago, entitled Prohibited Persons. The
report is devoted to South African maltreatment of migrants and xenophobia,
which at the time was not taken seriously and now manifests at public hospitals.

The item that finally wiped any trace of a smile off my face was the thought of
the unethical treatment of an 88-year-old who died in a private hospital that
had a bad rating in the Discovery comparisons.

That man was my father.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Stour and Avon Magazine

                            October 21, 2016 Friday

This hospital's food is silver standard

SECTION: FEATURES:OTHER; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 235  words


The catering team at the Royal Bournemouth Hospital (RBH) has been awarded a
Silver Standard from the Soil Association in its first entry to the Food for
Life Award.

The Soil Association encourages responsible farming and healthy eating in
balance with the environment and has recognised the hospital's efforts to ensure
the food served in the Shelley Restaurant is healthy, ethical and uses local
ingredients.

In order to achieve the Silver Standard, the team met a number of criteria,
including preparing 75 per cent of food freshly on site, ensuring all food is
free from controversial additives like colouring and artificial trans fats, as
well as purchasing farm-assured, sustainable, free range and organic products
from local sources, where possible.

Andy Whittingham, head of catering at RBH, said: "We're delighted our efforts to
source ethical products have been acknowledged. It's important our produce is
the best possible quality as well as affordable - I'd say we've managed to
achieve this and being endorsed by the Soil Association shows our dedication to
delivering the best quality to the staff and patients we serve.

"As a hospital, we make our way through a huge quantity of produce each year -
38,112 pints of milk, 107,280 eggs and 4,120kg of cheese to name just some of
our staple ingredients - so it's important we buy organically and ethically,
considering our impact on the environment."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andy Whittingham and Louise Clyde from RBH catering department
receiving their Soil Association Food For Life certificate from BJ Waltho, head
of service delivery at RBCH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 23, 1993 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Facing a policy gap on life-and-death issues

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 347 words


from Dr Helga Kuhse, director, Centre for Human Bioethics, Monash University The
Opposition health spokesman, Mr Tom Roper, regards a recently developed
not-for-resuscitation proposal by a Victorian psychiatric hospital as dangerous
(`The Age', 16/4).

The draft policy, developed by Lakeside Hospital in Ballarat, suggests that
"elderly mentally, and often physically frail patients" would not routinely be
resuscitated. Such a policy might well be morally dubious and Mr Roper is right
to bring it to public attention.

It is, however, easy to blame a country hospital for its failure to develop an
adequate policy in an area frought with ethical and legal problems. In 1987, at
the conclusion of the Inquiry into Options for Dying with Dignity, the social
development committee recommended "that the Health Department as a matter of
urgency ... review current practices in the area", so that commonly accepted
standards and practices could be developed and observed.

Current practices have not been reviewed and there are, as yet, no commonly
accepted standards. This means that individual health-care professionals and
hospitals are forced to make difficult life-and- death decisions without public
guidance and without scrutiny.

Having recognised the need for a policy, some hospitals have attempted to
develop not-forresuscitation guidelines on their own; others have found the task
too daunting. Other hospitals yet continue to be guided by the mistaken belief
that there is no need for a policy, given that not-forresuscitation orders are
but value-free "medical" judgments.

Not-for-resuscitation orders are not value-free medical judgments. The Lakeside
Hospital case demonstrates that they involve difficult ethical and legal issues.
It also demonstrates that the Health Department of Victoria has been very remiss
in not implementing the 1987 recommendation of the social development committee.

These difficult life-and-death issues will not go away. On the contrary, they
will face us more frequently, and more starkly, as our ability to prolong life
increases.

Helga Kuhse, Clayton.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1993 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 24, 2006 Tuesday

Tallaght hospital not getting what it deserves

SECTION: OPINION; Opinion; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1117 words


What motivates those in officialdom who seek to deny the ethical freedom of
choice and services promised for Tallaght hospital, asks Gordon Linney

'I want to make a very clear statement." So said Dr John Neill, the Church of
Ireland Archbishop of Dublin, in his address to the Diocesan Synod last week.

He was speaking about the situation at Tallaght hospital, of which he is
president, expressing the opinion that a very serious question mark hangs over
the future of a meaningful Church of Ireland involvement there. It is unusual
for a Church of Ireland bishop to be so direct, but his remarks were solidly
supported by a resolution passed later by the 300-member synod.

He emphasised that the issue at Tallaght was not "a Protestant hospital for
Protestant people [ or] jobs for Protestant doctors or Protestant nurses",
something that would be quite unacceptable to most Church of Ireland people. It
was about issues of much greater significance, where solemn agreements given by
the Government and approved by the Oireachtas in 1996 are being ignored or
frustrated.

Tallaght hospital evolved out of the general reorganisation of hospital
services. In that process, several hospitals closely associated with the
Protestant community were closed. However, after detailed negotiations it was
agreed that three historic Dublin hospitals - the Adelaide, Meath and National
Children's Hospital - would jointly move to Tallaght under an amended Adelaide
Hospital Charter.

The charter, approved by the Oireachtas in 1996, states that, while the hospital
should be "a focus for Protestant participation in the health services", it will
have "a multidenominational and pluralist character". In other words, while
there is a recognised Protestant presence, it exists only in the context of a
greater scheme. No reasonable person could challenge such a provision, given the
contribution of that community to medicine in the past and the fact that there
are currently sensitive ethical issues in healthcare, with more to come.

The acceptance by the Government of certain public and private denominational
hospitals is a fact and they are respected as major contributors to the health
service. But there is a need for balance and Tallaght is intended to contribute
to that balance.

In the Adelaide charter, there is an obligation "to promote and secure the
availability, as a matter between the patient and his or her doctor, of such
medical and surgical procedures as may lawfully be provided within the State".
The term, "as a matter between the patient and his or her doctor", is important
as it protects the confidentiality of the doctor-patient relationship. There is
no question of the imposition of an external denominational code of ethics. The
same may apply in other hospitals by custom, but in Tallaght it is legal and
binding. In this regard Tallaght does not claim to be better than any other
hospital, but it is different.

This is not about minority rights, religious or otherwise, but rather the right
of every citizen to be treated in accordance with his or her own conscience in
so far as that is consistent with the law.

The importance of this was shown when it was recently reported that the
treatment of women with a life-threatening disease was interrupted in one of our
major Dublin hospitals on the grounds that it breached the ethical code of that
hospital. There is simply no way of knowing if this is happening elsewhere in
the health service, and while that ought to be a cause for concern it does not
seem to bother those who would discredit our position.

The hospital charter envisaged that Tallaght would be a major voluntary
university teaching hospital, including children's medicine. The archbishop has
expressed concern that it is being downgraded, and that is demonstrable.

When planned in the 1980s, it was intended to have 830 beds, including a 50-bed
maternity unit, which was dropped before it opened. When it did open in June
1998 it had just over 500 beds, of which only 385 were available for acute adult
services for a population the same as Limerick. According to the report of the
project director of the planning board, this reduction in beds "sowed the seeds
for many of the difficulties which continue to this day".

A significant expansion of services which was promised never materialised. No
new tertiary service has been provided at Tallaght comparable to those which
have been given to each of the other four university teaching hospitals in
Dublin. In recent bids for radiation oncology and the new paediatric hospital,
Tallaght was unsuccessful and the reason given was the lack of tertiary
services. The fact is that Tallaght has been denied the capacity or the funding
to develop such services; indeed, some services have been removed.

These and other matters combine to diminish the hospital's potential as a
leading teaching hospital and vindicate the archbishop's straight-talking. The
last straw is the decision to remove the National Children's Hospital - not by
any means the first attempt to close it down over a number of years.

This will affect Tallaght in a serious way. Other hospitals may have lost an
opportunity for future development; Tallaght and its people will lose a
well-established, quality service. Perhaps nothing reveals the mind of
officialdom better than the fact that the hospital has never been officially
opened.

In June, Dr Neill together with the Archbishop of Armagh, Dr Robin Eames, the
Moderator of the Presbyterian Church, Dr David Clarke, and the Rev Desmond Bain,
former president of the Methodist Church, met the Taoiseach, who said he
regarded the honouring of the hospital charter by the Government as a matter of
the highest importance.

While that statement is appreciated and accepted in good faith, it will be
meaningless if those who are charged with implementing Government policy choose
to ignore it as heretofore.

There are signs that this is happening already.

It is difficult to understand what motivates those who seem determined to ensure
that the people of Tallaght and its environs cannot have the hospital they were
promised and deserve, and that citizens generally cannot be guaranteed the
ethical freedom and choice within the law which they deserve.

Whatever the motivation, the effect is disastrous for Tallaght hospital, its
excellent staff and the people they serve, who must feel utterly betrayed and
discouraged by what is going on. It is time for serious engagement and dialogue
in the context of stated Government policy to sort out the issues and secure an
agreed future.

Gordon Linney, formerly archdeacon of Dublin, is a member of the Tallaght
hospital board but is writing here in a strictly personal capacity

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday

Clinic's practices contradict doctrine

BYLINE: David Yonke and Julie M. McKinnon, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1481 words


July 30--LIMA, Ohio -- Despite church teaching that condemns all forms of
artificial contraception, officials at a Catholic hospital in Lima have
acknowledged that tubal ligation surgeries are performed at a nearby medical
facility the hospital partially owns.

St. Rita's Medical Center holds a 51 percent stake in the West Central Ohio
Surgery & Endoscopy Center, an ambulatory surgery center near the hospital that
performs tubal ligations, commonly referred to as having one's "tubes tied," as
well as other same-day surgical procedures, documents show.

The nonprofit hospital earned $995,343 in revenue from the ambulatory surgery
center in 2009, according to the latest annual forms St. Rita's filed with the
Internal Revenue Service.

But that amount does not include any revenue from tubal ligations because those
funds are donated directly to a local charity before the hospital's share is
received, according to Jim Reber, chief executive of St. Rita's Health Partners,
which includes the medical center.

The arrangement with the hospital to donate tubal ligation revenue to charity
was established when the for-profit surgery center opened as a joint venture
with doctors, Mr. Reber said. He declined to name the charity but said it is not
related to the Catholic Church.

Although St. Rita's owns a majority share of the ambulatory surgery center,
which was incorporated in 1998, it is not the general or managing partner,
according to the annual IRS form, called a 990.

The ambulatory center is not a Catholic organization and cannot qualify for
Catholic status because it is a joint venture with physician investors, hospital
officials said.

The Catholic Church has been consistent in condemning all forms of contraception
except natural birth control methods.

Pope Paul VI, in his 1968 encyclical Humanae Vitae (Latin for "Of Human Life"),
delineated the church teaching on regulating birth control.

After condemning abortion under any circumstance, the pontiff stated that direct
sterilization, which includes tubal ligation and vasectomies, is also immoral.

"Equally to be condemned, as the magisterium [teaching authority] of the Church
has affirmed on many occasions, is direct sterilization, whether of the man or
of the woman, whether permanent or temporary," Pope Paul VI wrote.

The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, in its 43-page publication, Ethical and
Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services, or ERDs, also forbids
direct sterilization in any Catholic health-care institution.

The Toledo diocese, which includes Lima, said in a statement this week that
"Bishop [Leonard] Blair is satisfied that Catholic health care in the Diocese of
Toledo complies with the ERDs. From time to time questions arise, especially
given the complex relationships that can exist between a Catholic hospital and
clinics or medical facilities in which the hospital has some role or ownership."

It said Bishop Blair "is aware of a situation involving St. Rita's Medical
Center in Lima and a surgery center at which certain medical procedures are
performed contrary to the ERDs."

The diocese said St. Rita's entered into the relationship "in the belief that
they were sufficiently separated from moral cooperation in these procedures.
However, this is becoming a moot point, inasmuch as St. Rita's is in the process
of evaluating alternative ownership models for the surgery center in light of
today's market conditions."

Mr. Reber said ownership of the clinic is being reviewed because government
reimbursement rates for outpatient surgeries have declined, making the business
model less financially viable. He said the review is unrelated to tubal ligation
surgeries.

"We're working with the board and with investors to look at our other options,"
Mr. Reber said.

According to the bishops' ethical directives, a bishop "ensures the moral and
religious identity of the health- care ministry in whatever setting it is
carried out in the diocese."

The Rev. Tadeusz Pacholczyk, director of education for the National Catholic
Bioethics Center in Philadelphia, said that while he could not comment on the
specifics of the St. Rita situation, the ERDs emphasize that "Catholic
health-care organizations are not permitted to engage in immediate material
cooperation in actions that are intrinsically immoral, such as abortion,
euthanasia, assisted suicide, and direct sterilization."

He explained that "material cooperation occurs when the cooperator does not
share the intentions of the principal agent but participates in circumstances
that are essential to the commission of an act. ... Immediate material
cooperation in intrinsically evil actions is morally illicit."

Father Pacholczyk said, again speaking on general principles and not about St.
Rita's specifically, that donating funds generated by an immoral act to charity
"would not lessen the evil being done, nor the immorality of the cooperation in
that evil.

"The only effect such donations might have would be to 'cover some tracks' and
perhaps mislead those who learned about the donations into thinking that the
evil actions were somehow not as bad as they actually were," he said.

John Brehany, executive director and ethicist for the Catholic Medical
Association, based in Bala Cynwyd, Pa., said the CMA could not offer a complete
ethical analysis on the St. Rita case without all the details, but that "this
much is clear: Unethical cooperation in evil [that is, in something like direct
sterilization which the Catholic Church teaches is a serious sin] is wrong in
principle. It is even worse to profit from cooperation in evil, but eschewing
the profit does not excuse, or make restitution for, the unethical action."

Several U.S. bishops have exerted their authority over Catholic hospitals for
what they considered violations of the church's ethical and religious
directives.

In December, for example, Bishop Thomas Olmsted of Phoenix stripped St. Joseph's
Hospital of its Catholic affiliation because of a surgery performed at the
facility in 2009.

The bishop said the procedure, which ended a pregnancy to save a woman's life,
was an abortion and violated the USCCB's ethical and religious directives.

As a result of the bishop's decision, St. Joseph's no longer can call itself a
Catholic hospital.

In February, 2010, Bishop Robert Vasa of the Baker, Ore., diocese ended the
church's sponsorship of St. Charles Medical Center in Bend, Ore., because tubal
ligation surgeries were performed in the hospital.

"As a bishop, I am responsible for attesting to the full Catholicity of the
hospitals in my diocese, a responsibility which I take very seriously, and I
have reached the conclusion that I can no longer attest to the Catholicity of
St. Charles," Bishop Vasa wrote in the diocese's newspaper.

"It would be misleading for me to allow St. Charles Bend to be acknowledged as
Catholic in name while I am certain that some important tenets of the ethical
and religious directives are no longer being observed," Bishop Vasa said in a
joint statement released by the diocese and hospital officials.

As a result, Mass no longer can be celebrated in the hospital's chapel and all
Catholic items have been removed and returned to the church.

Earlier this month, Bishop Blair cited Catholic teaching on bioethics in issuing
a statement directing all parishes and schools in the Toledo diocese to not
raise money or donate funds to the Susan G. Komen Foundation. The bishop said
the national anti-cancer charity has not excluded the possibility of someday
funding embryonic stem cell research, which Catholic teaching deems "not morally
acceptable."

The diocese later said in a statement that individual Catholics in the 19-county
diocese may contribute to the Komen Foundation.

St. Rita's traces its roots to 1918, when the Sisters of Mercy opened the
unfinished hospital to care for victims of the influenza epidemic that year. Now
the medical center's campus stretches along six blocks with covered walkways,
water fountains, gardens, and a track for running and walking.

Like Toledo-based Mercy, St. Rita's is part of Catholic Health Partners of
Cincinnati, Ohio's largest health system with hospitals, nursing homes, and
other operations in three states. Five Catholic organizations co-sponsor
Catholic Health Partners, including the two Sisters of Mercy communities,
Sisters of the Humility of Mary, and Franciscan Sisters of the Poor.

No tubal ligation surgeries are performed at any Mercy hospitals or
joint-venture facilities, a spokesman said.

Contact David Yonke at: dyonke@theblade.com or 419-724-6154.

To see more of The Blade, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.toledoblade.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110730-TO-Clinic-s-practices-contradict-doctrine-0730-20110730

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2011 The Blade


                              317 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                 February 13, 1992, Thursday, WEST END EDITION

Medicine's dilemmas; St. Mary's doctor helps colleagues wrestle with new
questions of ethics

BYLINE: ANDY RIGA; GAZETTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. G1/BREAK

LENGTH: 632 words


At St. Mary's Hospital, Franiois Primeau is part psychiatrist and part
philosopher.

As a staff psychiatrist, he treats patients two-thirds of his time.

The rest of his day is spent as director of the hospital's clinical ethics
service, where he acts as a consultant, helping fellow doctors and other staff
with ethical dilemmas.

"We're dealing with human beings here," said Primeau, 32. "I think a
philosophical look at our patients helps us set a more firm foundation for the
respect for the dignity of the person.

"Human beings are more than just a pair of legs and a head."

The medical quandaries faced by society were brought to the forefront late last
year by the case of Nancy B., a 25-year-old woman in Quebec City who asked that
her life support system be turned off.

But most of the ethical questions Primeau faces are not headline- grabbers.

"It's not necessarily 'plug or unplug' - there are other, finer issues," Primeau
said in an interview this week.

Most of the cases have to do with what type of treatment to deliver.

"Usually, the cases are more in the gray zone - for example an elderly person
who has had a severe stroke and is paralyzed and unable to speak. If the patient
has already had three bouts of pneumonia, how should we properly treat a future
(recurrence) of pneumonia?"

Should the patient be given antibiotics intravenously? Should a feeding tube be
used?

If his services are requested, Primeau assembles a team to look at the ethical
questions and meets with the doctors, the family and the patient before coming
up with a recommendation.

"Some would say if you use a feeding tube, you might prolong the life of the
patient much longer. We have to look at the burdens and the benefits of those
kinds of decisions.

"The question is how to intelligently use the technology to help the patient."

The clinical ethics service, set up last August by Primeau, uses the expertise
of 12 experts from the hospital.

It looks at the medical status of the patient, the likelihood of recuperation
and the prognosis. Aside from the clinical facts, it considers the
psychological, social and financial implications for the patient and his family.

It also meets with the patient, his family and the doctors involved.

Primeau said the patient's spiritual well-being is taken into account when
considering the type of care needed.

"We look at the patient as a whole - physical, psychological and symbolic, and
the symbolic includes the spiritual."

The team looks at the quality of patients' life, but Primeau said it is more
concerned with focusing on respecting the dignity of the patient.

"We have seen an unspoken push - especially in the U.S., where there is a push
for euthanasia - that when people are unproductive, we should not care too much
for them."

For Primeau, the economics of keeping someone alive should not be an overriding
consideration.

In addition to bedside consultations, Primeau's service also holds workshops to
help St. Mary's staff.

Four discussion sessions for staff - on issues such as living wills, organ
transplants and geriatric care - have been organized leading up to an
international conference on Ethical Challenges for the 21st Century in May.

There were no courses on ethics when Primeau was a medical student at Universite
de Montreal in the early 1980s.

He attributes his holistic approach to ethics - holistic means dealing with
wholes instead of individual parts - to his studies in Europe. There, he said,
doctors are "keenly aware of the importance of patient-physician interaction."

"In North America, we equate law with ethics," Primeau said.

"But these two things are not on the same level: law is on the level of
obligation, but ethics is on the level of virtue."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                           October 15, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Ministry urges hospital staff to get flu shots

BYLINE: CanWest News Service

SECTION: PROVINCE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 287  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER -- Public health officials are telling health care workers they have
an "ethical responsibility" to get an influenza vaccination.

Only about 30 per cent of hospital staff in B.C. are vaccinated, Patricia Daly,
Vancouver coastal medical health officer, said Tuesday.

The vaccination rate for B.C. health care workers overall is only 56 per cent.

"It really is an ethical obligation" that health care workers owe to their
patients, Daly told a press conference to publicize the Nov. 1 availability of
this season's flu shots.

"We remain disappointed with our coverage rate of only about 30 per cent in
acute-care facilities."

Health Planning Minister Sindi Hawkins said the overall health staff vaccination
rate should be 80 per cent.

Health Services Minister Colin Hansen said the province would appeal to workers
to do the right thing before looking at what the can be required to do by law.

B.C. Nurses' union president Debra McPherson said, "we encourage our members to
get a flu shot."

Almost 200,000 work days are lost each year in B.C. to the flu, said provincial
health officer Dr. Perry Kendall. Along with related pneumonias, the flu kills
1,400 annually, and up to 2,500 in a bad season.

B.C. has increased its purchase of vaccine this year by 100,000 to 900,000
doses.

The vaccine, which has an effectiveness range in healthy people of from 70 to 90
per cent, covers the same strains as 2002: Panama, New Caledonia and Hong Kong.
Health officials said a new shot is needed every year.

The shots are available free to anyone over 65, health care workers, adults and
children with a chronic illness, informal caregivers for those at high risk,
home care workers, paramedics, police and firefighters.

(Vancouver Province)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2003 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday

Local nurses gather for specialized training

BYLINE: Matt Kasper, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


Sep. 27--Nurses who wants to keep their licenses know they are required to
attend 24 hours of education sessions every two years.

But if industry trends are any indication, recruiting and education will loom
even larger for the future of nursing.

Reports on staffing shortages have spread like kudzu. The federal Health
Resources and Services Administration has predicted the nation will be short
683,700 nurses by 2015.

Alabama might be particularly vulnerable because of shortages in nursing
education. An April report published by the Southern Regional Education Board
noted at least 2,005 nursing positions will be vacant by 2012.

On Wednesday, Stringfellow Memorial Hospital hosted its first annual nursing
education roundup at the Anniston City Meeting Center. The session offered six
training hours for nurses as well as a chance to shape the future of the
profession and further education, according to Hank O'Steen, human resources
director at the hospital.

"We just wanted to make (the program) relevant to what nurses are experiencing
in the field," he said of the hospital's inaugural education session, which
included an estimated 300 participants. "This is our first go at it."

The program included a series of speakers and topics, including interpreting
electrocardiogram readings and studying the legal and ethical issues in nursing.
The session was designed to reflect the diversity of career options for nurses,
said Stringfellow Chief Operating Executive Linda Burdette.

"It's an education for our nurses and nurses in the community," she said,
explaining that Stringfellow will continue to work on problems associated with
nursing shortages.

The combination of a lack of educators and more specialized positions in nursing
are factors contributing to the scarcity, said Maggie Choate, the chief nursing
officer at Stringfellow.

Raul Magadia, an infectious-disease specialist, said the goal of his talk was to
stress the importance of hand washing and the over-prescription of antibiotics.

He said some bacteria, known as MRSA, are increasing so that incidences of MRSA
infections in 2004 accounted for 63 percent of total staph infections compared
to 22 percent in 1995, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

For her segment on the legal and ethical issues in nursing, Katie Drake-Speer, a
nurse consultant for the Alabama Board of Nursing, said learning the legal
responsibilities of care is important for ethical treatment.

"We can't ever forget that everything we do is based on ethical principles," she
said.

"Look at the administrative code and know the standards of practice."

Larry Bridges, a retired Anniston nurse who said he was attending to maintain
his license for possible future practice, said the training on MRSA and reading
EKGs were the highlights of the morning session.

"I do very little antibiotics at all," he said, referring to Magadia's talk.

Tim Crook, a registered nurse in the cardiac lab at Stringfellow, said: "This
was a chance to reflect on things we already know."

About Matt Kasper

Matthew Kasper covers Jacksonville, Piedmont, Ohatchee and Alexandria for The
Star.

To see more of The Anniston Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.annistonstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2007, The Anniston Star, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070927-AO-Local-nurses-gather-for-specialized-training-0927

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                                 Copyright 2007


                              320 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

It's ethical to try untested Ebola medicines: UN

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Aug. 12 -- The World Health Organisation today declared that it's
ethical to use unproven Ebola drugs and vaccines in the outbreak in West Africa
provided the right conditions are met.

The statement from the UN health agency came amid a worldwide debate over the
medical ethnics surrounding the Ebola outbreak, which it has called an
international health emergency.

However, the agency sidestepped the key questions of who should get the limited
drugs and how that should be decided. The statement came after the agency held a
teleconference with experts yesterday to discuss the issue.

WHO says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and
authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected or confirmed cases. The killer virus
was detected in Guinea in March and has since spread to Sierra Leone, Liberia
and possibly Nigeria.

Two Americans and reportedly a Spanish priest have gotten an experimental Ebola
treatment never tested in humans and two more Ebola treatments were said to be
on their way to treat two doctors in Liberia. The vast majority of Ebola victims
are Africans, and some nations have protested that their citizens are not
getting access to the experimental drugs.

The Spanish missionary priest, 75-year-old Miguel Parajes, died today in a
Madrid hospital, the hospital and his order said. The hospital would not confirm
that he had been treated with the drug, but his order and Spain's Health
Ministry said earlier that he would be.

WHO decided it is ethical to use experimental treatments and vaccines in an
ongoing outbreak. There is no evidence yet that these experimental drugs can
actually help fight Ebola and it is possible they could be harmful. Still, this
outbreak has had about a 50 per cent death rate, according to the UN, adding
urgency to the search for a treatment.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      North Shore News (British Columbia)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Consider consent issues at the doctor's clinic

BYLINE: Davidicus Wong, Special To North Shore News

SECTION: LIVE; Davidicus Wong; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 840  words


The last time you saw your doctor, you probably didn't realize that you gave
your consent.

What is consent, and why is it so important to the ethical practice of medicine?

Consent refers to a patient granting a physician permission to treat them. At
the heart of this process are two key ethical principles: autonomy and
disclosure. Respecting autonomy means giving the uncoerced patient freedom to
choose or refuse treatment. Providing appropriate disclosure means giving the
patient enough information to make that choice.

How much information is enough? In Canada, we use the "reasonable person"
standard. The physician is obligated to provide the nature and degree of
information that a reasonable person in the patient's situation would want.

The key elements of disclosure are a description of the treatment (for example,
medication, operation or other procedure), its benefits and risks, the risks of
no treatment or delayed treatment, and the risks and benefits of alternative
treatments.

During this discussion, the patient needs the opportunity to have his or her
questions answered. When asking the patient to make a choice, the physician must
be certain that the patient is mentally and emotionally capable of making a
decision to consent to or refuse a treatment. In addition, the patient should
not be pressured or coerced by other people to make a particular choice.

In practice, consent is often implied. When a man makes an appointment and
attends my office, I fairly assume that he gives consent to be treated unless,
of course, his mother brought him in kicking and screaming.

If a more intrusive exam, such as a rectal, pelvic or breast exam, is necessary
in the course of treatment, I would ask permission. The patient has the right to
decline any portion of the examination just as a capable individual has the
right to refuse medication or surgery against medical advice.

For example, if I prescribe a medication, I have an obligation to explain the
intended benefits of taking it as well as common side effects and any serious
risks. If there are appropriate alternatives to this course of treatment, I
would explain the benefits and risks of these as well. When I order blood tests,
I detail what I am testing for and give the patient an opportunity to refuse any
one of them. To test for any condition, such as HIV, without informed consent is
considered battery.

The same ethical principles apply in all of health care. The current nature of
hospital practice, however, can put them on a back burner. Many health-care
providers assume that signing a general consent form at the beginning of
hospital treatment removes the need to provide appropriate disclosure and to
allow freedom of choice. Medications are often given to the patient with no
explanation of possible side effects or alternative treatments. Blood samples
are drawn without explanation of what is being tested.

One of the mega-goals of my hospital's ethical resources committee is to
transform the way in which ethics is applied in daily inpatient care. This has
become more crucial, as fewer family physicians are in hospital and therefore
less available to provide the standard of disclosure and consent they provide in
their offices. Physicians must adhere to these strict codes of conduct because
of the nature of our work, dealing with the intimate details of our patients'
lives with interventions of life and death import.

Imagine if everyone had to provide informed consent in all the other areas of
life. Would the waiter offering you a caesar salad inform you of the risk of
atherosclerosis from its high fat content, the chance of salmonella from the raw
eggs, or the possible exposure to hepatitis A from the jaundiced chef?

The operating rooms in the Fraser Health Authority have recently instituted the
surgical pause before commencing each operation. This allows everyone in the
room to confirm who the patient is and the planned procedure (for example,
arthroscopy of the right knee and not removal of the left testicle).

Consider this passionate pause between two fictional consenting adults:

Jack: I need to clarify a few things before we become more intimate, Jill. Are
you of legal age and not encumbered by illness, infatuation or duress?

Jill: I think I'm a little less infatuated than a moment ago.

Jack: Becoming more intimate with me may expose you to as yet undiagnosed
infectious diseases which I may have contracted from my previous partners.
Although I'm not having a herpes outbreak at this moment, there is some risk of
asymptomatic viral shedding and therefore transmission to you. If you are not
taking any oral contraception but are currently ovulating, there is a 20 per
cent risk of unplanned pregnancy. Barrier contraception will reduce this risk
but not completely.

Jill: Thanks for sharing this information, Jack. I think this is the beginning
of a long platonic friendship.

Perhaps a little more informed consent may be good for the rest of the world.

Dr. Davidicus Wong is chair of Burnaby Hospital's ethical resources committee.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 North Shore News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              March 3, 2006 Friday

Call for law to compel doctors report concerns about colleagues

BYLINE: Martin Wall

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 496 words


The president of the Medical Council has called on the Government to introduce
legislation to make doctors legally obliged to report colleagues about whom they
have concerns.

Dr John Hillery said he was concerned that doctors were not adhering to ethical
guidelines obliging them to make known unusual behaviour of medical colleagues.

Speaking at the Church of Ireland Lenten lecture series in Rathfarnham last
night, Dr Hillery said he shared the disbelief that the practices of
obstetrician Dr Michael Neary could continue under the eyes of other doctors
without any of them questioning what was happening or trying to stop it.

"There are issues of an ethical nature as regards our responsibilities to
patients and our duties to the profession that need to be addressed immediately
and with maximum honesty and force. Otherwise the trust that is the cornerstone
of therapy and the patient relationship may vanish. That will be a disaster for
the profession but also a damaging event for the public interest at large."

Dr Hillery said the council's guidelines set out two ethical imperatives for
doctors: that doctors must maintain their competence and that if there is a
concern about a colleague's competence, the council must be notified.

"I remain concerned that doctors still may not be addressing this issue
thoroughly enough. Recent evidence in fitness to practise inquiries and
anecdotal narrative suggests to me that despite the stated ethical
responsibility, unusual behaviour in a colleague, though always a cause for
concern, may still be responded to with uncertainty and procrastination by
doctors."

He said the medical profession had to press for a "new beginning" in its
self-regulation.

"This must include a hierarchy of interventions to ensure that all practising
doctors are competent and manifesting that competence to peers and non-doctors
through critical review.

"Most importantly, however, I think that the time has come for the statute
governing doctors to make it obligatory to communicate to the Medical Council
any concerns about a colleague so that robust and fair assessment procedures can
be brought into play," Dr Hillery added.

Meanwhile a retired public sector computer specialist has maintained that a
system scrapped by the government in the 1980s had the potential to identify
anomalies in hospital services such as the high number of Caesarean
hysterectomies carried out by Dr Neary at the obstetric unit at Our Lady of
Lourdes's Hospital in Drogheda.

In a letter to The Irish Times, Derek Lambert said the Central Data Processing
Service had worked on the development of a computer system for the Medico-Social
Research Board which would maintain a database of records for everyone admitted
to hospital, noting details of the consultant concerned, the diagnoses made and
the treatments - including operations administered.

However, Mr Lambert said the Medico-Social Research Board was abolished in 1987
by the then minister for health, Barry Desmond.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Patient consent in spectator surgery not the only consideration

BYLINE: SIMON CHAPMAN

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Opinion; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 823 words


The debate occurring over Dr Charlie Teo's "spectator surgery" was precipitated
by a report of an article I wrote for the British Medical Journal. In the
article I never used his name, being concerned to discuss the principles
involved rather than the individual. Its title "Should the spectacle of surgery
be sold to the highest bidder?" invited debate which is now occurring both
inside and outside medicine.

There are important reasons why other surgeons don't offer the same
opportunities to the paying public. Many, I am certain, are equally concerned to
donate to good causes, support cancer research, demystify surgery and urge
people to get treatment. Remarks by the Royal Australian College of Surgeons,
the Australian Medical Association and a leading bioethicist suggest that I am
not Robinson Crusoe. So is Teo the only surgeon marching in step here? The
ethical argument he advances is that the patients involved consent to being
observed by paying strangers. They are approached by his staff, not him. Some
refuse, so he believes there could be no coercion. But judgments about the
adequacy of the cardinal ethical principle of informed consent in medicine and
research are never left to individual practitioners or researchers. They are
referred to human research ethics and professional standards committees who set
rules designed to preserve patient interests. As his own hospital has reported
that it does not endorse paying spectators, is it therefore sensible to defer to
his judgment here? There are many examples where societies deem there to be
wider considerations involved than simply consenting and that a person's
agreement that something can be done to them is not all that matters. Here,
Teo's patients are under the care of a man whose skills they may sometimes
believe represent their last hope. This is likely to produce a highly loaded
decision-making context. Patients would instantly understand that this was
something that he wanted. Few would want to incur the slightest risk of
displeasing him. A very large body of research on the process of consent makes
it clear that patients have feelings of obligation towards doctors: "He's asking
for my co-operation. If I refuse, he may be disappointed. I'd better agree." Teo
says no one criticises reality medical programs like RPA where millions of
viewers follow the treatment of real patients. In fact there are many parallel
problems and some differences. It would be unimaginable if RPA patients being
filmed were unable to withdraw their consent at any time before broadcast.
Patients or families may decide they no longer wished to share developments: to
have millions witness their grief and anxiety, for example. But the "live"
viewing of an operation by strangers cannot be erased. There is no cooling-off
period between the operation and the "viewing": it has already happened.
Equally, it would be unimaginable if the RPA film crew were not bound by
journalistic ethics to respect the privacy of patients and families. All
hospital staff encounter public figures, neighbours, colleagues, friends and
acquaintances as patients. The same possibility arises for film crews and paying
spectators. If hospital staff or medical students were to gossip about patients
to others outside the hospital, major consequences would follow. No such
sanctions are available for members of the public. My good friend Andrew Penman,
from the Cancer Council, defended his charity's acceptance of surgery-viewing
auction money on the grounds that patient participation was not "materially
different" from things like inviting patients to join a research trial. I
disagree. Research trials involve health professionals being bound by
enforceable ethical protocols. Researchers are frequently removed from the
provision of health care to the patient to minimise confounding of effects
caused by patients wanting to please their doctors. I know of people who have
lost their jobs by breaching the ethical requirements. Important questions
remain about Teo's spectator surgery. Does he impose restrictions on who can bid
to watch him? Does he run security or character checks on those who win? Most
importantly, if his hospital does not endorse the practice, how has it been
allowed to happen? In the early days of surgery, operating "theatres" were
packed with spectators. A historian of medicine records that: "Patients put up
with the audience to their distress because they received medical treatment from
some of the best surgeons in the land." When I grew up in Bathurst in the 1950s,
freak show tents appeared at the local show each year where people with
malformations were displayed for paying customers. Those displayed presumably
"consented" to appearing. Thankfully, society has moved on by recognising that
consent alone is sometimes not in a person's or society's best interests. Simon
Chapman is a professor of public health at the University of Sydney.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          Copyright 2017 W/D Partners
                                   Worldscope

                                August 27, 2017

                    NICHI-IKO PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY LIMITED

                                 1-6-21 Sogawa
                        TOYAMA-SHI,  Toyama-ken 930-8583
                                     JAPAN

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: +81 76 432 2121
FAX: +81 76 443 1666
URL: http://www.nichiiko.co.jp

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY IDENTIFIERS * * * * * * * * * *
TICKER: 4541
SEDOL: 6639903
ISIN: JP3687200000
DISCLO NUMBER: N640683437
WORLDSCOPE NUMBER: C39240410

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
FOUNDED: July, 1965
OPERATING STATUS: ACTIVE
EMPLOYEES: 1,438

* * * * * * * * * * EXECUTIVES * * * * * * * * * *
OFFICERS:

     ·    Yuichi Tamura (Rep), President


* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., a Japan-based company together with its
subsidiaries, is principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of generic
pharmaceutical products and other medical products. The Company provides its
products to medical institutions such as hospitals, medical clinics and
dispensing pharmacies. Its medical products are divided into ethical
pharmaceutical products which are formulated according to a prescription issued
by a doctor in a hospitals or clinics, as well as general pharmaceutical
products which can be purchased at pharmacies and drugstores without a
prescription needed.
INDUSTRY TYPE: INDUSTRIAL

* * * * * * * * * * MARKET AND INDUSTRY * * * * * * * * * *
SIC CODES:
2834 - Pharmaceutical preparations
WORLDSCOPE INDUSTRY GROUP:
3430 - ETHICAL DRUG MANUFACTURERS
PRODUCTS:
CONSUMER EXPENDABLES

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *
FISCAL YEAR DATE: 3/2017




                              KEY FINANCIALS (USD)

                                  03/31/17          03/31/16          03/31/15
MARKET CAP                     874,458,766     1,378,133,687     1,374,878,123
MKT CAP - CURR                 859,770,294                 -                 -
COMMON EQTY                    786,468,400       733,461,360       619,731,840
COMMON EQTY - CURR             773,301,870                 -                 -
TOTAL ASSETS                 2,424,815,520     1,426,465,440     1,163,418,880
SALES                        1,467,080,560     1,274,395,440     1,056,814,720
NET INCOME                      42,996,240        97,955,280        54,845,440

* * * * * * * * * * BALANCE SHEET * * * * * * * * * *



                               ASSETS (000's JPY)

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
CASH & SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS       14,894,000      28,179,000      14,032,000
CASH[B]                             14,894,000      28,179,000      14,032,000
RECEIVABLES(NET)                    27,551,000      24,405,000      21,162,000
TOTAL INVENTORIES                   67,586,000      45,340,000      42,429,000
RAW MATERIALS                       16,811,000      10,071,000       8,230,000
WORK IN PROCESS                      9,143,000       9,177,000       6,212,000
FINISHED GOODS                      41,632,000      26,092,000      27,987,000
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                 4,683,000       3,700,000       2,175,000
CURRENT ASSETS - TOTAL             114,714,000     101,624,000      79,798,000
LONG TERM RECEIVABLES                1,351,000       4,530,000       6,313,000
INVESTMNT IN ASSOCIATED COS          6,601,000       5,316,000       4,423,000
OTHER INVESTMENTS                    3,353,000       3,384,000       9,179,000
PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIP - NET       47,439,000      38,786,000      34,107,000
PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIP-GROSS       83,206,000      71,000,000      64,523,000
LAND                                 6,433,000       6,299,000       6,184,000
BUILDINGS                           19,211,000      17,734,000      16,537,000
MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT               12,665,000       9,890,000       7,697,000
OTHER PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPM       1,523,000       1,184,000       1,152,000
PROP,PLANT&EQUIP-CAPITAL LEASE       2,603,000       1,940,000       1,914,000
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION            35,767,000      32,214,000      30,416,000
OTHER ASSETS - TOTAL                96,566,000       6,998,000       6,014,000
DEFERRED CHARGES                             0               0               0
OTHER TANGIBLE ASSETS                3,455,000         519,000       1,362,000
TOTAL INTANGIBLE OT ASSETS-NET      93,111,000       6,479,000       4,652,000
TOTAL ASSETS                    270,024,000[O]  160,638,000[O]     139,834,000

   [B]: INCLUDES CASH EQUIVALENTS

   [O]: ADJUSTED TO EXCLUDE DEFERRED TAXES





                            LIABILITIES (000's JPY)

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                    40,499,000      30,193,000      32,755,000
SHORT TERM DEBT & CURRENT PORT      31,197,000      19,443,000       7,652,000
ACCRUED PAYROLL                      1,244,000       1,128,000         861,000
INCOME TAXES PAYABLE                   389,000       3,813,000       2,525,000
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES           14,500,000       9,685,000       7,825,000
CURRENT LIABILITIES-TOTAL           87,829,000      64,262,000      51,618,000
LONG TERM DEBT                      82,098,000      10,464,000       9,332,000
LONG-TERM DEBT EXCL CAP LEASES      80,104,000       9,047,000       7,831,000
CAPITALIZED LEASE OBLIGATIONS        1,994,000       1,417,000       1,501,000
PROVSION FOR RISKS & CHARGES         3,544,000       3,467,000       3,463,000
DEFERRED INCOME                              0               0               0
DEFERRED TAXES                    5,215,000[B]    (159,000)[B]         925,000
DEFERRED TAXES - CREDIT              6,081,000         331,000         925,000
DEFERRED TAXES - DEBIT                 866,000         490,000               -
OTHER LIABILITIES                    3,758,000           7,000           9,000
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  182,444,000      78,041,000      65,347,000

   [B]: ADJUSTED TO INCLUDE DEFERRED TAX DEBITS





                               EQUITY (000's JPY)

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
NON-EQUITY RESERVES                          0               0               0
MINORITY INTEREST                            0               0               0
PREFERRED STOCK                              0               0               0
COMMON SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY         87,580,000      82,597,000      74,487,000
COMMON STOCK                        19,976,000      19,976,000      19,976,000
CAPITAL SURPLUS                     18,838,000      18,796,000      18,684,000
REVALUATION RESERVES                   333,000         333,000         321,000
OTHER APPROPRIATED RESERVES          (103,000)       (126,000)       (141,000)
RETAINED EARNINGS                   45,584,000      42,849,000      33,343,000
ESOP GUARANTEES                              0               0               0
UNREALIZED FOREIGN EXC GAN/LOS      10,975,000         897,000       1,038,000
UNREALZD GAIN/LOSS ON MKTB SEC       1,378,000       1,269,000       2,809,000
TREASURY STOCK                       9,401,000       1,397,000       1,543,000
TOTAL LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDE     270,024,000     160,638,000     139,834,000

* * * * * * * * * * INCOME STATEMENT * * * * * * * * * *
(000's JPY)                           03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
NET SALES OR REVENUES              163,372,000     143,513,000     127,021,000
COST OF GOODS SOLD (EXCL DEP)      100,046,000      85,086,000      75,421,000
DEPRECIATION/DEPLETION/AMORT         7,402,000       5,355,000       4,724,000
GROSS INCOME                        55,924,000      53,072,000      46,876,000
SELLING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRAT      47,375,000      40,423,000      37,274,000
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES               (5,000)        (20,000)        (17,000)
OPERATING EXPENSES - TOTAL         154,818,000     130,844,000     117,402,000
OPERATING INCOME                     8,554,000      12,669,000       9,619,000
EXTRAORDINARY CREDIT - PRETAX                -               -         270,000
EXTRAORDINARY CHARGE - PRETAX        1,580,000           7,000         233,000
NON-OPERATING INTEREST INCOME           94,000         102,000          33,000
PRETAX EQUITY IN EARNINGS              259,000          85,000       (229,000)
OTHER INCOME/EXPENSE - NET           (103,000)       2,637,000         137,000
EARNINGS BEF INTEREST & TAXES        7,224,000      15,486,000       9,597,000
INTEREST EXPENSE ON DEBT               294,000         127,000         109,000
INTEREST CAPITALIZED                         0               0               0
PRETAX INCOME                        6,930,000      15,359,000       9,488,000
INCOME TAXES                         2,142,000       4,328,000       2,895,000
CURRENT DOMESTIC INCOME TAX          1,942,000       5,014,000       3,442,000
DEFERRED DOMESTIC INC TAX              200,000       (686,000)       (547,000)
MINORITY INTEREST                            0               0               0
AFTER TAX OTHER INCOME/EXPENSE               0               0         (1,000)
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS                      0               0               0
NET INC BEFORE EXTRA/PFD DIVS        4,788,000      11,031,000       6,592,000
EXTRA ITEMS & GAIN/LOSS SALE O               0               0               0
NET INCOME BEFORE PREFERRED DI       4,788,000      11,031,000       6,592,000
PREFERRED DIVIDEND REQUIREMENT               0               0               0
NET INCOME - BASIC                   4,788,000      11,031,000       6,592,000
NET INCOME AVAILABLE TO COMMON       4,788,000      11,031,000       6,592,000

* * * * * * * * * * CASHFLOW STATEMENT * * * * * * * * * *
(000's JPY)                           03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
NET INCOME/STARTING LINE             6,930,000      15,359,000       9,488,000
DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION & AMOR       7,402,000       5,355,000       4,724,000
DEPRECIATION AND DEPLETION           7,402,000       4,913,000       4,514,000
AMORTIZATION-INTANGIBLE ASSETS               -         442,000         210,000
TOTAL OTHER CASH FLOW              (5,454,000)     (4,776,000)         820,000
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS                8,878,000      15,938,000      15,032,000
EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS                          0               0               0
FUNDS-OTHER OPER ACTIVITIES        (4,924,000)     (8,841,000)       6,147,000
DECREASE/INCREASE RECEIVABLES          904,000     (4,216,000)       5,865,000
DECREASE/INCREASE INVENTORIES      (9,986,000)     (2,870,000)     (9,817,000)
INCREASE/DECREASE ACCT PAYABLE       3,067,000     (2,562,000)       9,819,000
INCREASE/DECREASE OTH ACCRUALS         974,000          10,000         187,000
DECREASE/INCR OTH ASTS/LIABILT         117,000         797,000          93,000
NET CASH FLOW-OPERATING ACTIVS       3,954,000       7,097,000      21,179,000
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                 8,696,000       7,833,000       3,563,000
ADDITIONS TO OTHER ASSETS            2,449,000       3,246,000       2,182,000
NET ASSETS FROM ACQUISITIONS        69,557,000               0       3,341,000
TOTAL SOURCES                       97,116,000      17,999,000      20,986,000
TOTAL USES                          97,116,000      17,999,000      20,986,000
INCREASE IN INVESTMENTS                  7,000         113,000       5,381,000
DECREASE IN INVESTMENTS                      0       6,425,000           7,000
DISPOSAL OF FIXED ASSETS                     0               0          27,000
OTHER USE/(SOURCE) - INVESTING       1,045,000     (1,282,000)         214,000
OTHER USES - INVESTING               1,095,000          52,000         226,000
OTHER SOURCES - INVESTING               50,000       1,334,000          12,000
NET CASH FLOW - INVESTING           81,754,000       3,485,000      14,647,000
NET PROCEEDS FROM SALE/ISSUE C         180,000         211,000         203,000
PROCEEDS FROM STOCK OPTIONS              6,000          13,000               0
OTHER PROCEEDS FROM SALE/ISSUA         174,000         198,000         203,000
COM/PFD PURCHASED, RETIRED, CO       8,396,000           1,000           3,000
LONG TERM BORROWINGS                76,579,000       5,200,000       1,050,000
INCREASE/DECREASE IN SHORT TER       3,173,000      11,970,000     (9,106,000)
REDUCTION IN LONG TERM DEBT          5,060,000       5,097,000       4,729,000
CASH DIVIDENDS PAID - TOTAL          1,853,000       1,647,000       1,469,000
COMMON DIVIDENDS (CASH)              1,853,000       1,647,000       1,469,000
PREFERRED DIVIDENDS (CASH)                   0               0               0
OTHER SOURCE (USE) - FINANCING         (3,000)        (10,000)        (92,000)
OTHER SOURCES - FINANCING                    0               0               0
OTHER USES - FINANCING                   3,000          10,000          92,000
NET CASH FLOW - FINANCING           64,620,000      10,626,000    (14,146,000)
EFFECT OF EXCHANGE ON CASH           (105,000)        (94,000)        (45,000)
INCREASE/DECREASE IN CASH/SHOR    (13,285,000)      14,144,000     (7,659,000)

* * * * * * * * * * OTHER FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *
(000's JPY)                           03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
DEPRECIATION                                 -       4,913,000       4,514,000
AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES                  -         442,000         210,000
STAFF COSTS                          6,898,000       6,176,000       5,652,000
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT               7,263,000       4,874,000       4,984,000
DIVIDEND INCOME - NON-OPTG              57,000          48,000          38,000
OPTG PROVISIONS                        (5,000)        (21,000)        (17,000)
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS-PRETAX               0               0               0
GAINS/LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF             (96,000)       3,130,000       (308,000)
ASTS[J]
FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRANSACTIONS        (304,000)       (538,000)         165,000
NET INCOME - DILUTED                 4,788,502      11,031,000       6,592,000
WORKING CAPITAL                     26,885,000      37,362,000      28,180,000
INCREASE/DECREASE IN WORKING C    (10,477,000)       9,182,000     (8,671,000)
TOTAL CAPITAL                      169,678,000      93,061,000      83,819,000
ORDINARY PROFIT                      8,411,000      12,289,000       9,615,000

   [J]: EXTRAORDINARY


(000's JPY)                           03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
TRADE RECEIVABLES - NET             27,551,000      24,405,000      21,162,000
PROV FOR BAD DEBT-SUPPLEMENTRY         433,000       1,731,000         803,000
GOODWILL - NET                      41,152,000         634,000       1,077,000

(000's JPY)                           03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
OTHER ACCRUED EXPENSES               3,338,000         669,000         660,000
TOTAL DEBT                         113,295,000      29,907,000      16,984,000
NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBT                80,104,000       9,047,000       7,831,000
CONVERTIBLE DEBT                             0               0               0
GOODWILL WRITTEN OFF                         0               0               0
UNFUNDED PENSION LIAB-SUPPLEMT       3,489,000       3,413,000       3,410,000
PENSION/POST RETIREMNT BENEFIT       3,489,000       3,413,000       3,410,000

(000's JPY)                           03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
INTEREST PAID (CASH FLOW)              311,000         133,000         110,000
TAXATION (CASH FLOW)                 6,540,000       3,826,000       1,652,000
EXTERNAL FINANCING                  63,303,000         313,000     (3,479,000)

(000's JPY)                           03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
INTERNATIONAL ASSETS                         0               0               0
INTERNATIONAL SALES                          0               0               0
INTERNATIONAL OPERATING INCOME               0               0               0

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
FOREIGN ASSETS GROWTH                     0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN SALES GROWTH                      0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN INCOME GROWTH                     0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN ASSETS % TOTAL ASSETS             0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN SALES % TOTAL SALES               0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN INCOME % TOTAL INCOME             0.00            0.00            0.00

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
NET SALES/REVENUES -1YR ANN GR           13.84           12.98           22.58
OPERATING INCOME - 1 YR ANNUAL         (32.48)           31.71           30.29
NET INCOME - 1 YR ANNUAL GROWT         (56.60)           67.34           43.68
TOTAL ASSETS - 1 YR ANNUAL GRO           68.09           14.88            8.70
EQUITY - 1 YR                             6.03           10.89           12.53
EMPLOYEES - 1 YR ANNUAL GROWTH           25.92            0.35           22.89
EARNINGS PER SHARE - 1 YR              (54.41)           67.30            5.26
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE - 1 YR               12.78            8.13          (0.62)
BOOK VALUE PER SHARE - 1 YR              12.68           10.73           12.30
NET MARGIN - 1 YR GROWTH RATE          (61.87)           48.11           17.21

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
FOREIGN ASSETS GROWTH - 5 YR              0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN SALES GROWTH - 5 YR               0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN INCOME GROWTH - 5 YR              0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN ASSETS % TOTAL ASSETS             0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN SALES % TOT SALES -5YR            0.00            0.00            0.00
FOREIGN INCOME % TOTAL INCOME             0.00            0.00            0.00

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
ASSETS PER EMPLOYEE - 5 YR AVG  141,319,024.80  125,062,228.39  117,613,583.12
TOTAL ASSET TURNOVER - 5 YR AV            0.83            0.89            0.90
INVENTORY TURNOVER - 5 YR AVG             1.94            2.02            2.08
NET SALES/FIXED ASSETS-5 Y AVG            1.90            1.87            1.85
NET SALES%WORKING CAPITAL - 5             4.25            3.69            3.59
CAPITAL EXP%GROSS FIX AST 5YAV           11.18            9.54            9.60
CAPITAL EXEDT%TOT ASSETS-5YAVG            5.37            4.68            4.93
CAPITAL EXPED%TOTAL SALES-5YAV            5.21            4.54            4.59
ACCUM DEPR%GROSS FIX ASSTS-5YR           45.58           46.53           46.83

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
QUICK RATIO - 5 YR AVG                    0.77            0.88            0.92
CURRENT RATIO - 5 YR AVG                  1.57            1.67            1.73
CASH & EQUIVALENTS % TOTAL CUR           18.55           18.29           14.38
RECEIVABLES % TOTAL CURRENT AS           30.00           33.87           38.65
INVENTORIES % TOTAL CURRENT AS           48.18           44.76           43.86
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES DAYS - 5            75.64           85.50           93.84
INVENTORIES (DAYS) HELD-5YR AV          188.48          180.94          176.07

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
TOTAL DEBT % COMMON EQUITY - 5           54.42           36.88           36.69
LONG TERM DEBT % COM EQTY 5 YR           32.39           17.95           18.75
MINORITY INTEREST % TOTAL CAPI            0.00            0.00            0.00
TOTAL DEBT % TOTAL CAP - 5 YR            32.11           26.71           26.61
LONG TERM DEBT % TOT CAP-5 YR            21.22           15.09           15.70
EQUITY % TOTAL CAPITAL - 5 YR            78.78           84.91           84.30
PREFERRED STOCK % TOTAL CAPITA            0.00            0.00            0.00
TOTAL DEBT % TOTAL ASSETS - 5            22.86           18.79           18.90
COMMON EQUITY % TOTAL ASSETS -           47.25           51.14           51.74
TOTAL CAPITAL % ASSETS - 5 YR            60.21           60.26           61.38
FIXED CHG COVER RATIO - 5 YR             67.29           72.09           54.91
DIVIDEND PAYOUT (% EARNINGS) -           22.75           19.43           23.29
CASH DIV COVER RATIO - 5 YR               8.89            8.80            8.54
OPERATING CASH/FIXED CHGS-5YR            88.89           86.64           72.17
FIXED ASSETS % COMMON EQUITY -           50.83           50.24           50.29
WORK CAP % TOT CAP - 5 YR AVG            35.04           40.71           41.66

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
RETURN ON EQUITY -TOTAL-5 YR              9.58           10.23            9.63
REINVESTMENT RATE (EEG)/TOT 5Y            7.41            8.21            7.36
REINVESTMENT RATE (EEG)/SHR 5Y            7.76            8.59            7.64
RETURN ON EQUITY-PER SHARE-5YR           10.01           10.62            9.93
RETURN ON ASSETS - 5 YR AVG               4.85            5.35            4.96
RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL - 5            6.97            7.64            6.98
CASH EARN RET ON EQTY - 5 YR             19.28           18.41           20.01
CASH FLOW/SALES - 5 YR AVG               10.33            9.92           10.28
COST OF GOODS SOLD/SALES - 5 Y           58.42           57.65           56.66
GROSS PROFIT MARGIN - 5 YR AVG           37.01           37.57           38.19
SELL, GEN & ADM /SALES 5YR AVG           25.60           25.94           26.54
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT/SALES -            3.90            3.59            3.45
OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN - 5 YR            7.51            8.04            8.20
OPERATING INCOME/TOTAL CAPITAL           11.50           12.58           13.33
PRETAX MARGIN - 5 YR AVG                  7.58            8.44            7.99
TAX RATE - 5 YR AVG                      32.35           34.59           37.09
INTEREST RATE - 5 YR AVG                  0.53            0.63            0.78
NET MARGIN - 5 YR                         5.14            5.54            5.01
SALES PER EMPLOYEE - 5 YR AVG   113,906,681.82  110,843,887.43  105,341,738.22

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
NET SALES/REVS -5YR ANN GROWTH           15.06           13.04           14.57
OPERATING INCOME - 5 YR ANNUAL            5.97           11.13            6.47
NET INCOME - 5 YR ANNUAL GROWT            3.71           23.06           11.27
TOTAL ASSETS - 5 YR ANNUAL GRO           25.21           14.42           16.57
EQUITY - 5 YR ANNUAL GROWTH              13.98           13.12           23.34
EMPLOYEES - 5 YR ANNUAL GROWTH           11.78            7.59            6.83
EARNINGS PER SHARE - 5 YR ANNU            1.81           18.47            2.95
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE - 5 YR ANN           29.21            1.32            1.05
BOOK VALUE PER SHARE - 5 YR AN           11.98            9.77           14.75
NET MARGIN - 5 YR GROWTH RATE           (9.87)            8.86          (2.88)

* * * * * * * * * * RATIOS * * * * * * * * * *
                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
QUICK RATIO                               0.48            0.82            0.68
CURRENT RATIO                             1.31            1.58            1.55
CASH & EQUIVALENTS % TOTAL CUR           12.98           27.73           17.58
RECEIVABLES % TOTAL CURRENT AS           24.02           24.02           26.52
INVENTORIES % TOTAL CURRENT AS           58.92           44.62           53.17
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES DAYS                58.04           57.95           70.34
INVENTORIES (DAYS) HELD                 206.00          188.25          181.67

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
TOTAL DEBT % COMMON EQUITY              129.36           36.21           22.80
TOTAL ASSETS/COMMON EQUITY                3.08            1.94            1.88
LONG TERM DEBT % COMMON EQUITY           93.74           12.67           12.53
MINORITY INTEREST % TOTAL CAPI            0.00            0.00            0.00
TOTAL DEBT % TOTAL CAPITAL/STD           56.40           26.58           18.57
LONG TERM DEBT % TOTAL CAPITAL           48.38           11.24           11.13
EQUITY % TOTAL CAPITAL                   51.62           88.76           88.87
PREFERRED STOCK % TOTAL CAPITA            0.00            0.00            0.00
TOTAL DEBT % TOTAL ASSETS                41.96           18.62           12.15
COMMON EQTY % TOTAL ASSETS               32.43           51.42           53.27
TOTAL CAPITAL % ASSETS                   62.84           57.93           59.94
FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO              24.57          121.94           88.05
DIVIDEND PAYOUT (% EARNINGS)             38.70           14.93           22.28
CASH DIVIDEND COVERAGE RATIO              4.79            9.68           10.23
OPERATING CASH/FIXED CHARGES             30.20          125.50          137.91
FIXED ASSETS % COMMON EQUITY             54.17           46.96           45.79
WORKING CAPITAL % TOT CAPITAL            15.84           40.15           33.62
EBIT/INTEREST EXPENSE                    24.57          121.94           88.05

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
RETURN ON EQUITY - TOTAL (%)              5.63           14.04            9.37
RETURN ON EQUITY - PER SHARE              5.72           14.03            9.35
REINVESTMENT RATE (EEG)/TOT 1Y            3.45           11.95            7.28
REINVESTMENT RATE (EEG)/SHR 1Y            3.68           12.01            7.26
RETURN ON ASSETS                          2.32            7.40            4.97
RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL                3.19           10.91            7.15
CASH EARNS RETURN ON EQUITY              10.43           20.29           21.37
CASH FLOW/SALES                           5.43           11.11           11.83
COST OF GOODS SOLD/SALES                 61.24           59.29           59.38
GROSS PROFIT MARGIN                      34.23           36.98           36.90
SELLING, GENERAL & ADM / SALES           24.55           24.77           25.42
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT/SALES              4.45            3.40            3.92
OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN                   5.24            8.83            7.57
OPERATING INCOME/TOTAL CAPITAL            6.51           14.32           11.83
PRETAX MARGIN                             4.24           10.70            7.47
TAX RATE                                 30.91           28.18           30.51
INTEREST RATE                             0.26            0.42            0.64
NET MARGIN                                2.93            7.69            5.19
SALES PER EMPLOYEE              113,610,570.24  125,668,126.09  111,617,750.44

                                      03/31/17        03/31/16        03/31/15
ASSETS PER EMPLOYEE             187,777,468.71  140,663,747.81  122,876,977.15
TOTAL ASSET TURNOVER                      0.61            0.89            0.91
INVENTORY TURNOVER                        1.77            1.94            2.01
NET SALES TO GROSS FIXED ASSET            1.96            2.02            1.97
NET SALES%WORKING CAPITAL                 6.08            3.84            4.51
CAPITAL EXPENDT %GROSS FIX AST           12.25           12.14            6.16
CAPITAL EXPENDT % TOTAL ASSETS            5.41            5.60            2.77
CAPITAL EXPENDT % TOTAL SALES             5.32            5.46            2.81
ACCUMULATED DEP%GROSS FIX ASST           42.99           45.37           47.14

* * * * * * * * * * SECURITIES INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
SECURITY TYPE: Common
EXCHANGE: TOKYO , OTHERS
STOCK INDEX:

     ·    TOPIX


CURRENT SHARES OUTSTANDING: 56,321,652
NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS: 6,719
SHAREHOLDERS:

     ·    DIRECTORS' INTERESTS in the Common shares of the Company at
          30-Nov-2010: 1,091,000 sharesMAJOR SHAREHOLDERS in the Company at
          30-Nov-2010: Yugengaisha Tamura, 4,200,000 shares (12.83%).


EPS: JPY 83.86
DIVIDEND PER SHARE: JPY 30.00

* * * * * * * * * * SERVICE FIRMS * * * * * * * * * *
AUDITOR: KPMG
KPMG AZSA LLC
JPY 165,000,000
Unqualified





                              2017 (Thousands JPY)

                      SALES  OPTG INCOME       ASSETS      CAP EXP       DEPREC
JAPAN           163,372,000    8,554,000 270,024,000[    8,696,000            -
                                                   C]

   [C]: ADJUSTED TO EXCLUDE DEFERRED TAXES






                              2017 (Thousands JPY)

                      SALES  OPTG INCOME       ASSETS      CAP EXP       DEPREC
ETHICAL         163,372,000    8,554,000 270,024,000[    8,696,000            -
PHARMACEUTICAL                                     C]

   [C]: ADJUSTED TO EXCLUDE DEFERRED TAXES


ACCOUNTING PRACTICES FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING 03/31/17
ACCOUNTING METHOD FOR LONG TERM INVESTMENT >50%: All subsidiaries are
consolidated
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS FOLLOWED: Local standards
ACCOUNTING PRACTICES FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING 03/31/16
ACCOUNTING METHOD FOR LONG TERM INVESTMENT >50%: All subsidiaries are
consolidated
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS FOLLOWED: Local standards
ACCOUNTING PRACTICES FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING 03/31/15
ACCOUNTING METHOD FOR LONG TERM INVESTMENT >50%: All subsidiaries are
consolidated
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS FOLLOWED: Local standards

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2017


                              325 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            April 13, 1989 Thursday

Videotaping of patients in trauma unit raises difficult   ethical, legal
questions

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 986 words


BY  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
 The Globe and Mail
   A patient with a stab wound admitted to the trauma room at Toronto
General Hospital gazed into the wall-mounted camera overhead and said,
"Hey, I'm on TV," before losing consciousness.

The anecdote, recalled by Dr. Murray Girotti, director of the
hospital's trauma unit, conveys the most reaction a patient has ever shown
to the video recorder that films resuscitation efforts by the trauma team.

Toronto General is one of several hospitals in Canada that have
recently begun videotaping - without patient consent - what goes on in
trauma rooms.

The cassettes are erased after being reviewed by members of the trauma
team - including nurses, surgeons, residents and interns - as examples of
a resuscitation effort that went well or one that needs improvement.

Hospitals say they are turning to the ethically and legally
questionable practice of videotaping as a teaching tool that will
ultimately improve patient care. Tapes provide an undisputed account of
events - how long before an intravenous tube was put in, how slickly a
chest tube insertion was performed - that is more reliable than the
recollections of staff.

Toronto General Hospital and Sunnybrook Medical Centre in Toronto have
been videotaping in their trauma units since 1987.

Montreal General Hospital plans to start doing so within a year and
Victoria Hospital in London, Ont., will soon start filming. Other
hospitals are considering similar taping of trauma teams.

Hospitals that film resuscitations say they do not get consent for
taping because the patient is unconscious, time is of the essence, and the
action is shot in such a way that the patient is not readily recognizable.
But the tapes do show date and time, so patients probably could be
identitied.

Ground rules change when videotapes are recorded by other medical
departments.

Toronto's Clarke Institute of Psychiatry, for instance, has a store of
taped psychotherapy sessions involving patients who consented, available
for research.

Many hospital family practice units record doctor-patient interviews to
teach history-taking skills and to assess how well doctors relate to
patients.

Although they are limited to educational purposes, the legal status of
videotapes is murky and their use raises ethical and legal questions for
which hospitals admit they don't have all the answers.

Some of these difficulties include:
 . Confidentiality: Can or should patients be taped without consent,
particularly when it is not necessary to their treatment?
 . Ownership: To whom do the tapes belong? What happens if a patient or
family wants material produced for a lawsuit?
 . Evidence: While not considered part of a patient's medical record,
videotapes are defined as documents under the rules of civil procedure.
This means their existence must be disclosed to all parties in a lawsuit.
Whether they must be produced is unclear.
 . Erasure: Should hospitals destroy material that may later be needed at
an inquest or other legal inquiry?

"It's not black and white; it's a difficult issue that has no definite
answers," said Ken Evans, lawyer for the Canadian Medical Protective
Association, the insurer for more than 50,000 physicians.

Mr. Evans said consent is not necessary if the patient cannot be
identified and if the cassette is shown only to staff involved in the
patient's treatment for teaching purposes.

Routine erasing of tapes, he added, is not as clear-cut an issue.

"If you recorded something germane to a subsequent inquest or inquiry,
I'd be concerned you might be destroying that evidence," Mr. Evans said,
especially if the tape shows errors or complications in treatment. "If
something strange happened and you can anticipate medical (or) legal
problems, I'd have reservations about its destruction."

Paul Tushinski, a lawyer whom Toronto General consulted on the issue
but who no longer acts for the hospital, agreed that the status of such
tapes is unclear.

"It remains to be legally challenged," he said. "If someone wanted to
sue and a piece of evidence is destroyed, I don't know what you would do."

Although hospitals have canvassed legal experts before permitting
videotaping, they have taken different approaches to the practice.

At Sunnybrook, tapes are routinely erased within 24 hours, while
Toronto General waits as long as two months before doing so.

Dr. Girotti, who piloted the taping proposal at TGH, said taping is "a
very good" teaching tool that gives more than medical lessons.

"It makes better doctors out of these people," he said, recalling how
one resident changed his style when he saw how his behavior in the trauma
room was inhibiting other team members.

Dr. Girotti, 41, said only one member of the trauma team has objected
and will not permit the recorder to be switched on when he is on duty.

Dr. Girotti said he does not seek patient consent for tapings when the
purpose is viewing by staff affiliated with the emergency department. If
anyone outside the hospital wants to see a taped resuscitation, he seeks
permissiom from the patient or next-of-kin. That consent has never been
denied.

Dr. Abbyann Lynch, a consultant to several hospital ethics committees,
suggests there are unresolved ethical issues involved with taping. She
disputes the assertion that patient consent is not required if the tape is
shown only to hospital staff.

Dr. Lynch agreed that such tapes are an "excellent teaching device,"
but said she is concerned that a patient's privacy is eroded. She also
stressed the importance of respect for the patient's dignity.

At least one hospital that has installed a video recorder is reluctant
to use it until ethical considerations have been resolved.

At Victoria Hospital in London, Dr. Jon Dreyer, director of emergency
medicine, has set up a working group to develop policy suggestions on
control of tapes and access to them. The hospital plans to review a tape
within 48 hours of the recording and erase it unless "it shows some
particular educational point," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 28, 2000, Monday

HOSPITAL TRUST CASH IS INVESTED IN ARMS FIRMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 438 words


Charitable donations to Midland hospital trusts are being invested in companies
that make missiles and fighter planes.

Three NHS trusts have shares in weapons companies supplying arms to oppressive
regimes. Shadow Health Minister Mrs Caroline Spelman (Con Meriden) said the
links could deter people donating money and is planning to highlight the issue
in the House of Commons today.

The three trusts are Birmingham City Hospital NHS Trust, Royal Shrewsbury
Hospitals NHS Trust and Shropshire Community Health Service NHS Trust.

They have shares in BAeSystems, which manufactures Hawk fighter planes, and
Marconi, which has sold missiles to Indonesia.

The links to the arms trade were condemned by Mrs Spelman, who is calling for
trusts to be more open about how they invest donations. She said: "Private
donors will be shocked when they find out what is going on. People may have very
strong feelings about links with the arms trade.

"Bequests are made in good faith and we need to respect the wishes of people
supporting the NHS. Donors must be made aware of the investment policies of
individual trusts. Some may have more ethical policies than others. But it is
very worrying because it could put people off donating money and that would only
harm the NHS in the long term."

City Hospital NHS Trust has shares in Marconi valued at pounds 99,180, Royal
Shrewsbury Hospital NHS Trust has shares in BAeSystems worth pounds 14,292, and
Shropshire Community Health Service NHS Trust also has investments in BAeSystems
valued at pounds 4,764.

Ms Judy Tompkins, finance director of Shropshire Community Health Service NHS
Trust, said she had not been aware of the link between BAeSystems and the arms
trade and her trust would now consider "disinvesting".

"Our policy on ethical investments states we won't invest in alcohol or tobacco
companies," she said.

Mr Peter Jones, finance director of Royal Shrewsbury Hospitals NHS Trust, said:
"We will review our processes now it has been brought to our attention."

But Mr Paul Assinder, finance director at City Hospital, in Dudley Road,
Birmingham, described the link as "tenuous".

"We are indeed the custodians of charitable legacies and donations which are
invested so we can accumulate funds to further invest in new clinical
developments.

"We have to attract an appropriate return on that investment and encourage the
investment of charitable funds.

"The link to the arms trade is a tenuous one when you consider our shares are in
a broad-based company. We have no plans to disinvest or consult our board of
trustees," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              327 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2002 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                   Fall, 2002

                           30 J.L. Med. & Ethics 452

LENGTH: 2028 words

REGULAR FEATURE: Currents in Contemporary Ethics: Reforming Medical Ethics
Education

NAME: Serge A. Martinez

BIO: About this Column

Mark A. Rothstein serves as the section editor for "Currents in Contemporary
Ethics." Professor Rothstein is the Herbert F. Boehl Chair of Law and Medicine
and the Director of the Institute for Bioethics, Health Policy and Law at the
University of Louisville School of Medicine in Kentucky.

TEXT:
 [*452]  Biomedical advances of the past 20 years have stimulated a renewed
interest in medical ethics. Transplantation of multiple human organs,
implantation of artificial devices, advances in genetics, and stem cell research
are a few of the medical procedures and discoveries that have awakened in both
professionals and the public an awareness that medical discoveries often raise
important ethical and societal issues. Today, members of the medical profession
face issues that did not seem so pressing to their predecessors, and physician
conduct in response to many of these issues involves decision-making based on
ethical principles. Issues of informed consent, gifts from pharmaceutical
companies, and patient rights to privacy were not of great concern to most
physicians a generation ago. However, these and other topics that involve a
physician's ethical conduct have become increasingly pertinent to the practice
of medicine.

   A renewed emphasis on ethics has been voiced by leaders in the field of
medicine. During his presidential address to the American College of Surgeons in
October 2001, R. Scott Jones stated, "to function effectively in the health care
system ... to navigate in a trillion dollar industry, we need a compass: medical
ethics." n1 And in discussing ethical questions regarding research involving
human subjects, Eve E. Slater wrote in a recent New England Journal of Medicine
article, "The subjects who volunteer for clinical trials are the true heroes of
modern clinical research. It is the responsibility of our medical profession to
serve these persons to the best of our ability. Without their trust, the
advancement of both clinical and medical practice will falter." n2



   n1 M.D. Dent, "Licensed to Heal," Bulletin of the American College of
Surgeons, 87, no. 8 (2002): 8-12.


   n2 E.E. Slater, "IRB Reform," N. Engl. J. Med., 346 (2002): 1402-04.

   What is left unsaid in both of these statements is that the medical
profession has a present need for reform in the way medical ethics is taught and
supported by the medical profession. How medical educators and professional
organizations influence all physicians to make ethical conduct a central focus
has not been well addressed. Nevertheless, it is evident that physician conduct
is being scrutinized, and it will benefit the medical profession as a whole to
embrace new approaches to medical ethics education and ethics in the practice of
medicine.

   Historically, the medical profession has been conscious of the need for an
ethical approach to the delivery of medical care, but it has not approached the
subject uniformly. The American Medical Association (AMA) was organized in 1847
in response to a growing concern among physicians over the lack of medical
professional standards; that same year the AMA developed a Code of Medical
Practice. The first ethical challenge to the members of the AMA came within
months of completion of the Code when the AMA was confronted with an important
medical advancement--the use of anesthetic agents in surgery. The concern
expressed by the AMA was, "do the risks and evils attendant upon the use of
anesthetic agents in surgery, counterbalance the advantages afforded by
exemption from pain?" n3 The balancing of risks and benefits is still an issue
of concern for medical practitioners. Today, the Code of Medical Practice is
known as the Principles of Medical Ethics, n4 and has been revised numerous
times. n5 As currently described in the Principles, a physician shall be
dedicated, honest, respectful of the law, respectful of the rights of patients
and colleagues, engaged in continuous study, responsible in contributing to an
improved community, and free to choose whom to serve. n6 These attributes are
honorable, but the shall is not enforceable by any ruling body within the AMA.
Consequently, there is no sense of urgency on the part of physicians to conform
to what the AMA considers to be ethical conduct.



   n3 A.R. Jonsen, A Brief History of Medical Ethics (New York: Oxford
University Press, 2000): at 69.


   n4 B.A. Brody et al., Medical Ethics: Analysis of the Issues Raised by the
Codes, Opinions, and Statements (Washington, D.C., The Bureau of National
Affairs, Inc., 2001): at 9.


   n5 A.R. Jonsen, A Brief History of Medical Ethics (New York: Oxford
University Press, 2002): at 117.


   n6 B.A. Brody et al., Medical Ethics: Codes, Opinions, and Statements
(Washington, D.C., The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc., 2000): at 7.

   During the 155 years since the establishment of the AMA, medical and surgical
specialty organizations, such as the American Academy of Ophthalmology,  [*453]
the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, and the American Academy of
Pediatrics have developed their own codes of conduct, that while similar in
content, are not correlated into one standard for all physicians.

   American hospitals, by direction, have likewise established medical ethics
committees, usually comprised of members of the medical staff, nursing staff,
hospital administrators, social workers, clergy, and sometimes hospital
attorneys. Some hospitals issue statements of ethical duties of healthcare
providers, but it is unclear how binding the decisions made by hospital ethics
committees are on the physicians of record.

   Although all of these codes and statements espouse a general concern for
patient welfare, the codes typically focus on the special issues related to the
practice of the particular specialty or the particular needs of a hospital. For
example, the Society of Critical Care Medicine concerns itself with futile and
inadvisable treatments, n7 the triage of critically ill patients, n8 and the
continuation and withdrawal of intensive care. n9 All of these concerns are
serious and legitimate, but would probably be of only secondary concern to
members of the American College of Radiology.



   n7 M. Davis et al., "Consensus Statement of the Society of Critical Care
Medicine's Ethics Committee Regarding Futile and Other Possibly Inadvisable
Treatments," Critical Care Medicine, 25, no. 5, (1997): 887-91.


   n8 B. Chernow et al., "Consensus Statement on the Triage of Critically Ill
Patients," JAMA, 271, no. 15 (1994): 1200-03.


   n9 R.C. Bone et al., "Ethical and Moral Guidelines for the Initiation,
Continuation, and Withdrawal of Intensive Care," Chest, 97, no. 4 (1990):
949-58.

   What is glaringly lacking in the medical profession is a structured, basic,
uniform approach to the subject of ethics that is understood and appreciated by
all physicians. A review of the formal study of ethics in medical schools in the
United States discloses a sincere but poorly coordinated approach to what should
be recognized as one of the most important subjects taught to all medical
students. A few medical schools do teach a structured, required course in
medical ethics. At Baylor College of Medicine's Center for Medical Ethics and
Health Policy, ethics is taught during the first year of medical education and
covers informed consent, consent for students' involvement in patient care, care
of critically ill patients, patient care costs and limited access, and managed
care as a response to problems in American health care. After the first year,
students may then enter a medical ethics track, take advanced electives in
medical ethics and, if successful in the electives, receive a certificate of
completion. Several other medical schools have similar courses, offering
combinations of medicine, ethics, and law. However, many medical schools offer
only minimal exposure to medical ethics, their courses often consisting of a few
weeks discussing a myriad of topics only of interest to the teacher. And when
offered, most courses in ethics are taught only during the first year when the
medical students are immersed in basic science courses and have no clinical
experience to which the instruction of medical ethics can relate.

   Ethical values and legal principles are usually closely related, but ethical
obligations typically exceed legal duties. n10 However, if medical education is
contrasted to legal education, it can be seen that a more concerted effort is
made during law school to instill a code of ethics in the students. Students in
all law schools are required to pass a structured course in professional
responsibility. In addition, before an applicant can be admitted to most state
bars, he or she must pass the Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination
that has been adopted by all jurisdictions except Maryland, Washington,
Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico. n11



   n10 Brody et al, supra note 4, at 8.


   n11 The Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination is administered by
the American College Testing Service under the direction of the National
Conference of Bar Examiners.

   American medical schools have no comparable requirements, nor do specialty
boards require a minimum knowledge of medical ethics. As such, when it comes to
ethics, the medical system is reactive and crisis-driven. Frequently, when
medical students are asked how and when they learn medical ethics, they cannot
remember exactly what they were taught nor can they express any rules of ethical
conduct. Residents usually say they learn medical ethics from watching faculty
physicians interact with patients, but many faculty physicians do not place a
high priority on ethics education. One colleague recently told me that "ethics
is no more and no less than what one believes is honorable."

   Medical ethics is more than subjective views of honorable conduct. Medical
ethics is a system of conduct that incorporates moral, legal, economic, and
charitable considerations. In law, these considerations combine into codes that,
at the state level, are legally binding on licensed attorneys. n12 In medicine,
there are no binding regulations. Physicians are left to determine for
themselves what conduct is appropriate, with only vague guidance from the
profession and no structured educational grounding. Ethical lapses are usually
overlooked by colleagues and, when reported, rarely result in sanctioning by
state licensure boards.



   n12 T.D. Morgan and R.D. Rotunda, Professional Responsibility Problems and
Materials (New York: The Foundation Press, Inc., 1995): at 13.

   Patients expect physicians to be ethical. If this expectation is realistic,
then it is reasonable to expect the conduct of physicians to be grounded in
ethical principles learned and understood during medical school and refined
during a lifetime of medical practice. It is my impression that the number of
physicians who disregard any exhortations to act in an ethical manner is quite
small given the large number of practicing physicians. However, one unethical
care provider alone strains the faith patients have in the medical profession.

   The cost of reforming medical ethics education is not great. The cost of not
making an effort to reform is. Educational resources are available in all
medical centers, mostly untapped, and most educators recognize the need for
formal ethics courses. A concerted effort to improve education in medical ethics
will benefit the medical profession and the patients served thereby. Similar
efforts are needed in the area of continuing medical education.

   There is some difference of opinion regarding the timing and methodology for
training. Medical outcome studies are in progress to determine during what year
of medical school medical ethics instruction should be offered. My opinion is
that medical ethics education should be taught with increasing sophistication
during all 4 years of medical school and reinforced  [*454]  during residency
training. Regardless of the specifics, every student in every medical school
should be exposed to the same core set of ethical principles. The role of ethics
in medical education also would be significantly enhanced if the National Board
of Medical Examiners and specialty accreditation boards would require candidates
to pass a separate section on ethics before they could become board certified or
even allowed to practice.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsState & Territorial GovernmentsLicensesHealthcare LawBusiness
Administration & OrganizationAccreditationHealthcare LawTreatmentBlood & Organ
DonationsGeneral Overview


                              328 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 10, 2016 Tuesday

Catholic ethos a 'red herring' for maternity hospital, says doctor;
Religious ethics contention is 'a bit rich' when 'they're putting in coils',
says Keane

BYLINE: Paul Cullen

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 617 words


Doctors at St Vincent's hospital are free to carry out sterilisation procedures
that are considered to be contrary to its Catholic ethos, according to the
hospital. Claims that the proposed move of the National Maternity Hospital (NMH)
to the St Vincent's campus would lead to ethical issues over services for
pregnant women are a "red herring" and a "sideshow", clinical director Prof
Michael Keane told The Irish Times.

In relation to vasectomies, Prof Keane said doctors at St Vincent's "haven't
been told they can't do them" and the reason the procedure is not performed in
the hospital is because it is a minor treatment normally performed in GP
surgeries.

He admitted some staff may "assume" they should not be performing sterilisation
procedures but described this as "a historical thing". St Vincent's is fully
owned by the Religious Sisters of Charity.

Catholic

Dr Peter Boylan, chairman of the Institute of Obstetricians and a former master
of the NMH, has claimed St Vincent's could prevent a relocated maternity
hospital from providing IVF, sterilisation and other services because of its
Catholic ethos, unless his hospital retains control over maternity services. The
NMH has said Dr Boylan does not speak on its behalf and has not commented
publicly on alleged ethical issues.

A row over governance structures has delayed the lodging of a planning
application for the EUR 150 million project to build a new maternity hospital at
St Vincent's. The NMH wishes to retain a separate board and an
obstetrician/master as chief executive. St Vincent's wants both hospitals run by
the same board, on which the NMH would have two seats.

Vasectomies and tubal ligations are performed at St Vincent's on occasion, in
circumstances where procedures are indicated for medical reasons, such as
cancer, but they are not carried out electively for people who want to
permanently prevent pregnancy.

Claiming the hospital's position had been misrepresented, Prof Keane said St
Vincent's staff last year fitted 70 Mirena coils, a long-term contraceptive
device. "To contend religious ethics are hanging over their heads when they're
putting in coils is a bit rich," he said.

The NMH will be given more detailed assurances on ethical issues if required in
advance of any move, he said. "Whatever they are providing at the moment, they
can continue to do, be it IVF or sterilisation."

St Vincent's chairman Jimmy Menton was yesterday due to meet former High Court
president Mr Justice Nicholas Kearns, who is expected to be elected chairman of
the NMH this month, to see if a basis can be established to resume talks.

Discussions

Mr Menton yesterday wrote to Minister for Health Simon Harris signalling his
willingness to resume "meaningful" discussions and the NMH has also indicated
its willingness to meet.

Mr Menton denied that St Vincent's had agreed at the time the project was
announced in 2013 that Holles Street could maintain separate governance
structures.

"It was always going to be a single-governance structure," he said. "We never
saw this as simply a land donation."

He said the NMH's name, brand and fundraising operations could remain. It could
also continue to operate its own board after the transfer, though its functions
would be limited to managing the Holles Street asset and to nominating two
members to the St Vincent's board.

The Mater hospital, which is owned by the Sisters of Mercy, said it does not
carry out vasectomies or tubal ligations. In contrast, both procedures are
available at many HSE-run hospitals, including Cavan, Wexford, Mullingar and
Tullamore. Connolly and Loughlinstown hospitals perform vasectomies only, while
the Coombe women's hospital carries out tubal ligation.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ethical dilemmas cloud health care: Startling findings: Treatment options prompt
emotional clashes, report says

BYLINE: MARK KENNEDY, CanWest News Service; Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 914  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical challenges"

stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who disagree with the
treatment being ordered by medical professions, says a major new report.

The report, published yesterday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the top 10 ethical issues faced by the Canadian public
and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated - whether it involves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment
to a dying patient.

The report states that while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and in a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think tank.

The authors of the report surveyed 12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto
hospitals to rank the most important ethical challenges facing the health
system.

The results - which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors - provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue - particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," Singer said.

According to the report, very few members of the public are aware of the extent
to which there are conflicts between patients or their families and health-care
professionals.

"These conflicts can be as serious as an emotionally charged fight over a
decision to withdraw aggressive treatment from a terminally ill patient in the
intensive care unit, or as mundane as a family physician refusing to acquiesce
to a patient's request for antibiotics for a viral infection."

The report says the "end-of-life critical care cases" tend to be the most
emotionally charged and intractable and often follow a pattern: A patient,
perhaps with cancer, is in the late stages of terminal illness and is hooked up
to a breathing ventilator in the ICU. The family is demanding that "everything"
be done to maintain the patient's life, while the health professionals feel such
"aggressive interventions would amount to torture."

"Emotions run high, conflict ensues and communication inevitably breaks down."

The health workers can't understand the families' position and label them
"irrational" or "unreasonable," the report states, while the families view the
medical staff as "insensitive" and "disrespectful."

"Sometimes, families will go so far as to accuse the health-care team of wanting
to withdraw treatment to save money or to give the resources to another
patient."

The report proposes several solutions, including: educating health-care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases and
creating policies for health-care facilities to provide guidance.

Top Challenges Faced by Patients and Medical Professionals:

Waiting lists:

The report observes that the wait lists which plague the system create ethical
questions because, in some cases, the lengthy waits can harm patients' health,
impede their ability to return to work and contribute to "psychological
distress."

Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill:

The system has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their
priority for treatment - a discriminatory practice which must be openly
acknowledged and ended.

Shortage of family physicians:

The shortage has become a "significant problem" for the Canadian medicare
system, especially since it is based on the premise that patients deserve
"universal and reasonable access" to medical services.

Medical error:

The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with experts saying the
system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug prescriptions to
performing surgery on the wrong patient. Ethical considerations include "under
what circumstances, and how medical errors should be disclosed to patients
and/or families."

Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

Informed consent:

Patients are supposed to provide their "informed consent" to a treatment before
it is done, but many do not - or cannot - read the forms they're asked to sign.

Research:

Issues include balancing the need for "fair compensation" to participants in
medical research without the payments becoming a "coercive influence."

Substitute decision-making:

When a patient is incapable of making a decision about his treatment,
professionals will turn to a substitute, many of whom find the responsibility to
be onerous. Also, there is sometimes a legal hierarchy that places the most
intimate relationships (such as a spouse) near the bottom of the list to qualify
as the substitute.

Surgical innovation and new technologies:

Doctors are faced with the question: Should innovative surgical techniques be
considered research and be required to go through ethics approval before being
used on patients?

ottawa citizen

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Professor: Doctors adrift without ethical consensus

                                  May 1, 1995

Dominic Nathan


SINGAPORE'S medical profession is beginning to drift without an ethical
consensus, cautioned the president of the Singapore Medical Council (SMC),
Professor N. Balachandran, yesterday.

In a frank and critical assessment, the Emeritus Consultant with Singapore
General Hospital's orthopaedic surgery department, reminded doctors of their
responsibility to be caring physicians and good teachers. The council is
concerned about doctors, especially specialists, publicising their services by
giving public talks and providing telephone numbers and even hotlines.

"The SMC strongly disapproves of such behaviour as these advertisements can
mislead the public and discredit the profession," he said. It has revised its
Ethical Code and included guidelines on advertising. Details will issued soon,
he said.

Prof Balachandran spoke at the Marina Mandarin hotel yesterday, at the close of
the hospital's three-day Sixth Annual Scientific Meeting.  The Straits Times
obtained his paper, "Not Pride of Knowledge but Humility of Wisdom," which also
marks the closing of a chapter in the 66-year-old professor's medical career.

He retires this year as a full-time senior consultant after 39 years, but will
still be associated with SGH as Emeritus Consultant.

Prof Balachandran spoke of the profession's ethical and social responsibilities
as well as the importance of continuing medical education.

Doctors are leaving for more lucrative private practice, morale is low among
senior staff in restructured hospitals and it is difficult to find doctors
willing to make sacrifices to hold positions in administration, research and
teaching, he said.

"We have to address these problems soon as they concern the very fabric of
medicine. It is the fundamentals of our moral commitment that is going to
determine the future of our profession and the trust of our patients," he said.

To ensure a high standard of medical ethics, he called on hospitals to ensure
that doctors maintain adequate medical records and hospitals to have Quality
Assurance Committees to audit these records.

He said: "Proper medical records, particularly operation notes and the daily
management of patients are crucial and there should be no attempt on the part of
doctors to alter case records."

Delays in instituting proper monitoring procedures, and prescribing treatment
over the telephone without first seeing the patient may result in serious
mishaps and give cause for complaint, he said.

Restructuring hospitals, he said, has made them more efficient but could have
created a conflict of interest between the SGH, National University Hospital and
the National University of Singapore. Separating the university departments from
SGH and putting greater emphasis on money has affected training of doctors
because consultants and department heads lacked time to listen or to teach.

"As doctors, we are teachers and this hospital does not need entrepreneurs. Our
departments have now become too big and there are often too many meetings to
allow time for consultants to provide for adequate supervision and teaching and
maintenance of proper standards of medical care."

Prof Balachandran also told the audience of more than 400 guests, mainly SGH
doctors, to find the time to serve on social organisations to deal with problems
of drug abuse, alcoholism and delinquency.

Some concerns

Professor Balachandran spoke his mind on several issues:

* Managed health care: It is here to stay but he does not think a managed
health-care system can control cost. "It may bring about changes in our care of
patients and we should not do anything that will jeopardise the health and
welfare of our patients..."

* Doctors leaving restructured hospitals for private practice: They are not
leaving purely for more money. The volume of work and pressure was greater in
the restructured hospitals and this has lowered the morale of many senior
hospital staff.

SGH could pay better salaries and give bonuses twice a year.

* Sub-specialisation: This results in many specialists minding one patient but
who will comment only on their specific areas. "Is there really a doctor in the
house!" he said.


SECTION: Home; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 960 words

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "We have to address these problems soon as they concern the very fabric
of medicine.  "It is the fundamentals of our moral commitment that is going to
determine the future of our profession and the trust of our patients.'
-Professor N. Balachandran.

                 Copyright 1995 The Straits Times Press Limited


                              331 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 23, 2004, Sunday

Scottish hospitals turn to US-style ethics advisers

BYLINE: Camillo Fracassini

SECTION: Home news; Scotland News 13

LENGTH: 582 words


HOSPITALS in Scotland are to have ethics committees to adjudicate on life and
death decisions currently left to doctors.

The advisory groups -comprising clinicians, nurses and patients' representatives
-will give advice on issues such as whether to keep terminally ill babies alive
or give scarce transplant organs to young patients rather than the elderly.

The first committees will be launched by NHS Highland later this year.

Members will be trained in ethics and medical law. If the scheme is a success
others will follow in hospitals across the country.

The project is being overseen by Sheila McLean, professor of medical law and
ethics at Glasgow University.

Almost all hospitals in America have ethics committees, often with specialist
consultants on 24-hour standby to give prompt advice to medical staff and
patients' relatives.

"At the end of the trial period we will present a report to the Scottish
executive. Our conclusions will inform any decisions about whether these
committees should be set up routinely in hospitals," said McLean, who has
advised the government on animal to human organ transplants and legislation
preventing organs being removed from dead patients without relatives' consent.

McLean added that she was regularly approached by doctors seeking ethical and
legal advice because they were unable to get guidance at their hospital. She was
contacted recently by a doctor who wanted to know if a pregnant teenager with a
drinking problem could be kept in hospital against her will for the sake of her
health and that of her unborn baby.

"These are the questions that could be answered by ethics committees," she said.

"They might also be used to decide whether handicapped newborn babies should be
resuscitated if they get something else wrong with them. They might also look at
'do not resuscitate' orders as well as monitoring consent issues."

Brian Devlin, who is in charge of the project at NHS Highland, said: "Clinicians
are confronted with moral dilemmas every day. This group will help by providing
them with an ethical understanding."

Dr Ellen Fox, the director of the Washington-based National Centre for Ethics in
Health Care, said there had been a dramatic expansion in the number of ethics
committees in America following a series of court cases brought by patients'
relatives and doctors following disagreements over treatment.

"Typically the committees look at issues relating to end of life care,
life-sustaining treatment decisions, informed consent, refusal of recommended
treatment and who should speak for patients who can't make their own healthcare
decisions," said Fox.

"The committees include physicians, nurses, social workers, chaplains, lay
people and sometimes attorneys.

"It is important that people are able to voice any ethical concerns and have
them addressed. The committees make sure there is a formalised process for
discussing these concerns.

"It helps with decision-making. Even if it doesn't change the ultimate outcome,
the fact that these difficult issues are being discussed in a public forum
instead of behind closed doors is very important."

Malcolm Chisholm, the health minister, said: "We are committed to developing
much more active patient and public involvement in decision-making at every
level. This can be particularly useful in supporting healthcare professionals
who face difficult ethical and legal decisions on an increasingly regular
basis."


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited


                              332 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Care disputes top ethics issue in health system: Health workers clash with
families, patients over treatment choices

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 772  words


Canada's health care system is increasingly gripped by "ethical challenges"
stemming from clashes involving patients, or their families, who disagree with
the treatment being ordered by medical professions, says a major new report.

The report, published yesterday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated -- whether it involves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic, or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment
to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think-tank.

The authors of the report surveyed 12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto
hospitals to rank the most important ethical challenges facing the health
system.

The results -- which focus on everything from wait times to medical errors --
provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said he hopes the report draws more public attention to the issue --
particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Dr. Singer.

The report says the "end-of-life critical care cases" tend to be the most
emotionally charged and intractable: A patient, perhaps with cancer, is in the
late stages of terminal illness and is hooked up to a breathing ventilator in
the ICU. The family is demanding that "everything" be done to maintain the
patient's life, while the health professionals feel such "aggressive
interventions would amount to torture."

"Emotions run high, conflict ensues, and communication inevitably breaks down."

The health workers can't understand the families' position and label them
"irrational" or "unreasonable," says the report, while the families view the
medical staff as "insensitive" and "disrespectful."

The report proposes several solutions, including: educating health care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases; creating
policies for health care facilities to provide guidance.

The other ethical challenges, ranked by priority, are:

2. Waiting lists: The report observes that wait lists, which now plague the
system, create ethical questions because, in some cases, the lengthy waits can
harm patients' health, impede their ability to return to work and contribute to
"psychological distress."

3. Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system
has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment -- a discriminatory practice that must be openly acknowledged and
ended.

4. Shortage of family physicians: The shortage has become a "significant
problem" for the medicare system, especially since it is based on the premise
that patients deserve "universal and reasonable access" to medical services.

5. Medical error: The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with
experts saying the system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug
prescriptions to performing surgery on the wrong patient.

6. Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy, but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

7. Informed consent: Patients are supposed to provide their "informed consent"
to a treatment before it is done, but many do not -- or cannot -- read the forms
they're asked to sign.

8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for "fair compensation" to
participants in medical research without the payments becoming a "coercive
influence."

9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable of making a decision
about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute, many of whom find
the responsibility onerous. Also, there is sometimes a legal hierarchy that
places the most intimate relationship (such as a spouse) near the bottom of the
list to qualify as the substitute.

10. Surgical innovation and new technologies: Should innovative surgical
techniques be considered research and be required to go through ethics approval
before being used on patients?

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              July 31, 2016 Sunday

Sion Hospital: Parents, doctors, ethical panel to decide conjoined twin's fate

BYLINE: tabassum barnagarwala

LENGTH: 482  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


Parents, doctors and members of Sion Hospital's ethical committee will be
holding a meeting this coming week to decide on the fate of the conjoined twins
born in the hospital on Thursday.

The conjoined twins have a partially common thorax, common heart, abdomen,
stomach and pelvis. Between them, the babies also share two legs and three
hands.

"We will have to present our investigations to the ethical committee and take
the parents' consent for the surgery. There are several more tests in line,"
said Dr Paras Kothari, head of paediatric surgery at Sion hospital.

There are nerological complications in the case, with latest tests showing one
boy's brain controlling the left limbs and the other boy's brain controlling the
right limbs.

Even if the babies are separated, each will have only one lower limb controlled
by their brain.

The newborn twin's father, Irshad Khan, is a cobbler at Dadar station. He
migrated to the city from a village in

Uttar Pradesh ten years ago. A surgery to separate conjoined twins can start
from Rs 25 lakh, with medical costs and correction surgeries requiring more
funds. The hospital is now going to pool in surgery costs from 'Poor Box Fund'.

While incidence of conjoined twins is one in two to five lakhs, the case of the
two boys is rarer still. Termed as

dicephalic paraphagus, babies with separate faces are joined sideways in this
case found in only 15 per cent of all conjoined twins.

"Of those, 40-60 per cent are still born. Rarely 5 to 25 per cent survive.
Survival rates are low after surgery," said Dr Suleman Merchant, dean at Sion
hospital.

The babies have, so far, miraculously survived for 72 hours without a ventilator
support. Only one baby has lungs

and doctors suspect the second baby's windpipe is partially connected with his
twin's. The main worrying factor for a whole team of specialists, however, is
the heart's functions. It is currently pumping blood for the two babies, despite
having the capacity to filter blood for one. "The heart rate is within normal
range, for now," Kothari said.

&lt;strong>Watch Video: What's making news &lt;/strong>
(http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrDg7LoYgk9wv_QK-mHWFxTf8Y52LVsNB)

The twin's 26-year-old mother, Shahin Khan, who underwent her first sonography
in the 32nd week of pregnancy is

currently admitted in Sion hospital. "She is stable," confirmed Dr YS Nandanwar,
head of gynaecology.

The babies are set to undergo an angiography to analyse the heart functions,
along with detailed MRI to understand

the lungs and breathing functions. In 2013, conjoined twins Riddhi and Siddhi
Pawar were born with a fused urinary

bladder and vagina. According to doctors, what made their separation surgery
easy were two functioning hearts.

For the twins at Sion hospital, a team of neonatologists, paediatric surgeons,
paediatric cardiac surgeons and

anaesthetists has been formed to investigate the case further.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                  1 - Edition

Police in sedative inquiry

BYLINE: Nathan Paull

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 348  words


A MAN was fighting for his life last night in The Townsville Hospital after
being sedated while being restrained by police.

The 27-year-old Mundingburra man was last night in a critical condition in the
Intensive Care Unit (ICU) following the incident on Tuesday afternoon.

The man stopped breathing and had to be revived by hospital staff after he
became aggressive, police said.

It is still not known why the man's heart stopped but it is believed he could
have had a reaction to the sedative or his heart rate peaked during the
altercation with four police officers.

Queensland Police Union general president Ian Leavers flew to Townsville
yesterday to support the officers involved in the incident. They will now be
investigated by the Ethical Standards Command.

Mr Leavers said the man, who had mental health problems, willingly went to the
hospital but became aggressive and police had to be called.

``Police assisted hospital staff in restraining this person and as soon as it
was realised he wasn't breathing, immediate first aid was rendered by the
medical staff and police assisted in every possible way they could,'' Mr Leavers
said yesterday.

``It is a tragic thing that has happened, but I call on everyone to be calm.
There will be a full and thorough investigation. The police are being
interviewed as we speak and obviously the investigation will continue after
that.''

Mr Leavers said police did not actually administer the sedative, but an
investigation was necessary given police were involved and the incident occurred
while the man was in care.

``In relation to specifics, I can't go into that but police did not (administer
sedatives),'' he said.

``That is not the role of a police officer.

``There needs to be a thorough investigation and we're happy for the Ethical
Standards Command to conduct that investigation.''

Mr Leavers said the investigation would take ``some time'', given the police and
hospital staff had to be interviewed and a report compiled.

Queensland Health refused to comment on the incident yesterday, but confirmed
the man was in a critical condition in ICU.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 14, 2016 Thursday 9:28 PM GMT

Judge sides with Catholic hospital in fight over contraceptive healthcare;
The California hospital cited 'ethical and religious directives' and refused to
allow a doctor to tie the woman's tubes immediately following childbirth

BYLINE: Ronnie Cohen in San Francisco

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 926 words


A San Francisco judge on Thursday refused to order a Catholic hospital to allow
an obstetrician to use its facility to sterilize a woman just after the birth of
her third child.

In denying the American Civil Liberties Union's emergency request, superior
court judge Ernest Goldsmith recognized the right of a Catholic hospital to
adhere to its ethical and religious dictates.

"The religious beliefs reflected in their operation are not to be interfered
with by courts," Goldsmith said.

The case, brought by the ACLU, spotlights increasing tension over women's rights
to contraceptive healthcare in Catholic institutions.

Rebecca Chamorro plans to deliver her baby by cesarean section in Redding,
California, at the end of the month and would like her physician to tie her
tubes immediately following the birth.

But Mercy Medical Center Redding, a Catholic hospital with the only delivery
room in a 70-mile radius of Chamorro's home in the rural northern reaches of the
state, cited "ethical and religious directives" and refused to allow her doctor
to perform the tubal ligation. In 2009, the United States Conference of Catholic
Bishops issued orders that generally prohibit sterilization in Catholic
hospitals and call it "intrinsically evil".

Goldsmith ruled that the ACLU is unlikely to win its discrimination case because
the hospital's sterilization policy applies equally to men and women. The judge
also found that Chamorro could have the elective procedure in another hospital.
In addition, he found insufficient evidence that the hospital allowed other
tubal ligations solely for contraceptive purposes.

The ACLU challenged the use of religious directives to deny tubal ligations in a
lawsuit it filed last month on behalf of Chamorro and Physicians for
Reproductive Health, a nonprofit, and against the hospital and its parent,
Dignity Health of San Francisco - California's largest hospital provider. The
suit alleges sex discrimination because the prohibition against sterilization
disproportionately impacts women. The ACLU also contends that the hospital
arbitrarily allowed some women to have the common surgical procedure while
refusing it to others.

"It's unbelievable that the hospital where my doctor has admitting privileges is
denying him the ability to provide a safe, legal and common procedure,
especially considering that Mercy is my only real option," Chamorro said in an
email.

Barry Landsberg, Dignity Health's attorney, called the ACLU suit "preposterous"
and "a constitutional assault on ... religious freedom."

"It shows complete disregard for the requirements of Catholic healthcare," he
told Goldsmith in a hearing in San Francisco this month.

The judge's ruling on the emergency motion to permit Dr Samuel Van Kirk to tie
Chamorro's tubes is just the first ruling in a dispute over the rights of women
to get tubal ligations following childbirth in Catholic hospitals in California.

The ultimate outcome of the lawsuit could have repercussions for women
throughout the state and the nation. Dignity Health claims to be the fifth
largest health system in the United States. It owns 39 hospitals, 22 of them
Catholic.

"With the Catholic hospital system expanding rapidly in the United States, the
overall healthcare of women is threatened by the refusal to provide medically
appropriate procedures," ACLU attorney Elizabeth Gill said.

About 20% of American women rely on tubal ligations for contraception, making it
the second most common form of birth control, according to the US Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.

A tubal ligation immediately following a C-section delivery takes two minutes,
Gill said. A separate surgery requires the additional time and expense of
another trip to the hospital and carries another set of medical risks.

Chamarro, 33, a pharmacist with two sons, is scheduled for a C-section on 28
January. When Van Kirk first told her that the hospital refused to allow her to
have a tubal ligation, she was confused because she could not imagine that the
medical center would stand in her way, she said in court papers.

But, Landsberg said, Van Kirk should have expected the denial because he agreed
to be bound by the Catholic ethical and religious directives when he applied to
the hospital for privileges. In a court declaration, Van Kirk estimated that
Mercy denied his request to tie the tubes of women 50 times in the past eight
years.

Mercy recently denied the surgery to Lynsie Brushett, who dropped out of the
ACLU case after she miscarried. Van Kirk did perform a tubal ligation on Rachel
Miller at Mercy in Redding following the birth of her second child in September.
The hospital granted permission for Miller's sterilization after the ACLU
threatened to sue.

"I think it is totally wrong that a hospital is using religion to deny standard
medical care for an entire community," said Miller, 32, a criminal-defense
attorney.

The hospital ultimately agreed to allow Miller's tubal ligation based on her
need for antibiotics to combat a fever during her first delivery, she said. But
she believes her tubal ligation was no more medically necessary than Chamorro's.

The hospital's policy says: "Tubal ligation or other procedures that induce
sterility for the purpose of contraception are not acceptable in Catholic moral
teaching even when performed with the intent of avoiding further medical
problems associated with a future pregnancy."

The ACLU has also filed a complaint on behalf of Jessica Mann, who has brain
tumors and was denied a postpartum tubal ligation at a Catholic hospital in
Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 14, 2016 Thursday 8:58 PM GMT

Judge sides with Catholic hospital in fight over contraceptive healthcare;
The California hospital cited 'ethical and religious directives' and refused to
allow a doctor to tie the woman's tubes immediately following childbirth

BYLINE: Ronnie Cohen in San Francisco

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 926 words


A San Francisco judge on Thursday refused to order a Catholic hospital to allow
an obstetrician to use its facility to sterilize a woman just after the birth of
her third child.

In denying the American Civil Liberties Union's emergency request, Superior
Court Judge Ernest Goldsmith recognized the right of a Catholic hospital to
adhere to its ethical and religious dictates.

"The religious beliefs reflected in their operation are not to be interfered
with by courts," Goldsmith said.

The case, brought by the ACLU, spotlights increasing tension over women's rights
to contraceptive healthcare in Catholic institutions.

Rebecca Chamorro plans to deliver her baby by cesarean section in Redding,
California, at the end of the month and would like her physician to tie her
tubes immediately following the birth.

But Mercy Medical Center Redding, a Catholic hospital with the only delivery
room in a 70-mile radius of Chamorro's home in the rural northern reaches of the
state, cited "ethical and religious directives" and refused to allow her doctor
to perform the tubal ligation. In 2009, the United States Conference of Catholic
Bishops issued orders that generally prohibit sterilization in Catholic
hospitals and call it "intrinsically evil".

Goldsmith ruled that the ACLU is unlikely to win its discrimination case because
the hospital's sterilization policy applies equally to men and women. The judge
also found that Chamorro could have the elective procedure in another hospital.
In addition, he found insufficient evidence that the hospital allowed other
tubal ligations solely for contraceptive purposes.

The ACLU challenged the use of religious directives to deny tubal ligations in a
lawsuit it filed last month on behalf of Chamorro and Physicians for
Reproductive Health, a nonprofit, and against the hospital and its parent,
Dignity Health of San Francisco - California's largest hospital provider. The
suit alleges sex discrimination because the prohibition against sterilization
disproportionately impacts women. The ACLU also contends that the hospital
arbitrarily allowed some women to have the common surgical procedure while
refusing it to others.

"It's unbelievable that the hospital where my doctor has admitting privileges is
denying him the ability to provide a safe, legal and common procedure,
especially considering that Mercy is my only real option," Chamorro said in an
email.

Barry Landsberg, Dignity Health's attorney, called the ACLU suit "preposterous"
and "a constitutional assault on... religious freedom."

"It shows complete disregard for the requirements of Catholic healthcare," he
told Goldsmith in a hearing in San Francisco this month.

The judge's ruling on the emergency motion to permit Dr Samuel Van Kirk to tie
Chamorro's tubes is just the first ruling in a dispute over the rights of women
to get tubal ligations following childbirth in Catholic hospitals in California.

The ultimate outcome of the lawsuit could have repercussions for women
throughout the state and the nation. Dignity Health claims to be the fifth
largest health system in the United States. It owns 39 hospitals, 22 of them
Catholic.

"With the Catholic hospital system expanding rapidly in the United States, the
overall healthcare of women is threatened by the refusal to provide medically
appropriate procedures," ACLU attorney Elizabeth Gill said.

About 20% of American women rely on tubal ligations for contraception, making it
the second most common form of birth control, according to the US Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.

A tubal ligation immediately following a C-section delivery takes two minutes,
Gill said. A separate surgery requires the additional time and expense of
another trip to the hospital and carries another set of medical risks.

Chamarro, 33, a pharmacist with two sons, is scheduled for a C-section on 28
January. When Van Kirk first told her that the hospital refused to allow her to
have a tubal ligation, she was confused because she could not imagine that the
medical center would stand in her way, she said in court papers.

But, Landsberg said, Van Kirk should have expected the denial because he agreed
to be bound by the Catholic ethical and religious directives when he applied to
the hospital for privileges. In a court declaration, Van Kirk estimated that
Mercy denied his request to tie the tubes of women 50 times in the past eight
years.

Mercy recently denied the surgery to Lynsie Brushett, who dropped out of the
ACLU case after she miscarried. Van Kirk did perform a tubal ligation on Rachel
Miller at Mercy in Redding following the birth of her second child in September.
The hospital granted permission for Miller's sterilization after the ACLU
threatened to sue.

"I think it is totally wrong that a hospital is using religion to deny standard
medical care for an entire community," said Miller, 32, a criminal-defense
attorney.

The hospital ultimately agreed to allow Miller's tubal ligation based on her
need for antibiotics to combat a fever during her first delivery, she said. But
she believes her tubal ligation was no more medically necessary than Chamorro's.

The hospital's policy says: "tubal ligation or other procedures that induce
sterility for the purpose of contraception are not acceptable in Catholic moral
teaching even when performed with the intent of avoiding further medical
problems associated with a future pregnancy."

The ACLU has also filed a complaint on behalf of Jessica Mann, who has brain
tumors and was denied a postpartum tubal ligation at a Catholic hospital in
Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 5, 2016 Thursday

Maternity governance row 'a risk to women';
Professor warns against running Vincent's and National Maternity Hospital
separately

BYLINE: Paul Cullen

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 435 words


Pregnant women will face delays and potential health risks if the National
Maternity Hospital is run separately from St Vincent's hospital after
relocation, it has been claimed.

A failure to create a single governance system for the two hospitals when the
maternity hospital moves to St Vincent's will waste taxpayers' money and could
increase the risk of costly litigation, according to Prof Michael Keane,
clinical director of St Vincent's.

Prof Keane, writing in today's Irish Times, says St Vincent's is prepared to
gradually phase out the current mastership system in Holles Street over five to
10 years, rather than abolishing it immediately.

The NMH, in its first public comment on the row between the two institutions,
said in a statement yesterday it was "committed to seeking a resolution of the
current impasse and developing a world-class hospital for women and infants at
the St Vincent's site".

It declined to speculate on other options "at this stage".

Patient care

Prof Keane said that if the two hospitals were to operate as separately
governing entities, as advocated by Holles Street, decisions about patient care
would be made by two separate medical teams. Women would have to move back and
forth between the two hospitals to receive care at different stages of their
treatment, as consultants would operate only within one hospital. He warned of
"grey areas" over the transfer of responsibility for patient care and said this
would result in delays and potential risks to pregnant women and their children.

Dr Peter Boylan, chairman of the Institute of Obstetricians, said a compromise
should be reached on the issue.

Ethical problems

Dr Boylan, a former master of the NMH, raised concerns about the maternity
hospital being answerable to the board of the St Vincent's Group, which is
governed by the Religious Sisters of Charity.

This posed ethical problems in terms of maternity care, such as IVF and tubal
ligation, he said. "Despite what's being said, they can't do a tubal ligation in
St Vincent's hospital at present. The word that's been used is you can if it is
'clinically indicated'.

"That rang a bell for me. In the 1990s when the National Maternity Hospital was
doing tubal ligations I was summoned to the Archbishop's Palace and I was
carpeted and told we could not do those procedures unless it was 'clinically
indicated'. These things need to be a matter between a patient and a doctor.
They wouldn't be under the proposed governance," he said.

People before Profit and Labour Senator Kevin Humphreys both called on Minister
for Health Leo Varadkar to intervene in the dispute.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 14, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW JERSEY OPINION;
A 'BILL OF RIGHTS' FOR THE R.N.

BYLINE: By JOANN I. MILLER; Joann I. Miller, a Registered Nurse, lives in Toms
River.

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 22, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 679 words


DOES a nurse, as a human being and a professional, have the legal right to
refuse to participate in the prescribed delivery of health care in a particular
case because the procedure to be used, or the nature of the problem, is in
direct opposition to the nurse's own moral, ethical, religious, philosophical or
medical beliefs?

''Yes,'' says the Code for Nurses of the American Nurses Association. The code,
which was adopted in 1950, reaffirmed and then amplified in 1976, emphatically
states:

''The nurse provides services with respect for human dignity and the uniqueness
of the client, unrestricted by considerations of social or economic status,
personal attributes or the nature of health problems.

''The nurse's concern for human dignity and the provision of quality nursing
care is not limited by personal attitudes or beliefs. If personally opposed to
the delivery of care in a particular case because of the nature of the health
problem or the procedures to be used, the nurse is justified in refusing to
participate.

''Such refusal should be made known in advance and in time for other appropriate
arrangements to be made for the client's nursing care.

''If the nurse must knowingly enter such a case under emergency circumstances or
enters unknowingly, the obligation to provide the best possible care is
observed. The nurse withdraws from this type of situation only when assured that
alternative sources of nursing care are available to the client.''

''Yes,'' declared the International Military Tribunal at the Nuremberg war-crime
trials when it rejected the contention of a number of defendants that they were
not legally responsible for their acts because they performed the acts under the
orders of superior authority.

The tribunal held that this defense had never been accepted in either
international or domestic law, and judged that ''the true test . . . is not the
existence of the order, but whether moral choice [in executing it] was in fact
possible.''

''No,'' ruled the New Jersey Appellate Division last Feb. 14, when it held that
the Code for Nurses defines ''a standard of conduct beneficial only to the
individual nurse and not to the public at large . . . and does not constitute a
legally accepted public policy.''

The ruling supported a hospital's right to dismiss any nurse who exercised the
Code for Nurses because of strong personal and ethical convictions.

In addition, the Appellate Division judges said that because a nurse was an
''at-will'' employee - that is, not under contract to the hospital - she could
be dismissed ''without cause.''

The legality of the nurses' code as an issue began in August 1982. Corrine
Warthen, a nurse employed by Community Memorial Hospital in Toms River, was
dismissed for refusing to administer prescribed care to a terminally ill patient
because she believed she was participating in treatment that was hastening the
patient's death.

Mrs. Warthen, an employee of Community Memorial for 12 years, complied with the
Code for Nurses by asking her superiors to remove her from the case. Although
the request was granted, Mrs. Warthen subsequently was reassigned to the case
despite her objections, even though there were other nurses available to deliver
the prescribed care.

When Mrs. Warthen further refused to provide the prescribed care, she was
dismissed.

Ethical and legal dimensions are present in all professional codes of ethics.
Legal dimensions insure the ''minimum'' standard established; however, ethical
dimensions promote the ideal standard for the profession.

Mrs. Warthen's lawyer, John R. Ford of Red Bank, has filed an appeal with the
State Supreme Court. He believes that the Code for Nurses, or any professional
code of ethics, should be regarded as public policy and, as such, should have
the protection of the courts.

If the Appellate Court's decision is permitted to stand, perhaps we Americans
will owe those war criminals, who were not permitted the defense of ''superior
authority,'' an apology.

Joann I. Miller, a Registered Nurse, lives in Toms River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 28, 2011

Patients social media use raises practical issues for doctors

BYLINE: By Pamela Lewis Dolan, amednews staff. Posted March 28, 2011.

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1166 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ethical concerns come into play when physicians become part of health
conversations on Facebook and other sites.


Patients using social media to check in on what their friends and family are
doing are starting to use the sites as sources of information for something else
-- health care.

National Research Corp., a health care research company based in Lincoln, Neb.,
recently surveyed more than 22,000 Americans and found that nearly 16% use
social media sites as a source of health care information. Of those, 94% said
Facebook was their preferred source, followed by YouTube with 32% and Twitter
with 18%.

The company did not ask patients why they used social media as a health
information source. However, analysts say that because people are spending more
time on social media sites, they have begun to include questions and research
about health care as a part of that experience. They say many like having an
instant conversation online, rather than merely reading what someone has posted
on a website.

"For many people, social media -- or Facebook in particular -- is the Internet,"
said Jennifer Dyer, MD, MPH, a pediatric endocrinologist and an assistant
professor of pediatrics at the Research Institute at Nationwide Children's
Hospital in Columbus, Ohio.

On a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 being the highest, 82.3% of those surveyed who used
social media trusted the information on a level of 3 or higher, and 78.8% gave a
level of 3 or higher to the likelihood of social media influencing their health
care decisions.

Physicians can ask patients about what health websites they consult and give
their patients a list of recommended sites. However, the dynamic is different
with social media -- and so are the moral and ethical expectations and
obligations.

For example, American Medical Association policy discourages physicians from
socially interacting with patients on social media, though professional sites
are encouraged. The Association has had policy, even before social media was an
issue, that physicians should not practice medicine online with patients when
there has been no previous face-to-face relationship.

But experts say physicians concerned about what patients might find on social
media can come up with ways to become involved in their health conversations.

For example, a physician can have a Facebook page that is actively updated and
maintained so that when patients have general health or wellness questions, they
can ask the doctor instead of throwing it out to everyone they know on Facebook.
It also can be a place where physicians share what they consider quality
research and educational material. Patients would be amenable to what a
physician has to say on social media, given that the National Research survey
found that hospitals and physicians are patients' most trusted sources of health
information.

"I do think, as a physician and a communicator, it's an ethical duty ... for
everyone to contribute something to this massive pool of information -- where
everyone is looking -- that is accurate information," Dr. Dyer said. She and her
hospital have presences on multiple social media sites, and she said often
patients say it's more convenient to get in touch with her through those means
rather than by email.

The National Research survey did not ask specifically what social media
presences the respondents checked out, what advice they were seeking or from
whom. But there is plenty of evidence that social media users are following
health-related feeds.

The American Cancer Society has more than 228,000 "likes" on its Facebook
presence, meaning the number of Facebook users who follow its updates. The
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has about 82,000 likes on Facebook,
and the American Diabetes Assn. has more than 72,000.

The amount of health information varies by the site. The American Diabetes
Assn.'s Facebook page includes a 10-question test to see if a person is at risk
for type 2 diabetes. Hospital and physician social media sites might mix general
health observations with news about their organizations.

Setting up a presence on a social media site doesn't mean soliciting patients to
come to the site with the promise of a diagnosis. But it can help steer patients
to helpful information. For example, at Tufts Medical Center in Boston, the
Facebook page also serves as a referral outlet to its other online educational
resources, said Tim Brennan, public affairs and marketing manager for Tufts.

Though physicians are not expected to be the "rulers of the Internet" and
monitor their patients' every move or be available for every question they have,
they can offer assistance when needed, Dr. Dyer said.

Take a recently reported case from the United Kingdom. Rahul Velineni, a
physician from the Princess of Wales Hospital in Bridgend, Wales, saw a Facebook
status update of an old school friend saying he was having severe stomach pains
and trouble walking. The doctor suspected appendicitis and shared his concerns
with his friend. The friend did have appendicitis and that by the time doctors
operated, the appendix had perforated.

Howard Brody, MD, PhD, director of the Institute for the Medical Humanities at
the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, said the scenario
represents an ethical question that goes beyond social media, or even the fact
that the person who offered the advice was a doctor.

"There's a general sort of ethical obligation to help other people out," Dr.
Brody said. A physician may have knowledge relevant to a certain situation, he
said.

"If you stumble upon information that they could really use to protect
themselves, not to share it would be ethically questionable," he said.

On the other hand, offering specific medical advice can cross ethical
boundaries, Dr. Dyer said.

"If someone says, 'How much Tylenol do I take?' and they are not your patient,
you can't say, because you don't know if they have a liver condition or anything
about them," she said. "It's not too different from someone at the airport that
you happen to be sitting next to asking, 'Should I do this or that?' Most
doctors are not going to practice medicine on someone they do not know."

What Tufts Medical Center and other hospitals and physicians have found is that
they don't have to provide answers to every question to keep patients coming
back to their Facebook page, Brennan said. The community shares its expertise
and experiences. The hospital or physician practice simply acts as a host that
brings the community together.

High confidence in information

National Research Corp. surveyed more than 22,000 Americans and asked about
their use of social media sites to collect health information. Nearly 16% said
they use social media and find it a trustworthy source.

Form of social media used

Facebook: 94% YouTube: 32% Twitter: 18% MySpace: 18% FourSquare: 2%

Level of trust in social media

5 (very high): 13% 4: 20% 3: 44% 2: 15% 1 (very low): 8%

Likelihood of social media to influence health care decisions

5 (very high): 12% 4: 18% 3: 36% 2: 13% 1 (very low): 21%

Source: National Research Corp.'s Ticker Survey, February

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 10, 2002

Hospital disposes of PCs the ethical way

BYLINE: By Joe Harkin

LENGTH: 401 words


LONDONDERRY'S main hospital has thanked two firms for the sensitive way in which
its old IT equipment was disposed of after new systems were introduced to meet
modern demands.

Altnagelvin Hospital has adopted an innovative approach to disposing of old
computer systems, and two schools were among those to reap the benefits.

When the hospital decided to update its PCs administrators had to find a
suitable means of dealing with the existing machines.

It was critical that sensitive information stored on the computers would not be
lost when their use was discontinued.

The hospital also wanted to be sure the equipment was disposed of in an ethical
manner.

BIC Systems, the IT supplier to Altnagelvin Hospital, contracted the disposal
work to Asset Management Ireland, a Belfast-based company specialising in the
management of redundant IT equipment.

Philip McMichael, of Asset Management, said: "When BIC Systems came to us they
had a number of requirements for a wide range of computer equipment.

"Our first priority was to record all the equipment we received and then carry
out our fully-guaranteed data removal on all the computers."

Through this the hospital was able to meet its responsibilities under the Data
Protection Act.

It also wanted to offer some of the equipment back to employees of Altnagelvin
Hospitals Trust.

So, once the PCs had been wiped, Asset Management Ireland was able to
reconfigure the equipment and supply the computers to trust employees for home
use.

As part of BIC Systems' regular charity work with local organisations, an
arrangement was made for 25 of the PCs from Altnagelvin Hospital to be set up
for use in two Belfast schools, helping to extend the use of computers in local
education.

Due to the relentless updating of equipment some of the PCs were no longer of
any use.

A spokesman for Asset Management Ireland said the equipment was recycled in
accordance with the new European legislation on electrical and electronic waste.

The company was able to recover enough from the value in the equipment to cover
the costs of the service, therefore keeping Altnagelvin's ethical disposal
policy intact, at no extra cost to the taxpayer.

Karen Phelan, acting IT manager at Altnagelvin, co-ordinated the project. She
said the protection of confidentiality was of the utmost importance for the
hospital.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.


                              341 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 11, 2005

Doctors need a check-up on ethics

BYLINE: BETH PEARSON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 839 words


MEDICAL ethics means different things to different people. To newspapers, it
means the big issues: abortion, euthanasia or genetically-modified babies.

To pro-life organisations, it's a handy euphemism for "abortion is evil". To
doctors, it's about basic conduct as much as trying to resolve difficult issues
surrounding a patient's treatment.

To me, at this precise moment, it's about the fact that I'm not going to walk
three minutes from my desk to give blood to the van outside the office because
I've decided I'm too busy writing this. Suffice to say, it's a broad field.

For Dame Janet Smith, speaking at a conference organised by General Medical
Council, it's so fundamental to the practice of medicine that students should
not qualify as doctors if they haven't sufficient knowledge of ethical conduct.
Dame Janet, author of the Shipman report, called for medical students to receive
greater education about medical ethics because "ethics and attitudes are
fundamental and have to be planted right at the beginning". So fundamental that
she believes students should be "tested with the potential of failure".

The idea that medical students shouldn't qualify as doctors if they don't show
sound knowledge of ethics isn't a great one. Of course, teaching time allocated
to ethics ought to be increased and all budding doctors should be familiarwith
Beauchamp and Childress's four pillars of bioethics (which, formulated as they
are, specifically to apply to doctor-patient relations, don't mention anything
about a moral obligation to give blood), but people with doctorates in the
subject who have gone to work in hospitals have had to go right back to basics
because the hospital is a unique ethical context. It is highly pragmatic,
unpredictable and personal, given the involvement of patients and their
relatives. As such, it isn't best suited to the application of armchair ethics.

Yet Dame Janet's concern and rather severe remedy is understandable if we
consider the consequences of poor conduct and the wide-reaching impact of
decisions about bioethics. Late last month, paediatrician Dr Camille De San
Lazaro admitted she "overstated and exaggerated" medical reports that suggested
two nursery nurses had sexually abused children in their care.

Earlier this year, a report by the Commons select committee on science and
technology courted controversy over its recommendations that parents should be
able to select the gender of their baby.

In this way, medical ethics traverses the particular and universal; more than
often it conflates the two. For this reason, it appears that incorporating
ethics into the very fabric of medical practice will require a range of
responses and not a quick-fix. Here are a couple.

A clear way to nurture ethically-aware doctors, in hospitals at least, is to
create an environment in which ethics are fundamental. For medical students,
this might mean dripfeeding, as it were, bioethical knowledge and practice
throughout medical training and beyond, rather than lumping it all in an
open-and-shut examination. This kind of nurturing would encourage ethical
consideration to become habitual; something that is done rather than just
learned.

We also ought to follow the lead of North America in employing clinical
ethicists who can be consulted if a doctor, nurse, patient or the patient's
relatives need assistance in making a decision about treatment. Clinical
ethicists are well-versed in both clinical practice and ethical matters and,
vitally, operate oncall, which makes them accessible and integrated within the
hospital system (though some have argued that their rapid response leads to
nothing more than simplistic "beeper bioethics") . In the UKwe do, of course,
have ethics committees to which pressing cases can be referred, but the
advantage of clinical ethicists is that they workwith doctors and patients on a
case-by-case basis, thereby demonstrating ethics in action. There can be little
better education than witnessing this first-hand.

Certainly, these are ideals.

Dame Janet acknowledged that the possibility of adding extra ethics to an
already packed medical curriculum would be greeted with hostility, as "you
already have to put a quart into a pint pot". But as she also remarked, it is a
question of priority. It ought to be: bioethics is not only about maintaining
reputations and avoiding the courts. At a time when issues of medical ethics are
top of the agendas of newspapers, politicians and churches, the medical
profession has been all but silent. The consequence of this is dogmatism;
scientifically illiterate religious campaigns have developed an apparently
legitimate claim on issues of life and death, while people at the frontline of
bioethics have been under-represented (not least with the Royal College of
Nursing maintaining its neutral stance on euthanasia against many of its
member's wishes).

The medical profession must, then, show it has something coherent to say about
medical ethics. This necessitates that it becomes ingrained in theory and
practice.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved


                              342 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           October 15, 1986 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

WHO SAYS INVESTORS DON'T CARE WHERE THEIR MONEY IS INVESTED?;
HOTLINE

BYLINE: Anne Lampe

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 689 words


THE Friends Provident Ethical Managed Fund, launched a month ago, has attracted
more than $800,000 without any formal advertising.

While this is dwarfed by the $1 million or $2 million a month that some of the
leveraged currency dealers were attracting at the height of their operations a
few months ago, it is more than any one of them would be attracting now.

Of course, there is no similarity between the ethical fund and the operations of
some of the leveraged currency operators. The comparison simply demonstrates
that some investment products will attract public money even without the benefit
of advertising.

The ethical fund selects companies not involved in arms, alcohol, tobacco,
gambling, and excludes those which trade with South Africa or Namibia, and those
which trade in uranium.

The fund is about to begin distributing brochures, but Herman Heywood, Friends'
Provident's financial services manager, says he is delighted with the result and
believes the Friends' trusts will be the forerunner of several others.

Cancer coverage

A NEW health insurance policy specifically designed to cover the many special
costs associated with cancer patients has been launched by the US-based American
Family Assurance.

The latest statistics on the incidence of cancer show that one in four can
expect to suffer from the disease some time in their lives, and three out of
four families will be touched by it in some way.

And since the treatment of the disease - radiotherapy or chemotherapy plus the
hospitalisation that usually results - tends to be centralised in major capital
cities, out-of-town patients often face big travel and accommodation expenses.

Such expenses could include hotel accommodation or a short term rental while
out-patient treatment is given, or for accompanying relatives while the patient
is hospitalised, as well as cab and other fares to and from hospital for patient
or visitor.

Certainly the medical and hospital costs are mostly covered by a combination of
Medicare and private health fund insurance (where the patient chooses his or her
own doctor). But these do not cover incidental travelling and accommodation
costs.

The policies offered by American Family Assurance, a wholly owned subsidiary of
the American Family Life group of Columbus, Georgia, provide for lump sum
payments on initial diagnosis of internal cancer, as well as hospitalisation and
specified convalescence benefits.

The insurance scheme, which excludes the common superficial skin
cancers(although it pays out for melanomas), offers three plans - a basic plan,
super plan and deluxe plan.

The basic plan provides for an initial lump sum benefit of $800 on diagnosis,
plus a progressive benefit of $20 per month after the first 60 days, with a
maximum payment of $1,200. In addition, where the patient is hospitalised there
is an $80 per day benefit for accommodation of relatives and a $40 per day
convalescence benefit.

The cost of the plan varies according to age and whether it is a single or a
family plan.

The basic plan for 18 to 39 year olds carries an annual premium of $62.50 per
individual (or $118.75 per family) and rises to $125 per year between the ages
of 40 to 54 ($250 per family) and to $218.75 for those 55-64 years of age($375
per family). Insurance is not available for those over 64, or those who have had
cancer diagnosed before applying for the cover.

The super plan provides for double the basic plan benefits and the deluxe plan
triples the basic plan benefits. The costs double and triple accordingly

The company says these benefits are payable in addition to other cash payments
and monies received from other sources, such as other income replacement or
sickness insurance or workers' compensation.

The general manager of the American Family Assurance, David Jones, says: "The
policies are intended to minimise the financial impact cancer has on the family
and to allow victims to concentrate on getting well."

He adds that the company is not using fear tactics but sees the plan as a
positive approach to relieving a major debilitating impact of the disease -the
financial effects on cancer sufferers and their families.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1986 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 13, 1988, Monday, City Edition

Right to die: no easy answers on moral or legal grounds

BYLINE: THOMAS B. HARRISON

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



ST. PETERSBURG - Is there a right to die?

     Participants in a two-day conference asked hard questions about    that
emotional issue. Almost no one is exempt from the emotion    surrounding the
debate, which invariably divides families, doctors,    lawyers, judges,
ethicists and clergy.

     A few representatives of those groups gathered over the weekend in    the
first conference in a program entitled "Living with Dying: Coping    with
Death." Participants explored medical, moral, ethical,    philosophical,
religious and legal questions regarding the right to die    by the refusal of
life-sustaining medical technology.

     One of the intriguing ideas that emerged at the conference, held at    the
St. Petersburg campus of the University of South Florida, is that    moral and
ethical questions are often confused with legal rights and    scientific
judgments.

     The conference was sponsored by the International Institute for the
Study of Death, and was funded in part by the Florida Endowment for the
Humanities. Co-sponsors include the University of South Florida,    Hospice Care
Inc., and Mental Health Services of South Pinellas Inc.       The legal view was
the province of Arthur S. Berger, author,    attorney and director of the
International Institute for the Study of    Death. Berger offered some sobering
statistics: More than 2-million    people die every year in this country, of
whom 70 percent die in    hospitals. It is reasonable to assume that many of
those hospital-bound    patients are kept alive by artificial means. Many of
those patients    cannot speak for themselves. Among the questions yet to be
decided: Who    will speak for them? Are their rights absolute? Do they have the
right    to say no to expensive medical treatment?

         Berger said that more than 80 percent of Americans who    responded to
polls on the right-to-die issue said they support the    right to die for
terminally ill patients. Although there is nothing in    federal law or the U.S.
Constitution that gives a patient the right to    refuse medical treatment,
there is ample precedent in the body of    common law, Berger said.

     Every patient has "the right to be left alone, the right of bodily
integrity," he said, and a physician who denies that basic right ought    to be
liable for malpractice, according to Berger.

      Implicit in Berger's comments, and the comments of other    participants,
was the conflict that inevitably arises between the    moralist - often a family
member who desires mercy for a loved one -    and the physician bound by
Hippocratic ideals. Ideally, both parties    wish to act in the patient's best
interest. The irony, as several    speakers implied, is that the wishes of the
decision-makers usually    supersede the right of the patient, who only desires
freedom from    anguish.

     Berger said that the right of a terminally ill patient to deny    treatment
that he or she knows is futile and degrading ought to be    paramount. Death
might be a blessing to the patient, and to a family    that is being drained,
emotionally and financially.

     Helene A. Lutz, a Ph.D. candidate and Bioethics Fellow at    Washington
Hospital Center, told the sparse gathering that she fears    the right-to-die
question, like the abortion issue, will result in a    "moral impasse."

     "My concern is about moral discourse - specifically that    discussion
about the right to die will become ... a battle of rights    vs. rights. The
danger is that moral discussion and decision making are    often subsumed into
conflicts of unresolvable oppositions."

 Helene A. Lutz, a Ph.D. candidate and Bioethics Fellow at Washington
Hospital Center

   Lutz advocated an approach that arises from personal experience and    not
abstract notions or legal arguments over who has the right to die.

     She cited a recent case of an infant girl, confined to a Tampa    hospital,
as an instance in which personal involvement transformed    someone high in the
decision-making process.

     The infant was born in 1987 with severe brain, lung, kidney, spinal    and
intestinal damage. She also was deaf and blind, and required a    respirator to
breathe.

        The girl's parents requested that life-support systems be    terminated,
but hospital authorities refused to do so without a court    order. Finally, the
judge assigned to the case visited the child's    bedside and ruled for the
parents.

     The infant died within minutes after her life-support systems were
terminated.

     Clearly, the Tampa case showed what happens when ethical matters    are
turned into legal problems, Lutz said. It also raised questions:    Who should
receive treatment, and who should not? Who decides when    treatment ought to be
stopped? Who speaks for those who cannot speak    for themselves?

     "These are all ethical questions, not scientific judgments," Lutz    said.

     "They concern values and assumptions about the meaning of life and
death. As value judgments, they are moral choices and should be treated    as
such. Judicial scrutiny should be the last resort for deciding    ethical
matters, not the first resort."

     The courts are deciding cases that would have been unthinkable 15    or 20
years ago, she said. Some families have sued doctors and    b b hospitals for
"overtreating" patients, a fairly recent phenomenon    caused by advanced
medical technology that sustains life artificially.

     Lutz cited the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical    Problems
in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research, which    supports the idea
that there should be "a greater justification for    withholding treatment than
for withdrawing it."

         The termination of life support is not wrongful killing, Lutz    said.
Death in such circumstances is caused by the illness that    necessitated the
life-support apparatus, not the act of withdrawing    treatment.

      Legally, the commission stated, there is "nothing in law ...    (that)
makes stopping treatment a more serious legal issue than not    starting it. In
fact, not starting treatment that might be in a    patient's best interest is
more likely to be held a civil or criminal    wrong than stopping the same
treatment when it has proved unavailing."

      However, health care authorities don't see it that way. In today's
litigious society, there is an "unwarranted fear of unjustified    lawsuits or
prosecution," Lutz said. The tragedy is that "frequently,    patients pay the
price of this fear."



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, RICARDO FERRO; Arthur S. Berger, Adil al Aseer
and Tyson Anderson look over the program of the right-to-die conference

                            Times Publishing Company


                              344 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              July 31, 2016 Sunday

Conjoined twins put Sion hosp docs in ethical dilemma

BYLINE: Somita Pal and Santosh Andhale P_somita

LENGTH: 758  words


Days after a set of conjoined twins was born at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal
General Sion Hospital, doctors are now facing the ethical dilemma of saving only
one of them. The rare twins have two heads but share a heart.

While the mother - 26-year-old Mumtaz Bano (name changed) - recuperates in the
hospital's gynaecology ward, paediatric surgeons at the hospital are busy
assessing the twins' diagnostic reports to come to a decision. "2D echo, MRI and
CT scan of the heart have been done. We also did MRI fibre tractography, which
will give a clear picture of the spinal tracks arriving from the brain," said Dr
Paras Kothari, head of the paediatric surgery department.

Dr Kothari and his team are currently scanning medical literature and calling
experts to draw opinions while waiting for all the diagnostic test reports.

"Medical literature shows that only two such conjoined twins with single heart
have survived across the world. But only one of the babies can be saved. It will
be a surgical challenge," said Paras.

Babies are in a stable condition in the neonatal intensive care unit. Their
father, a cobbler by profession, is yet to be briefed about their medical
condition. "We first want to be sure with all the diagnostic tests before
briefing them," said Paras.

A doctor from the paediatric surgery department, who didn't wish to be named,
said the hospital's ethics committee has refused to give its opinion in the
matter, stating that it didn't come under their jurisdiction. "Both babies are
stable and have survived for four days, but its an ethical dilemma. Letting them
grow without a surgery will lead to social stigma for both the twins and their
parents. We will have to take a legal opinion," said the doctor.

Another doctor from the department where the 2D echo test was done said the
twins have one-and-a-half hearts. "One heart is normal. The other is not
developed and has two chambers," said the doctor.

The babies were born by caesarean section at the hospital at 9.25am on Wednesday
with the birth weight of 3.6kg. They share a heart but have two stomachs, two
spinal cords, and a spinal column till the sacrum. The sacrum is not well
developed. They have two lungs, two kidneys, three hands, two legs and a single
pelvis between them. The condition is known as single-hearted thoraco
paraphagus.

"We have started feeding the babies via ryles tube. They are passing stool and
urine normally but we cannot say who is passing the stool and urine, as they
have common genitalia," said Dr Kothari.

Dean Dr Suleman Merchant said the hospital will provide all facilities to the
twins free of cost.

"These conjoined twins have a very complex internal architecture. Externally,
they have two separate heads and necks, but a partially common thorax; and are
completely fused below the umbilicus level. 3D rotational CT angiography,
multiplanar re- constructions and other complex CT techniques have been utilised
to diagnose the architecture of the babies. MRI fibre tracto-graphy will be
utilised to establish the communication between the brains and other parts of
the nervous system, including nerve supply to limbs. After all investigations
are complete, the next course of action will be decided upon," said Dr Merchant.

Amit Kharkanis, a lawyer who handles medico-legal cases, said, "There is no
ethical dilemma in such cases as doctors have to decide which baby has a higher
survival rate. After the investigations, they have to take the parents'
consent."

tale of two lives

Conjoined twins is a rare sporadic event, with a prevalence of 1 in
200,000-5,00,000 births. The mortality rate remains quite high.

There are nearly a dozen different types of conjoined twins. The twins born at
the Sion hospital are called cervico paraphagus.

Female conjoined twins are three times more likely to be born alive than male
conjoined twins.

Most conjoined twins are separated weeks or months after they are born, to give
them a chance to grow and become strong enough to survive surgery and to let
doctors study their anatomy.

Conjoined twins are genetically identical and are therefore always the same sex.
They share the same amniotic cavity and placenta and develop from the same
fertilised egg.

BJ Wadia hospital currently houses a pair of former conjoined twins, born to a
couple from Panvel on May 6, 2013. The girls were attached by their hip at a 90
degree angle, because of which it was impossible for them to walk. They were
separated on January 17, 2014, and have since been recuperating in a special
room at the hospital's paediatric ward.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

ACLU sues US bishops over Catholic hospital ethics

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 643 words


The American Civil Liberties Union filed a sweeping federal lawsuit against the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops over its ethical guidelines for Roman
Catholic hospitals, arguing the directives were to blame for negligent care of a
pregnant woman who went into early labor and whose baby died within hours.

The ACLU alleges the bishops were negligent because their religious directives
prevented Tamesha Means from being told that continuing her pregnancy posed
grave risks to her health and her child was not likely to survive. She was
treated at Mercy Health Muskegon, a Catholic hospital in Michigan.

"It's not just about one woman," said Kary Moss, executive director of the
Michigan ACLU. "It's about a nationwide policy created by nonmedical
professionals putting patients in harms' way."

The lawsuit comes amid a wave of mergers between Catholic and secular hospital
systems throughout the United States, raising questions about how much religious
identity the hospitals will retain and whether they will provide medical
services that conflict with church teaching. Advocates for abortion rights and
others fear the mergers will limit access to a full range of medical care for
women. About 13 percent of U.S. hospitals are Catholic.

Sister Mary Ann Walsh, a spokeswoman for the bishops' conference in Washington,
said it hadn't been officially notified of the lawsuit and couldn't comment
until it received the complaint. Neither Mercy Health Muskegon nor its corporate
parent, Trinity Health, would comment Monday. Earlier this year, Trinity Health
and Catholic Health East completed a merger, combining more than 80 nonprofit
hospitals across about 21 states.

According to the lawsuit, filed Friday in U.S. District Court in Michigan, Means
was 18 weeks pregnant in 2010 when her water broke and she went to the nearest
hospital in Muskegon. The ACLU said that over several emergency visits, Means
was never told that "the safest treatment option was to induce labor and
terminate the pregnancy" because the hospital was following the conference's
ethical directives. She eventually delivered the baby, which died after less
than three hours. The ACLU says the pathology report found that Means had
infections that can result in infertility and other damage.

Under the conference's "Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health
Care Services," abortion is barred, along with other procedures that go against
Catholic doctrine, such as specific infertility treatments or sterilization.
However, each bishop has the authority to interpret the directives within his
diocese and it is common to find some variation in how the guidelines are
applied among dioceses or according to individual cases.

For example, the directives allow for treatments to cure a grave illness in a
pregnant woman even if they result in the death of the child. That issue drew
national attention in 2010 with the case of a nun and administrator at a Phoenix
hospital who, in her role on the hospital ethics committee, approved an abortion
to save the life of a pregnant woman. Phoenix Bishop Thomas Olmsted said the
decision meant automatic excommunication for the nun and the hospital could no
longer identify itself as Catholic.

Robin Fretwell Wilson, a University of Illinois professor who specializes in
family and health law, said a negligence claim would hinge in part on whether
the ACLU can establish that the conference has some direct control in this case
or in hospitals in general. The bishops have moral authority over local Catholic
hospitals but are not involved in the day-to-day business of administration.

"It's so many layers removed," Fretwell Wilson said, that she has "a difficult
time buying" that the bishops' conference is legally responsible in this case.

____

Associated Press writer John Flesher contributed to this story from Traverse
City, Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                          September 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Humboldt case highlights folly of two-tier care

BYLINE: The StarPhoenix

SECTION: FORUM; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 655  words


For a government that has warned the country about the dangers of a two-tiered
health system, the situation in Humboldt since July should serve as a wake-up
call.

As reprehensible as it may be that some people would be denied medical care
because they lack the fi nancial resources to pay for the service, it's even
worse when that denial is based on religious beliefs.

In this case, women are being denied a service because members of the hospital
board believe that the Catholic Church -- not the women involved -- should
determine what medical procedures will be provided.

The Saskatchewan Catholic Health Association owns seven hospitals in
Saskatchewan, including the St. Elizabeth in Humboldt and St. Paul's in
Saskatoon.

Although the majority of the capital and operating funds to run these facilities
come from government coffers, they are allowed to offer a separate tier of
services based on an ambiguous set of ethical guidelines that "presents a moral
vision refl ecting Roman Catholic teaching on health ethics as it applies to the
complex ethical issues of contemporary society." According to Jerome Strasser,
chair of the board of governors that runs St. Elizabeth's, sterilization is not
an option when it comes to those complex ethical issues.

The board's orders not to perform tubal ligations at St. Elizabeth strike to the
very heart of the government's insistence on a medicare system that upholds the
fi ve principles of public health -- public administration, comprehensiveness,
universality, portability and accessibility.

For years the provincial government has been raising the spectre of what will
become of the public health-care system in Saskatchewan should private,
for-profi t hospitals be allowed to establish a beachhead here.

The situation in Humboldt drives home the point. Although St.

Elizabeth is primarily funded from the public purse, its board is determining
what sort of services patients can receive. The decision isn't based on medical
evidence or the wishes of the patients or doctors, but on the religious
convictions of board members.

This is not the fi rst Saskatchewan hospital to allow non-medical offi cials to
determine what sort of treatment patients can receive. In Saskatoon, for
example, the health region had to juggle services in order to allow St. Paul's
to discriminate.

This position is immoral, but because there are two other hospitals in
Saskatoon, it at least doesn't deprive patients (in most cases women) from being
able to determine, with the help of their doctors, what to do with their body.

It does bring into question, however, how a publicly funded facility is allowed
to violate basic tenets of the Charter of Rights that include the right of
individuals to determine their own religious beliefs.

The situation in Humboldt is much more grave, however. By denying local women
the right to tubal ligations, the hospital is forcing them to travel to
Saskatoon for the procedure.

And because a clinic in Humboldt performs vasectomies on men, the board's
decision not only discriminates against people of different faiths, but specifi
cally targets the reproductive rights of women.

One can't fault either Strasser or the hospital for the situation, however. The
fault lies with a provincial government that continues to ignore the two-tiered
system it has allowed to exist in the province.

If Catholics are allowed to establish a publicly funded but privately operated
hospital in order to proselytize to their patients, then certainly other groups
should be allowed the same freedom -- even if the hospital is used for the
purpose of allowing health professionals to make a profi t.

And if the latter is unacceptable, certainly the time has come to review the
agreements that allow affi liate hospitals and convert all of Saskatchewan's
facilities to be publicly owned and operated, and universally accessible for a
comprehensive list of services, regardless of religious beliefs.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                               November 26, 2015

Role of Internet in Healthcare

LENGTH: 1007 words


You wake up feeling a slight tickle in your throat. You try and shake it off and
drink lots of water. After a few hours, it's still there. Instead of calling
your mom or making an appointment with the doctor, you head to the Internet.
Today, anyone with a computer and a connection can get online and find a variety
of results, ranging from simple sore throat to the more serious, like bronchitis
and asthma.

The information technology revolution is being described as the most important
development in the history of humankind since the industrial revolution.
Characterised as "The Third Wave" by Alvin Toffler, in his book of the same
title.

The computer, invented initially to process information, slowly grew into a
storehouse of information. This network further acquired the capability of
distributing electronically processed information to all and sundry, overcoming
every conceivable form of barriers, including geographical and political. Today,
it is a global collaborative medium and a rich resource of information of all
kinds -- science, technology, research, education, and commerce.

With continuing advances in information and communication technology, the
applications of computers in medicine have increased rapidly, and have the
potential to revolutionise healthcare. By re-architecturing the workplace around
computer-based technology, doctors, researchers, and other healthcare providers
are creating a new vision of work and organisation

Doctors and hospitals are on the social media bandwagon

A Pricewaterhouse Cooper conducted survey asked over a thousand patients and
over a hundred healthcare executives what they thought of the way many
healthcare companies are utilising social media and the Web, results show the
most trusted resources online are those posted by doctors (60 percent), followed
by nurses (56 percent), and hospitals (55 percent).

Social media is becoming more and more utilised by hospitals and medical
professionals as a means to convey general health information, sometimes even
personalised help. Amanda Mauck, Interactive Marketing Specialist for Le Bonheur
Children's Hospital, thinks engaging with patients via social media is a great
way to empathise with those who need comfort, not just provide relevant health
news.

"When a family posts a comment about a medical issue, we like to encourage the
family to email our general account. We do this for a couple of reasons: One, to
protect that patient's privacy, and two, it is easier to put the family in touch
with the right person on our team for help," Mauck explains.

The challenges to Internet

healthcare

Of course there's a downside to doctors becoming too available online. The
Internet is almost always the opposite of private -- sensitive subjects like
physical and mental ailments can easily be revealed by the person suffering from
them or the doctor treating them through a tweet or a comment. Social
relationships between doctor and patient can also be easily muddled; many health
institutions discourage staff from "friending" patients on Facebook and other
social media platforms at the risk of jeopardizing treatment as well as
reputations.

The Wall Street Journal mentions a survey published in the Journal of General
Internal Medicine back in 2011 that revealed 35 percent of respondents who are
practicing physicians have received friend requests from patients on their
personal social network accounts, and 58 percent of them always reject them.

Key issues include defining the essence of the patient-provider relationship,
establishing guidelines and training for practicing online medicine and therapy,
setting standards for ethical online research, determining guidelines for
providing quality healthcare information and ethical conduct for medical and
health websites.

This ethical responsibility to patients is often in direct conflict with the
business model of generating profits. Healthcare professionals involved in
Medical Internet Ethics need to define the scope of competent medical and
healthcare on the Internet. The emerging ethical issues facing medicine on the
Internet, the current state of medical ethics on the Internet and questions for
future directions of study in this evolving field are reviewed in this paper.

ZOL Zimbabwe is proud to be the official internet service provider for ICASA
2015 along with Liquid Telecoms Zimbabwe. This is the 18th ICASA conference and
is the biggest AIDS conference in Africa with over ten thousand local, regional
and international delegates. The conference theme "AIDS in Post 2015 Era:
Linking Leadership, Science & Human Rights" engages the whole continent and all
stakeholders in the post MDG framework, where sustainability of the response in
reaching 90, 90, 90 of UNAIDS will not be possible if Human Rights are not key
priority for a new vision of leadership in the context of strengthening the
application of science based evidence.

The 18th ICASA is an opportunity to renew this global commitment by drawing the
world's attention to the fact that the legacy is now under threat as a result of
the global economic downturn. This year's ICASA is an opportunity for the
international community, and all Africans, to join efforts in committing to
achieving an AIDS-free Africa. Given the urgency of the issue we are
anticipating 7 000 -- 10 000 of the world's leading scientists, policy makers,
activists, PLHIV, government leaders -- as well as a number of heads of state
and civil society representatives -- will be joining the debate on how to
achieve this vision.

The conference will be chaired by Dr Ihab Abdel Rhaman Ahmed, an epidemiologist
and president of the Society for AIDS in Africa (SAA). It will be co-chaired by
Drs Pagwesese, David Parirenyatwa, Health and Child care Minister representing
the Government of Zimbabwe.

The conference will be an excellent opportunity to promote inter-sectoral
achievements in the AIDS response and to strengthen the partnership among
governments, civil society, and development partners.

ZOL On! You deserve to live like this.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 1, 2005

Dog attack victim gets world's first face transplant: Woman patient receives
graft from deceased donor: French surgeons perform procedure over two days

BYLINE: Jon Henley and Sarah Boseley

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 937 words


Surgeons in France have performed the world's first face transplant, on a
38-year-old woman whose nose and lips had been torn off by a dog. The complex,
high-risk operation, which involved grafting on a triangle of facial material
from a deceased donor, was carried out over Sunday and Monday at the University
hospital in Amiens, the hospital said in a statement yesterday.

It said the team of doctors for "the first partial face transplant" was led by
Professor Jean-Michel Dubernard, who performed the world's first hand transplant
at Lyon's Edouard Herriot hospital in 1998, and Professor Bernard Devauchelle,
head of maxillo-facial surgery at the Amiens hospital in northern France.

The French team took the surgical world by surprise. Many had expected the first
face transplant to take place in the United States, after an announcement in the
summer that Cleveland clinic in Ohio had finally got ethical approval and was
about to start interviewing prospective patients.

But yesterday, Michael Earley, consultant plastic surgeon and a member of the
Royal College of Surgeons' working party on facial transplantation, said that it
was an operation waiting to happen.

"It could have been done anywhere where there are trained microsurgeons and
plastic surgeons - China, Australia or other countries - from a technical point
of view. What has been holding it back are ethical issues."

A team at the Royal Free hospital in London, under Professor Peter Butler, has
done extensive work modelling what a transplanted face would look like - neither
like donor nor recipient - and carrying out psychological studies.

But, said Mr Earley, the ethical climate in the UK was not right. "I think there
would be a number of objections to it from experts in ethics and psychologists
and the general public," he said.

There were long-term risks of rejection, which would leave the patient worse off
than before. They would also have to take immuno-suppressant drugs for life.

These risks had to be balanced against the benefit the patient would receive.
Inevitably, patients hoped for a better result than they might get.

Nobody yet knew whether a transplanted face would look more natural than
reconstructive plastic surgery. The mobility of the new face would be in
question.

"Your brain moves your face in a particular way. It would still try to move the
transplanted face in the same way," said Mr Earley.

"A better looking face would be the object, but it seems likely that the face
would still not move in the normal way."

Neither French surgeon was available for comment yesterday. But Prof Dubernard
told Le Point magazine that he would give a full account of the groundbreaking
operation "with the whole team, and with the patient's agreement, when the time
is right to do so."

Le Point said relatives had given permission for the mouth-nose triangle of
skin, subcutaneous tissue, facial muscles and veins to be removed from the donor
on Sunday morning at a hospital in nearby Lille, shortly after she was declared
brain dead.

The operation then had to take place within 24 hours.

The unidentified recipient, who was savaged by a dog last May, had been awaiting
a suitable donor since August, when French health authorities finally allowed
her name to be added to a list of patients for reconstructive surgery.

She has now reportedly been transferred to another nearby hospital for further
intensive treatment, including immuno-suppressant and anti-rejection drugs that
she will have to continue taking for life and that carry considerable long-term
health risks.

Authorities in France hesitated before giving the go-ahead because of the
"unusually high medical and psychological risks" associated with the operation,
Le Point said, citing the dangers of short and long-term rejection of the
transplant, and also the potential "ethical and psychological" complications of
living with somebody else's face.

UK experts welcomed news of the partial face transplant with some ambivalence.
"All medical advances are to be celebrated, but this operation throws up many
moral and ethical issues," said Iain Hutchison, consultant facial surgeon at
Barts in London and chief executive of Saving Faces, the facial surgery research
foundation.

"This was a 'quality of life' operation rather than a life-saving operationand
has many implications for the recipient and donor's families."

guardian.co.uk/science >

What happens afterwards

Will a person who has a face transplant look like themselves, or like the donor?

Somewhere in between. Such a person will have the donor's skin colour and tone
and texture, but their new face will mould to the person's underlying bone
structure. Nobody is quite sure, though, whether the transplant will respond in
a natural way to the patient's smile and other facial expressions.

Is it a complex operation?

Not especially, as transplants go. The skin, fat, blood and connective tissues
are removed from the donor and laid over the recipient's bone and muscle. The
blood vessels are then connected. One surgeon said that it was no more complex
than sewing back a finger.

What are the long-term problems?

Formidable. To prevent their new face being rejected, a person would have to
take drugs to suppress their immune system for life. These drugs are powerful
and reduce the natural ability to fight infections. In addition, there may be
psychological problems. However much a person hates their damaged face, it may
be very hard to adjust to looking at what was once the face of a stranger in the
mirror.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              349 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 14, 1984 Saturday

WHO WILL LIVE?   WHO WILL DIE?

BYLINE: JOHN HASLETT CUFF; GAM

LENGTH: 3091 words


BY  JOHN HASLETT CUFF
    It is ironic that we must unlearn the ethics our parents and society
 have strived so hard to teach us. We have been taught that the truth is
 paramount, yet during our medical training we learn to lie. We lie about
 who we are, pretending to be real doctors, we lie to patients about
 decisions made by attending staff and, at times, their competence, and
 eventually we learn to lie to patients about their diagnoses and prognoses
 . . . Furtiveness, resulting in outright deceit, is taught to us early and
 is reinforced by our mentors. - Ora Platiel, M.D., Canadian Medical
 Association Journal, January 15, 1983
  A
  An emergency room doctor is suddenly faced with two patients, both
 equally in need of immediate medical attention. One of them is a young
 lawyer (and a family man); the other is a retired laborer, an indigent
 with a serious drinking problem. Assuming the doctor can only treat one of
 them, which patient does he choose?

An even more common ethical dilemma occurs frequently in the field of
 organ transplantation. There are always far more needy patients than
 available donors. On what basis does the medical team decide who is to
 receive the life-saving kidney, or heart, or pair of lungs? Far more
 mundane ethical decisions, reflecting what is professionally right and
 wrong are made by doctors and nurses every single working day.

Yet it is only recently that ethics courses have become mandatory at
 some medical schools. Enlightened medical professionals are beginning to
 recognize the need for ethics committees in hospitals to establish some
 sort of moral and practical guidelines for staff members. The range of
 dilemmas they face are growing in number and complexity.

The advent of new life-sustaining technologies, advances in surgical
 transplants, accelerating medical costs, the growth of patient advocacy,
 the legal ramifications of the Charter of Rights and the developing
 professional independence of nurses have all contributed to the current
 prominence of ethical problems. But the crux of the dilemma for medical
 professionals is the tension between adhering to their training, which
 insists they do everything in their power to keep patients alive, while
 remaining cognizant of the cost to the patient in terms of pain and
 suffering, and sensitive to already strained medical resources. Some
 experts feel society cannot afford to keep everyone alive that technology
 enables it to.

Although it's clear that ethics, committees are both desirable and
 inevitable, there is a great deal of uncertainty about how they should be
 constituted and what functions they should perform.

One of the more developed ethics committees in Metro operates under the
 auspices of the Sisters of St. Joseph who administer St. Michael's
 Hospital, St. Joseph's Health Centre and Providence Villa and Hospital. In
 fact, each institution has its own committee but they share some
 resources, including ethicist George Webster.

Working from a small nonsdescript office in St. Michael's, Mr. Webster,
 31, is a sort of philosophical Palladin ("Have ethics will travel") on
 call to the three sister hospitals. He has master's degrees in political
 philosophy and divinity and while completing his studies he worked summers
 as a chaplain at a hospital in Kingston, Ont. Two of the three hospitals
 where he now works had ethics committees before he approached them and
 offered his services as a "resource person in ethics."
    "My basic job," he explains, "is to work in an advisory, consultative
 way. I'm not coming in as a policing person or to make decisions in
 critical life-and-death issues, but as someone who can offer a way of
 thinking about some of the kinds of dilemmas they find themselves in."
    Each of the hospitals has an interdisciplinary ethics committee
 representing physicians, hospital administration, nursing staff, social
 work, chaplaincy, and a moral theologian. They meet monthly, but on a day-
 to-day basis Mr. Webster may be called in to meet with any number of sub-
 committees or groups of physicians.
    "We are not prognosis committees, we don't make decisions about life or
 death. I don't think it's desirable to have committees working in that
 way. The physician-patient relationship is critical, clearly characterized
 by certain responsibilities and obligations. To change that would be a
 real problem, it would erode the kind of trust we would expect to be built
 up in that relationship," Mr. Webster says.

Yet that sacrosanct relationship, in which the physician is
 unquestionably dominant, is the core of many of the eithical issues being
 raised. It is being challenged by patient advocacy groups and even some
 dissident doctors who are concerned about the ethics of their profession.
 "You get the feeling you've forfeited all your rights, even as a human
 being, when you go into a hospital," says Anne Coy, who is president and
 co-founder of the Patients' Rights Association.

Mrs. Coy became a patient advocate when her husband died after hospital
 treatment. While being treated for bursitis, he developed a gastric ulcer
 from which he died, she says.

Mrs. Coy is careful to explain that she is not out for revenge, she
 simply wants to establish greater accountability on the part of doctors
 and provide some form of redress for patients. She feels that ethics
 committees, if they have community representation are an improvement over
 present complaint procedures.
    "I was intimidated about going to the College (of Physicians and
 Surgeons of Ontario), and the insulting reception I got angered me. I
 thought I was just doing my duty as a citizen in asking them to monitor
 the use of this drug," Mrs. Coy recalls. "They have an impenetrable armor
 at the College, they don't believe that among 13,000 physicians anyone
 could be substandard."
    The college is the regulatory body governing physicians. When
 contacted, a spokesman said: "The college has no position on ethics
 committees. They come under the public hospitals act and are not within
 our jurisdiction."
    Dr. Cynthia Carver (author of Patient Beware) believes ethics
 committees should be "pro-active" and provide some form of ombudsman for
 patients. "The person who is most in the dark is the patient," she says.
 "Patients are not always fully aware of the consequences of operative
 forms and procedures. They have a right to know who is responsible for
 their care, who has the scalpel in hand. All these kinds of issues are
 ethical and patients need a route of access, someone to turn to."
    But there is a great deal of resistance within the profession to the
 idea of ethics committees. One doctor who wishes to remain anonymous,
 noted: "Doctors have their vested interest, they're leery of outside
 control. You're not one of the boys if you talk too much about ethics,
 especially in some of the community hospitals."
    Humber Memorial Hospital is one community facility that does have an ad
 hoc ethics committee, but it was formed to deal only with one specific
 issue - resuscitation. "It's probably the commonest problem people have to
 face in hospitals," says Dr. Derek Davidson who is chairman of the
 committee and chief of medicine at the hospital. "When do you resuscitate
 a patient who is dying? When do you not? There's a lot of uncertainty and
 conflicting advice about how to deal with the question. Lawyers tell us
 that everyone must be resuscitated, generally speaking."
    "And because the process is a form of assault, it's not easy to
 resuscitate when you recognize that it won't accomplish anything. People
 who aren't familiar with the procedure think of resuscitation as something
 they see on television - it isn't. It's much like taking a dead body,
 throwing it on the floor, hitting it with a baseball bat and putting an
 airhose down his throat while you electrocute him at the same time," Dr.
 Davidson explains. "Yet there is a common perception that this is
 something we should do; we mustn't stop and must never let go."
    The committee was formed about a year ago to try and provide some
 guidance on this issue. "We attempted to create a policy whereby people
 ahead of time might be identified as people who should not be
 resuscitated. But who decides this? Can the doctor alone decide this?
 Should the doctor and patient or doctor and family decide together? It's
 really the only major ethical problem we have to deal with and I guess
 there's really no answer, no clear cut guidelines," Dr. Davidson said.

Another issue that hospitals have to face and make an ethical decison
 on is force feeding, where the patient is no longer able to eat or drink
 normally and may not even be competent to help with the decision. This is
 common in long term, chronic care facilities, such as Providence Villa
 hospital where ethicist George Webster has had to confront this issue more
 than once.

The question "is whether one is prolonging living or prolonging dying.
 There's a fair consensus among ethicists that the whole question of
 artificial feeding is very difficult given that the provision of food is
 one of the most basic kinds of things we do for a patient. I think it may
 not be obligatory morally for an individual to be force-fed by tube
 against his will, or in a situation where one would simply be prolonging
 an inevitable and imminent death. I don't think that's desirable at all. I
 think we can do as much violence to the notion of sanctity of life by
 needlessly prolonging someone in their dying."
    Both Dr. Davidson and Mr. Webster are in agreement that the role of
 ethics committees should be restricted, functioning primarily as a forum
 for discussion of issues and as an educational tool. "I find it difficult
 to conceive of an ethics committee creating rules that people must be
 bound to follow," Dr. Davidson says. "Committees can't decide about
 individual patients and that's the difficulty. Ethical decisions are
 always about individual patients, but it's hard to get a committee to make
 decisions. The problems are becoming bigger and bigger and we don't have
 any answers for them. But it will always come back to the individual case
 and the decision will always finally rest on the people involved."
    Another doctor, who wishes to remain anonymous, says the decision to
 stop treatment is often reached informally. "I've pulled the plug on
 patients, usually in consultation with other doctors. We'd been dealing
 with the relatives for some time and you're aware when families don't give
 a damn or don't want the patient to suffer any more, we take that into
 consideration. It's a kind of informal ceremony, we just looked at each
 other and we didn't know who'd do it, but someone did. Someone cut down
 the I.V. to below minimum, the patient got pneumonia and died."
    Such informality has no place in the area of hospital research,
 however. In teaching hospitals such as Toronto General and the Hospital
 for Sick Children there are ethics committees who make decisions case by
 case on every single application for research.

The Human Subjects Review Committee at the Hospital for Sick Children
 is chaired by Dr. Doug Biggar and has been in existence since 1977. In
 many ways it might serve as a model for how ethics committee can function.
 It is composed of a variety of experts from different disciplines within
 the hospital but also includes law professor Bernard Dickens and a lay
 person, Mary Pat Armstrong. Its mandate is to review all applications for
 studies dealing with children, which may include: trials of drugs which
 are projected to be better than ones already in use; psychological
 evaluations and tests; comparison of surgical procedures; feeding
 techniques for newborns and a whole range of scientific investigations.

Dr. Biggar emphasizes that there are several major concerns that must
 be reviewed before an application for research is accepted. Besides
 rigorously evaluating the studies on a purely scientific level, the
 committee must "make sure that the work being done doesn't interfere with
 the care of the patients, the benefits are real and it doesn't interfere
 with the parents' relationship with the child," he says. "We feel it's
 important also that the parents really understand what's being attempted.
 No matter how trivial the study, parents have a right to know and a right
 to say no."
    Mary Pat Armstrong was invited to join the committee as a community
 representative and she has had first-hand experience with the problems of
 being the parent of a very sick child. "Parents have a very strong right
 to speak up. If they want to be with their child or want to be part of the
 treatment, generally speaking they have a right to. The parent knows the
 patient best and there are times when the clinical progress is best
 observed through the subtleties of their behavior, not everything is black
 and white in medicine. You can't always get the full story from a
 temperature or blood pressure," Mrs. Armstrong says.
    "I'm the first occasion in which a parent has been on the committee. I
 feel my role is really important and it's just now being recognized that
 parents and family are an important part of the team."
    One of the most difficult ethical problems in the area of research and
 treatment of patients is consent. Bernard Dickens, a professor of law at
 the University of Toronto and an expert in the area of medical ethics
 explains: "There is apprehension about what one can do regarding
 incompetent patients, who can't give their consent for research that would
 not benefit them in any way, but may benefit future sufferers of a
 condition that they have. We're very reluctant to offer these patients to
 research. But investigators of Alzheimer's disease, for example, are
 agonized that they are dealing with a very disabling disease that will,
 with an aging population, affect more and more people. And they can only
 do the research on people that have the condition. But these people can't
 give consent, they're not competent. How then do you do the research?"
    Mr. Dickens agrees that ethics committees have an increasingly
 important role to play. "They widen the range of references that
 physicians turn to in facing challenges from the broader community.
 Doctors will have to have recourse to different decision-making processes.
 It may also mean that under a new system of more structured decision
 making, in which reasons have to be given and justified, doctors will have
 more confidence in the decisions that they make, than they enjoy now," he
 says.

Accompanying the higher awareness of patients' rights and ethics is a
 greater tendency to lawsuits and both doctors and nurses are aware of
 their vulnerability. "The right to life, liberty and security (in Canada's
 charter), clearly affect health. The right not to be deprived of life
 means that medical decisions cannot be arbitrary, they've got to be open
 to explanation and challenge. Increasingly one finds that patients use
 litigation to reinforce their wishes and seek compensation when their
 wishes are disregarded by perfectly conscientious, perfectly ethical
 doctors," says professor Dickens.

But nurses are in a similar dilemma, caught between patients and
 doctors. Historically, they have been perceived as "handmaidens" to
 physicians, but in recent times they have been establishing their
 professional independence and a corollary to that is greater
 accountability, brought to light most dramatically in the Grange
 Commission's investigation of deaths at the Hospital for Sick Children.
 The Canadian Nurses' Association is currently drawing up a revised code of
 ethics for ratification in l985 and nursing staff is almost always
 represented on ethics committees.
    "Nurses have to make value judgments, whether to act or not act, all
 the time," says Jeanette Rodger, executive director of the CNA. "Nurses
 are there 365 days of the year and they are in contact with the over-all
 life of the patient. In nursing we care for the patient from the bio-
 psycho-social perspective, not only the physiological aspects."
    Not only does a nurse have personal and professional ethics to consider
 in treating a patient but he or she must also be acutely aware of the
 consequences. It is not simply enough to follow the doctors' orders. A
 nurse in Alberta lost her licence for doing just that. She was ordered to
 give a seriously handicapped child a dose of medication she felt was
 lethal so she questioned the order and the doctor revised it. It was still
 a dangerous dosage and the child died. Subsequently, both the nurse and
 the doctor lost their licences after a review of the case.
    "There is a growing perception of the separate professionalism of
 nurses," says professor Dickens. "Also nurses have to act as advocates for
 their patients, against the doctors. Nurses are having to get insurance
 protection (against malpractice), but the problem with that is if they're
 insured, they're worth suing. And what we're finding is that a number of
 doctors who are sued are saying they weren't at fault, the nurse was. So
 the nurses are being fired at, not just by the patients, but by the
 doctors. But it goes with being a professional."
    Adds Jeanette Rodger:"Nurses are very sensitized to the legal
 consequences of everything they do, it only takes a case or two for
 everybody to get nervous."
    According to the Law Reform Commission in a 1982 report: ". . . (a)
 good proportion of the medical profession and of hospital personnel are in
 the unfortunate position of not knowing the precise content of their legal
 duties, and of being entirely dependent in this respect on the Crown's
 discretion not to initiate legal proceediings."
    Considering the extensive number and variety of medical, legal and
 ethical dilemmas present and imminent, it seems surprising that so few
 hospitals have formal ethics committees. However all hospitals do maintain
 committees of some kind. North York General is a good example, with some
 16 different groups. "There's a feeling here that ethical issues can be
 dealt with by existing committees. Ethical issues are often in specific
 areas where committee members have expertise," a spokesman says.

But even medical professionals who are sceptical about the efficacy of
 ethics groups recognize that they are inevitable, and given the immensity
 of some of the dilemmas their role can only expand. But "committees will
 only evolve into decision making bodies with the agreement of the doctors
 they affect. It may be that de facto, they will become influential in the
 decisions that they make but they will have to be very careful," warns
 professor Dickens.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1984 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               November 30, 1998

Alco-shares are not ethical says trust

SECTION: Business: Companies, Pg.5

LENGTH: 271 words


AN NHS Trust has pulled more than GBP 7,000 worth of shares out of the drinks
industry after its officials ruled cash earmarked for health care must be
invested more ethically.

Combined Healthcare sold the stocks it held in booze giants Bass, Greenhalls and
Diageo - a company merged from Guinness.

They were among GBP 300,000 investments held by the Trust which runs long -stay
hospitals and community care in North Staffordshire.

The money has built up over the years from donations and wills from the public.

Trusts in other parts of Britain invest some of their charitable funds in
tobacco products and even the armaments industry.

Following the introduction of a new ethical investment policy, Combined
Healthcare screened its share portfolio and found cash sunk in the alcohol
industry - but there were no shares in arms or tobacco companies.

A spokesman for the Bucknall-based trust said: "It was felt as a healthcare
provider, alcohol, tobacco and armaments related industries had to be excluded
from our investments on ethical grounds."

All charitable funds were formally held and invested by health authorities
before the formation of NHS trusts.

In previous years North Staffordshire Health Authority invested cash in alcohol
and even gambling companies.Officials argued they had a responsibility to reap
the highest yields possible on money held on behalf of the public.

And they claimed that alcohol was not harmful to health if taken ion moderation.

But the change of heart has come as an increasing number of hospital beds are
being filled by patients suffering from alcohol related illnesses.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1998 The Sentinel


                              351 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

'Kidney cult' offer declined by hospital

BYLINE: Randy Boswell, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 357  words


Canada's largest organ transplant hospital has cancelled an operation that would
have allowed a young Australian man to demonstrate his deep Christian faith by
donating one of his kidneys to a desperately ill stranger in Toronto.

The case has been closely tracked by an Australian film crew because the
would-be donor, 22-year-old Ash Falkingham, of Sydney, belongs to the
controversial Jesus Christians, the so-called "kidney cult," whose members
believe that giving up an organ to save someone's life is an exemplary act of
devotion to God and humankind.

The Toronto General Hospital cancelled the scheduled transplant following
accusations of religious brainwashing, appeals from Falkingham's mother and
stepfather to stop the surgery, and extensive psychiatric assessments of the man
after his arrival in Canada.

The decision has left the ailing Toronto woman, Sandi Sabloff, "kind of
devastated," she said in an interview Monday. "I'm not in good shape," she said.
She is now consulting a lawyer "to see what my next step is going to be," and
expects "to start looking for another donor."

More than half of the 30 members of the Jesus Christians -- from Britain,
Australia, Kenya and the United States -- have provided a kidney to recipients
around the world, the donations often a source of great ethical agonizing. The
group's Australia-based leader, 60-year-old David McKay, gave one of his kidneys
in 2003 at Minnesota's Mayo Clinic, where a transplant doctor has said there was
"much teeth gnashing" among hospital officials before the operation was
approved.

In keeping with its policy of "absolute confidentiality," the Toronto General
Hospital refused to divulge details about the Falkingham-Sabloff case. But
hospital president Dr. Bob Bell said Monday that when transplant decision-makers
review any proposed surgery, "it is crucial that we maintain total unanimity"
before a donation is approved.

"It's a difficult ethical determination," he said, noting that hospital
officials must be convinced that "the person providing the tissue or organ is
doing it purely for altruistic reasons -- particularly if they don't know the
recipient."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Courtesy, Australian Broadcasting Corporation; Ash Falkingham of
Australia is willing to donate one of his kidneys as a gesture of his Christian
faith to a stranger in Toronto. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

WHO backs use of untested drugs for virus

BYLINE: Nick Cumming-Bruce, Alan Cowell

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 451 words


The World Health Organisation yesterday endorsed the use of untested drugs to
combat the Ebola virus, just hours after a Spanish priest who had been supplied
with experimental medication became the first European to die in the world's
worst known outbreak of the disease.

No proven cure or vaccine exists for the Ebola virus, which the WHO says has
killed 1,013 people in four west African countries: Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria and
Sierra Leone. About half of the people infected in the outbreak, first reported
in March, have died. Last week, the WHO declared the outbreak a global health
emergency. The Spanish priest, Miguel Pajares (75), worked in a hospital in
Liberia and was the first European to return home after being infected with
Ebola.

Citing medical confidentiality rules, hospital officials in Madrid declined to
say whether the priest had been treated with the experimental drug, ZMapp, made
in the United States, but the Spanish health ministry said it had obtained it
for him.

Ethical questions The provision of ZMapp, a previously untested drug in
extremely limited supply, to foreign aid workers evacuated from west Africa has
raised broad ethical questions about the disparities in treatment between white
outsiders and the Africans who form the overwhelming majority of the victims.

Two US aid workers, Dr Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol, who were evacuated to
Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, received the drug as well, prompting
questions from some African officials about why their nations had not received
it.

Yesterday the government of Liberia announced it would receive ZMapp after a
request to the United States by its president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. It said
the drug would be used to treat two doctors battling for their lives against the
Ebola virus.

Supply 'exhausted' That would be the first known use of the drug to treat
Africans, but it also might be the last for a little while. The manufacturer,
Mapp Biopharmaceutical, said it had complied with a request received over the
weekend from a west African nation, though it noted in a statement that the
available supply of the drug was now "exhausted".

In Geneva, the WHO convened an ethics panel on Monday to debate the broader use
of untested drugs. In a statement on its website yesterday, it said that given
"the particular circumstances of this outbreak," the panel had reached a
consensus that "it is ethical to offer unproven interventions with as
yet-unknown efficacy and adverse effects, as potential treatment or prevention".

The panel said the use of untested drugs should be guided by ethical criteria,
informed consent of the patient, freedom of choice and patient confidentiality.

- (New York Times service)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Whittlesea Leader (Australia)

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Pet centre at shops

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 240  words


MILL PARK is now home to the world's first non-profit pet adoption centre in a
pet store.

Victoria's largest animal hospital, the Lort Smith Animal Hospital has joined
forces with pet department store, Pets at Home, to expand its animal services
into the first pet-adoption centre at Mill Park's Westfield Plenty Valley.

Television star and animal lover Georgie Parker launched the partnership last
month.

Lort Smith chief executive Ric Holland said the historic agreement would see
more pet adoptions to good homes in Melbourne.

``It's a unique situation as traditionally, worldwide animal welfare
organisations and pet stores are deadly enemies,'' he said.

``But our arrangement with Pets at Home is special particularly because
worldwide they are known for their ethical trading of pets. They have said they
won't sell any dog or cat.''

Mr Holland said the Mill Park centre would offer the same adoption services as
the North Melbourne hospital.

``Pets at Home have staff trained to the same level as our staff at the
hospital,'' he said.

``The store makes no profit from the adoptions as the fees go straight back to
the (Lort Smith) hospital.

``We are very proud of this relationship with Pets at Home as it is mutually
beneficial for the both of us as we create new homes for pets and they can show
they are a different and ethical pet store.''

As well as the adoption centre, Lort Smith has also set up a veterinary clinic
at the Mill Park store.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WPV


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             October 1, 1984 Monday

Staff expert may be a first   MDs, nurses to get ethics advice

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: Montreal PQ


By  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
                           Globe and Mail Reporter
  MONTREAL
  WHETHER TO KEEP a patient going to the last possible minute of life is
 one of the many ethical dilemmas facing physicians, nurses and families of
 patients every day. How and by whom these decisions are made depends on
 the particular hospital, but at least one Canadian hospital has taken the
 lead in hiring an "ethicist" to help resolve ethical problems in medical
 treatment.

Dawson Schultz is not a household name in Canada but he will become a
 familiar face to medical staff and patients at the Montreal Children's
 Hospital, as they wrestle with life and death decisions, many made
 possible because of advances in drugs and medical technology.

The hospital's initiative is a first in Canada, according to David Roy,
 director of the Centre for Bioethics in Montreal, who pitched the idea of
 the centre joining with the hospital in the hiring of a staff ethicist.
 Each pays half of the ethicist's salary.

In his white hospital coat, Dr. Schultz can easily pass for a physician
 (which he is not; he earned his doctorate in philosophy) but his presence
 is every bit as valuable.

For 2 1/2 days each week, Dr. Schultz will organize ethics rounds for
 nurses and physicians to review troubling cases and when invited to do so,
 advise families faced, say, with the prospect of withdrawing or
 withholding treatment from a deformed newborn.

He is not expected to deal with routine cases but with the ethical
 problems that arise in neonatal intensive care, cancer drug research and
 organ transplants.

The hospital's executive director, Dr. J. S. Charters, cautions that
 Dr. Schultz's role will be advisory and is not meant to impose answers on
 the staff or patients.
    "We're not doing this because of a crisis," Dr. Charters said in an
 interview. "It's not that ethics is suddenly new but the new medications
 and technology that help patients have created their own set of problems."
    Asked whether a chaplain assigned to a hospital could not serve in the
 same capacity as an ethicist, Dr. Charters replied: "I don't think ethics
 and religion are the same. The rigidity of one doctrine can't help people
 deal with some of the questions. I think it will be a comfort to many
 parents to know the hospital has such a person with whom they can
 consult."
    The hospital intends to let families know about the new service through
 a pamphlet it circulates to newly admitted patients.

A native of Tennessee, with four years of clinical experience as an
 ethicist at Vanderbilt University's medical centre in Nashville, Dr.
 Schultz, 44, took up his new post earlier this month.
    "I don't see myself taking one side or another (in a case) but as an
 interpreter of opposing points of view. You negotiate and help people
 explore all the sides of an issue, such as the possible risks of a certain
 treatment," he said in an interview.

His hiring is the first step in a plan by the Centre for Bioethics to
 train and place ethicists in Canadian hospitals, as is being done in the
 United States.

A consultant on medical ethics to various hospitals, Dr. Roy said the
 idea of placing ethicists - "someone with medical and philosophical
 competence" - in hospitals "has been with me for a long time."
    To that end, he is setting up a bilingual training program for
 ethicists that will begin in September, 1985. It will start with three
 candidates and eventually enroll between 15 and 20 people, Dr. Roy said.

He believes "it is inevitable" that ethicists will be called upon by
 hospitals to shape policy in cases, say, where many patients are competing
 for scarce medical resources, such as an organ transplant or a particular
 piece of equipment.

LETTER TO EDITOR Hospital ethicists

The article Staff Expert May Be A First: MDs, Nurses To Get Ethics Advice  (Oct.
1) reports that Montreal Children's Hospital is the first hospital  in Canada to
hire a staff ethicist.

In fact, the three Toronto hospitals owned and operated by the Sisters
 of St. Joseph, Toronto (St. Joseph's Health Centre, St. Michael's Hospital
 and Providence Villa and Hospital), have had ethicist George Webster on
 staff since June 1, 1982. This was highlighted in a full-page article on
 health care ethics in The Globe and Mail on July 14.

We are proud of the lead we have taken in the field of health- care
 ethics on behalf of Toronto patients; we welcome Montreal's entry to this
 important field some 35 months later.

L. J. Sullivan
  Chairman, Ethics Committee
  St. Joseph's Health Centre
   Toronto
 (Letter to Editor. Nov. 20, 1984.  P6)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1984 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2014 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                  Spring, 2014

                      Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics

                            42 J.L. Med. & Ethics 88

LENGTH: 3756 words

INDEPENDENT ARTICLE: The "Permanent" Patient Problem

NAME: Courtenay R. Bruce and Mary A. Majumder

BIO: Courtenay R. Bruce, J.D., M.A., received her doctorate of jurisprudence
from University of Houston Law Center (Houston, Texas) and a Master's in
Bioethics from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. Mary A.
Majumder, J.D., Ph.D., received her doctorate of jurisprudence from Yale Law
School in New Haven, Connecticut and her doctorate in religious studies from
Rice University in Houston, Texas. Both authors are Assistant Professors of
Medicine and Medical Ethics at the Center for Medical Ethics & Health Policy at
Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas and Clinical Ethicists for Houston
Methodist Hospital System in Houston, Texas.

HIGHLIGHT: Patients who enter the health care system for acute care may become
"permanent" patients of the hospital when a lack of resources precludes
discharge to the next level of post-acute care. Legal, professional, and ethical
norms prohibit physician and acute care hospital "dumping" of these patients.
However, limitless use of hospital resources for indefinite stays is untenable.
In the absence of hospital policy addressing this specific issue, the
availability of financial support will be determined by health care
professionals' willingness to advocate for the patient and negotiate with
hospital administrators and the ability and willingness of administrators to
authorize the use of hospital resources. We propose five mid-level ethical
principles to guide advocacy and administrative decision-making about provision
of financial support for post-acute care for those patients who cannot afford
it. We use two actual, de-identified cases to illustrate how these principles
can be used to make reasoned, consistent decisions about the provision of
post-acute financial support.

TEXT:
 [*88]  Introduction
Patients who enter the health care system for acute care may become "permanent"
patients of the hospital when a lack of resources precludes discharge to the
next level of post-acute care.  n1 The care of these patients contributes to the
rising costs of health care and will remain largely unaffected by the Affordable
Care Act.  n2 For example, some resources may be available for treatment of
undocumented persons, but Medicaid enrollment is unavailable for this
population.  n3 Even where patients have access to Medicaid, it takes up to
three months between applying for and actually receiving Medicaid benefits.
During that time, patients may be ready for hospital discharge. However,
post-acute care facilities have no financial incentive or legal obligation to
accept patients with no insurance or only pending Medicaid coverage.  n4

   Legal and ethical norms prohibit physician and hospital "dumping" of these
patients. For example, the Medicare and Medicaid Conditions of Participation
require hospitals to engage in appropriate discharge planning and transfer
patients with continuing care needs only to "appropriate" facilities.  n5
However, limitless use of hospital resources for indefinite stays is
increasingly untenable.  n6 Care coordination, a national priority, "requires
that each patient's needs for care are matched with the appropriate level of
service," implying that post-acute care should be provided in a post-acute
setting.  n7 Unfortunately, there has been no parallel commitment of federal and
state resources to ensure that care transitions take place in a timely manner.
n8 Aside from legally requiring health care professionals to include patients in
discharge discussions and provide them safe discharges to "appropriate"
post-acute care facilities, the parameters of additional legal obligations
remain unclear.  n9

   Apart from legal requirements, acute care hospitals have a number of
ethically significant reasons for considering payment for care beyond the acute
care setting, at least in some cases. First, most hospitals, especially those
that are non-profit, affirm a commitment to community health.  n10 Thus, they
are not exclusively concerned with acute care services. Further, it may be more
costly to the hospital to keep patients on the floor than to pay for their care
in another setting.  n11 Finally, financial support for post-acute needs may be
necessary for the hospital care to be efficacious.  n12 Yet, in our experience
(confirmed by a review of hospital charitable care policies available online),
payment for post-acute care is generally not addressed in hospital financial
assistance policies.

   In the absence of hospital policy addressing this issue, the availability of
financial support will be determined by health care professionals' willingness
to advocate for the patient and negotiate with hospital administrators and the
ability and willingness of administrators to authorize the use of hospital
resources. Thus, the permanent patient problem creates ethical challenges for
health care professionals and hospital administrators as they attempt to
reconcile competing obligations. Respect for patient autonomy may support
continued inpatient hospitalization  [*89]  if that is what the patient desires.
n13 On the other hand, health care professionals and hospital administrators
have a responsibility to be good stewards of health care resources.  n14 Health
care professionals may believe that keeping patients in the hospital when acute
care is no longer medically necessary violates their professional integrity.
Hospital administrators have a legitimate self-interest in a sustainable
business model.  n15 Finally, patients may not benefit, and in fact may
experience harm, from a prolonged hospital stay (e.g., risks of nosocomial
infection), but that must be weighed against the potential harm that would occur
if they are discharged and unable to secure appropriate follow-up care.  n16

   Currently, guidance does not exist for health care professionals and hospital
administrators to make well-reasoned and consistent decisions about advocacy and
payment for post-acute services.  n17 We propose five mid-level ethical
principles to guide health care professional advocacy and administrative
decision-making about provision of financial support for post-acute care for
those patients who cannot afford it. We use two actual, de-identified cases, the
case of Ms. A and Mr. B, to illustrate how these principles can be used to make
reasoned, consistent decisions about the provision of post-acute financial
support. No principle has priority, and the failure to satisfy any one principle
significantly weakens the case for advocacy and provision of support.

Clinical Cases
CASE A: While visiting the United States, 37-year-old Ms. A is admitted to the
hospital with complications related to acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Standard therapy includes 8-12
months of outpatient all-trans-Retinoic acid (ATRA) therapy supplemented with
arsenic trioxide and anti-HTV medications. With continuation of these therapies,
she has an 80% chance of complete remission. Without them, she is expected to
die soon after discharge. None of the alternative, less expensive treatment
regimens for Ms. As APL can deliver a comparable benefit. Ms. A is able and
willing to pay for housing, travel, daily expenses, and some outpatient expenses
in line with her income. She cannot pay for the medications.

CASE B: 52-year-old Mr. B works part-time at a local discount store. After
suffering a debilitating stroke, he is ready to leave the hospital for a local
skilled nursing facility (SNF). It should be possible to eventually transition
him to home, but he is never expected to recover the ability to live
independently. As a part-time worker, he has no health insurance. As a single
adult without dependent children, he does not qualify for Medicaid in his state
of residence. Given his present incapacity, two sisters in another part of the
state have become his surrogate decisionmakers. They insist that their other
obligations prevent them from helping with Mr. B's care, financially and
non-financially. At the same time, they refuse to consent to discharge to a
community SNF that has a contract to provide reduced cost services because they
want the patient discharged to an SNF near to them.

Ethical Principles
The Goals of Care Principle
Health care professionals and hospitals should support only post-acute care that
is evidence-based, necessary to improve, maintain, or minimize deterioration in
the patient's health, and contributes to progress toward reasonable, achievable
goals of care established during the hospitalization.  n18 As noted above,
financial support for post-acute needs may be necessary for care already
provided to be efficacious, and this principle follows from stewardship
obligations on the part of physician and hospital.  n19 Patient autonomy enters
the picture in the reference to established goals of care, since these would
have been determined with patient or surrogate participation.  n20

   Ms. As prognosis with and without treatment make this a particularly
compelling case for advocacy and payment, although this principle would also
support advocacy and payment for necessary and appropriate treatment or services
for patients with a poor prognosis (e.g., hospice). Unlike Ms. A, Mr. B is very
unlikely to recover to his baseline. Nonetheless, the post-acute care in a SNF
is necessary and appropriate and would  [*90]  serve to maintain his health,
thereby satisfying this principle.

The Continuity of Care Principle
The requested support should relate to the same condition(s) and/or specific
diagnoses for which the patient is being treated at the hospital. It is neither
fair nor feasible for physicians and hospitals to take on open-ended obligations
as de facto health insurers to current patients, given that such a practice
could reasonably be expected to erode their ability to fulfill their core
responsibilities to others.  n21 Such an open-ended commitment would privilege
current patients over future patients in a manner that is at odds with fairness
and good stewardship, quickly depleting the hospital's resources.  n22

   Although Ms. A's APL was the primary reason for her admission, her HIV
infection was also treated in the hospital. Treatments for both conditions are
properly considered for further support. In Mr. B's case, SNF care is clearly
related to the condition (stroke) that resulted in his admission. Thus, this
principle is satisfied in both cases. Were Ms. A to develop another condition
post-discharge, for example, glaucoma, the relationship would arguably be too
attenuated (even assuming the HIV infection led to greater susceptibility) for
this principle to be satisfied. Likewise, in the case of Mr. B, the scope (and
limits) of the hospital's financial commitment would need to be clarified in
advance of transfer.

The Shared Responsibility Principle
The patient and/or family members should avoid excessive or inappropriate
demands, agree to continue a diligent search for alternative funding, and make
reasonable contributions to further care. Patients and their proxies may not be
able to significantly offset costs, nor should this be an expectation; rather,
this principle underscores the expectation of patients' and/ or family members'
good faith willingness and responsibility to contribute in ways that they are
able. The idea that patients or their proxies have some responsibilities as well
as entitlements is widely recognized.  n23 The judicious use of the finite
resources available for health care is not an obligation exclusive to
physicians, other health care professionals, and health care institutions.  n24
The preferences of patients or family members do not merit unlimited obligations
to expend organizational resources.

   This principle is clearly satisfied in Ms. A's case. The picture in Mr. B's
case is less clear. Where a patient is able but unwilling to cooperate in the
search for alternative funding or make reasonable contributions to further care,
the ethical justification for health care professional advocacy and hospital
support beyond what is legally required is greatly weakened. As consideration of
contribution moves outward to extended family (as in the case of Mr. B),
responsibility is more limited, although the principle still has some force
(e.g., creating an expectation that family members will complete paperwork
necessary to establish eligibility for disability-related benefits).  n25

The Bridging Principle
The highest priority should be given to support that will serve as a bridge to
other resources. The ethical justification for this principle is similar to the
justification for the continuity of care principle: physicians and hospitals
cannot and should not take on open-ended obligations as de facto health insurers
to current patients.  n26

   In the case of Ms. A, the hospital social worker learned of a clinic in the
patient's home country that could provide anti-HIV drugs and final treatments
for her APL. It is unclear how long Mr. B will need to stay in the SNF and
whether home care will become an option, given the present position of family
members. Further, the fact that Mr. B is ready to leave the hospital before his
eligibility for various disability-related benefits has been clearly
established.

The Cost-Effectiveness Principle
The care for which support is requested should be cost-effective. This principle
is unique in that it involves choosing among different service options and
necessitates a particularized assessment of the wisest use of resources.  n27
Further, assuming the different service options are comparable, the services for
which support is requested should be the least costly to the hospital over the
long run (determined in good faith by hospital administrators), factoring in
supplemental support.

   In Ms. A's case, it is important that none of the alternatives to ATRA-based
therapy can deliver a comparable benefit. In addition, as noted, diligent
efforts led to discovery of other resources for part of Ms. A's care, and the
provision of care on an outpatient basis was much less costly to the hospital
(and much more desirable to the patient) than continued hospitalization. The
availability of other resources in Mr. B's was still in question, and satisfying
the surrogates' demands would increase the hospital's costs in ways not
necessary to meet Mr. B's transitional needs.  n28 Frustration with the family
should not prevent the hospital from exploring the possibility of reaching a
similar financial arrangement with a SNF closer to the family. However, assuming
that no such deal is possible, this principle provides the hospital with reasons
for limiting  [*91]  its offer of financial support to the lowest-cost
appropriate facility, i.e., the local SNF with which it has a contractual
arrangement.

Implementation
We acknowledge that in complex cases such as Mr. B's, professional judgment and
collaboration will be required in ways that may extend beyond the guidance
provided here. We contend that even in these cases, application of the
principles does yield some guidance and structures conversation and
information-gathering efforts, leading to greater consistency in decisions about
advocacy and payment for post-acute services than currently exists.

   In Ms. A's case, all the principles are satisfied, and there is a strong
justification for the health care professionals involved in her care to advocate
for hospital payment for the first few months of outpatient care treatment for
Ms. A, until she is well enough to return to her home country and transition to
care at the clinic there. Likewise, there is a strong justification for hospital
administrators to use resources available for charitable care for this purpose.
In Mr. B's case, the challenge is the absence of good options given the frayed
social safety net. However, the legal and ethical consensus does rule out
discharge to home or a shelter. Further, we can say that absent a more receptive
stance on the part of family members or new information that changes the
picture, health care professionals are not obligated to advocate for
satisfaction of the family members' desires, and the hospital is justified in
limiting its support to the lowest-cost safe discharge plan.

   Proposed federal regulations would require tax-exempt hospitals to develop
written policies concerning financial assistance.  n29 Our framework offers a
starting point for policies that address the possibility of post-acute financial
support. We advocate incorporating principles such as those we propose in a
participatory review process that includes a mechanism for appeal, ideally
involving a patient advocate. Fundamentally, the permanent patient problem with
its associated costs is a societal issue calling for a societal response. We
believe that the problems created by social barriers to discharge should
ultimately be addressed at the federal and state levels, through adoption of
public policies that support appropriate and timely care transitions for all
patients, but there is currently little evidence of movement in this direction.

   In the meantime, we offer physicians and hospital administration one approach
for achieving greater transparency and consistency in decision-making. Further,
we hope that attention to this issue and implementation of policies based on
ethical, clinical, and economic best-practice models will challenge policy
makers to respond in ways that support the mission and legitimate self-interest
of acute care hospitals.

Acknowledgements
Baylor College of Medicine Center for Medical Ethics & Health Policy and Houston
Methodist Hospital Biomedical Ethics Program consists of the following members:
J. Richard Cheney, J.D., Courtenay R. Bruce, J.D., Mary A. Majumder, J.D.,
Ph.D., Adam Pena, M.A., Stacy Pell, M.Div., Charles Millikan, D. Min., Nathan
Allen, M.D., and Harvey Gordon, M.D.

   The authors would like to thank Katelyn Cardenas, L.C.S.W., Baruch Brody,
Ph.D., Amy L. McGuire, J.D., Ph.D., Laurence B. McCullough, Ph.D., and J.
Richard Cheney, J.D., for their thoughtful review and suggestions for the
manuscript. The authors would also like to thank members of the bioethics
committee at Houston Methodist Hospital for participating in the discussion and
development of these proposed principles. Any errors in the manuscript or the
framework presented are our own.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicaidProvidersTypesHospitalsPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesHospitals

FOOTNOTES:





n1  S. Roberts, "Nowhere to Go, Patients Linger in Hospitals, at a High Cost,"
New York Times, January 3, 2012, at A18.





n2  K. D. Vickery, K. Sauser, and M. M. Davis, "Policy Responses to Demand for
Health Care Access: from the Individual to the Population," JAMA 30.9, no. 7
(2013): 665-666. See also R. Kocher, E. Z. Emanuel, and N. A. DeParle, "The
Affordable Care Act and the Future of Clinical Medicine: The Opportunities and
Challenges," Annals of Internal Medicine 153, no. 8 (2010): 536-539. Over half
the states are not moving forward with Medicaid expansion at this time. Kaiser
Family Foundation, "Status of State Action on the Medicaid Expansion Decision,
as of September 30, 2013," available at
<http://kfF.org/health-reform/state-indicator/state-activity-around-expand-ing-m
edicaid-under-the-affordable-care-act> (last visited February 11, 2014).





n3  Some have argued that medical repatriation may be acceptable ethically as
well as legally, but only if the patient gives full and informed consent. M. G.
Kuczewski, "Who Is My Neighbor? A Communitarian Analysis of Access to Health
Care for Immigrants," Theoretical Medicine and Bioethics 32, no. 4 (2011):
327-36. See also K. Parsi and N. Hossa, "Complex Discharges and Undocumented
Patients: Growing Ethical Concerns," Journal of Clinical Ethics 23, no. 4
(2012): 299-330; V. Agra-harkar, "Deporting The Sick: Regulating International
Patient Dumping by U.S. Hospitals," Columbia Human Rights Law Review 41 (2010):
569-600.





n4  K. Snow, J. Klein, and D. Stephens, "Health Care Laws Leave Hospitals
Overwhelmed by 'Permanent Patients,'" Rock Center, April 24, 2012, available at
<http://rockcenter.nbcnews.com/_news/2012/04/24/H371569-health-care-laws-leave-
hospitals-overwhelmed-by-permanent-patients?lite> (last visited February 11,
2014).





n5  Condition of Participation: Discharge Planning, in Hospital Conditions of
Participation: Quality Assessment & Performance Improvement Final Rule (68 F.R.
3435); published January 24, 2003, effective March 25, 2004, as amended at 69
F.R. 49268, August 11, 2004; 42 C.F.R. § 482.43 (2011); Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, "Revisions to State Operations Manual (SOM), Hospital
Appendix'A -Interpretive Guidelines for 42 C.F.R. 482.43, Discharge Planning,"
available at
<http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Provider-Enrollment-and-Certification/SurveyCertifi
cationGenInfo/Downloads/Survey-and-Cert-Letter-13-32.pdf> (last visited February
11, 2014). See also V. Agraharkar, "Deporting The Sick: Regulating International
Patient Dumping by U.S. Hospitals," Columbia Human Rights Law Review 41 (2010):
569-600; J. J. Sangerman and J. T Levy, "The Attorney's Role in the Hospital
Discharge Planning Process for the Elderly," New York State Bar Association
Journal 65, no. 22 (1993); Montejo v. Martin Memorial Medical Center, 874 So.2d
654,657 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2004); R. Winton and C. M. DiMassa, "L.A. Files
Patient 'Dumping' Charges," Los Angeles Times, November 16, 2006, available at
<http://articles.latimes.com/2006/nov/16/local/me-dumping 16> (last visited
February 11, 2014); A. J. Chipli, "Breathing Life into Discharge Planning,"
Elder Law Journal 13, no. 1 (2005): 1-37; O. Cotera-Perez-Perez, "Discharge
Planning in Acute Care and Long-term Facilities," Journal of Legal Medicine 26,
no. 1 (2005): 85-95.





n6  Wycoff Heights Medical Center v. Louis Rodriguez, 741 N.Y.S.2d 400 (NY. Sup.
Ct. 2002).





n7  National Priorities Partnership, "Input to the Secretary of Health and Human
Services on priorities for the National Quality Strategy," September 1, 2011,
available at
<http://www.qualityforum.org/Setting_Priorities/NPP/Input_into_the_National_Qual
ity_Strategy.aspx> (last visited February 11, 2014).





n8  R. N. Swidler, T Seastrum, and W. Shelton, "Difficult Hospital Inpatient
Discharge Decisions: Ethical, Legal, and Clinical Practice Issues," American
Journal of Bioethics 7, no. 3 (2007): 23-28.





n9  See supra note 8. See also Agraharkar, supra note 3.





n10  American Hospital Association (AHA), "AHA Policies and Guidelines on
Billing, Collections, Tax-Exempt Status, and Community Health," April 29, 2006,
available at
<http://www.aha.org/content/00-10/07nov-billingpolicyguidelines.pdf> (last
visited February 11, 2014).





n11  See, e.g., Swidler et al., supra note 8; see also Snow et al., supra note
4.





n12  See, e.g., Parsi and Hossa, supra note 3; see also Snow et al., supra note
4.





n13  See, e.g., Cotera-Perez-Perez, supra note 5; see also Chipli, supra note 5.





n14  ABIM Foundation, "Medical Professionalism in the New Millennium: A
Physician Charter," February 5, 2002, available at
<http://www.abimfoundation.org/Resource-Center/Bibliog-raphy/-/media/Files/Physi
cian%20Charter.ashx> (last visited February 14, 2014); see also American Medical
Association Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs (CEJA), "Physician
Stewardship of Health Care Resources," 2012, available at
<https://www.ama-assn.org/resources/doc/ethics/ceja-lal2. pdf> (last visited
February 11, 2014).





n15  C. Fasser, A. McGuire, K. Erdman, D. Nadaldo, S. Scott, and V. Waters, "The
Ethics Workup: A Case-Based Approach to Ethical Decision-Making Instruction,"
Journal of Physician Assistant Education 18, no. 1 (2007): 34-41; see also
Center for Medical Ethics and Health Policy, "Ethics Work-Up," September 1,
2011, available at <http://www.bcm.edu/ethics/?pmid=21192> Oast visited February
11, 2014).





n16  See Swidler et al., supra note 8; Parsi and Hossa, supra note 3. See also
T. M. Pope, R. M. Arnold, and A. E. Barnato, "Caring for the Seriously Ill: Cost
and Public Policy," Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics 39, no. 2 (2011): 111-113.





n17  See, e.g., Parsi and Hossa, supra note 3; see, e.g., Snow et al., supra
note 4; see also Winton and DiMassa, supra note 5.





n18  See, e.g., H. Schmidt, "Just Health Responsibility," Journal of Medical
Ethics 35, no. 1 (2009): 21-26; see also Good Stewardship Working Group, "The
'Top 5' Lists in Primary Care: Meeting the Responsibility of Professionalism,"
Archives of Internal Medicine 171, no. 15 (2011): 1385-1390.





n19  Id. (Good Stewardship Working Group).





n20  See, e.g., Cotera-Perez-Perez, supra note 5; see, e.g., Chipli, supra note
5; see also Fasser et al., supra note 15.





n21  See Good Stewardship Working Group, supra note 18; see also Schmidt, supra
note 18.





n22  Id.





n23  American Medical Association, "Code of Medical Ethics. Opinion 10.02 (5),
Patient Responsibilities," June 1, 2001, available at
<https://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/
medical-ethics/code-medical-ethics/opinionl002.page?> (last visited February 11,
2014); see R. Hamowy, "Medical Responsibility," Journal of Law, Medicine &
Ethics 40, no. 3 (2012): 532-545; N. Kontos, J. Querques, O. Freudenreich,
"Fighting the Good Fight: Responsibility and Rationale in the Confrontation of
Patients," Mayo Clinic Proceedings 87, no. 1 (2012): 63-66. See also Schmidt,
supra note 18.





n24  See supra note 23.





n25  See supra note 18.





n26  See Good Stewardship Working Group, supra note 18.





n27  Id.





n28  See, e.g., Cotera-Perez-Perez, supra note 5; see, e.g., Chipli, supra note
5. See also Fasser et al., supra note 15 and supra note 18.





n29  Proposed Rule, 77 Fed. Reg. 38148 (to be codified at 26 C.F.R. § 1.501(r)),
June 22, 2012, available at
<http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2012-08-10/pdf/FR-2012-08-10.pdf> (last visited
February 11, 2014).


                              356 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                               September 27, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

State should help fund IVF, says Rhona Mahony

BYLINE: NIAMH HORAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 484 words


THE master of the National Maternity Hospital, Dr Rhona Mahony, has called on
the Government to look at funding fertility treatment for Irish women who cannot
conceive naturally.

She also described how as a result of the high cost of fertility treatments, a
growing number of Irish couples are seeking unethical treatments abroad, leaving
Irish hospitals to "pick up the pieces".

Speaking to the Sunday Independent, Dr Mahony said there was a strong argument
for supporting women in an "important primal desire".

"I think there is an argument for funding some fertility treatments because it
is very expensive and it is a very important primal desire for women to have a
baby and for couples to have a baby. It is just so heartbreaking when couples
come to the stage where it is really very unlikely that they can have children
naturally. But where there is an opportunity with treatment - and particularly
younger couples - where there is a very specific problem, I do think there is an
argument for funding some, not all, fertility treatment."

Speaking at the inaugural Tiffany Ireland Funds luncheon for women in business
and philanthropy, Dr Mahony acknowledged the struggle for funding within the
health service, but added that it was equally important to recognise the
heartbreak involved for men and women facing infertility problems.

"The State is struggling to fund basic care and we have limited resources. But,
like everything, if you have not had that experience then perhaps you
underestimate the pain that comes with not being able to have a baby."

She also highlighted the fact that couples were being forced to seek out
unethical treatments abroad because of the high cost and difficulty in accessing
fertility treatments here.

"Ethics is very important and, more so, we are seeing women travel outside of
Ireland for all sorts of treatments and that worries me because it is not
absolutely ethical, it is in a commercial domain and then we are left, as a
hospital, to pick up the pieces.

"It can be cheaper internationally, there can be more choice given
internationally, it can be more relaxed in the approach, whereas here I think
many of the fertility units are very ethical and they will not enter into
treatment where they feel there is not a realistic outcome of pregnancy. Whereas
if you travel outside of Ireland you will find that not all clinics are as
ethical and that is a problem, and so you can have people who have many
underlying complications becoming pregnant and there's multiple pregnancy and
that gives risk," she added.

"When you see women who have underlying disease who then become pregnant you see
there is a risk to them and they may not have thought this through - and you owe
a reasonable responsibility of care for anyone who walks in the door. What we
are trying to do is keep women safe and it cannot be the case of reproduction at
any cost. There has to be a balance."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PICKING UP THE PIECES: Holles Street master Dr Rhona Mahony says the
high cost of IVF is forcing women to avail of unethical treatments abroad.
Photo: David Conachy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Herald (Ireland)

                              July 18, 2008 Friday

Umbilical cord stem cell ban may be lifted

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 476 words


OFFICIAL policy banning the retrieval of cord blood stem cells at Dublin's three
main maternity hospitals could be set to come to an end under new Department of
Health plans.

Since August 2005, official policy at the Rotunda, the Coombe and the National
Maternity Hospital has meant that requests from new mothers for medics to
retrieve stem cells from the umbilical cord have fallen on deaf ears.

But after confirmation from the Department of Health that it has met with
international experts over the possibility of creating a public cord blood stem
cell bank for medicaland research purposes, the official policy ban may now be
overruled.

Since the cord blood stem cell retrieval technology became a reality, a
wide-ranging international debate hasraged over the use of stemcells obtained in
this way.

Those in favour of the medical technique say that cord blood stem cells
significantly improve the chances of using the stem cells in question to help
treat future medical conditions in the newbornbaby or their relatives.

ETHICAL

But opponents have countered by pointing to ethical concerns over the use of
cord blood stem cells and have added that there is not yet enough long-term
research to support the claims made about the technique.

As a result of the increased profile of the cord blood stem cell retrieval --
which has been used in over 10,000 births, mainly in the US -- a risingnumber of
Irish mothers have asked for the procedure when giving birth.

Until recently, they have been told the matter was against hospital policy at
Dublin's three maternity hospitals, with a formal policy clarification signed by
the Masters of the Rotunda, the Coombe, and theNational Maternity Hospital in
August 2005 noting: "There is insufficient scientific researchto support the
procedure of taking cord blood for stem cell retrieval. The three maternity
hospitals do not support requests to take core blood for stem cell retrieval."

However, speaking to the Herald today, the head of the Irish Patients
Association Stephen McMahon said that the Department of Health is now
considering plans to potentially bring the policy to an end.

The Department of Health has confirmed that after consulting international
experts on the matter it is now considering establishing a public bank for the
storage of cord blood stem cells for medicinal and research purposes.

It is continuing to hold meetings with "relevant" interest groups on the matter.

Last week the Department, the HSE, the Irish Blood Transfusion Service and the
Irish Medicines Board metwith international expert Professor Colin McGuckin of
the Institute of HumanGenetics at the UK's Newcastle University to hear the
benefits of freezing cord blood cellsfor future use.

The international expert saidthat the only major hurdle to the plans was the
current financial restrictions in the health service.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday

COUNCIL AWARDS $1,000 SCHOLARSHIPS

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1693 words


The Community Service Council of West Pasco presented five graduating high
school students and one adult college student each with a $1,000 scholarship to
be used toward academic pursuits. The awards were presented June 9 during the
group's regular membership luncheon.

Scholarship recipients were Derek Poling of Gulf High School; Crystal Golinski
of Hudson High School; Victoria Balestrieri of Mitchell High School; Joey
Geschke of Ridgewood High School; Lauren Mundy of River Ridge High School, and
Joseph Caldarelli of St. Petersburg College.

The council is an organization of business professionals who build friendships
that provide networking opportunities for their businesses. The group meets at
11:30 a.m. on the second Thursday of each month at the Spartan Manor in New Port
Richey. Lunch is $12 per person. For information, call (727) 863-7866.

* * *

Briefly

Hospital Corporation of American was recently recognized by the Ethisphere
Institute as one of the 2011 World's Most Ethical Companies. HCA is the parent
company of Community Hospital, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point and Oak
Hill Hospital.

Out of a record number of nominations, HCA secured a spot on the list by
implementing upright business practices and initiatives that are instrumental to
the company's success, benefit the community, and raise the bar for ethical
standards within the industry, Ethisphere found.

The Ethisphere Institute is an international think-tank dedicated to the
creation, advancement and sharing of best practices in business ethics,
corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and sustainability.

For more information, visit ethisphere.com/worlds-most-ethical
-companies-rankings/.

- - -

Gulf Coast Medical Center's Port Richey south location recently received
recognition from the National Committee for Quality Assurance for Physician
Practice Connections-Patient Centered Medical Home program for using
evidence-based, patient-centered processes that focus on highly coordinated care
and long-term participative relationships.

PCMH is a model of health care delivery that aims to improve the quality and
efficiency of care. The program identifies practices that promote partnerships
between individual patients and their personal clinicians.

For information, call (727) 868-2151.

- - -

Scottrade, a branch-supported online investing firm, outgrew its Port Richey
office and recently relocated to 3130 Little Road in the Mitchell Ranch Plaza,
Trinity.

The new office hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. After-hours
support is available from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. Monday through Friday, and from 9
a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturday.

For information, call Doug Anderson, office manager, at (727) 372-0563.

* * *

Who's news

Michele Forney, administrator at Southern Pines Healthcare Center, 6140 Congress
St., New Port Richey, recently received the Facility Leadership award from the
American College of Health Care Administrators.

The annual award recognizes nursing home administrators who've met superior
health care standards. Recipients must operate homes that meet stringent
patient-care and life-safety code standards, in addition to having an average
occupancy above 90 percent.

For information, call (502) 568-7746.

- - -

David A. Hook, a partner of the Hook Law Group, 4918 Floramar Ter., New Port
Richey, was recently awarded board certification in elder law from the Florida
Bar Association. The certification comes from the bar's Board of Legal
Specialization & Education, which identifies Hook as "a lawyer with special
knowledge skills and proficiency, as well as a reputation for professionalism
and ethics."

Hook Law Group is one of the country's first law firms to build its practice
around elder law. Its attorneys and staff develop a comprehensive life-care plan
to help elderly clients and their families navigate the legal aspects of aging,
healthcare, asset management and government aid program.

For information, call (727) 842-1001.

* * *

Events

A free summer seminar for small business owners, "Profit and Growth For You and
Your Business," will be from 6 to 7 p.m. Monday at CARES Hudson, 12417 Clock
Tower Parkway, Hudson.

Anna Preston, who has more than 30 years of work and small business operation
experience, will discuss balance for growth, ideas for making and saving more
money and the concept of a universal business model.

To register, call (727) 697-3951.

- - -

The Greater Zephyrhills Chamber of Commerce will have its June Chamber Breakfast
at 7 a.m. Thursday at Golden Corral, 6855 Gall Blvd., Zephyrhills. This month's
sponsor is East Pasco Family YMCA.

The cost is $7 per person. For information, call the chamber at (813) 782-1913.

- - -

West Pasco Legal Support Association will meet Monday at IHOP restaurant, 4736
U.S. 19, New Port Richey. Meet and greet will begin at 5:30 p.m. and the speaker
will begin at 6 p.m. Speaker Hugh C. Umsted will discuss notary law. Attendants
receive Florida Bar-approved Continuing Legal Education hours.

People interested in the legal field, attorneys, judicial assistants, paralegals
and legal office staff are invited. To RSVP, call Marcy Nolan, secretary, at
(727) 271-6777.

- - -

Wesley Chapel Chamber of Commerce Economic Development Committee will meet from
11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Thursday at American Consulting Engineers, 2818 Cypress
Ridge Blvd., Suite 200, Wesley Chapel. The group meets on the fourth Thursday of
each month. For information, call chamber chairman Jeff Miller at (813)
994-6795.

- - -

The West Pasco Chamber of Commerce will have its June Chamber Breakfast from
7:30 to 9 a.m. Friday at the Fox Hollow Golf Club, 10050 Robert Trent Jones
Parkway, Trinity. This month's sponsor is Career Central. Alan Mong will talk
about "Discovering your memory power and reading smart."

The cost is $10 for the breakfast buffet. To RSVP, call (727) 842-7651 by
Thursday.

- - -

West Pasco Chamber of Commerce will have the following ribbon cuttings next
week:

- Re/Max New Dimensions, in the chamber's office, 5443 Main St., New Port
Richey, 11:30 a.m. Tuesday. Donna Bagnell or Denise Denver, (727) 434-3871.

- Florida Blood Services, 5355 U.S. 19, New Port Richey, 11:30 a.m. Wednesday.
(727) 819-3102.

- A-Plus Air conditioning, 8645 Ridge Road, New Port Richey, 11:30 a.m.
Thursday. (727) 868-3436.

If you have business announcements you would like to share with our readers,
mail the details to Jean Hayes, Business Digest, Pasco Times, 11321 U.S. 19,
Port Richey, FL 34668. You may also e-mail items to jhayes@sptimes.com or fax
them to (727) 869-6233. Photos are published as space permits; they will not be
returned.

* * *

Networking

- Wesley Chapel Power Networking Lunch: 11:30 a.m. Monday at Santo's Pizza and
Pasta, 27431 Wesley Chapel Blvd., Wesley Chapel. The cost is $10. For
information or to RSVP, e-mail Tiffanie Kellog at tiffanie@threadartfl.com

- Trinity Positive Business Network: 8:30 a.m. Monday at Panera Bread, 3234
Little Road in the Mitchell Ranch Plaza, Trinity. Meets every Monday. Call Ashok
Visuvasam at (813) 333-1622.

- Power Networking: 11:45 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday at Pagelli's Italiano restaurant
in the Shops of Wiregrass, 2001 Piazza Ave., Wesley Chapel. Meets the third
Monday of each month. The cost is $10. To RSVP, call the Wesley Chapel Chamber
of Commerce at (813) 994-8534. Call Tiffanie Kellog of the Referral Institute at
(813) 948-7243.

- Wesley Chapel Networking Coffee: 8 a.m. Tuesday at Organic Life, 1900 Oak
Grove Blvd., Land O'Lakes. Join Rob Kellog for coffee and early morning
networking opportunities.

- Wesley Chapel Networking on the Nines: 3 p.m. Tuesday at Lexington Oaks Golf
Club, 26133 Lexington Blvd., Wesley Chapel. Bring a client or associate for a
unique networking opportunity. Play nine holes of "Best Ball" golf for $20 per
person (includes greens fees/cart). For information, contact Rob Kellog at (813)
817-5655 or rob@threadartfl.com

- Suncoast Women in Networking (WIN): Monthly breakfast meeting, 7:45 a.m.
Tuesday at IHOP restaurant, 4736 U.S. 19, New Port Richey. The breakfast will be
open menu. Tanya Simpson, a massage therapist with Total Harmony Massage, will
be the guest speaker. Free massage certificates will be given to attendees. Call
Linda McFarland, president, at (727) 863-6151.

- West Pasco Business Association: 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. Tuesday at 2150 Seven
Springs Blvd., Trinity. The association is a pool of professionals who work
together to promote each others' businesses. The group meets every Tuesday. For
more information, visit westpascobusinessassociation.com.

- Pasco Hernando NPI Networking Group: 11:45 a.m. Tuesday at Boulevard Beef &
Ale, 6236 Grand Blvd., New Port Richey. Call Rob Marlowe at (727) 847-2424.

- Trinity Business Association: 5:30 p.m. Tuesday at Fox Hollow Country Club,
10050 Robert Trent Jones Parkway, Trinity. Meetings are on the first and third
Tuesdays of each month. For more information, send an e-mail to
Info@TrinityBusinessAssociation.com

- West Pasco Business Network: 11:30 a.m. Tuesday at Atria Windsor Woods, 13707
Dallas Drive, Hudson. Meets the third Tuesday of every month. To reserve a seat,
call Abby Hamilton at (813) 817-1905.

- BNI Revenue Source: 7:30 to 9 a.m. Wednesday at Heritage Springs Country Club,
11345 Robert Trent Jones Parkway, Trinity. Visitors welcome. Cost, including
breakfast, is $10. Call David Randall at (727) 842-7744.

- Free Networking International: 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Wednesday at Cantina
Laredo restaurant, 2000 Piazza Ave., Building 4, Suite 170, Wesley Chapel (at
the Shops at Wiregrass). Individuals pay for their own lunch. Call group
director Martine Duncan, co-owner of the Theater Doctor, at (813) 929-6816.

- Neighborhood Networks: 11:45 a.m. Wednesday at Whiskey River Saltwater Grill,
5245 Limestone Drive, Port Richey. The group meets every Wednesday. Call Josh
Green at (727) 457-2393.

- BNI Eagles: 7:15 a.m. Thursday at Spartan Manor, 6121 Massachusetts Ave., New
Port Richey. Cost is $10 (includes breakfast). For information or to RSVP, call
Sheryl Ryan at (352) 556-7711.

- BNI Referral Connections: 7:15 to 9 a.m. Thursday at Los Vallarta Mexican
Restaurant, 22948 State Road 54, Lutz. Call Capt. Rob Hamilton at (813)
431-5887.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hook

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 4, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HOSPITAL PANELS CONSIDER KEY ETHICS ISSUES

BYLINE: By ANDREW H. MALCOLM

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1751 words


Quietly and without fanfare, hundreds of American hospitals are organizing
internal ethics committees that are coming to play crucial roles in life-
and-death decisions for thousands of patients.

The committees, typically composed of doctors, nurses, administrators, clergy
and social workers, play a number of roles. In many cases these groups are
drafting policy guidelines for such vital decisions as who is connected to
life-saving dialysis machines, when a critically ill patient will not be
resuscitated by machine, when treatment may be withheld from premature infants
and how hospital patients may ask to die.

In many hospitals these committees have already participated in decisions to
maintain treatment of some seriously ill patients despite their wishes, while
letting other patients die at their request.

Such decisions, involving medicine, morality and often intense emotion, are a
growing issue nationwide as medical advances give doctors and patients choices
they did not have just a few years ago. But patients and their families are
often unaware of the existence of ethics committees that can help them in making
a choice.



Opposed by Some Doctors

In many places formation of such committees, whose members are appointed by
hospital administrators or who sometimes simply volunteer out of personal
interest, is opposed by doctors who see them as second-guessers impinging on
physicians' decision-making prerogatives.

The President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine
estimated that in 1982 less than 1 percent of the nation's 6,915 hospitals had
such groups. Current figures are not available, but Dr. Ronald E. Cranford, one
of the movement's most active leaders, estimates that in just two years the
number has probably mushroomed to nearly 10 percent.

''We are just in the movement's infancy,'' said Dr. Cranford, who practices at
Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis, ''but its strength and direction
are clear.''

Already, for example, 39 of 44 Roman Catholic hospitals in California have
established such committees, and Dr. Cranford said three-quarters of the
hospitals in Minneapolis and St. Paul had set up ethics committees in the past
couple of years.

Governor Cuomo of New York announced last month that he was establishing a
special group to recommend policies on the sort of ethical issues the hospital
committees face.

''Sure, there are many more ethics committees,'' said Mary Babich, a spokesman
for the American Hospital Association. ''The hospitals' awareness of the need
for such committees and the public's awareness of the issue are greater today
even than yesterday. We didn't have a baboon heart in a baby last week. This
week we do. We didn't used to have artificial hearts, and we couldn't keep tiny
premature babies alive. Now we can. But should we?

''With all these new technologies,'' she continued, ''it seems the ethical and
philosophical considerations haven't kept up. And the committees help work this
out.''

Dr. Cranford and others estimate that within five years, virtually every
American hospital will have an ethics committee of some sort. Supporters applaud
this broad grass-roots growth since they feel it precludes eventual government
involvement. But it also means there are no uniform standards for committee
membership or for the policy guidelines and decisions.

Goals of Ethics Committees

The evolving corps of ethics committees seems to focus on a few major goals.
Nearly all stress education, discussing moral and ethical issues with doctors,
nurses, technicians and administrators. In many cases the committees develop
hospital policies and guidelines for modern medical care. And some of the
committees serve in a consulting role, acting as an influential adviser to
doctors and troubled patients or families.

The bioethics committee at St. Joseph Hospital in Orange, Calif., one of the
first in the country, began in 1979 as a discussion group of interested
individuals and grew into a 24-member body (6 doctors, 6 nurses and 12
administrators, technicians and social workers) that drafts hospital ethics
guidelines and dispatches members to meet with doctors and individual patients.

Earlier this year, for example, committee members met at length with a family
and its 62-year-old patriarch, a paralyzed stroke victim connected to a
respirator. The patient wanted the breathing machine turned off. His family did
not.

''Basically, we told him he would die without the respirator,'' said one
committee member, ''and we told them he had no reasonable hope of recovery. Then
we left them to talk. An hour later the family agreed and left. The man said, 'I
still don't want to live like this anymore.' We waited a few more hours to be
sure. We gave him a sedative for comfort and disconnected the machine. He died a
few minutes later.''

Committee members at the southern California hospital do not make the decisions,
but they help those most closely involved make them in an ethical context. In
another case, involving an elderly patient whose body was kept alive only by
machines, the family disagreed with the doctor and wanted treatment
discontinued.

Working With Family and Doctor

Committee members met with them twice in three weeks, supporting the doctor's
desire to try different treatments. But after a month with no change in the
patient's condition, the family and the physician, with the committee's help,
agreed that further treatment was futile.

Dr. Kirk Keegan, a member of the committee, conceded that most colleagues viewed
such panels as a threat, despite their endorsement by medical associations.
''The committee helps me consider all aspects of treatment,'' said Dr. Keegan,
who has taken cases of his own to the committee. ''There's a lot more to
medicine now than just medicine.''

The group at St. Joseph and its close involvement with individual cases are not
representative of all ethics committees: Some never get beyond monthly
lunch-hour ethical debates. Sister Corrine Bayley, a vice president of St.
Joseph Hospital who helped found the program there, is now assembling an
educational curriculum for other hospitals to use in setting up similar
committees.

Just as the roles of such committees vary, so do the attitudes toward them on
the part of the medical establishment. On the same day that spokesmen for one
California hospital were willing to discuss committee cases, an anxious Chicago
doctor, saying he faced dismissal, called to retract a statement from a recent
interview. The retracted statement said, ''Our hospital is considering an ethics
committee.''

''You must understand,'' he observed, ''this is an extremely sensitive issue.''

The emotional debate surrounding these committees is a reflection of the tension
surrounding the wide variety of new ethical and moral issues brought on by
recent medical advances.

''Until the 1950's,'' Dr. Cranford said, ''90 percent of doctors would never
tell their patients when they had cancer. What was the point? Most medical
decisions then were factual ones. Is he going to die? Yes. Can we do anything
about it? No. We didn't have machines to confront us with value decisions. Now
we can keep many terminally ill people alive indefinitely, or restart them. But
should we? Where does the quality of life come in to determine the length of
life?''

'A Lot More Choices'

Ethics committees are designed to help forge answers to such wide-ranging
questions. ''The more choices you have,'' said Sister Corrine, ''the more
troubles you have. And we have a lot more choices now.''

Leonard H. Glantz of Boston University's Schools of Public Health and Medicine
sounds a note of caution.

''People are hot about ethics committees right now,'' he said, ''but we must be
very careful. We don't want just another layer of bureaucratic decision- making
to bog down our health care system more. We don't want house committees of
doctors passing review on their friends' decisions with no possibility of
judicial review. And in our society committees are often used just to diffuse
responsibility on a sensitive issue.''

Still, Mr. Glantz believes that a well- balanced ethics committee of doctors,
nurses and laymen can help combat what he calls the 2-Year-Old's Hammer
Syndrome.

''Did you ever notice,'' asks Mr. Glantz, ''when you give a 2-year-old a hammer,
suddenly everything within reach needs hammering? Now we've given our doctors
all this marvelous medical technology and suddenly every machine has to be used
in every case. Ethics committees can help teach that sometimes less treatment is
better treatment.''

Committee supporters also see them as helpful forums, improving communications
between patients, their families and hospital personnel. They depict a growing
impersonalization in American health care where a neighborhood family doctor no
longer plays the central role of yesteryear. Now, because families move often
and because medicine is increasingly specialized, patients and their doctors are
less familiar, perhaps less trusting of each other, especially in a litigious
society.

Avoiding Legal Problems

''We learn quickly,'' one doctor said in a recent interview, ''that few doctors
get in trouble for doing too much for a patient. You don't want a reputation as
a plug-puller.''

Dr. Cranford sees the committees as helpful in heading off the kind of bitter
legal confrontation that has erupted in Los Angeles between William Bartling, an
elderly man with five usually fatal diseases who says he wants to die, and the
Glendale Adventist Medical Center, which refuses to turn off his respirator.
Glendale has no ethics committee, according to a hospital lawyer.

''In Minneapolis,'' said Dr. Cranford, ''our committees had maybe 10 cases like
Bartling and not one went to court.'' He said that last month hospitals in the
Twin Cities formed area ethics committees ''to avoid reinventing the ethics
wheel at every hospital.''

Members of ethics committees said numerous bureaucratic, political and legal
problems remain; committee records on death deliberations, for instance, might
someday be subpoenaed by a court to prove conspiracy.

But many, including Dr. Cranford, believe that ethics committees offer the best
start yet to build the necessary new social consensus in a complex age. ''If our
society can't agree yet on when life begins,'' he said, ''how can we expect to
agree yet on when life ends?''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Dr. Ronald Cranford (page 30)

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             June 15, 2017 Thursday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Hosp won't pull down hoarding on 'docs' cut'

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 362 words


A city hospital has refused to remove a hoarding it put up about cut practice
despite the Indian Medical Association's (IMA) displeasure.

The IMA had written to the hospital, asking it to remove the hoarding near the
airport that said, 'Honest Opinion. No Commission to Doctor'. Dr Ramakant Panda,
vice chairman of the Asian Heart Hospital that put up the hoarding, said he had
received calls from IMA members as well in this regard. \x93But we also got
positive feedback from many young doctors who are unable to set up their own
practice because of cut practice,\x93 he said.

On Tuesday , the heart institute wrote to the Maharashtra Medical Council with
38 doctors signing the letter.

Dr Jayesh Lele of the state IMA said his association is against cut practice but
the hoarding is nothing but an advertisement. \x93The ethical ru

les of advertising should be applied here. How can an ad blame others and
suggest that it is the only hospital being ethical?'' asked Dr Lele.

He said the national IMA as well as several other medical associations will take
up the issue further.

Meanwhile, Dr Sanjay Nagral, transplant surgeon and editorial board member of
the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, said cut practice is medicine's worst kept
secret. \x93Cut practice is widely prevalent. It is a public-interest issue
because it affects the cost of care; doctors and hospitals factor in the
commission while making a patient's bill. Moreover, it also affects the quality
of care. It isn't the best specialist who is recom

mended to you, but the one who pays the biggest commission,\x93 he said.

He said cut practice has become a bigger problem than before. \x93It is not only
widely prevalent, it has changed from being a payment from one doctor to another
doctor to assume an industrial proportion. Now, hospitals are doing it,'' said
Dr Nagral. \x93Cut practice has now become the centre of healthcare.\x93

The Asian Heart Institute's letter to the Maharashtra Medical Council said,
\x93We appeal to you to aggressively peruse and eliminate this unethical
practice. All doctors should unite to curb this menace and will be happy to
extend our full support to MMC in this endeavour.\x93

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    April 29, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

The pursuit of rules to live - and die - by

BYLINE: VANSUN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 725 words


The domino theory, long discredited in international geo-politics, is cropping
up more and more in the fields of privacy and ethics. In the privacy area, each
perceived encroachment on personal privacy is portrayed as a crucial step, the
toppling domino that may set in motion events that will undermine personal
security forever, allowing government or big business or anyone with power or
money to learn our every secret.

On the ethical side, the fear is that the government, or any institution, will
begin making ethical decisions -- life and death decisions -- on behalf of its
citizens, leading inexorably to abuse and ruin.

These concerns are both legitimate and naive. It certainly pays to be vigilant
on privacy issues and to be skeptical when the government promises that a new
incursion into private affairs will go no further. Remember that when the
federal government introduced social insurance numbers they were to be used only
by taxation authorities; now they are listed on almost every financial or
personal document you are asked to fill out. That said, there is no evidence
that this ubiquitousness has turned Canada into a police state.

Ethical issues are more difficult. The federal Senate is currently grappling
with the topic of euthanasia, a report on which is due next month. And the
federal justice department seems paralysed by the recommendations of the Royal
Commission on Reproductive Technology. People are justifiably nervous at the
notion of government making rulings on when life begins or when it can end --
after all, if you stand by while the government endorses euthanasia for the old
and infirm, how long before the definition extends to you or someone you love?

Consider, in this context, the case of Terry Urquhart, a 17-year-old Calgary
youth who has Down's syndrome. Mr. Urquhart has landed uncomfortably in the
middle of an ethical battle because he is claiming his place on the waiting list
for a lung transplant -- a position he was originally denied because he did not
meet the local hospital's policy that transplant recipients must be of
"satisfactory intelligence."

The very term is offensive -- "satisfactory" how, and to whom? And it calls
forth that domino theory: if you let hospital officials give or withhold
services on the basis of their patients' intelligence, how long will it be
before they are giving or withholding on the basis of earning power or sex or
ethnicity? If you push over that first domino, how many more will fall?

The problem is that someone is already making these decisions. The mere
existence of waiting lists means that medical officials are already having to
choose between patients. The question is whether they are making the right
choices for the right reasons.

If the decision were left strictly to doctors, they might be tempted to choose
only the healthiest, fittest, youngest patients who had the best chance of
success. On a crass level, those successes would reflect well on the doctors
themselves and would help them lobby for funding for their very expensive
specialties. Hospital administrators, also jockeying for money and prestige,
might favor patients who could garner the most public sympathy -- photogenic
children, for instance, while politicians might be inclined to give advantage to
their constituents or to people with power and influence.

In any of these cases and whatever method is used to assess priorities, someone
would be denied -- someone will be denied. Providing a service on a
first-come-first-serve basis might hinder the chances of someone whose case is
more urgent. And even assessing urgency becomes subjective.

There is no choice but to play God. Resources are finite and limited. Rather
than decry the insinuation of government into these ethical decisions, we must
insist that government be involved, that such horribly difficult decisions be
made by informed people acting on guidelines that apply to everyone, and that
the guidelines themselves be crafted through thorough public debate.

In the end, hospital officials might still have to tell Terry Urquhart that he
cannot have a lung transplant because his life expectancy is too short, perhaps
even because he does not have "satisfactory intelligence." But everyone should
know the rules, and as many people as possible should endorse them.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            October 25, 1988 Tuesday

The cost of health

BYLINE: John O'Brien-Bell; GAM

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: Ottawa ONT


Re Doctors Debate Intensive Care Of Tiniest Infants (Oct. 17):
   The Canadian Medical Association's 1984 Task Force on the Allocation Of
Health-Care Resources studied the economic costs and benefits from birth
to expected death in two groups of premature infants: those between 500
and 999 grams and those between 1,000 grams and 1,495 grams. The results
showed the survival rates in life years per live birth had been
substantially increased with the introduction of neonatal intensive-care
units.

However, these survival rates have been obtained at a considerable
increase in the costs of both hospital treatment and subsequent health
care. The cost from birth to hospital discharge of survivors was $102,500
for the 500-to-999-gram group and $59,500 for the 1,000-to-1,499-gram
group (in 1978 Canadian dollars). These costs were offset by future
earning ability in the 1,000-to-1,499-gram group, but in the 500-to-999-
gram group, health costs clearly outweighed future earning ability.

The task force pointed out "one of the moral issues facing society
today when it approaches the problem of trying to attach an economic value
to the use of a new technology."

With the introduction of cost-containment policies by provincial
governments, Canadians are seeing increasing rationing of their health
services and doctors are finding themselves with increasingly frequent
ethical dilemmas. The recent Ethics Conference on Infants at McGill
University focused attention dramatically on the ethical pressures that
politicians and bureaucrats are placing on health professionals. To meet
budgetary restraints, doctors are expected to make the decision on which
patient may or may not receive rationed services. Politicians avoid
responsibility by glibly maintaining that as they provide the hospital
with a budget, it is not their responsibility to decide how the hospital
spends the money.

While it is important to use health-care dollars in the most efficient
way, economic effectiveness should not be the basis for acceptance of new
technology. As the CMA task force said: "The job of medicine and society
at large is to protect life and ease pain and suffering, and not to
quantify."

What is distressing about the reports from the McGill conference is
that ministers of health are making economies and care is no longer the
bottom line in the delivery of services. Hamilton neonatologist Dr. John
Watts is right in believing that it is not appropriate to deny medical
treatment to an entire class of patients for economic reasons. Doctors
should continue to provide what Mr. Justice Emmett Hall enunciated as the
basic premise of medicare, namely the delivery of the highest possible
standard of care to Canadians. If unable to do so, doctors should see that
the public clearly understands that it is government, not health
professionals, who are responsible for the rationing of health care.
  John O'Brien-Bell
 President
 Canadian Medical Association
  Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1988 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Fresno Bee (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune News Service

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday

Vuich award surprises ex-nurse

BYLINE: Susie Pakoua Vang, The Fresno Bee, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 541 words


Aug. 12--VISALIA -- Margaret Foley, a retired registered nurse and longtime
member of the board of directors at Kaweah Delta Hospital, thought she was
attending a monthly meeting Friday with hospital officials.

But there was no meeting -- just a big surprise.

Foley, 83, walked into the small room filled with a fellow board member, some
hospital staff and cameras clicking away.

"What's going on?" she asked.

Foley was floored when Tulare County Superior Court Judge Valeriano Saucedo told
her she was chosen to receive the ninth annual Rose Ann Vuich Ethical Leadership
Award. Vuich, a native of Dinuba, was the first woman elected as a state senator
in 1976.

"Oh, what an honor," Foley mustered. "I can't believe it."

Vuich is a great lady, Foley said.

"Well, you are, too," chimed Saucedo, who also received the award in 1999. The
award is given annually to someone who has demonstrated exemplary ethical
behavior, integrity and the ability to build consensus and serve public
interest.

The luncheon to honor Foley will be Oct. 12 at the Radisson Hotel in Fresno.
Sunny McPeak will also receive the Excellence in Public Service Award presented
by the Fresno Business Council.

The Rose Ann Vuich Ethical Leadership Award is sponsored by the Kenneth L. Maddy
Institute of Public Affairs, The Fresno Business Council and The Fresno Bee.

Friday's announcement will be another addition to Foley's long resume of
accomplishments and good deeds.

Foley co-founded the Good News Clinic, a Catholic social services clinic in
Visalia that provides free health-care services to the poor.

Foley, who is vice president for the hospital's board of directors, was first
elected to the board 16 years ago.

She has served on several committees, which vary from the senior task force to
child and adolescent mental health.

"Margaret Foley has a wonderful moral compass," said Lindsay Mann, chief
executive officer at Kaweah Delta District Hospital.

He said Foley is constantly questioning what is right for patients, staff and
the community.

Earlier this year, Mann said a group representing about 280 active medical staff
created the Margaret Foley Humanitarian Service Award.

Foley is also a dedicated member of the local St. Paul's Episcopal Church.

"If there's a pancake breakfast, we're all buying tickets," Mann said.

Carl Anderson, fellow board member, joined in on Friday's surprise.

"She and I are on opposite ends of the political spectrum," Anderson said, "but
our friendship and ability to work together transcends that difference."

Foley, who wore a yellow Lance Armstrong bracelet on her right hand, listened
quietly as her colleagues praised her work.

Becoming a registered nurse was something she simply wanted to do when she was
5, she said.

She broke her leg and was at the hospital when she saw a nurse wearing a cute
hat and carrying a set of twins.

"I'm just grateful," Foley said.

The reporter can be reached at svang@fresnobee.com or (559) 622-2409.

Advertisements

Copyright (c) 2006, The Fresno Bee, Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Business News. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call
800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The
Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060812-FR-0812-Vuich-award-surprises-ex-nurse

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FR


                         Copyright 2006 The Fresno Bee


                              364 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                            February 21, 2000 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Lives in the Balance: Committee weighs ethical dilemmas that confront people in
health-care system

BYLINE: Marnie Douglas, The Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 613  words


There's no arguing that the miracle of life is just that -- a marvel like no
other.

But newborns are also prone to health problems -- genetic and inherited
diseases, childbirth complications and premature births are all possibilities
that no new parents want to contemplate.

So just how far should doctors go to keep a baby who weighs no more than 900
grams alive? It costs more than $800 a day to keep an infant alive in a
neo-natal intensive care unit, and that's without the host of possible problems,
including respiratory or heart complications, that afflict preemies.

Since a fetus can now theoretically survive outside a mother's body at only 23
weeks -- a full-term baby is born at about 40 weeks -- a child born prematurely
could spend months in a hospital.

Tight health-care dollars are demanding doctors and nurses, as well as parents,
make some tough choices. Those choices are often ones that will also fall on the
Thompson Health Region ethics committee .

Dr. Jane McGillivray is a family physician in Kamloops and co-chairwoman of the
committee.

She admits the issue of morals and values in medicine is a tough one --
dwindling health dollars are forcing families and doctors to make tough judgment
calls.

``We are a resource for families or physicians to approach who cannot make some
of those tough decisions. Sometimes they just need a sober second thought,
someone who is not directly involved in the situation,'' she said.

The committee was formed about eight years ago and has grown from a small, local
group to a regional committee. Included on the committee are doctors, nurses, a
lawyer, an ethicist and administrative staff from RIH.

Its primary mandate is to consider and debate a variety of ethical issues and
develop recommendations where appropriate. Any recommendations are non-binding,
said Dr. David Poulin, medical services director of the Thompson Health Region.

``Doctors and patients want to know that what they are doing is legal and
ethical. It's never a black and white situation. It's always grey and that's why
it's an ethical dilemma,'' he added.

RIH is one B.C. hospital that participates in drug trials and, as a result,
there is the issue of patient research. Poulin said an ethical review is usually
completed to ensure that patients are fully informed and aware of the
consequences or possible side effects.

``We need to ensure that they are making an informed choice. It could be a
high-risk procedure or there could be significant consequences,'' he added.

Another scenario is the conflict between a patient and a family -- the family
wants one option while the patient wants something else or is not able to make
the decision. And much like the outset of life, there can be difficult decisions
to make near the end of a person's life.

McGillivray said a common area of discussion is the level of intervention in
long-term care.

``What's considered comforting care and going too far? What's reasonable in
palliative care? Is it appropriate to resuscitate a patient under any
condition?''

Often there are requests for treatment, perhaps from family members, that offer
little return to the patient but at a huge expense to the health-care system
overall. To house a patient in intensive care can cost upwards of $1,500 a day
alone.

``That's when the ethics of resource allocation come into it,'' she added.

Dr. Patricia Baird is an expert in ethics and health policy at UBC. She agrees
that cuts to health-care budgets mean there are fewer and fewer resources.

``If there are only a certain number of intensive-care beds available, who goes
in and who goes out? If there were enough resources and money wasn't an issue,
there wouldn't be a squeeze.''

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Jason Payne, The Daily News; Dr. Jane McGillivray, left, and nurse Karen
Irving stand beside an incubator in the neo-natal intensive care unit at RIH. A
``resusci-baby,'' a model baby used for training purposes, is in the incubator.
;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2000 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday

Utah health board deems PolyHeme study safe;
Blood substitute trials: So far, none of the 36 doses reserved for Utah has been
used on patients

BYLINE: Jason Bergreen , The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: UTAH;  Pg. B6

LENGTH: 497 words


The Utah Department of Health decided Friday that a clinical study involving the
transfusion of an experimental blood substitute in trauma patients is safe and
ethical, despite mixed conclusions by two local hospitals participating in the
trial.

The department could have restricted participating emergency first-responders
from injecting patients with PolyHeme, but instead voted 6-to-1 to defer to
University Hospital's decision to proceed with the study.

Board member Laurie Baksh abstained, saying she wanted to hear more from LDS
Hospital, which has postponed its study citing scientific and ethical
considerations.

Testing was placed on hold late last month at both hospitals after the Wall
Street Journal reported the maker of PolyHeme, Northfield Laboratories, tried to
hide crucial details about a 2000 blood-substitute study. The Journal reported
that 10 heart surgery patients in that experiment had experienced heart attacks,
while other patients given actual blood did not.

The Department of Health board contends that details from the 2000 study were
disclosed to the hospitals. Stephen Morris, University Hospital's trauma
director and principal investigator for the trial, said he received the
information before the current study began.

The board also agreed that the study's consent form adequately informed
potential patients about the study's enrollment procedure and outlined who could
participate in the study.

But concerns were raised about how first-responders would determine whether an
unconscious female trauma patient were pregnant. Children, "obviously pregnant"
women, patients with severe head injuries, those who have known objections to
blood transfusions and those who have special bracelets indicating they don't
want to participate are exempt from the study.

LDS Hospital representative Matt Rydman said his hospital review board opted out
of the study Thursday because it wants more information about the results of the
2000 study. He said the board didn't think the public was sufficiently informed
about the heart attack victims in the 2000 study. The board also requested that
information pertaining to the possibility of fluid overload in the body when
PolyHeme is introduced be stated clearly on the consent form.

Morris said University Hospital restarted its study March 3 after receiving
assurances from Northfield and an independent committee that the current study
did not pose cardiovascular or other adverse risks that would jeopardize the
safety of the trial.

Emergency medical service agencies from Salt Lake and West Valley cities, Sandy
and Summit County are participating in the study, though PolyHeme has not yet
been given to any patients from Utah.

PolyHeme is a blood substitute, compatible with all blood types, that can be
given to trauma victims immediately. Thirty-one trauma centers in 18 states are
enrolled in the study. Of the 720 patients expected to participate, as many as
36 will be from Utah.

jbergreen@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             August 1, 1997 Friday
                                  Late Edition

AMA vows to continue campaign

BYLINE: Louise Dodson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 297 words


The Australian Medical Association yesterday vowed to continue its campaign
against health funds striking deals with private hospitals.

However, the health funds see such agreements as vital to securing their future
and arresting the plunging rate of fund membership, which has fallen from 44.6
per cent of the population in March 1990 to 32.5 per cent in March 1997.

The brawl between the doctors and the private insurance industry over this issue
is heating up, with the AMA's Victorian president, Dr Gerald Segal, yesterday
predicting that contracts "will kill private health insurance".

National Mutual Health Insurance is leading the charge in making agreements
between doctors and health funds to cap costs.

It expects to finalise negotiations on a series of agreements this month.

Dr Segal said the AMA was "entirely opposed" to the strategy.

The AMA would "continue to inform the public in Australia, who will make their
choice between a good ethical patientÂ¿doctor relationship and rationing by an
economist bureaucrat", Dr Segal saidyesterday.

However, the managing director of NMHI, Mr Garry Richardson, yesterday described
the AMA's comments as "a diversionary tactic".

He denied any intention to interfere in the patientÂ¿doctor relationship,
arguing NMHI was "trying to drive out waste in the private hospital system".

NMHI's research had shown that the two major problems identified by members with
regard to insurance was the cost of premiums and out-of-pocket expenses, he
said.

Both of these could be contained if costs were capped in agreements between the
health fund and doctors, Mr Richardson said.

He challenged the AMA executive to "get off its soap box", to accept the need
for change and to present a vision on how to preserve the patient-doctor ethical
relationship.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: Health funds are seeking agreements with individual hospitals.
Picture: MICHELE MOSSOP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1997 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

Staff face discipline - Action on hospital funds furore

BYLINE: Patrick Lion

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 330  words


TWO unidentified Queensland Health staff face disciplinary action following a
financial probe into the Royal Children's Hospital.

Two staff subject to the long-running investigation have been served with
show-cause notices asking them to explain why action should not be taken against
them.

Queensland Health director-general Mick Reid would not reveal their identities,
insisting both public servants had to be shown natural justice and be allowed to
respond within 14 days.

The move comes after The Courier-Mail revealed that a Queensland Health ethical
standards probe was investigating allegations including:

* RCH boss Doug Brown and former finance manager Alan Fletcher, now the chief
financial officer for the Queensland Children's Hospital, processed an $8000
no-interest loan of taxpayer funds to a senior colleague for overseas travel.

* Mr Brown approved $6500 worth of luxury beauty treatments for 65 nurses as
part of an alleged payoff following a dispute sparked when new staff scored free
parking.

* Junior staff paid for wedding and baby gifts such as cookware for colleagues
out of hospital funds.

Mr Reid said he was now acting on recommendations relating to ``a number of
matters'' after the CMC completed a review of the Queensland Health ethical
standards probe.

``I have issued show-cause notices to two Queensland Health staff that were
subject to the investigation,'' Mr Reid said in a statement. ``As is standard
procedure and in accordance with natural justice, the officers have been given
14 days to respond.''

It is not known whether Mr Brown and Mr Fletcher are the subjects of this
action.

The moves came as Health Minister Paul Lucas criticised his department's
handling of the affair, saying the two-year investigation had taken too long.

``It has taken longer than I thought it should have,'' Mr Lucas said.

The Opposition has called for a broader inquiry into all public hospitals, with
leader John-Paul Langbroek saying the allegations raised serious questions.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                             August 4, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

SECTION: A:EDITORIAL; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 1013 words


Exempla Medical

Sale is an issue

of ethics

W e are long-time Colorado residents who chose to live here partly because of
the high quality of institutions such as Exempla Lutheran Medical Center. Now,
we are deeply troubled to learn of its proposed sale to the Sisters of Charity
of Leavenworth Health System (SCLHS). If this sale is consummated, the full
range of technical skills and techniques practiced by Lutheran's medical staff
for more than a century will be subverted to the doctrines of the Catholic
Church. Not only is that important technical issue at stake but there is an
ethical/legal issue as well. Here, briefly is that issue.

When Exempla was formed, its sponsors, SCLHS and Community First Foundation
promised that Lutheran would remain a non-sectarian hospital. In fact, Exempla
has paid each sponsor $200,000 a year to preserve the non-sectarian heritage of
Lutheran Medical Center. The proposed sale of Lutheran to SCLHS patently
violates this obligation.

Saint Anthony Hospital's move to Lakewood has been initiated. If the sale of
Lutheran is allowed to proceed, both hospitals in Jefferson County will be
limited by the ethical and religious values of the Catholic Church at the
expense of full, non-sectarian services preferred by most residents of the city,
county and region.

Readers of this letter who wish to keep Lutheran Hospital non-sectarian should
express their concerns to Mr. Ken Eggeman, President and CEO, Community First
Foundation. His e-mail address is keggeman@communityfirstfoundation.org and his
mailing address is Community First Foundation, 6870 W. 52nd Ave., Suite 103,
Arvada, CO, 80002, (phone 303-431-1453).

There isn't much time left. Lutheran's future will be decided through binding
arbitration and that process may begin as early as mid-August.

HUGH AND BECKY HUDSON

Lakewood

Goat farm

Help keep

farm afloat

S ave the goats! How can we let the Haystack Mountain Goat Farm go? You can't
re-establish a healthy herd of goats (100-plus) in a blink of an eye.

Sure we like their goat cheese but the real attraction is visiting the goat farm
with children and seeing hundreds of baby goats each spring, observing the staff
taking such good care of every goat and, of course, naming each one. Baby goats
were even brought by staff to Boulder's Farmer's

Market for crowds of children to see and pet and appreciate.

Boulder County needs this homestead farm and goat herd. Find a way, Boulder
County, to keep this herd. The goats need this quality of care and our children
need the goats.

JUNE CRENSHAW

Boulder

Capitalism

U.S. industries

in trouble

W ith President Bush signing the Mortgage Relief Bill, this puts $400 million in
the hands of the bankers and mortgage loan companies. These are the very same
people who originated the sub-prime mortgages which would have gone out of
business if someone didn't bail them out. This bill gives the business world
another venue for doing business, i.e., starting new businesses with the
guarantee that the government will save them if they get in trouble.

Ah, socialism, how wonderful it is. And to think that if Mr. Obama becomes our
next president, we'll surely get universal health care for all, which includes
the 21 million illegal immigrants that are now in this country.

If that happens, we can expect more large U.S. industries to go offshore. In
automobile manufacturing, I expect to see Chrysler to go first. When
Anheuser-Busch sold out to foreign interests, it was rumored that they didn't
want to see their business "nationalized" by the Federal government. Other
industries think similarly.

And don't forget NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement). This will give the
drug cartels and more illegal immigrants free access to all that is good in the
United States. Capitalism is an endangered species in this country.

JACK GARBER

Boulder

Black bears

Stop reporting

bear sightings

I have lived in the city of Boulder for 26 years and in Lafayette for the past
two years. Until four years ago, Boulder Open Space and our neighborhoods used
to be safe for our black bears. Then in 2004, the Division of Wildlife, along
with the help of our open space rangers, killed the first bear at Chautauqua for
no reason. Then the next year (2005) a mother bear did some damage to a
Chautauqua cottage and they killed her and took her two cubs who knows where
(bear hunting season lasts till November)?

Last year a bear was killed for showing up at Flatirons Gold Course. On
Wednesday, July 23, the Division killed another female bear in south Boulder
because she was sitting in a

tree. The Division was quoted in the Camera "if they didn't kill her Wednesday
they would have killed her tomorrow or next week."

How very sad that it is now open hunting season in the city and county of
Boulder of not just our bears, but prairie dogs, mountain lions and sharp
shooters killing deer on Rabbit Mountain Open Space. All of this done with the
blessing of our city and county officials.

I would like to encourage Boulder citizens to think twice, then not call the
authorities when they see a bear in their neighborhoods. The consequences of
this call will be deadly for the bear. The city and county of Boulder has lost
its morality on wildlife issues and needs new leadership immediately! The
Division of Wildlife needs to be told "no" you may not kill all our bears! Last
year the division killed 12 bears in Aspen and people there are organizing to
try to stop the slaughter from continuing.

RENEE ST. AUBIN

Lafayette

Mortgage collapse

CEO salaries

should be returned

I n calendar year 2007, the CEO's of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac received bonuses
of approximately $14.4 million each. Only in America could this positive
stewardship and solid management be rewarded so handsomely. However, aren't
these the same two lending institutions that in 2008 came to the federal coffers
to be rescued from potential collapse? In view of this change in events (in just
one year!) it seems only prudent that these two executives should consider
returning a significant portion of that largesse from 2007. Yeah...When pigs
fly.

RC LLOYD

Longmont

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               September 24, 1999

Doctors wary of professor's breakthrough

BYLINE: By KITTY HOLLAND

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 296 words


While the Infertility Support Groups welcomed news of Prof Gosden's breakthrough
on the transplantation of ovarian tissue, Irish doctors were more cautious.

Dr John E. Drumm, a consultant in obstetrics and gynaecology at the Coombe
Women's Hospital, Dublin, saw the procedure as "fraught with ethical problems".
He said he had not read the research paper, but noted that Prof Gosden's patient
had her own ovaries frozen ahead of the procedure. This meant her case was
relatively free of ethical problems.

However, in other cases one woman's ovaries would have to be transplanted into
another. This, he said, could be interpreted to mean that the second woman was
having someone else's baby.

"What would happen if you were to have an ovary transplant from another woman
who had herself a son, and you had a daughter. You could have a case where 20
years down the line a brother and sister are falling in love," he said.

Dr Roger Derham, a specialist in the menopause at Galvia Private Hospital,
Renmore, Co Galway, predicted practical problems rather than ethical ones.

"Traditionally we are told that ovaries do not freeze well in that there is
often genetic damage," he said. "We see that when we freeze ovaries of people
who are about to undergo chemotherapy (which can damage ovaries)."

He saw "the usual problems with any type of tissue graft" in that grafted
ovarian tissue may be rejected by the second woman's body.

Also, he said, if cancer were to develop in grafted ovarian tissue, it would
develop far more aggressively than a cancer developing in a woman's own ovaries.

A spokeswoman for the Infertility Support Group said she did not think it would
ever be allowed in Ireland, but welcomed anything that would help infertile
couples hoping to have a baby.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1999 The Irish Times


                              370 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 18, 1994, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

PEOPLE

BYLINE: Compiled by Harry Levins Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 787 words

PEOPLE COLUMN


To help animals, actress KIM BASINGER will give the shirt off her back. In fact,
to help fight the fur-coat trade, she's giving the shirt, the skirt and all the
rest.

A new poster unveiled this week shows Basinger clad in nothing but her own skin.
The poster's message: "Beauty Is Not About Wearing Someone Else's Coat."

Basinger and her husband, actor ALEC BALDWIN, have helped to raise $ 50, 000 for
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.

ABC's DIANE SAWYER is going nowhere, at a considerable boost in pay.  Despite
courting from rival networks, Sawyer has decided to stay put - for $ 5 million
to $ 6 million a year. She now gets nearly $ 3 million.  Sick call:

LIZ TAYLOR will check into a hospital next month to get a replacement for her
61-year-old hip. The cartilage in Taylor's left hip has worn out, causing
painful bone-on-bone contact, her doctor says.

Actress CARRIE FISHER has pneumonia but expects to be out of the hospital soon.
Fisher, 37, checked into a Los Angeles hospital Tuesday afternoon.

In his new autobiography, country singer CHARLEY PRIDE says he has battled manic
depression throughout his career. "I still sort of halfway want to deny it," he
tells The Tennessean, a newspaper. Pride, 55, has been taking drugs for his
ailment since 1968.

Ever since the Bolsheviks shot Czar Nicholas and his wife and children,
Britain's royal family has understandably avoided Russian soil. But now, the
Bolsheviks are out of business - and now, the czar's distant cousin, QUEEN
ELIZABETH II, is expected to accept a longstanding invitation to visit.

Roseanne Roundup, Part I: In an interview to air tonight on "20/20," singer
BRANDI BROWN describes the day a private investigator told her about her
biological mother, who had given the girl up for adoption 22 years earlier.

"I'm a singer," Brown says, "so I said, 'It's got to be BETTE MIDLER. I know
it's Bette Midler.' And he goes, 'No.'

"And I go, "It's BARBRA STREISAND.' . . . He goes, 'It's ROSEANNE BARR (ARNOLD)'

"And all I knew growing up was that I was Jewish. So I said, 'She's Jewish?' "

Roseanne Roundup, Part II: Newsday says ABC is almost certain to broadcast on
March 1 a much talked-about episode of "Roseanne" in which MARIEL HEMINGWAY
kisses ROSEANNE ARNOLD. Newsday says it would guarantee huge ratings, which ABC
- battered by the Olympics on CBS - needs.  ON THIS DAY On Feb. 18, 1953, "Bwana
Devil" - the first (and maybe the worst) of the 3-D movies - opened in New York.
TODAY'S BIRTHDAYS Actor Jack Palance     74 Singer Yoko Ono        61 Actor Matt
Dillon      30 Actress Molly Ringwald 26

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by Reuters - Midnight Cowboys - Dustin Hoffman and Jon
Voight at a screening this week in Los Angeles honoring the 25th anniversary of
"Midnight Cowboy."

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              371 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            April 20, 1985 Saturday

DOCTORS' DILEMMAS

BYLINE: IAN BROWN; GAM

LENGTH: 3206 words


BY  IAN BROWN
 GOING OVER it in his mind, Dr. Calvin Stiller figures there is a fair
 hour, maybe two, between the "take" - which is happening this very moment
 in Rochester, N.Y., where his colleague, Dr. Neil McKenzie, is cutting a
 heart from a donor's chest - and the moment Dr. McKenzie will show Dr.

Stiller the heart in a slush-cooled plastic bag at the University Hospital  in
London, Ont. Ethics, bio-ethics, are momentarily irrelevant. All that  matters
is the heart in the bag that Dr. Stiller likes to call the "picnic  basket."
A little joke. Dr. Stiller, the head of the multi-organ transplant unit  at
University Hospital, is the ultimate in surgical cool, the unflappable
physician. Here it is, 9 o'clock in the evening, two short hours before  the
final transplant, which Dr. McKenzie will perform while Dr. Stiller  supervises
- and what is Dr. Stiller doing? Reviewing pre-op procedure?  Wringing his
hands? Dr. Stiller is chatting with his wife at home, three  minutes from the
hospital, "trying to repair the relationships you stress  when you're away from
home," and drawling his way through a conversation  on the telephone. "There's
an ebb and flow with respect to when you feel  obsessed and overwhelmed with the
ethical concerns," he says. And this  isn't one of them.

But when the moment comes to install the new heart in the patient's
 slack body, Drs. Stiller and McKenzie will feel only the rush, the mental
 knifepoint that accompanies a rescue operation in which someone's life is
 at stake. They will watch the yellow- brown knot of cold muscle throb into
 a pinked-up, vitally beating new heart that will grant new life - a whole
 new life - to a man who hours before had been on death's doorstep. It will
 be a personal high, no doubt about it, "heroic medicine" at its best.
 Ethics? In the sharp, instinctive, rational cool of the moment, the ethics
 of the situation will be simple: a man's life is at stake, and will be
 saved with another man's heart.
  BUT NO: the ethics of a heart transplant are more complicated than that.
 Or so says David Roy. Dr. Roy is the director of the Centre for Bio-Ethics
 at the Clinical Research Institute of Montreal, and one of the better-
 known practitioners of the art of bio-ethics - a hybrid of medicine and
 philosophy that promises or threatens, depending on your point of view, to
 transform medicine, health care and society's definition of human life and
 death.

It's a little hard to hear Dr. Roy at the moment, because he's trying,
 as best he can, to catch his terrified breath in the back of a taxi
 travelling 89 miles an hour along the shoulder of the TransCanada Highway.
 The taxi driver is trying to get him to the airport to catch one of a life
 full of planes.

Imagine you're a doctor, a specialist on the intensive-care ward of a
 major hospital. One of your patients, a man in his sixties, has been on a
 respirator for a month. You suspect he will never live without one. You
 need the bed. What do you do?
    Across the aisle is another patient on a ventilator. To live without
 it, he requires a tracheotomy, a surgical operation that will leave him
 with an open hole in his throat and a voice like an electric shaver.
 Unfortunately, he's also semi-comatose and can't supply the informed
 consent you require to perform the operation. His family, who could supply
 consent, are horrifed at the thought of the disfiguring operation. Again,
 you need the bed. What do you do?
    On another floor of the hospital, a 65- year-old man with advanced
 Alzheimer's disease, an incurable debilitative scourge that brings on
 premature senility, has contracted pneumonia. Sixty years ago, when it was
 a sure killer, pneumonia was known as "the old man's friend." The man has
 the mental capacity of a 2-year-old, and no relatives, so you, the doctor,
 are empowered under most Canadian codes of medical ethics to decide
 whether he lives or dies. He seems to need you. You, of course, need the
 bed. Should you give the man antibiotics to clear up his pneumonia,
 leaving him to the ravages of Alzheimer's? Or do you quietly let him stop
 breathing?
    Nor do the dilemmas always turn on life and death. A lesbian has
 approached you as a candidate for in vitro fertilization - to have a child
 that will be created in a test tube with "the products of human
 conception," as they say in the genetics ward, and transplanted to her
 womb - a practice now seven years old. A week ago, you approved a single,
 unmarried but heterosexual woman as a candidate for the same procedure. Do
 lesbians make good mothers? Let's say she also has a criminal record, and
 was once an alcoholic. She wants a child, and an answer. What is it?
    Another pregnant woman has learned, through the miracle of ultrasound,
 that her baby is a girl. She wants a boy. (They almost all want boys.) She
 wants to abort. The law says it's okay. She needs your approval.

And of course there are transplant decisions. A kidney transplant costs
 $22,000 (including $5,000 a year for drugs), versus $38,000 a year for
 daily turns on a dialysis machine. (New hearts go for $41,000; livers can
 run as high as $57,000.) You could run a hospital bed for a year for the
 cost of a kidney transplant to one overweight, 50- year-old smoker who
 will probably contract diabetes. Still, kidney availability runs 40 per
 cent below demand. Will you approve kidney transplants? Who gets the few
 you have? And kidneys have been standard procedure since l959. What are
 you going to do about mechanical hearts?
    These are the dilemmas upon which doctors are increasingly turning to
 bio- ethicists like Dr. Roy for advice. The "Dr." at the front end of his
 name denotes not a medical degree, but a couple of doctorates in
 philosophy and Catholic theology. (Dr. Roy is an ordained Catholic priest,
 a fact he tends to keep under his cassock.) "There has been an
 increasingly societal focus on the ethical dilemmas that arise in
 hospitals that specialize in advanced high- technology medicine," he says.
 Scientists and doctors have "got to feel at home with the ethical and
 moral considerations of their work."
    Bio-ethicists are trying to help them do so - and with impressive, or
 at least challenging, results. Until recently, doctors treated the ailing
 until treatment stopped having any effect. Everyone - doctors and medical
 codes alike - erred on the side of life.

But health care cost $30-billion last year, slightly less than 5 per
 cent of the total value of goods and services produced in Canada. As
 doctors perform ever more amazing and expensive operations, deficits and
 an aging bulge of baby boomers make the operations, not to mention
 ordinary hospital care, less and less accessible to greater and greater
 numbers of people. "The product of modern high-technology medicine has
 been ambiguous," says Arthur Schafer, director of the Centre for
 Professional and Applied Ethics at the University of Manitoba.

The resulting dilemmas go to the heart of society's reason for being.
 "If one is going to put any additional money into health care," says Dr.
 Derek Gellman, a former kidney specialist who is now a vice- president of
 Vancouver General Hospital, "by implication you're going to put fewer
 resources somewhere else. So, to that extent, you're asking the question,
 'What is the value of human life?' "
    How, as a society, do we decide which human lives we can and cannot
 afford?
  ENTER the bio-ethicists. Many of them, such as Prof. Benjamin Freedman,
 an associate of the Westminster Institute at the University of Western
 Ontario, discovered bio- ethics as a result of "a shift within philosophy
 to be relevant." Very few courses were offered anywhere.

That has changed quickly. The "discipline of bio-ethics" is only 15
 years old, and dates from the founding of the Hastings Centre, a think-
 tank in New York that serves a magnet for respectable medical ethicists.
 But bio-ethicists have already cut what may be the first genuine inroads
 on the social and economic authority of the medical profession in the 100
 years since doctors began their rise to power as the Svengali-Saviors of
 modern man.

Today, courses in bio-ethics are a staple of undergraduate medical
 training and graduate philosophy courses. Professional ethics consultants
 and ethics committees (and subcommittees for each specialty) have sprung
 up at St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto, Montreal Children's Hospital,
 Calgary's Foothills Hospital and McMaster University Medical Centre in
 Hamilton, to name but a few of the more established and prominent centres.

Their concerns are myriad: the use of human subjects in
 experimentation; resuscitation of the terminally ill; sterilization of the
 mentally retarded; a patient's right to refuse medical treatment; care for
 defective newborns; genetics; tube feeding of the elderly; the criteria
 for brain death, and the criteria for admittance into intensive care.

Between meetings, the discipline's leaders proselytize. Dr. Roy - who
 is, or at least tends not to deny that he is, the father of bio-ethicism
 in Canada - is in Toronto this particular Monday to be chairman of
 meetings about a new bio-ethical journal. Tomorrow he is off to Paris to
 represent the Canadian Government at a bio-ethical conference. He is
 planning a reproductive workshop to discuss, among other topics, the
 thorny ethical issues surrounding genetic experimentation (which some bio-
 ethicists consider the field's most pressing problem), has done work for
 the Law Reform Commission on the definition of death and is organizing a
 national ethics consulting service. He's a busy man.

And, like most bio-ethicists, an ambitious one. He hopes bio-ethicists
 will one day be essential members of medical teams that reach "pre-legal"
 (or extra- legal) consensus on practical ethical issues like euthanasia
 and abortion. "I guess I want to be one of the best generalists in the
 last part of the twentieth century," Dr. Roy says, sucking in his breath
 as the cabbie swerves and accelerates around a truck. "Theology's mine,
 genetics is mine . . ." The list goes on and on. Like doctors, bio-
 ethicists don't lack for self-respect. The gods they honor, however, are
 quite different.

What bio-ethicists do is talk. "What we don't do is go in with
 answers," says John Thomas, a professor of philosophy at McMaster and the
 author of two basic texts in bio-ethics. (And, incidentally, the father of
 SCTV comedian Dave Thomas and singer Ian Thomas.) "We try and ask
 questions." According to Prof. Thomas, who serves on McMaster's clinical
 ethics committee, an array of professionals - philosophers, lawyers,
 nurses, administrators and doctors - listen to cases that present sticky
 ethical problems, whereupon the philosophers lay out the ethical
 alternatives.

Perhaps a doctor cannot bring himself to tell a patient the truth about
 his cancer. "We may not have to mention (Immanuel) Kant's name," says
 Prof. Thomas, "but one of the alternatives there is based on Kant's second
 formulation of the categorical imperative: never treat humanity, whether
 in yourself or in another, merely as a means, but as an end."
    Or say a young accident victim with a hopeful prognosis in the
 intensive-care ward needs the respirator of an unconscious, terminally ill
 patient with no family. Welcome to John Stuart Mill's utilitarian belief
 in the greatest good for the greatest number. These intellectual models
 allow doctors to consider ethical alternatives.

That may sound like an intellectual rubber stamp, but the McMaster
 committee has already issued strong ethical guidelines on morally touchy
 grounds. It has, for instance, laid out the "protocol" to be followed when
 the decision is made not to resuscitate a terminally ill patient. It has
 decreed that a married woman who wants a tubal ligation (that is, to be
 sterilized) need not have the consent of her husband. It has laid down
 guidelines on who should and should not be admitted to crowded intensive-
 care wards. (Social status, long the determinant for many questions of
 medical priority from getting a private room to getting a new kidney, has
 been rejected in favor of need and the principle of first come, first
 served.)
    Bio-ethicists have made a name for themselves by resisting medical
 tradition and supporting a patient's right to his own treatment.
 Ironically, however, the bio- ethical community has also played into the
 hands of the health-care establishment, in its willingness to sacrifice
 individual care - what the ethicists call micro-ethics - to the needs of
 the health-care system as a whole, otherwise known as macro-ethics. The
 ethical difference between saving a marginal life and the cost of keeping
 that person alive is surprisingly sharp.

Within the past year, for instance, the Canadian Medical Association,
 the Canadian Nursing Association and the Canadian Hospital Association
 have all endorsed, for the first time in the history of modern medicine,
 protocols under which terminally ill patients can be left unresuscitated -
 left, in other words, to die. Even the Catholic Church, whose faith abhors
 both abortion and euthanasia, has within the past year endorsed a policy
 of "allowing death."
    "So (the ethical problem is) seeking to walk a middle ground between a
 certain vitalism that says life at any cost and a view that says we can
 care for someone  as they are dying," says George Webster, who runs
 respected ethics programs at three Catholic hospitals in Toronto. "Care
 for another can never mean, in my view, taking their life. It can mean
 caring for them when they're dying."
    There are also a couple of fights brewing on the bio-ethical horizon.
 While doctors tend, as a generalization, to put their faith in what
 medical technology can do, regardless of the "life" it leaves a patient,
 bio- ethicists concentrate on the human quality of a patient's life,
 sometimes dismissing medicine's technical capabilities.

In the past, whenever a Jehovah's Witness refused to accept a blood
 transfusion, doctors insisted he or she have the transfusion anyway. These
 days, under the influence of the ethicists, who argue that forced
 treatments work against the dignity and autonomy of the patient, doctors
 turn to alternative treatments, such as artificial blood products.

There may be a fight over jurisdiction, too. Both McMaster and
 Foothills Hospital in Calgary last year appointed special ethics
 subcommittees to counsel physicians on specific patients - something that
 had never been done before. Bernard Dickens, a lawyer who teaches on the
 faculties of both medicine and law at the University of Toronto, and who
 is legal consultant to the ethics committee of the Canadian Medical
 Association, points out that this is an interesting idea, but that doctors
 - who Mr. Dickens considers to have inherited the status of secular
 priests - won't long put up with interfering ethicists. "You wouldn't want
 to have your appendix out based on a vote of 27 to 3 with 28 abstentions,"
 he says. "But it can happen if ethics committees start making decisions."
  TRANSPLANTS are another contentious issue. Dr. Arthur Parsons, head of
 the ethics committee of the CMA, is definitely down on them. "Is it
 morally more correct to keep one person alive," he asks rhetorically,
 adding that the subject is often overweight and smokes, "at a cost of
 $100,000, or is it better to take that $100,000 and spend it on educating
 teenagers not to smoke? . . . If you save someone from dying of heart
 disease, you're saving him to die of something else."
    Unassailable logic, of course. But it offends surgeons - and lends
 credence to murmured theories that bio-ethicists are power-hungry
 intellectuals with hidden (i.e. Catholic, or sometimes pro-abortion)
 agendas. Dr. Stiller, a heart surgeon who lives in the vanguard   of high-
 tech medicine, welcomes bio-ethicists, and laments the distance medicine
 has travelled from the days of simple family practice, when a doctor saw
 his patients as whole, to today's super-specialized treatments. The
 Hippocratic oath, which insisted doctors respect the whole patient, "is
 irrelevant to the way medicine is currently practiced."
    As a result, Dr. Stiller claims, "we need to re-establish the role
 again in medicine of the bio-ethicist. Not as an isolated philosopher, but
 as a member of the health-care team."
    "I have one concern," says Dr. John Wilson, a former chief of
 cardiology at St. Michael's Hospital who sits on the board of the Cardinal
 Carter Centre for Bio-Ethics. A doctor for nearly 40 years, Dr. Wilson is
 a member of the old guard - one who believes, for instance, that Karen Ann
 Quinlan "is very much alive," despite the fact that she recently passed
 the 10th anniversary of the onset of her coma. "I have a concern that
 there's going to be an attitude developing that if the quality of life is
 not so good, then why prolong things? I'm just concerned that we will give
 up this responsibility we have to treat the patient as well as we can . .
 . The more we're going to set up committees to discuss the quality of
 life, (the more we have to ask) who's going to determine the quality of
 life? I guess I worry the committees will allow the doctor not to try as
 hard. Committees can't treat a patient. The doctor has to."
  PRIOR TO the 1800s, doctors did the bidding of their patients. "They were
 seen as little more than ambitious barbers," says Mr. Dickens. (Barbers,
 in fact, were more responsible for caring for the wounded than doctors
 because they had the closest thing to sterile conditions. Hence the red
 and white barber's pole, denoting red blood and white bandages.)
    The history of health care ever since, however, particularly in North
 America, is the history of the reversal of that relationship. Doctors no
 longer serve their clients, the way lawyers do. Instead, patients do the
 bidding of the doctor.

Bio-ethicists see themselves as the antidote to this master-slave
 relationship. "Dehumanization takes place when fragmentation dominates,"
 Dr. Roy intones, "when you're looking at the patient from a very
 particular (i.e. specialized) point of view." The taxi accelerates. "A
 scientist should not think that it is a betrayal of science to be a
 renaissance thinker . . . The rapid rise in super-specialized scientific
 developments demands a new kind of rethinking of the way we educate the
 public about these matters." He adds: "What we're trying to do in many
 instances is turn ethics back to the doctors. Back to the scientists."
    And back, it would seem, to philosophers and theologians as well.

Finally, after some very close calls, the taxi driver has arrived at the
 airport. Planes are taking off into the sky. Dr. Roy is alive; his dreams
 for a renaissance society with a communal sense of what is and what is not
 ethical (medically or otherwise) are intact. "We really do not have a
 sense of transnational solidarity," he says as the taxi slides up the
 airport ramp. Once we do, he adds with a hint of satisfaction, society may
 find it can't justify expensive, high-tech, high-glory operations for
 single souls while health care in Africa - for instance - is literally
 medieval. "It makes me think of the Ultimate, you know?" Dr. Roy says, as
 the cab pulls to a stop. What on earth, you wonder, might that be?

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                      July 8, 2001 Sunday Michigan Edition

Developers of new heart device try to avoid mistakes of past

BYLINE: By GUY GUGLIOTTA; The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 749 words


He lies in a Louisville, Ky., hospital bed, a middle-aged man about whom almost
nothing personal is known except the most intimate details of his health. He was
-- and perhaps still is -- about to die.

Last Monday, surgeons at Jewish Hospital removed his diseased heart and replaced
it with a man-made pump constructed of hard plastic and titanium. It was the
first fully implantable artificial heart ever put inside a human being.

"He has shown improvement every day," surgeon Robert Dowling said Friday. "He's
interacting with doctors and nurses through his gestures, and the device is
functioning flawlessly."

Although the man's long-term prospects remain far from clear, his doctors have
been surprised by his early progress and have even speculated that he may
eventually be able to leave the hospital and return to some semblance of a
normal life.

In the meantime, however, medicine's latest attempt to tackle one of the most
difficult technological challenges ever attempted is remarkable for yet another
reason -- its absence of controversy.

Experimental treatments involving the desperately ill often pose many complex
ethical questions, particularly when the object of the treatment is to cheat
death in spectacular fashion.

The first artificial heart implants in the 1980s proved so controversial and
fraught with ethical pitfalls that the field was all but abandoned for 15 years.
Many observers speculated those problems -- coupled with advances in treating
heart disease, improvements in the outcomes of transplants, and the development
of highly effective partial heart pumps -- might preclude any future attempts to
develop a full artificial heart.

While some of those questions and potential ethical traps remain, even some of
the harshest critics of earlier efforts acknowledge that so far, Abiomed Inc.,
the Danvers, Mass., company that developed the AbioCor device, appears to have
learned well from the mistakes of the past.

"One of the ethical issues that I would have flagged would have been hubris, and
they are not guilty," said University of Pennsylvania medical sociologist Renee
Fox, an expert on the ethics of organ replacement and transplantation. "They are
not only prudent, but very candid."

Abiomed waited until new technology enabled its AbioCor heart to be fully
enclosed inside the patient's chest, lessening the chance of infection and
eliminating the need to be tethered to a power source through an open wound.

The company wrote a 13-page consent agreement, spelling out 14 separate
potentially fatal risks associated with the implant, everything from liver
failure to tissue damage caused by an overheated device.

It set up an Independent Patient Advocacy Council to provide each patient with a
knowledgeable mentor and funded the council with an irrevocable blind trust,
leaving the four initial members to add additional advocates as they saw fit.

No council member, surgeon or anyone else connected with the clinical aspects of
the experiment is allowed to hold stock in Abiomed. No one from Abiomed is
allowed to meddle with the council. No one in the media was allowed to know the
name of any council member except chairwoman Elizabeth Haavik Morreim of the
University of Tennessee's College of Medicine.

Abiomed briefed reporters on the company and the device in April and discussed
the Louisville surgery at a July 4 news conference. But it refused to divulge
the patient's name or discuss his background except as it related to his medical
condition.

And to further dampen publicity it has cautioned repeatedly that no matter how
well the patient's recovery has appeared to be going, the man was so sick --
with diabetes, kidney failure, hypertension and overall weakness -- that he
could die at any time.

Abiomed Vice President Ed Berger said the company extensively studied the 1980s
cases of Barney Clark and William Schroeder, who received Jarvik 7 artificial
hearts powered through wires and tubes inserted through incisions in the skin
and connected to a noisy, bedside console the size of a refrigerator.

The public's initial euphoria gave way to distress as the two patients
contracted infections and illness before dying. Many wondered whether the
implant had simply prolonged the men's suffering.

"The extension of life without improving the quality of life is an empty goal,"
Berger said. "Abiomed took a very, very long time to wait for big technological
developments and then apply them to the device."


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2001 South Bend Tribune Corporation


                              373 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 20, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HOSPITAL IS INVESTIGATED ON LIFE-SUPPORT POLICY

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 34, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 886 words


A Queens hospital is under investigation by the New York Attorney General's
Office for possible criminal violations stemming from the denial of certain
life-support measures to some seriously ill patients.

The disclosure came in a ruling Thursday from the New York Court of Appeals,
which held that La Guardia Hospital in Forest Hills could not invoke the
doctor-patient or social worker-client privileges to withhold evidence from a
grand jury investigating the death of two elderly patients.

Arthur G. Weinstein, the lawyer handling the inquiry in the office of the
Special State Prosecutor for Medicaid Fraud Control, would not comment on he
particulars of the inquiry. A lawyer for La Guardia Hospital, Charles G.
Moerdler, denied that the institution had done anything improper.

Legal and Ethical Uncertainty

''The hospital engaged only in those medical practices which are generally
accepted and are at all times consistent with the highest standards of medical
care,'' he said.

The Attorney General's investigation raises, in the unusual context of a
criminal proceeding, the legal and ethical problems inherent in the
discretionary use of life-support systems for the terminally ill as well as the
rights and responsibilities of doctors, family members and patients in deciding
whether to use them.

The issue, according to E. Donald Shapiro, dean of the New York Law School, is
''probably the most touchy ethical area in medical practice today.''

While guidelines governing the use of such equipment have been devised in some
parts of the country, neither the courts, the Legislature, nor many hospitals in
New York have done so. As a result, hospitals and doctors in the state must make
these life-anddeath decisions daily amid legal and ethical uncertainty.

2 Subpoenas Issued

''This is a problem that has confronted physicians, family members and hospital
administrators ever since artificial methods of life support and methods of
cardiac and respiratory resuscitation have been developed,'' said Barry A. Gold,
a specialist in health-care law in Albany.

According to the court's opinion, last July, Edward J. Kuriansky, a deputy
attorney general, issued two grand jury subpoenas - one to La Guardia Hospital
and the other to its executive vice president - calling for the hospital records
of a patient identified only as Maria M. A second subpoena, for the records of
one Daisy S., followed shortly thereafter.

The subpoenas were issued as part of an investigation into a ''no coding''
procedure at La Guardia Hospital.  In the event of a medical crisis, hospitals
summon emergency assistance with coded public-address announcements - calling,
for example, a nonexistent ''Dr. Pacemaker.'' The coding is used to avoid
alarming other patients.

In the case of terminally ill patients, however, a decision is made in advance -
usually by a physician, but in some instances by nurses or even paramedical
personnel - to forgo the use of various resuscitative and life-support measures
in the event of cardiac arrest or other medical crisis.

Such patients, in hospital terminology, are ''no-coded.'' Once in that category,
they are not given emergency assistance in the event of a medical crisis, such
as heart attack or respiratory failure.

Concerned with the moral and legal implications of such decisions, doctors and
lawyers in communities such as Los Angeles and Minneapolis have devised
standards governing no-coding. In Massachusetts, courts have explicitly
authorized such procedures for terminally ill patients.

In New York, however, no such guidelines exist. While the Court of Appeals ruled
last March that terminally ill patients could decide whether life support
systems should be used to sustain them, it has yet to consider the obligations
of doctors and hospitals. Nor has the State Legislature addressed the issue. New
Jersey and Connecticut similarly have no specific legislation or legal
guidelines.

Hospitals Operate at Own Risk

As a result, hospitals in the state that use no-coding do so at their own risk.
Some have adopted their own guidelines; others have declined to do so, fearing
that written policies that explicitly delineate when the death of a patient may
in effect be expedited could subject them to criminal or civil liability. La
Guardia is one such institution, according to a hospital spokesman.

Citing the doctor-patient and social worker-client privileges as well as the
deceased patients' privacy rights, the hospital sought to quash the subpoenas.
In a unanimous opinion, written by Judge Domenick L. Gabrielli, the court
rejected the hospital's position.

Mr. Moerdler insisted that officials at La Guardia Hospital had been willing all
along to comply with the subpoenas but feared problems or even lawsuits from the
deceased patients' next of kin had they done so.

''We were waiting for a waiver from the relatives or a court order,'' he said.
''Now that we have it, we consider ourselves free to release the medical records
and are pleased to do so.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      December 9, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

CHA: Catholic Health Association Responds to New York Times Editorial

LENGTH: 401  words


New Delhi, Dec. 9 -- The New York Times editorial published on Dec. 8 ("When
Bishops Direct Medical Care") was misleading and in error. It is especially
regrettable that such a respected publication would rush to judgment without
validating the facts.



Catholic hospitals in the United States have a stellar history of caring for
mothers and infants. Hundreds of thousands of patients have received
extraordinary care - both in the joy of welcoming an infant or in the pain of
losing one.

In many communities in our country, the Catholic hospital's maternity service is
the designated center for high-risk pregnancies. It is inaccurate and
irresponsible to assert that these wonderful community services are unsafe for
mothers in an obstetrical emergency, simply because a Catholic hospital adheres
to the Ethical and Religious Directives. This can be frightening to families and
is grossly disrespectful to the thousands of physicians, midwives and nurses who
are so devoted to their patients and to the care they deliver.

The inaccuracy of this assertion is easily proven. We are fortunate in this
country to have several independent organizations with oversight responsibility
for all hospitals. Nationally, for most hospitals it is the Joint Commission
(JCAHO) and, in each state, there is a licensing agency. Both organizations have
robust standards and inspections. They would not accredit or license a hospital
that is unsafe for mothers or infants under any circumstance.

Add to that the commitment of health professionals caring for these mothers.
They accept many personal disruptions in their schedules to be there for mothers
and infants 24/7. They would not tolerate working in a clinical setting that is
detrimental to their patients.

Premature rupture of membranes is one of the most stressful obstetrical events.
In this situation, the infant is almost always much desired; parents want and
need to know that every option for saving their baby was exhausted. This is not
a simple clinical situation that you "take care of" and then move on. Anyone who
has ever cared for these parents knows that this will always be the child they
lost.

There is nothing in the Ethical and Religious Directives that prevents the
provision of quality clinical care for mothers and infants in obstetrical
emergencies. Their experience in hundreds of Catholic hospitals over centuries
is outstanding testimony to that.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Aborted fetuses the likely source of stem cells;
Hospitals often sell fetal tissue to labs for research or treatment, without the
mother's knowledge

BYLINE: Fiona Tam in Beijing fiona.tam@scmp.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 747 words


Research projects using embryonic and fetal stem cells are ethically
controversial in the West and have generated plenty of  public debate, but in
China there is little discussion and public opinion seems to be largely
positive.

The country's particular situations, however, further complicates the picture.
Most mainland stem-cell researchers will not say publicly where the fetal tissue
they used for study or treatment comes from. A close reading of mainland
journals however, show that many cells used for the research are coming from
induced abortions. The cells harvested from fetuses range in age from five weeks
to six months.

The mainland's draconian population "one child" policy has ensured, although
unintentionally, that the supply would be limitless.

Many Chinese mothers-to-be are forced to terminate their pregnancies, regardless
of the stage at which they are, under  this policy. Authorities exert pressure
to abort by imposing heavy fines on would-be parents, dismissing them from jobs,
and refusing residency permits and social protections such as education and
medical services for the children.

After the abortion, the hospital often  sells the fetal tissue to other
hospitals or laboratories for stem-cell research or treatment, without the
mother's knowledge.

"Generally, surgeons in the mainland are very likely to use aborted fetuses in
medical experiments and treatments without informing the mother-to-be," Liu
said, "while many mothers-to-be are also not aware of their rights on aborted
fetuses, and some surgeons may take advantage of this."

An Yimeng,  director of the stem-cell transplant department at Beijing's General
Hospital of the Chinese People's Armed Police Forces, told People's Daily that
mainland hospitals had been using fetal brains to treat patients since the
1980s, and a huge number of patients received similar treatments during the past
three decades.

An's hospital alone has treated nearly 4,000 patients with its neural stem cells
since 2003, including foreign patients from 20 countries.

In Shenzhen, a public hospital obstetrician said  that in most cases, a
mother-to-be will leave the aborted fetus or stillbirth baby to the hospital as
medical residue. The fetuses will be sold. And so will the placentas, to
pharmaceutical factories or individuals who believe them rich in nutrients and
suitable to eat.

The country's lax system of ethical and regulatory oversight and respect to
privacy enable doctors to remove  fetal cells and tissues without informing the
mothers.

Ding Yu,  who specialises in women's rights and is a researcher from the School
of Sociology and Anthropology at Sun Yat-Sen University, said: "Very few Chinese
have ethical concern over abortion after three decades of the 'one-child policy'
and forced abortions. Most of them take abortion as common phenomena and never
link this with human rights or a fetus' right to life."

On the mainland, fetal stem cells and tissue from abortion clinics have become a
steady source for mainland hospitals in treating patients for various diseases
as early as 2000, as well as stem-cell laboratories for research.

Mainland media revealed that a Liaoning woman who chose a sex- selective
abortion in Xian in June last year  discovered that her six-month-old fetus was
sold to a local medical company called Shaanxi Alerfu Activ Tissue Engineering
Co, which focuses on producing artificial skin and cornea. Three maternity
assistants who sold the fetus soon after the abortion were fired by the hospital
after a police investigation.

There are growing concerns on the mainland, though. Liu Hongbo,  a noted
newspaper columnist based in Wuhan, said an unborn child arguably had as much
right to live as the terminally ill child who used its cells. But Chinese
legislators only regard babies, not fetuses, as human.

"Chinese authorities believe fetuses are just a possibility of life, and
abortion is legal and well accepted by the public," Liu said.

But neurologist Ben Barres,  chair of the neurobiology department at Stanford
University School of Medicine, said he saw nothing wrong with using cells or
tissue from a fetus that was being discarded in any case.

"Personally," Barres said, "I don't think there is an ethical problem with using
tissue from aborted fetuses [tissue that would otherwise be thrown in the
garbage] to help patients."

1,116

The number of stem-cell papers published in international peer-reviewed journals
in 2008 from China, ranking it fifth in the world

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            June 21, 1990, Thursday

Drug tests on humans first

BYLINE: Pearce Wright

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 623 words


Volunteers are to be used as guinea pigs for drug research at a new London
medical unit, Pearce Wright reports

A unique medical research centre for making the first trials of a drug on
healthy human volunteers, and for clinical trials of new treatments on patients,
was opened at King's College Hospital medical school, London, yesterday. The
unit, of 12 beds in three wards, each equipped with the latest
microprocessor-controlled electronic monitoring and scanning instruments, has
cost Pounds 1 million. The building is shared between the department of medicine
of King's College Hospital and the Wellcome Foundation drug company, which paid
for the building.

Two issues provide a common bond between them. One is covered by the phrase
''drugs are not safe'', which Alan McGregor, professor of endocrinology, says he
impresses on his students. Professor McGregor describes the other as ''the
ethical dilemmas applicable equally to the use of well people to test new drugs
and to the management of patients prepared to take part in trials of new
therapies''.

Only a handful of the thousands of new substances produced in every leading drug
company's research laboratories reaches the first stage of human trials. Dr John
Posner, the Wellcome scientist directing the research of putting new products
into man for the first time, says an initial study is usually conducted with
beweeen six and 12 volunteers. Data assessment can take a year or more.

Healthy human ''guinea pig'' studies of a new drug are the first mandatory
trials of any potential new medicine before a pharmaceutical company applies for
a licence for the drug's use from the government's committee on the safety of
medicines.

Under the Medicines Act no regulations to protect volunteers cover these trials.
The experimenters are expected to abide by a code proposed by the Royal College
of Physicians in 1986 and get the agreement of the particular drug company's
ethical committee, which should include independent medical advisers.

At the King's clinical investigation unit, all trials must also satisfy the
hospital's ethical committee. Wellcome recruits well volunteers only from its
employees for trials at a centre attached to one of its research laboratories or
in hospital by arrangement with one of London's big teaching hospitals.

Dr Posner says there is a strong case for studies of certain types of
pharmacologically active substances, particularly those designed for
cardiovascular, respiratory and anti-allergic effects, to be conducted in
hospital, where a variety of expertise is at hand, especially in emergency and
intensive care.

Any trials involving patients must be made with their informed consent and
signed agreement and understanding, according to Professor McGregor. ''Above
all,'' he says, ''they must be told they have an absolute right to refuse and
their decision in no way jeopardises the future management of their illness.''

He separates the ethical issues for trials with patients into three categories:
treatments for which satisfactory therapies exist, unsatisfactory treatments and
conditions for which there are no treatments.

He adds: ''It is ethically difficult to justify stopping an effective therapy
for patients in the first group just to try something new. A better case could
be made more easily for trials with the other two groups.''

Dr Posner says the purpose of healthy volunteer trials is to establish precisely
how a drug is absorbed, distributed and broken down and the resulting
by-products excreted, and what possible side-effects occur. From these findings,
his group recommends abandoning the drug or showing the safe concentration that
can be allowed in the blood stream without side-effects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited


                              377 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Comatose patients used for research

BYLINE: Mark Metherell

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 356 words


A RESEARCH trial of a resuscitation technique on comatose heart attack victims
has triggered an intense behind-the-scenes ethics debate.

The ethical quandary centred on whether bereaved families should be told if
their relative had been a guinea pig in what some doctors believed was
"suboptimal" treatment.

The research initially triggered strong opposition by one hospital's ethics
committee, over what it said was the state unjustifiably overriding individual
rights to give or withhold consent. It was also concerned at the risk of giving
"suboptimal treatment" to an acutely ill patient.

The trial involving paramedics and three big hospitals in an unidentified
Australian city was designed to test Norwegian research findings. These
suggested that a change to the standard Australian emergency treatment of
cardiac arrest would greatly lower death rates.

The opposing committee relented and the research went ahead, but the hospitals
agreed not to tell bereaved families their relatives had been the subject of a
randomised trial. Survivors were informed.

An account of the debate is given in a report by the Australian Health Ethics
Committee on 10 case studies of ethical problems that have confronted doctors
and researchers.

Norwegian research had shown that a change to emergency treatment outside
hospital for certain heart attack patients improved survival rates by 50 per
cent. The technique involved three minutes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation
(mouth-to-mouth and chest compression) before electric shock treatment.

Standard Australian treatment at the time was to begin with the electric shock
treatment. New guidelines require one shock, then two minutes of CPR. The health
ethics committee report says that only 5 per cent of people who had heart
attacks elsewhere than in hospital survived under the old standard treatment.

A panel that reviewed the case study was told by a lay member that a bereaved
family "would be more distressed than informed" by being told their relative had
been part of a research trial.

"I feel the distress would far outweigh any good that could be obtained from
getting consent," a panellist said.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Comatose patients used for research

BYLINE: Mark Metherell

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 356 words


A RESEARCH trial of a resuscitation technique on comatose heart attack victims
has triggered an intense behind-the-scenes ethics debate.

The ethical quandary centred on whether bereaved families should be told if
their relative had been a guinea pig in what some doctors believed was
"suboptimal" treatment.

The research initially triggered strong opposition by one hospital's ethics
committee, over what it said was the state unjustifiably overriding individual
rights to give or withhold consent. It was also concerned at the risk of giving
"suboptimal treatment" to an acutely ill patient.

The trial involving paramedics and three big hospitals in an unidentified
Australian city was designed to test Norwegian research findings. These
suggested that a change to the standard Australian emergency treatment of
cardiac arrest would greatly lower death rates.

The opposing committee relented and the research went ahead, but the hospitals
agreed not to tell bereaved families their relatives had been the subject of a
randomised trial. Survivors were informed.

An account of the debate is given in a report by the Australian Health Ethics
Committee on 10 case studies of ethical problems that have confronted doctors
and researchers.

Norwegian research had shown that a change to emergency treatment outside
hospital for certain heart attack patients improved survival rates by 50 per
cent. The technique involved three minutes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation
(mouth-to-mouth and chest compression) before electric shock treatment.

Standard Australian treatment at the time was to begin with the electric shock
treatment. New guidelines require one shock, then two minutes of CPR. The health
ethics committee report says that only 5 per cent of people who had heart
attacks elsewhere than in hospital survived under the old standard treatment.

A panel that reviewed the case study was told by a lay member that a bereaved
family "would be more distressed than informed" by being told their relative had
been part of a research trial.

"I feel the distress would far outweigh any good that could be obtained from
getting consent," a panellist said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2005 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                   Fall, 2005

                           33 J.L. Med. & Ethics 603

LENGTH: 4223 words

COLUMN: The Ethical Health Lawyer: The Ethics of Lawyer-Ethicists

NAME: Amy L. McGuire, Mary A. Majumder, and J. Richard Cheney

BIO: Amy McGuire, J.D., is an Assistant Professor of Medicine in The Center for
Medical Ethics and Health Policy at Baylor College of Medicine and serves on
three local ethics committees. Mary Majumder, J.D., is an Assistant Professor of
Medicine in the Center for Medical Ethics and Health Policy at Baylor College of
Medicine, and serves as a member of Methodist Hospital's ethics committee and
ethics consultation service. J. Richard Cheney, J.D., is Vice President of Legal
Services for The Methodist Hospital, serves on the hospital's institutional
ethics committee and as a member of its ethics consultation team.

HIGHLIGHT: About this Column

The Ethical Health Lawyer is edited by Joan H. Krause and Richard S. Saver. Joan
H. Krause is Associate Professor of Law at the University of Houston Law Center
and Co-Director of the University of Houston Health Law & Policy Institute.
Richard S. Saver is Assistant Professor of Law at the University of Houston
Health Law & Policy Institute.

(JKrause@Central.UH.EDU)

TEXT:
 [*603]  Bioethics and health law are inextricably intertwined. The law is often
invoked to help resolve ethical dilemmas in health care. n1 It is no surprise,
then, that lawyers often sit on hospital ethics committees and sometimes staff
ethics consultation services. n2 Attorney involvement in these activities,
however, is controversial. n3


n1 C. Scott, "Why Law Pervades Medicine: An Essay on Ethics in Health Care,"
Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy 245 (2000): 106-147.

n2 HCA, Inc., Clinical Ethics Manual: Executive Summary, available at
<http://ec.hcahealthcare.com/CPM/Clinical EthicsManual.doc> (last visited July
6, 2005).

n3 B. White and L. E. Gottlieb, "Point and Counterpoint: Should an Institution's
Risk Manager/Lawyer Serve as HEC Members?" HEC Forum 3, no. 2 (1991): 87-89,
91-93; S. M. Mitchell and M. S. Swartz, "Is There a Place for Lawyers on Ethics
Committees? A View from the Inside," Hastings Center Report 20, no. 2 (1990):
32-33.

   In this column we discuss the ethics of lawyer-ethicists in the hospital
setting. We begin by discussing the appropriateness of including lawyers in
general, and hospital attorneys in particular, as members of institutional
ethics committees. The three most common tasks of ethics committees are (1)
educating clinical staff and patients about ethical issues in patient care, (2)
developing institutional policies, and (3) providing ethics consultation
services upon request. n4 While ethics committees sometimes convene to review a
particular clinical case, most hospitals have a smaller ethics consultation
service, composed of members of the ethics committee who respond when an
interested party requests an ethics consult. When called, the consultant or team
of consultants will generally review the patient's chart, talk to a variety of
stakeholders, and develop a recommendation for addressing the issues based on
ethical analysis.


n4 R. F. Wilson, M. Neff-Smith, D. Phillips and J. C. Fletcher, "HECs: Are They
Evaluating Their Performance?" HEC Forum 5, no. 1 (1993): 1-34.

   In the first section of this column, we consider the ethics of participating
in general ethics education and policy development. We find no compelling reason
to categorically exclude lawyers (even hospital attorneys) from these
activities. Unique challenges arise, however, when lawyers engage in clinical
ethics consultation and intensify when those lawyers also serve as hospital
attorneys. We therefore consider this task separately. We contemplate the
arguments in favor of and against allowing non-hospital lawyers to assume the
role of ethics consultant and suggest ways that many of the hazards associated
with lawyers assuming such a role can be overcome. We then address the most
challenging question-should hospital attorneys serve as clinical ethics
consultants? It is our experience that hospital attorneys can successfully
participate in clinical ethics consultation, but we explore whether, as a
general rule, their involvement can be justified.

Lawyers as Hospital Ethics Committee Members

The concept of a hospital ethics committee was first introduced into public
discussion nearly thirty years ago. n5 Ethics committees were proposed as an
alternative to judicial review of all morally charged medical decisions.
Ethically controversial cases could be reviewed by individuals with diverse
knowledge, which would provide an additional level of scrutiny for decisions and
assuage concerns about legal liability. n6 In 1991, the Joint Commission on
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) mandated that all hospitals
establish a "mechanism for the consideration of ethical issues arising in the
care of patients." n7 Today, nearly all hospitals have an ethics committee, and
many include lawyers among their members. In fact, "[m]any IECs [institutional
ethics committees] have found that  [*604]  the inclusion of nonhospital
attorneys familiar with ethics issues is beneficial. In addressing
organizational ethics issues, their membership may be essential." n8


n5 In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647 (NJ, 1976); President's Commission for the Study
of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research, Deciding
to Forego Life-Sustaining Treatment (Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing
Office, 1983); 49 Fed. Reg. 1622- 1654 (January 12, 1984).

n6 In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647 (NJ, 1976).

n7 JCAHO, "Patient Rights," 1992 Accreditation Manual for Hospitals (Chicago,
IL: JCAHO, 1992): 103-105.

n8 American Academy of Pediatrics, "Institutional Ethics Committees," Pediatrics
107, no. 1 (2001): 205-209.

   Arguments against the inclusion of lawyers on hospital ethics committees
center on concerns that attorneys typically adopt an adversarial approach to
problem solving. However, this not true of all lawyers, and according to the
American Medical Association (AMA) guidelines, "committee members should be
selected on the basis of their concern for the welfare of the sick and infirm,
their interest in ethical matters, and their reputation in the community and
among their peers for integrity and mature judgment," n9 not solely on the basis
of their training or profession. The AMA guidelines do specify that "[c]ommittee
members should not have other responsibilities that are likely to prove
incompatible with their duties as members of the ethics committee." n10 For most
academic or community lawyers, meeting this standard will not be a problem. It
may, however, present a challenge for hospital attorneys.


n9 American Medical Association, Code of Medical Ethics: Current Opinions with
Annotations (Chicago, IL: AMA Press, 2004): opinion 9.11, Ethics Committees in
Health Care Institutions.

n10 Id.


Hospital Attorneys as Ethics Committee Members

Hospital attorneys can add unique expertise and knowledge to institutional
ethics committees. Ethics education and institutional policy development require
not only general knowledge of legal issues, but often, specific knowledge of
institutional commitments, procedures, and culture. But is the hospital
attorney's obligation to provide legal representation and advice to the
institution incompatible with her duties as a member of the ethics committee? In
most circumstances, it is not, because: (1) it is generally advisable for health
care institutions to promote the ethical practice of medicine; (2) hospital
policies should be ethical, but they should also not conflict with the law; and
(3) when the law and ethics diverge, hospital staff and patients should be
educated about relevant ethical considerations, and should also be informed of
their legal rights and any potential risk of liability. Thus, there is no actual
conflict between the lawyer's role as an ethics committee member and her role as
hospital attorney. Of course, it is essential that the attorney have
institutional support to "wear two hats," and that she maintain professional
integrity by recusing herself from any committee deliberations that conflict
with her obligations to the institution. Any perceived conflict of obligation
that does not actually exist can usually be overcome through committee education
and a supportive institution.

   There will be situations where institutional support is lacking, the conflict
of obligation is great, or the perception of incompatibility is insurmountable.
Whether or not it is appropriate for a particular hospital attorney to
participate as a member of the institutional ethics committee must be determined
by the attorney, the other committee members, and the hospital administration.
If there is any doubt, the hospital attorney should refrain from sitting on the
ethics committee, but should be available as a consultant to the committee on
specific legal or administrative matters. n11


n11 See American Academy of Pediatrics, supra note 8, at 207.


Lawyers as Ethics Consultants

Ethics consultation has been defined as "a service provided by an individual or
group to help patients, families, surrogates, health care providers, or other
involved parties address uncertainty or conflict regarding value-laden issues
that emerge in health care." n12 A number of models exist for ethics
consultation, including the individual consultant model and the
interdisciplinary consult team model. Consultants, whether acting singly or in
teams, are usually members of the institutional ethics committee who have
received special training to equip them to respond when a patient or another
party with a stake in the care of a particular patient requests assistance. The
Core Competencies for Health Care Ethics Consultation, developed by the Society
for Health and Human Values-Society for Bioethics Consultation Task Force on
Standards for Bioethics Consultation, clearly contemplate the possible service
of lawyers as both individual consultants and consult team members. n13


n12 American Society for Bioethics and Humanities (ASBH), Core Competencies for
Health Care Ethics Consultation (Glenview, IL: ASBH, 1998): at 3.

n13 Id. at 11-12.

   Arguments in favor of at least allowing, and perhaps encouraging, lawyers to
serve as ethics consultants or members of consult teams include the contribution
of general legal knowledge, the contribution of valuable skills, and the
contribution of boundary recognition.

Contribution of General Legal Knowledge

The Core Competencies recognize health law as one of nine core knowledge areas
for ethics consultation. According to the Competencies, all consultants are
expected to have basic knowledge of the law relevant to ethics consultation
(e.g., end-of-life decision making, surrogate decision making, informed consent,
privacy); an individual consultant, or at least one member of a consult team,
should also have access to advanced knowledge. n14 While non-specialists can
acquire general legal knowledge in a variety of ways, often lawyers hold the
advantage not only in understanding particular areas of law but also in
understanding how the law works.


n14 Id. at 20.


Contribution of Valuable Skills

Legal education alone is usually not lethal to the sensitivity required for the
role of ethics consultant, and the negotiation and mediation skills frequently
taught in law schools may be a real asset. Nancy Dubler and Carol  [*605]
Liebman have recently developed a model for bioethics consultation that draws
heavily on the theory and practice of mediation. n15 This model has been
extensively tested and has drawn praise from many quarters.


n15 N. N. Dubler and C. B. Liebman, Bioethics Mediation: A Guide to Shaping
Shared Solutions (New York: United Hospital Fund, 2004).


Contribution of Boundary Recognition

Lawyer-consultants may be better than other consultants with some degree of
legal knowledge, but no law degree, at recognizing the potential slide from
ethics consultation to unauthorized or inappropriate practice of law. As Bethany
Spielman has noted, authorized sharing of legal information within the context
of ethics consultation involves "providing only general legal principles or
straightforward 'black letter' law"; the practice of law typically involves
"significant interpretation, judgment, or application of law to a specific fact
situation." n16 Spielman suggests that ethics consultants should encourage
parties who feel the need for case-specific legal information to obtain separate
legal advice. Some are likely to criticize this suggestion as just the sort of
thing one would expect from a lawyer, since the implication is that any occasion
for contact between life and the law must be pushed in the direction of an
adversarial, lawyer-heavy conflict. Still, it is valuable to be reminded that
resolving legal issues for the parties is not the province of ethics
consultants, whatever their training, and that in some cases ethics consultants
should remind the parties of their right to seek legal counsel.


n16 B. Spielman, "Has Faith in Health Care Ethics Consultants Gone Too Far?
Risks of an Unregulated Practice and a Model Act to Contain Them," Marquette Law
Review 85 (2001): 161-221, at 204-205.

   The arguments that may be advanced against the cultivation of
lawyer-consultants include the hazard of legalism and the hazard of boundary
violation.

Hazard of Legalism

The worry that lawyers will "act adversarial" or give undue weight to legal
considerations extends from ethics committee service to ethics consultation. As
noted above, lawyers vary in their approach to problem-solving, and in our
experience lawyers practicing ethics consultation are in the field precisely
because they have broader, humanistic leanings. The use of the interdisciplinary
team model can also lessen the hazard of legalism, since it allows for the
collection of multiple perspectives on a problem.

Hazard of Boundary Violation

Although many lawyers will be highly sensitive to boundary issues and the
importance of refraining from the practice of law while engaged in ethics
consultation, some may be so gratified by an opportunity to employ their special
expertise that they fail to consider the perils of speaking to the parties as a
source of authoritative direction on some knotty issue of law as applied to the
particular case. Both lawyer and non-lawyer ethics consultants need to be
reminded of the importance of clarity about their role. Clarity is partly an
internal matter, but there is also the issue of how much the consultant should
say to others about the significance of the J.D. or LL.M. after her name. We
would recommend facing the issue head-on by advising participants that although
one has training in law, here one is acting as an ethics consultant, a resource
to all the parties in their efforts to determine the best course of action in
the circumstances from an ethical perspective, and not as an attorney
representing one party or providing legal advice to the group.

Hospital Lawyers as Ethics Consultants

All of the arguments in favor of a blanket prohibition on lawyer-consultants can
be overcome if everyone involved is clear that the individual is acting in her
role as an ethics consultant, rather than a lawyer. But is it possible for the
hospital's lawyer to achieve the level of objectivity required of an ethics
consultant? Or, in other words, do hospital lawyers have "responsibilities
incompatible with the duties" of an ethics consultant? In order to answer this
question we must examine the obligations of ethics consultants as well as the
responsibilities of the various lawyers employed by the hospital. Finally, we
must ask, even if there is no actual incompatibility, is there a perception of
conflict that irrevocably interferes with the consultation process?

The Nature of Clinical Consultation and the Competencies of Consultants

Regardless of the ultimate satisfaction of all involved parties, a successful
consultation must conclude in consensus. The consultant must facilitate reaching
an agreement by navigating a course through strongly-held, often conflicting,
positions that are frequently clouded by "complex interpersonal and affective
features, such as guilt over a loved one's sickness or impending death,
disagreement among health care providers, possible conflicts of interest, or
distrust of the medical system." n17 At a minimum, the consultant must not let
any actual or perceived conflict in her obligations defeat the necessary
creation of an atmosphere of trust. All individuals will have personal moral
views that can affect their role in consultations, and a careful consultant must
acknowledge these personal interests in order to keep the consultation
atmosphere as neutral as possible so the "real parties" can work through their
own value uncertainties and conflicts. This requires the consultant to be
prudent, to have courage, and to be honest and forthright. n18


n17 See ASBH, supra note 12, at 3.

n18 Id. at 22.

   Whether a commitment to these virtues is enough to justify hospital lawyers
providing ethics consultation will depend on the nature of the lawyer's
relationship with the hospital as well as the expressed core values of the
institution.

Hospital Lawyer's Relationship to the Institution

Modern hospitals are complex enterprises that employ lawyers in a wide variety
of roles. In addition to the role of general counsel, hospitals employ lawyers
as risk managers, employment law specialists, compliance officers, contracting
specialists, and medical staff relations specialists. Some of these roles
include administrative responsibilities, and some do not. Some carry fiduciary
responsibilities, while others do not. Those  [*606]  with administrative
responsibilities should avoid consulting on cases for which they have direct
administrative obligations. This policy applies to all potential ethics
consultants. n19 The more administrative responsibility a consultant has
(whether a lawyer or not), the greater the potential for conflict of obligation.
In fact, the real issue may not be whether hospital attorneys can serve as
ethics consultants, but rather, whether any senior hospital administrator,
regardless of her professional degree, can maintain the objectivity required of
an ethics consultant. This is particularly challenging for those, such as some
hospital attorneys, who also have fiduciary obligations to the institution.


n19 Id. at 29.

   According to the American Bar Association's Model Rules of Professional
Conduct, if an attorney has been hired by the hospital to either represent or
advise the hospital on legal matters, then a fiduciary relationship exists
between the attorney and the institution. n20 A core component of any fiduciary
relationship is the idea that the fiduciary is responsible for promoting the
interests of the beneficiary. n21 Sometimes, the recommendations of an ethics
consultant may expose the institution to liability or some other risk of harm.
For example, consider the case of a patient who has unknowingly been harmed due
to an error in communication between the physician and the nurse. The ethics
consultant may recommend that the patient be fully informed of the error, even
if such disclosure may result in a lawsuit against the institution. n22
Therefore, attorneys who have fiduciary obligations to the institution should
not provide ethics consultation, unless the institution has explicitly stated
that its primary interest in ethics consultation is the ethical resolution of
cases. n23 Finally, if a hospital lawyer provides ethics consultation in
accordance with these provisions and the case ends in litigation then the lawyer
should avoid any corporate responsibility for managing the lawsuit. n24 If this
is not possible, for example in a small hospital with only one risk manager,
then that lawyer should not participate in ethics consultations.


n20 American Bar Association Center for Professional Responsibility (ABA), Model
Rules for Professional Conduct (2003): Model Rule 1.13.

n21 See, e.g., ABA, supra note 20, Model Rule 1.13; Restatement (Third) of the
Law Governing Lawyers (2000) sec. 96.

n22 Some have suggested that full disclosure of medical error may result in
fewer lawsuits, but there is insufficient evidence to support such a conclusion.
See, e.g., K. M. Mazor, S. R. Simon, and J. H. Gurwitz, "Communicating with
Patients about Medical Errors: A Review of the Literature," Archieves of
Internal Medicine 164 (2004): 1690-1697; K. M. Mazor et al., "Health Plan
Members' Views about Disclosure of Medical Errors," Annals of Internal Medicine
140 (2004): 409-418. In fact, one study suggests that while the amount of
payment may be lower following full disclosure, the number of lawsuits may
increase. S. S. Kraman and G. Hamm, "Risk Management: Extreme Honesty May Be the
Best Policy," Annals of Internal Medicine 131 (1999): 963-967.

n23 See ABA, supra note 20, Model Rule 1.7; Model Rule 1.2 (stating that "a
lawyer shall abide by a client's decisions concerning the objectives of
representation and,...shall consult with the client as to the means by which
they are to be pursued").

n24 See ABA, supra note 20, Model Rule 1.7 (stating that "a lawyer shall not
represent a client [here the hospital] if the representation involves a
concurrent conflict of interest. A concurrent conflict of interest exists
if:...(2) there is a significant risk that the representation of one or more
clients will be materially limited by the lawyer's responsibilities to another
client, a former client or a third person or by a personal interest of the
lawyer." [emphasis added]). If the hospital (client) is committed in ethics
consultations to the ethical resolution of cases then the lawyer's
representation of the hospital should not be limited by her responsibilities to
any of the parties involved in an ethics consultation. However, if the lawyer
has corporate authority in a resulting lawsuit, then her representation of the
hospital may be compromised by her participation in the ethics consultation, or
vice versa.

   If a lawyer is hired by a hospital but is not given the authority to act as
legal representative or advisor to the institution then there is no fiduciary
relationship between the lawyer and the institution. n25 The lawyer thus has no
actual conflict that would prevent her from acting as an ethics consultant. She
would simply be constrained by the conflict of interest rules that pertain to
all consultants. The only remaining question is whether there is a perception
about the lawyer's relationship to the institution that irreparably compromises
the consultation process and therefore justifies excluding her as an ethics
consultant.


n25 Many institutions, for example, hire lawyers to serve as compliance
officers. This position does not usually require one to engage in the practice
of law and in many institutions compliance officers do not have an
attorney-client relationship with the institution.


Perceived Conflicts of Obligation

The perception of conflict is important because ethics consultations are
triggered when one or more of the participants feel the need for an
intervention. Often that need is prompted by a feeling of unease about the
actions or attitudes of other participants. Thus, the ethics consultant often
arrives on the scene at a time when the air is already charged by more tension
than usual, even for serious health concerns. Furthermore, the consultant
arrives wearing a badge of authority. n26 This is a situation with significant
risk for abuse of power based on any conflict of obligation for the consultant
and with an even higher risk that one or more of the participants will perceive
the consultant is conflicted by interests other than the successful conclusion
of the consultation. If any party believes the consultant has a conflict, the
necessary atmosphere of trust is lost.


n26 See ASBH, supra note 12, at 29.

   We do not know if hospital lawyers are more likely than other ethics
consultants to be perceived as having a conflict of obligation or, if they are,
whether the consultant can overcome the perception and create an acceptable
environment to accomplish the goals of the consultation. The degree to which
there is a perception of conflict and to whom it applies is an empirical
question that deserves to be studied. We suspect that the perception of
conflict, if it exists, has more to do with the attorney's level of
administrative authority than her professional degree. Thus, this will be a
challenge for any senior hospital administrator who provides ethics
consultation. Certainly, where a perception of conflict exists, the consultant
should seek to mitigate that perception. We suggest she do this by acknowledging
the potential for conflict and addressing it with all parties involved. If the
consultant cannot maintain objectivity without breaching her fiduciary
responsibility to the institution then she should expeditiously withdraw from
the case. n27


n27 Id.

   Of course, the responsibility of providing opportunities for successful
consultations does not fall on the consultant alone. The institution must also
provide support. Hospital lawyers must be empowered by the institution to carry
out their work as ethics consultants with integrity and in an environment that
is free of concerns about job security, reprisals, or undue political pressure.
It takes not only a special person, but also a supportive institution for a
hospital lawyer to succeed as an ethics consultant.

 [*607]  Acknowledgments

We would like to express our gratitude to Daniel Bustillos, J.D. and to the
participants in the Ethics Journal Club sponsored by the Center for Medical
Ethics and Health Policy at Baylor College of Medicine for their thoughtful
comments on this manuscript.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Estate, Gift & Trust LawPowers of AttorneySurrogate
DecisionsGovernmentsFiduciary ResponsibilitiesLegal EthicsUnauthorized Practice
of Law


                              380 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday

When a patient is dying

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 430 words


A NEW guide to help healthcare professionals respond to the difficult issues
associated with the impending death of a patient should be welcomed by the
personnel it targets. It is the latest step in an Irish Hospice Foundation
initiative to bring hospice principles into acute and community hospitals and to
ensure, among other things, that no one dies alone and in pain. The Hospice
friendly Hospitals (HfH) programme has been introduced in 42 settings and has
brought many changes in the way issues of death, dying and bereavement are
treated.

Hospitals have altered their mortuaries to ensure they facilitate modern design
needs. They have made them sensitive to different cultures and religions.
Privacy and single rooms for dying people are increasingly being sought. Medical
staff are being trained how to communicate on end-of-life matters. Relatives are
more likely to receive their loved one s belongings in a specially designed
handover bag. And it is more often accepted that integrated care should extend
to the whole family, even after their relative has died.

Importantly, too, the HfH programme is developing ethical framework principles
on end-of-life issues. These should champion the rights of patients to
participate in decisions affecting them and, above all, should assist medical
and related professionals in meeting increasing ethical challenges. At the same
time, the HfH is constructing an audit and evaluation system on end-of-life care
which is being piloted in a number of hospitals. Pertinent questions are being
asked at ward, staff and relatives  level to ensure there is sufficient data for
hospitals to develop their end-of-life services.

The new HfH guide When a Patient is Dying (available at
www.hospicefriendlyhospitals.net) highlights the natural instinct to want to do
something  when someone is dying as well as the uncertainty that can follow over
what that  something  should be. We often flounder in response: we feel
uncomfortable at being reminded of our own mortality or of a recent bereavement.

The process of dying is intense, emotive and personal. Yet most of us would
prefer not to think about it. But there must be an understanding of what is
happening and of how pending death is diagnosed and managed. Medical and related
carers must respond professionally to difficult questions from patients and
families. They need to understand issues involved in death certification,
transport of the body and the handover of patients  belongings. Vitally too,
they must consider the spiritual needs of patients which often go beyond
religion.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Naval Center Halts Research During Inquiry About Ethics

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 488 words


The National Naval Medical Center has suspended all orthopedic and radiology
research on patients while it investigates a study that violated standard
ethical practice, officials said last week.

Doctors who began the study of shoulder injuries two years ago had failed to
seek approval from an ethics committee, as federal law requires, before
injecting a chemical dye into 48 patients who then underwent M.R.I.'s, the
officials said.

The study was aimed at determining which type of injection -- directly into the
shoulder joint or a vein -- led to a better M.R.I. to delineate injuries.
Doctors use the images to help determine the need for surgery.

Each type of injection is standard practice in American hospitals, although the
choice varies, Dr. Michael Krentz, a Navy captain, said. He is deputy commander
of the center, which is the Navy's flagship hospital and the hospital where
President Bush gets his annual checkups.

But subjecting a patient to both types of injections is investigational because
the risks or benefits of an additional injection are not known, Dr. Krent said
in a telephone interview.

Navy officials have ordered a commandwide training of doctors and health workers
in the ethics of human experimentation.

A doctor training to become an orthopedic surgeon undertook the study without
submitting a detailed scientific blueprint as required from an ethics committee
known as an institutional review board, Dr. Krentz said. The ethical breach was
reported in June.

Findings have not been reported at a scientific meeting or published because the
number of patients in the study was too small for a meaningful statistical
analysis. If the study design had been submitted to the review board, its
members might have improved it before the first patient was enrolled, Dr. Krentz
said.

The Navy's investigation has included reviews of patient charts and interviews
with hospital workers and patients. The patients included active-duty personnel,
retirees and family members. The last patient was enrolled in the spring.

Dr. Krentz said the center was not aware of any patient suffering an adverse
effect but has invited all participants to return for follow-up studies at no
cost to determine if any complication did occur.

The Navy has notified the federal Office for Human Research Protections and has
not publicly released the names of the doctors involved.

The medical center's institutional review board has approved 177 research
projects that are currently being conducted and is reviewing applications for an
additional 50, Dr. Krentz said. The ban applies to five studies being conducted
by radiologists and one other project being conducted by orthopedic surgeons.

Dr. Donald Arthur, a rear admiral, said, "This is an isolated occurrence of not
following well-prescribed research protocols; it is being fully investigated and
reviewed to determine the cause of the oversight and to prevent recurrence."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 March 26, 2004

Issue of sponsorship by drug firms clarified
Advice given on procedures doctors should adopt in relation to competence and
conduct of colleagues

BYLINE: By EITHNE DONNELLAN, Health Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; MEDICAL COUNCIL ETHICAL GUIDELINES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 608 words


The Medical Council has for the first time issued ethical guidelines to doctors
in relation to the terms on which they may accept sponsorship from drug
companies.

The guidelines, published yesterday, restate that any financial interest a
doctor may have in the pharmaceutical or allied industry must not influence him
or her when recommending therapy for patients.

But they add for the first time that "non-promotional educational grants
represent the only acceptable mechanism for financial support by the
pharmaceutical and medical manufacturing industries to individual doctors".

Prof Gerard Bury, president of the Medical Council, said that there was "no good
evidence of awfully bad practice" in this area, but patients might be concerned
about an "overly cosy" relationship between the two given that drug companies
sponsored doctors' travel to conferences and funded research.

"We believe it is appropriate to disentangle that relationship somewhat," Prof
Bury said.

The council's latest ethical guidelines for doctors also refer to a host of
other topics for the first time, including the "head-hunting" of doctors by one
hospital from another, the displaying of doctors' fees, doctors' websites,
whistle-blowing by doctors on colleagues, electronic prescribing, the use of
spare embryos and the need for doctors to obtain consent from patients with
disabilities.

The guidelines state that a doctor, having formally accepted any post - even a
locum post - must not then withdraw "without due cause" unless the employer has
time to make other arrangements to ensure that patient care is not compromised.

The chairwoman of the council's ethics committee, Senator Geraldine Feeney, said
that this had been a particular problem with non-consultant hospital doctors
(NCHDs) who, when due to turn up at a job in one hospital on July 1st, would
actually turn up at another, leaving hospitals and patients in the lurch.
Patients were actually being put at risk, she said.

The guidelines state that the council welcomes the provision of appropriate
information to patients, including the displaying of professional fees.

The handbook states that electronic prescribing is acceptable if it meets legal
and best-practice clinical standards. It adds that a prescription must be
legible, dated and signed by a registered medical practitioner. Prof Bury said:
"Doctors' handwriting is gone beyond being a joke."

The guidelines also state that where a doctor believes a colleague's conduct or
competence poses a risk to a patient, the doctor should express his or her
concern initially to the colleague concerned and advise on remedial action.
"Where local systems of support or remediation are available, they should be
availed of as the next step. Should the colleague's response be unsatisfactory,
then the doctor should refer the matter to the Medical Council."

Prof Bury said that if any patient came to harm while a doctor hesitated to act
in relation to a colleague, he or she could be dealt with critically.

Under the guidelines, doctors can set up websites to provide information to
patients as long as their site is not self-promotional.

There are also references for the first time to complementary medicine. Doctors
who refer patients for such therapy must be aware of the efficacy and potential
side effects of the treatment and advise patients accordingly.

It is also stated that doctors should offer a chaperone to a patient,
irrespective of their age or gender, before conducting an intimate examination
on them.

IVF guideline has huge implications for family: page 16; Editorial comment: page
17

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2004 The Irish Times


                              383 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 22, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Brain-Dead Baby Allowed to Die; No Recipients Found for Organs

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: LOMA LINDA, Calif., Feb. 21


A brain-dead baby boy was taken off life-support machines Saturday after no
recipients could be found for his organs, but another baby, also born without a
brain stem, was on a respirator today in hopes of saving her organs for
transplant.

The boy, Baby John, who was born Tuesday and declared brain-dead Thursday, had
been kept alive in hopes that his organs could be transplanted in a pioneering
program established by the Loma Linda University Medical Center.

The infant was removed from life-support Saturday after doctors seeking a liver
for four patients rejected his organ because it had deteriorated over a 36-hour
period. No candidate with the same blood type was found for his heart, which
stopped beating after he was removed from a respirator.

The deterioration of the liver affected all the baby's organs, said a hospital
spokeswoman, Anita Rockwell. ''When one organ begins to fail, the other organs
begin to fail.''

'Resting Comfortably'

Baby John was the program's first American baby. Another couple had hoped to
enroll their child in the program, but the infant was stillborn on Dec. 22.

The girl, Evelyn Keys, who was born Saturday in San Antonio, with the same fatal
birth defect, was flown to Loma Linda and placed in the transplant program for
anencephalic infants, babies born without most of their brain.

''Baby Evelyn is resting comfortably this morning,'' said Ms. Rockwell. ''She
shows some signs of brain-stem deterioration but has not yet met all criteria of
total brain death.''

Anencephalic babies live only briefly. Loma Linda wants to establish a practice
of sustaining such babies so the organs can be used for transplants after brain
death occurs.

Baby Evelyn, the first child of Judy Keys, 22 years old, and Airman Todd Keys,
21, stationed at Lackland Air Force Base, was born with only a brain stem.

Growing Ethical Debate

Sustaining anencephalic infants for use as organ donors has raised an ethical
debate. Last December, Loma Linda became the first hospital in the United States
to develop a medical protocol allowing the practice.

Under Loma Linda's guidelines, an anencephalic baby will remain on a respirator
no longer than a week.

If the baby is declared brain dead in that time, as was the case with Baby John,
he or she becomes a potential donor. But in Baby John's case, the hospital said
the liver deterioration was so significant and the chances of finding a heart
recipient so slim that the baby was taken of the respirator.

After the week is up, the hospital protocol requires that the baby be removed
from the respirator and allowed to die naturally, whether brain death has been
declared by that time or not.

Several thousand anencephalic babies are born in the United States each year.
Their brain stems sustain basic functions such as breathing for a short time,
but death occurs within hours or days of birth.

Ethical problems raised by the practice of sustaining anencephalic babies
include the questions of whether such infants feel pain and whether it is
ethical to prolong a life when it does not benefit the patient.

Last October, a brain-dead anencephalic girl was flown from Canada to Loma Linda
where her heart was successfully transplanted into the chest of a newborn, Paul
Holc.

The medical center, a Seventh-day Adventist hospital, has specialized in infant
heart transplants. Thirteen babies under the age of 4 months have received new
hearts there. Nine have survived.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Indian Banking News

                       August 26, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Giarmarco, Mullins & Horton: Donald K. Warwick Awarded AV Preeminent Rating by
Martindale-Hubbell

LENGTH: 245  words


New Delhi, Aug. 26 -- Giarmarco, Mullins & Horton, P.C. is pleased to announce
that Donald K. Warwick has been awarded an AV Preeminent Rating by
Martindale-Hubbell.  The Martindale-Hubbell Peer Review Ratings are an objective
indicator of a lawyer's high ethical standards and professional ability,
generated from evaluations of lawyers by other members of the bar and the
judiciary in the United States and Canada.



Martindale-Hubbell Peer Review Ratings reflect a combination of achieving a Very
High General Ethical Standards rating and a Legal Ability numerical rating. The
General Ethical Standards rating denotes adherence to professional standards of
conduct and ethics, reliability, diligence and other criteria relevant to the
discharge of professional responsibilities.

Mr. Warwick is a partner of the Firm's Litigation Practice Group, specializing
in defending physicians and hospitals in medical malpractice lawsuits. He is AV
rated by Martindale-Hubbell, with 22 years of consistently successful trial work
and numerous successful defense verdicts. He also counsels physicians and
hospitals regarding health care law matters, licensing and accreditation issues.


Mr. Warwick received his undergraduate degree in Political Science, from Wayne
State University. He earned his Juris Doctor degree from Michigan State
University - Detroit College of Law. He is a member of the State Bar of
Michigan, the American Bar Association and the Oakland County Bar Association.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                             March 26, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Church sets out Calvary provisos

BYLINE: Ewa Kretowicz; Assembly Reporter

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 267  words


The Catholic Church has set out its non-negotiable conditions as part of the ACT
Government's new proposal to buy Calvary Hospital.

The Catholic Archbishop of Canberra and Goulburn, Mark Coleridge, said yesterday
he was open to the plan but would need more detail before any decision was made.

But in a letter tabled by ACT Health Minister Katy Gallagher in the Legislative
Assembly yesterday, Archbishop Coleridge outlined his deal-breakers.

Archbishop Coleridge said the Little Company of Mary would need to retain
operation of the hospital for at least 88 years and there would have to be
genuine autonomy and full respect for Catholic ethical requirements.

"... there would be no joint appointments of key personnel such as the chief
executive officer, the director of medicine and the director of nursing, all of
whom would be appointed solely by the Little Company of Mary," Archbishop
Coleridge said in the letter.

Chief Minister Jon Stanhope wrote to Archbishop Coleridge on March 12 outlining
the new proposal after the collapse of the first takeover plan in February.
Archbishop Coleridge's response was received on March 19.

The response made the archbishop's position on abortion and the possible
provision of termination services at Calvary Hospital clear. "There would also
need to be full respect for the Catholic identity of the hospital and the
ethical requirements which this implies. This would mean ... no attempt to
co-locate on a government-owned Bruce site services which would be unacceptable
to the Catholic Church or to use the facilities for the hospital for such
services," he wrote.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2010 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

B.C. family seeking 'saviour sibling' for sick son turns to U.S. fertility
centre; Vancouver hospital refuses to help couple with in vitro attempt

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 963  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER - Parents Mike and Pam Obadia are opting for desperate -- and
controversial -- measures to boost the survival odds of their son, who's been in
a five-year battle with leukemia.

Eight-year-old Benjamin is currently receiving chemotherapy treatment at B.C.
Children's Hospital in Vancouver after suffering a relapse of the acute
lymphoblastic leukemia he first got in 2002.

A bone-marrow transplant would improve the odds of finally beating the cancer,
but there are no family matches and an international registry of volunteer
donors has also not turned up any, after nearly two years of searching.

So even though the odds of fertility success are ever so slim because of Pam's
age of 47, the couple will try to create a "saviour sibling" -- a term used to
describe a test-tube baby created to save an older, sick sibling through donor
stem cells from the newborn's umbilical cord.

But the couple from Port Coquitlam, about 25 kilometres east of Vancouver, has
to go to Chicago for the procedure, which will cost up to $30,000.

Doctors at Children's and Women's Hospital in B.C. aren't prepared to aid their
quest because of ethical and moral concerns about creating -- and exploiting --
a life to potentially save another.

The couple has fully weighed all the issues and are still convinced they are
doing what they must as parents who can't bear to lose a child.

"We have to do this to exhaust all the possibilities to help Benjamin," says
Pam. "It's not like we are trying to create a designer baby. We want another
child, we will love another child. If we succeed ... (it) may help with
Benjamin's illness."

They haven't said much to Benjamin about their plan. They don't want to talk to
him about subjects like death, since he himself is so upbeat.

"As far as he is concerned, he's a child and only adults die of cancer. I think
it's a good thing that he's so positive," says Pam, in an interview between
treatments at the hospital this week where Benjamin is having tests and
high-dose chemotherapy.

He's a boy who loves reading books like The Spiderwick Chronicles and even
writes his own books, complete with illustrations of dragons and giant bugs.

When he relapsed nearly two years ago, his younger sister, who was then four,
was overcome with sadness and confusion. She asked her parents "why the doctors
gave Benjamin his cancer back."

They told her that the drugs weren't strong enough. This time around, Benjamin
is on a regimen of about six drugs, sometimes requiring hospital stays. So far,
Benjamin has endured 295 courses of chemotherapy, 263 needles, 16 blood
transfusions and 13 bone-marrow biopsies. His life and cancer treatment are
documented at www.mobadia.ca.

He was only three when cancer struck, an age when he loved sitting on his
parents' laps, having them read books such as The Giving Tree to him. By age
four, he was reading himself.

The couple readily admit they are grasping for a miracle.

"Though we've been told our chances are nil and it will cost us $30,000, we will
try anything to save our son," says Mike, "and we will also try naturally to
have a child and take our chances that it will be a match."

The process begins with conventional in vitro fertilization, in which embryos
are created in a laboratory with the mother's eggs and father's sperm. But the
next step is controversial; doctors at the Reproductive Genetics Institute in
Chicago then screen embryos to look for one that is a tissue match. The matched
embryo would then be implanted into the mom's uterus and when the baby is born,
umbilical cord stem cells would be harvested for transplantation.

Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) has been available for genetic
screening of inherited diseases for about 15 years, but only in recent years has
it been used as well to make saviour babies. The Chicago clinic has done at
least three dozen such tissue-typing cases.

Dr. Paul Rogers, medical director of pediatric oncology at B.C. Children's
Hospital, said the medical centre here has never offered the procedure for
cancer patients. B.C. Children's Hospital did, however, use the umbilical-cord
blood from a naturally conceived newborn to transplant into an older sibling,
who was then cured of his life-threatening bone-marrow disease. In that case,
the mother was already pregnant when the older child got sick. In other words,
the baby was not conceived for the purpose of being a saviour child.

Lori d'Agincourt-Canning, a clinical ethicist at B.C. Children's and Women's
Hospitals, said it has not become standard practice because of cost and moral
and ethical issues.

"We understand that parents will seize on anything to help their sick children,
but the (uninsured) costs to them are so high that we don't want to create a
burden on parents who cannot afford this," she said.

"There are also ethical concerns about whether it is right to conceive a child
for the sake of another. What if something goes horribly wrong?"

But she concedes that the Obadia case should prompt the hospital to conduct a
review on the potential harms, benefits and ethical issues. After that, some
guidelines and policies could be formed.

Pam Obadia hopes the hospital will, at the very least, tell parents about the
procedures. She's distressed that PGD for tissue typing wasn't mentioned to them
by oncologists at Children's Hospital two years ago, when Benjamin relapsed. At
that time, she might have had slightly better odds of getting pregnant.

Dr. Tim Rowe, head of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at UBC, who is
not involved in the case, said it is "almost certain" that she won't produce
"viable embryos."

"So you have to wonder about the ethics of the Chicago company that is willing
to take that much money from a couple facing almost certain odds of pregnancy
failure," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Vancouver Sun, Canwest News Service, File; Benjamin Obadia, 8, is
surrounded by his sister Stephanie, 6, his mother Pam and his father Michel.
Benjamin has leukemia and needs a bone marrow transplant. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                              May 02, 2014 Friday
                                   E1 Edition

Top hospital staff lose |their licences

BYLINE:  ANGELIQUE SERRAO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 329 words


Two senior employees at Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital have
been suspended by the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA).

According to the council, clinical director Dr Mamorena Mofokeng and clinical
executive Dr Sibusiso Ngobese have failed to comply with continuing professional
development (CPD) requirements.

HPCSA spokesman Lize Nel confirmed that Mofokeng was suspended last month and
Ngobese in March.

CPDs are learning courses doctors have to complete every year. Every
practitioner is required to accumulate 30 continuing education units a year.

Five of these units must be done on topics such as ethics, human rights and
medical law. Each course is valid for 24 months.

Nel explained that ethical practice of the healthcare professions requires
"constant and ongoing commitment from all concerned to lifelong learning to
update and develop the knowledge, skills and ethical attitudes that underpin
competent practice".

Nel said the council's CPD office performs random audits on all healthcare
professionals registered with it. Once a practitioner's name has been selected,
they are required to submit a portfolio to the council within 21 days.

Non-compliant practitioners are given six months in which to comply.

"After the period of six months, a practitioner will again be audited, and if
there is still non-compliance, the board will consider appropriate action,
including working under supervision, a remedial programme, examination,
suspension from practice or any other action recommended by the board."

Gauteng Department of Health communications director Simon Zwane said there had
not been any formal communication from the HPCSA informing them that the
licences of the two employees had been suspended.

Ngobese said he had not been informed of the suspension and Mofokeng could not
be reached for comment.

DA health MPL in Gauteng Jack Bloom said it was shocking that senior doctors had
not qualified for a renewal of their registration.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Warwick Daily News (Queensland)

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday

Complaint over alleged violation of patient info;
EXCLUSIVE: Employee under investigation by Queensland Health

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 345  words



HIGHLIGHT: Hospital employee under investigation for alleged patient
confidentiality breach


Kerri Burns-Taylor

Reporter

A WARWICK Hospital employee is the subject of an ethics investigation, following
allegations they leaked sensitive and confidential information about a patient.

The patient is believed to have sought treatment at the hospital following a
sexual mishap, with the woman's name and details of the incident obtained by a
former friend of the employee.

The man claims the employee directly told him all the details of the incident
and said it was not the first time he had been on the receiving end of
confidential and personal patient information.

He said he had heard countless stories from two employees about Warwick women
being treated for various sexual conditions.

"I know the two (employees) very well and I have heard loads of stories about
girls who have gone up there for treatment," he said.

"They pretty much tell me which girls to stay away from and which conditions
they have, and I am absolutely sick of hearing this information about these
young girls.

"I am a single bloke so it's good information for me to have but I just don't
think they should be telling people these things."

Queensland Health has confirmed one employee is being investigated by the
Ethical Standards Unit but said no similar action had been taken against a
second.

Warwick Hospital director of nursing Megan O'Shannessy said the employees were
entitled to a presumption of innocence until the investigation was completed.

"Queensland Health takes these claims seriously and will investigate where
required and address appropriately," she said.

"In the particular matter raised by (the) complainant, the District has referred
the issue to the Ethical Standards Unit which liaises with the Crime and
Misconduct Commission.

"All Queensland Health staff, including those at Warwick Hospital, are informed
of the requirements of the Health Services Act 1991 which provides for patient
confidentiality."

The Act regulates the disclosure of confidential information and prevents
Queensland Health staff from disclosing such information without the consent of
the patient.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDN


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                           September 4, 2012 Tuesday

MDs urged to deal proactively with global drug shortage;
T.O. doctor says hospitals require ethical policies to allocate medications

BYLINE: Theresa Boyle Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 566 words


Health-care workers need to face the fact that there is no quick fix to the
global drug shortage and they need to step up rather than rely on others to
tackle the problem, a Toronto geriatrician says.

In an interview and in a co-written commentary in the Archives of Internal
Medicine, Dr. Paula Rochon, a senior scientist at Women's College Hospital, said
doctors and other clinicians need to be part of the solution.

"Some clinicians have viewed drug shortages as a problem for pharmacists and
pharmacies and have paid little or no attention to the drug-shortage alerts they
now receive regularly," states the commentary, co-written by Dr. Jerry Gurwitz,
a professor of geriatric medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical
School.

"Clinicians need to be vigilant about reviewing the drug-shortage alerts they
receive because these alerts may directly affect their patients and their plans
for patient care," it continues.

(Alerts are typically issued via email in hospitals when drugs run low.)

The authors note that the shortage is worsening with 178 drug therapies listed
in short supply in 2010, almost three times as many as in 2005. That number
jumped to 220 by October last year.

"Given the dramatic increase in the number of drug shortages, shortages are now
an issue for all clinicians," the commentary argues.

Cancer drugs are most frequently affected, followed by antibiotic therapies.

Also on the short supply list are painkillers, anesthetic agents, cardiovascular
medications, electrolyte solutions and vitamins.

The causes are numerous and include problems at various stages of the supply
chain.

Shortages present numerous challenges that should be anticipated and addressed
proactively, Rochon said in an interview.

"When you are aware of the issue, you are proactive and you can manage through
situations so they don't become a problem," she said.

Potential problems include prescription errors that occur when unfamiliar
substitutes are used. A 2010 survey of 1,800 health-care professionals in the
United States by the Institute for Safe Medicine Practices found a significant
association between drug shortages and harmful medication errors. A third of the
respondents reported that their facility had experienced a "near miss" in the
previous year because of the drug shortage. About one in four reported actual
errors and one in five reported adverse patient outcomes.

Another problem is deciding which patients should get access to drugs in short
supply.

Rochon and Gurwitz point to a companion piece in the journal that proposes an
ethical approach to allocating scarce drug resources. It argues, for example,
that there should be no preferential access for VIPs.

The commentary urges hospitals to create ethically sound policies to allocate
scarce medications.

Earlier this year, the Ontario Ministry of Health, in conjunction with the
University of Toronto Joint Centre for Bioethics created an "ethical framework"
that health professionals and hospitals could draw upon when grappling with
shortages.

It advocates, for example, sharing drugs with other hospitals and postponing
elective procedures that require use of drugs in limited supply.

Meanwhile, a recent editorial in the Canadian Medical Association Journal argued
that Canada needs a national approach to managing its supply of pharmaceutical
drugs, starting with a mandatory reporting system for drugs in short supply.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2012 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              390 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              The American Banker

Check the Rules Before Offering Deposit Pickup

                            March 23, 1993, Tuesday

Paul Nadler


The mail is coming in to the Weekly Adviser, and I am happy to present some
comments from readers.

Richard Wilhelm, vice president and manager of compliance administration for
First Interstate Bank of Oregon, has an important observation to make on the
list of 21 ways to improve business that we presented on Feb. 9.

This list, compiled by the American Bankers Association's Community Bankers
Council, presented as its first suggestion, "Offer deposit pickup and delivery
for a fee of $50 a month."

Mr. Wilhelm writes: "You might want to suggest to your readers that they check
with their attorney or compliance officer before implementing such a service."

Mr. Wilhelm attached a copy of Vol. 58, No. 8, of the Federal Register, dated
Jan. 13, 1993, that goes into the question in great detail.

***

Next we have a letter from Steve Boone of the Farmers State Bank, Lanesville,
Ind. Mr. Boone refers to our column on how community banks should react to the
visits of bank examiners, which ran Feb. 23.

Mr. Boone's comment:

"I work for a small financial institution in southern Indiana. I previously
worked as a field examiner for the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions.
As you can tell, I've been on both sides of the fence.  Like Mr. Gray, I feel
that I have some words of wisdom that may help speed up the examination process.

"1. Be prepared.  If your bank receives a pre-notification package, gather as
much information as possible prior to the exam team's arrival.  That first day
can set the tone for entire examination.

"2. Designate an employee to work with the examiners and handle their questions
and requests for documentation.  This will limit the amount of disruption of
your daily banking operation and will centralize the examination process.

"3. Be honest and up-front with them during loan discussion.  In some cases, you
may get the benefit of the doubt.

"Attitude is a big factor if you're looking for a smoother examination process.
Remember: Examiners have to pack their suitcases every week and spend most of
their time away from home.  Why not make their stay a little more pleasant? I
think in the long run you and your bank will benefit from it."

***

A more critical but equally valuable letter arrived from William Watson,
president of Cross Keys Bank of St. Joseph, La., commenting on the column we ran
on Feb. 16.

This discussed the relationship that community banks can develop with their
local hospitals.  The column presented the views of a hospital's chief financial
officer as to how much more banks can do for their hospitals and hospital staffs
than they do now.

Mr. Watson's response:

"While bankers should do many of the things you suggested to try to have a
large-scale 'relationship' with the hospital, its employees, and supporters, you
overlooked certain ethical concerns in regard to granting 'sweetheart' deals to
staff doctors in regard to their personal investment needs.

"As we have been shown dramatically by Regulation O, directors of banks are
criminally liable if, by virtue of their position, they are granted 'sweetheart'
or preferential treatment from their banks or even correspondent banks.

"This ethical situation was understood by most bankers even before Regulation O,
but Burt Lance's notoriety brought about the regulation.

"The same ethical position is evident in doctors' attempting to receive special
treatment because of the profitability of the bank's dealings with the hospital,
an entirely separate entity.

"This ethical concern is probably less understood in New Jersey and New York,
where ethics seem less important than in my southern sphere of experience.

"While your CEO pops off about increased banking costs for their cash management
services, I almost throw up.  Let's compare increases in banking service costs
over the last 10 years to those of hospitals.  "Good grief!" Benefits of Small
Town

Also of interest to community banks should be the enclosures that Mr. Watson
provided of a copy of his employee newsletter and of his most recent message to
shareholders.

His employee communication had an article presenting the positive features of
small-town life in an era when many of these communities are "drying up."

He buttressed his case with a list of community people who had left and then
come back home with spouses brought in from other communities - naming the
communities they were from - who now "add so much to the cultural, educational,
and economic progress of Tensas Parish." A View of the Economy

His letter to shareholders, however, after asking stockholders to write
legislators about "make-work" regulations that hamper bank operations, provides
as optimistic a comment on the American economy today as you could ask for:

"1992 will be remembered as the year the Democrats won back the White House by
convincing the American people that the nation was in the deepest recession
since the 1930s.

"We watched curiously as people in Monroe stood overnight, not in soup lines,
but to buy Garth Brooks concert tickets at big bucks a pop, requiring three
shows instead of one to satisfy the demand."

It would be hard for me to say anything about the future of community banks and
their communities that could top Mr. Watson's optimistic comments presented
here.

Keep those letters coming.

Mr. Nadler is a contributing editor of American Banker and professor of finance
at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Management.

SECTION: COMMUNITY BANKING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 927 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 American Banker, Inc.


                              391 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 29, 2008 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

I've done nothing wrong insists MMR jab doctor

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 214  words


CHILDREN taking part in research on the MMR jab were never tested in breach of
ethical rules, the doctor who triggered the scare about the triple vaccine said
yesterday.

At a hearing in London Dr Andrew Wakefield accused his hospital ethics boss, Dr
Michael Pegg, of being wrong in his assertion to the General Medical Council
that research was unapproved. He said Dr Pegg's memory was at fault.

He added: "In terms of the clinical investigations, there was no approval
because there was no need. But he did approve the research investigations as
described in the application for ethical approval." And he said he had a letter
from the ethics committee at the Royal Free Hospital, north-west London, giving
the go-ahead for his study. Dr Wakefield and colleagues Professor John
Walker-Smith and Professor Simon Murch are accused of invasive procedures
including colonoscopy and lumbar punctures on autistic children.

Dr Andrew Wakefield - accused of tests on children that had not been given
ethical clearance - has linked autism and bowel diseases to the triple measles,
mumps and rubella vaccination.

The 51-year-old doctor denies serious professional misconduct. He faces being
struck off after charges of abusing his position and acting dishonestly and
irresponsibly.

The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIGHT: Wakefield yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 5, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Apollo Hospitals: AHERF Organizes a National Conference on Evolving Roles of
Ethics Committees in India

LENGTH: 686  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- Apollo Hospitals Educational And Research Foundation
(AHERF) today organized a 'National Conference on Evolving Roles of Ethics
Committees in India' at Delhi with the objective of increasing awareness,
aligning all stakeholders on current state, discussing and identifying key
changes required on the regulatory and industry front, identifying
responsibility amongst stakeholders and charting out the roadmap to strengthen
ethical conduct of clinical research in India.



In the recent past, India has witnessed great negativity around the conduct of
clinical trials and the regulatory framework has been evolving to align itself
with the changing scenario. There is obvious room for improvement in the
framework and standards within which clinical trials are conducted in India. One
key element in this improvement is the role of ethics committees. The one and a
half days long conference provided a platform for the convergence of key
stakeholders and facilitated an exchange of ideas through plenary sessions and
panel discussions which resulted in a productive dialogue on ethics in clinical
research. Further, as part of the conference, a hands-on workshop on ethics
committee processes was conducted to impart education on ethics committee
operations and best practices.

Dr.Roy Chaudhary said, "While the rapid expansion in the field of clinical
research has been beneficial for the Indian population, it has also raised
concerns that ethical conduct is often forgone when conducting clinical trials.
The specter of unethical trials being frequently reported is a reflection of an
ailing and substantially ineffective research regulatory system in India. The
increasing awareness about ethical requirements in research, as well as the role
of activists in questioning trial conduct when deemed exploitative, has resulted
in a positive change to some extent. However, a lot still needs to be done. This
requires a multi-faceted approach and involvement of all the stakeholders with
an aim for more robust science, which incorporates a strong commitment to
ethics."

Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Mubarak Naqvi, Senior Director, Clinical Study
Unit, Sanofi said, "The mission and purpose of the healthcare industry is to
address patients' needs by providing them with appropriate therapeutic
solutions. To meet unmet medical needs of patients, clinical trials become a
mandatory part of the drug discovery, development and marketing approval
process. As medical practitioners and researchers committed to the safety and
health of our patients, it is our responsibility to ensure that clinical trials
are conducted with appropriate regulatory and ethics approvals and are in line
with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines. Hence, the role of the ethics
committees and the laws regulating their functioning become ever so critical to
the future of clinical research."

The conference also witnessed the presence of various sites and institutions
which are key stakeholders in the conduct of clinical trials. Dr. Sita Naik,
Advisor to Chairman, Research Task Force, Apollo Hospitals, said, "Although
ethics committees have been around for some time, there is a genuine lack of
understanding of the issues involved by both the investigators and members.
There is an urgent need to have training programs at various levels in order to
increase the pool of competent ethics professionals. Programs like the present
meeting, are aimed to widen the net and increase the awareness."

From another perspective, Mr. Seemant Jauhari, CEO, AHERF added, "Conduct of
clinical trials is perhaps an inevitable component of the drug development
process. The only option is to undertake it with great responsibility and the
stakeholders should ensure their conduct with accountability governed by clear
regulatory processes. However such processes must be balanced enough to allow
effective yet efficient evaluation of studies in India. A well-focussed group,
with wide representation of all stakeholders should champion this topic
consistently and contribute to establishing benchmarks in ethical conduct of
trials."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     January 24, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

University of Cincinnati, Health Centre: Two-Day Conference Addresses Topic of
Measuring Ethicality

LENGTH: 450  words


New Delhi, Jan. 24 -- Can ethics be measured? Can data offer a better
understanding of the ethicality of clinical research?

Those are the questions being presented Thursday, Feb. 21, and Friday, Feb. 22,
at a conference titled "Empirical Bioethics: Emerging Trends for the 2st
Century." The event takes place in the Kingsgate Marriott Conference Center on
UC's medical campus. Registration is required by Feb. 15, 2013.



Sponsored by the Center for Clinical and Translational Science and Training
(CCTST) and the Ethics Center at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
this conference will bring together local and national experts on the topic of
bioethics to discuss cutting-edge research defining the ethical framework
guiding clinical and translational studies.

Keynote speaker Daniel Sulmasy, MD, PhD, Kilbride-Clinton Professor of Medicine
and Ethics and associate director of the MacLean Center for Clinical Medical
Ethics at the University of Chicago, will present "Ethics and Evidence: What
Data Can and Cannot Do for Bioethics."

Featured presenters on Day 2 are Peter Ubel, MD, professor, Fuqua School of
Business and Sanford School of Public Policy, Duke University, and Rebecca
Pentz, PhD, professor of research ethics with the Winship Cancer Institute,
Emory University School of Medicine.

A sampling of additional presentation topics include:

* Returning children's genomic data research results to parents.

* Vaccine decision aids.

* Informed consent in pediatric cancer research.

* Measuring voluntary consent in parents with seriously ill children.

* Influences of financial interest disclosures in the informed consent process.

* Community consultation in studies involving exception to informed consent.

"Medical science is moving into a new era, one in which important ethical issues
faced by patients, clinicians and researchers are being scrutinized more closely
than ever before," says Richard Ittenbach, PhD, professor of pediatrics at UC,
member of the biostatistics and epidemiology division at Cincinnati Children's,
and member of the CCTST ethics group. "The processes used to solve these
dilemmas and the decisions that result are now being investigated using s
rigorous analytical methods.

"Developing an 'ethical framework' that includes established and well-recognized
methods will provide clinicians and scientists with a much-needed guide to
confront many of our most pressing ethical questions."

The fee for the conference is $100, which includes a reception for attendees,
meals and parking. Continuing medical education credits and psychology ethics
credits are available. Additional information and links to online registration
can be found at www.cctst.uc.edu/node/195.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                             July 31, 2000, Monday

Police in crash

BYLINE: ASHLEY GARDINER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 129 words


TWO policemen and a woman were in hospital last night after a head-on collision
at Warrandyte.

The Greensborough woman, in her late 20s, suffered chest, head and leg injuries
when her Hyundai Excel and the police car collided about 10pm on the
Research-Warrandyte Rd.

She was flown to the Alfred Hospital and was last night in a serious but stable
condition.

One of the injured officers, a sergeant from Eltham police station, was taken to
Box Hill Hospital with serious chest injuries.

The other officer, an Eltham senior constable, was taken to Maroondah Hospital.

Both were stable last night.

Sen-Sgt Murray Ashby, of Doncaster police, said officers from the Ethical
Standards Department were at the scene overseeing an investigation into the
crash.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              395 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Town centre abortion clinic given planning ok

BYLINE: Dave Himelfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words


AN ABORTION clinic in Huddersfield town centre has been given the goahead.

And the decision came despite many objections.

Councillors approved a plan to open a Marie Stopes clinic, on Cloth Hall Street,
offering pregnancy advice and early stage 'medical' abortions.

Previously women wanting medical abortions - using an abortion pill - would need
to travel to Leeds, Bradford or Wakefield.

Kirklees Council received 478 objections to the plan, many of which were made on
ethical and religious grounds.

Some had lodged objections over concerns that protests by anti-abortion
campaigners outside the clinic would be detrimental to local businesses.

But 10 out of 13 councillors on the Huddersfield planning committee backed the
proposal while three members abstained.

Councillors had earlier been advised that moral and ethical reasons for
objecting to Marie Stopes' plan were not relevant when considering the planning
application.

The committee heard from Barbara Madeja-Edmunds, who represented the
anti-abortion group, Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child.

Ms Madeja-Edmunds was warned repeatedly by committee chairman Clr Paul Kane that
ethical and religious objections would not be considered.

But Ms Madeja-Edmunds described abortion as a 'legalised violation of human
rights' and claimed the students of the town's colleges and university would be
'the first to be targeted' by the clinic.

Moving the motion for the clinic's approval, Newsome ward Green councillor
Andrew Cooper said he was 'pleased' to support the plan.

Women requiring a surgical abortion - necessary at later stages of pregnancy -
will still need to travel to Leeds or Manchester.

Surgical abortions were previously carried out at Calderdale Royal Hospital,
Halifax, but hospital bosses lost the contract when it went out to tender.

Greater Huddersfield Clinical Commissioning Group awarded the contract to
national charity Marie Stopes which previously had no facilities in Kirklees or
Calderdale.

As well as abortion, the charity offers sexual health advice and treatment as
well as counselling.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The proposed site for clinic on Cloth ¦Hall Street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Town centre abortion clinic given planning ok

BYLINE: Dave Himelfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words


AN ABORTION clinic in Huddersfield town centre has been given the goahead.

And the decision came despite many objections.

Councillors approved a plan to open a Marie Stopes clinic, on Cloth Hall Street,
offering pregnancy advice and early stage 'medical' abortions.

Previously women wanting medical abortions - using an abortion pill - would need
to travel to Leeds, Bradford or Wakefield.

Kirklees Council received 478 objections to the plan, many of which were made on
ethical and religious grounds.

Some had lodged objections over concerns that protests by anti-abortion
campaigners outside the clinic would be detrimental to local businesses.

But 10 out of 13 councillors on the Huddersfield planning committee backed the
proposal while three members abstained.

Councillors had earlier been advised that moral and ethical reasons for
objecting to Marie Stopes' plan were not relevant when considering the planning
application.

The committee heard from Barbara Madeja-Edmunds, who represented the
anti-abortion group, Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child.

Ms Madeja-Edmunds was warned repeatedly by committee chairman Clr Paul Kane that
ethical and religious objections would not be considered.

But Ms Madeja-Edmunds described abortion as a 'legalised violation of human
rights' and claimed the students of the town's colleges and university would be
'the first to be targeted' by the clinic.

Moving the motion for the clinic's approval, Newsome ward Green councillor
Andrew Cooper said he was 'pleased' to support the plan.

Women requiring a surgical abortion - necessary at later stages of pregnancy -
will still need to travel to Leeds or Manchester.

Surgical abortions were previously carried out at Calderdale Royal Hospital,
Halifax, but hospital bosses lost the contract when it went out to tender.

Greater Huddersfield Clinical Commissioning Group awarded the contract to
national charity Marie Stopes which previously had no facilities in Kirklees or
Calderdale.

As well as abortion, the charity offers sexual health advice and treatment as
well as counselling.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The proposed site for clinic on Cloth ¦Hall Street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Town centre abortion clinic given planning ok

BYLINE: Dave Himelfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words


AN ABORTION clinic in Huddersfield town centre has been given the goahead.

And the decision came despite many objections.

Councillors approved a plan to open a Marie Stopes clinic, on Cloth Hall Street,
offering pregnancy advice and early stage 'medical' abortions.

Previously women wanting medical abortions - using an abortion pill - would need
to travel to Leeds, Bradford or Wakefield.

Kirklees Council received 478 objections to the plan, many of which were made on
ethical and religious grounds.

Some had lodged objections over concerns that protests by anti-abortion
campaigners outside the clinic would be detrimental to local businesses.

But 10 out of 13 councillors on the Huddersfield planning committee backed the
proposal while three members abstained.

Councillors had earlier been advised that moral and ethical reasons for
objecting to Marie Stopes' plan were not relevant when considering the planning
application.

The committee heard from Barbara Madeja-Edmunds, who represented the
anti-abortion group, Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child.

Ms Madeja-Edmunds was warned repeatedly by committee chairman Clr Paul Kane that
ethical and religious objections would not be considered.

But Ms Madeja-Edmunds described abortion as a 'legalised violation of human
rights' and claimed the students of the town's colleges and university would be
'the first to be targeted' by the clinic.

Moving the motion for the clinic's approval, Newsome ward Green councillor
Andrew Cooper said he was 'pleased' to support the plan.

Women requiring a surgical abortion - necessary at later stages of pregnancy -
will still need to travel to Leeds or Manchester.

Surgical abortions were previously carried out at Calderdale Royal Hospital,
Halifax, but hospital bosses lost the contract when it went out to tender.

Greater Huddersfield Clinical Commissioning Group awarded the contract to
national charity Marie Stopes which previously had no facilities in Kirklees or
Calderdale.

As well as abortion, the charity offers sexual health advice and treatment as
well as counselling.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The proposed site for clinic on Cloth ¦Hall Street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Town centre abortion clinic given planning ok

BYLINE: Dave Himelfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words


AN ABORTION clinic in Huddersfield town centre has been given the goahead.

And the decision came despite many objections.

Councillors approved a plan to open a Marie Stopes clinic, on Cloth Hall Street,
offering pregnancy advice and early stage 'medical' abortions.

Previously women wanting medical abortions - using an abortion pill - would need
to travel to Leeds, Bradford or Wakefield.

Kirklees Council received 478 objections to the plan, many of which were made on
ethical and religious grounds.

Some had lodged objections over concerns that protests by anti-abortion
campaigners outside the clinic would be detrimental to local businesses.

But 10 out of 13 councillors on the Huddersfield planning committee backed the
proposal while three members abstained.

Councillors had earlier been advised that moral and ethical reasons for
objecting to Marie Stopes' plan were not relevant when considering the planning
application.

The committee heard from Barbara Madeja-Edmunds, who represented the
anti-abortion group, Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child.

Ms Madeja-Edmunds was warned repeatedly by committee chairman Clr Paul Kane that
ethical and religious objections would not be considered.

But Ms Madeja-Edmunds described abortion as a 'legalised violation of human
rights' and claimed the students of the town's colleges and university would be
'the first to be targeted' by the clinic.

Moving the motion for the clinic's approval, Newsome ward Green councillor
Andrew Cooper said he was 'pleased' to support the plan.

Women requiring a surgical abortion - necessary at later stages of pregnancy -
will still need to travel to Leeds or Manchester.

Surgical abortions were previously carried out at Calderdale Royal Hospital,
Halifax, but hospital bosses lost the contract when it went out to tender.

Greater Huddersfield Clinical Commissioning Group awarded the contract to
national charity Marie Stopes which previously had no facilities in Kirklees or
Calderdale.

As well as abortion, the charity offers sexual health advice and treatment as
well as counselling.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The proposed site for clinic on Cloth ¦Hall Street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 6:23 PM GMT

Huddersfield town centre abortion clinic given green light despite nearly 500
objections;
Marie Stopes centre, on Cloth Hall Street, will offer advice and early-stage
terminations

BYLINE: By Dave Himelfield

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 342 words


An abortion clinic in Huddersfield town centre has been given the go-ahead
despite hundreds of objections.

Councillors approved a plan to open a Marie Stopes clinic, on Cloth Hall Street,
offering pregnancy advice and early stage 'medical' abortions.

Previously women wanting medical abortions (using an abortion pill) would need
to travel to Leeds, Bradford or Wakefield.

Kirklees Council received 478 objections to the plan, many of which were made on
ethical and religious grounds.

Some had lodged objections over concerns that protests by anti-abortion
campaigners outside the clinic would be detrimental to local businesses.

But 10 out of 13 councillors on the Huddersfield planning committee backed the
proposal while three members abstained.

Councillors had earlier been advised that moral and ethical reasons for
objecting to Marie Stopes' plan were not relevant when considering the planning
application.

The committee heard from Barbara Madeja-Edmunds, who represented the
anti-abortion group, Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child.

Ms Madeja-Edmunds was warned repeatedly by committee chairman Clr Paul Kane that
ethical and religious objections would not be considered.

But Ms Madeja-Edmunds described abortion as a 'legalised violation of human
rights' and claimed the students of the town's colleges and university would be
'the first to be targeted' by the clinic.

Moving the motion for the clinic's approval, Newsome ward Green councillor
Andrew Cooper said he was 'pleased' to support the plan.

Women requiring a surgical abortion - necessary at later stages of pregnancy -
will still need to travel to Leeds or Manchester.

Surgical abortions were previously carried out at Calderdale Royal Hospital,
Halifax, but hospital bosses lost the contract when it went out to tender.

Greater Huddersfield Clinical Commissioning Group awarded the contract to
national charity Marie Stopes which previously had no facilities in Kirklees or
Calderdale.

As well as abortion, the charity offers sexual health advice and treatment as
well as counselling.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           October 09, 1999, Saturday

Hospital suitors differ on retention

BYLINE: BRYAN GILMER

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



(ran SS edition of Metro & State)

Does one group's offer of job security to top staffers at Helen Ellis Memorial
Hospital present ethical conflicts about its sale? Opinions differ.

If non-profit Choice Health Alliance took over management of Helen Ellis
Memorial Hospital, the hospital's top managers would keep their jobs, the city
attorney and city commissioners, who have been briefed on the deal, said Friday.

The only other company that has expressed interest in taking over the
financially troubled hospital, for-profit Health Management Associates, has said
it would guarantee that all employees except the hospital's top administrators
would continue to be employed.

"This is necessary to eliminate any possibility of conflict of interest," HMA's
senior vice president for acquisitions, Gary C. Bell, wrote in a July letter
outlining his company's unsolicited bid to take over the hospital.

The circumstances might give top hospital executives a personal incentive to
favor affiliating with Choice Health over other groups that wouldn't protect
their jobs.

Administrator Joseph Kiefer is the hospital's top executive. He is also a voting
member of the board of the Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation. That foundation
operates the city-owned hospital and is also negotiating the terms of a deal
under which Choice Health could take over the hospital.

The City Commission and voters would have to approve a final deal.

Kiefer said Friday that he does not believe he has an ethical dilemma and will
continue to vote on matters related to an affiliation.

"If I felt I had a conflict of interest, I would abstain from voting," Kiefer
said. "I definitely don't think there's a conflict. I'm not the one doing the
negotiating."

He said hospital attorneys and other board members are leading that effort.

The board favors the Choice Health deal. That is because the board says Choice
Health, the Tampa Bay-area partnership between University Community Hospital and
Winter Park-based Adventist Health System, is the only possible non-profit
suitor.

The hospital stands to lose more than $ 4-million this year and needs to
affiliate with a larger company to survive.

City Commissioner Beverley Billiris said Friday that the offers of employment
concern her.

"We need to compare one (hospital company) against another ultimately with the
goal that the residents of Tarpon get the best deal," she said. "I'm not looking
at administrators getting the best deal. I have some concerns about that."

Billiris said she has an appointment to discuss the issue and others with Kiefer
on Monday.

City Attorney John Hubbard said offering to employ the current management raises
an ethical question, not a legal one.

"HMA took the position they absolutely would not do that because they say that's
unethical, because that looks like a bribe," he said. "The Adventists say it's
their standard practice."

Two of Billiris' commission colleagues said they are not worried about the
situation.

"It just makes everything go more smoothly," Commissioner Cindy Domino said
Friday of Choice Health's offer to keep Kiefer and other executives. "If you get
rid of top management, it's the stupidest thing you can do, because all that
institutional knowledge goes out the window."

Commissioner David Archie said he is not so worried about a conflict of interest
as he is about considering more than one possible deal.

He thinks the public needs more information than it has been given so far about
the terms of Choice Health's proposal, and he thinks the community would be
better served if commissioners considered more than one deal.

"Some people just feel it should be non-profit and that's it," he said. "But I
just think we need to do whatever is in the best interest of the residents.
Everybody that talks to me is concerned about quality health care, what happens
to indigent patients, and they're concerned about the employees."


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              401 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                       May 20, 2002 Monday Final Edition

Kudos

SOURCE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: Business BC; Keeping Track; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 570 words

Rix Clinical Laboratories and the B.C. Yukon Trades Council donated $15,000 each
to the Mainstream Association for Proactive Community Living, as a down payment
on a Burnaby house for physically and developmentally challenged people. It has
been named Fred Randall House in honour of association board member and tireless
advocate for individual rights, Fred Randall, who organized the donations while
he was ill with leukemia.

The Golden Ears Shrine Club donated $8,000 to the Eagle Ridge Hospital
Foundation for the purchase of four pediatric infusion pumps.

Ethical Funds is continuing its partnership with UNICEF Canada by donating over
$21,000 for the purchase of school supplies for children in developing
companies. The mutual fund company donates a portion of its revenues from new
Registered Education Savings Plan accounts.

The CH.I.L.D. Foundation received $3,000 from the Christmas Family Ball Society.

The third annual B.C. Restaurant and Foodservices Association/Vancouver Wine
Academy Sommelier Award was won by Brent Hayman of Raincity Grill.

Winners of Retail B.C.'s first Window Design competition were Cathy Burrell and
Sharon Wallace of Cavern Clothing in Abbotsford, John Rea and Peter Podolak of
Edward Chapman Ladies' Wear and Jim Ralph of Victoria's Rogers Chocolates. Four
$1,000 scholarships were awarded to young future retailers Tina Ng and Jennilee
Marigomen of Vancouver, Devin Kyler of Kaslo and Katherine Ridewood of
Chemainus. The scholarships were sponsored by Retail BC (in memory of Peter
Glen), the Retail Council of Canada, Jim Dion of Dionco and dmg world media.

At the One Show Interactive awards ceremony in New York City, Blast Radius
received a silver "Pencil Award" in the category of Promotional Advertising
Websites, for its work on the Nintendo GameCube campaign.

Specialty lighting technology company TIR Systems won three awards for Solid
State Lighting projects and products: the Illuminating Engineers Society of
North America B.C. section Award and the Edwin F. Guth Award of Merit for the
IESNA's Pacific Northwest Region, for the Strawberry Mansion Bridge lighting
project in Philadelphia; and the 2001 Awards for Design Excellence Platinum
award for its SSL Destiny Series - ColorBar product.

Information Services Vancouver, a non-profit society that operates local and
province-wide telephone helplines, is the first Canadian agency to be accredited
by the Alliance of Information and Referral Systems, the body that sets
professional standards for information and referral services across North
America. The accreditation process requires agencies to meet stringent standards
in areas such as organizational structure, training, service delivery and
program evaluation.

For seven years, students of the Applied Information Technology program at
Capilano College have been donating their time and skills to non-profit
agencies. Through the efforts of Marty Zlotnik, nine Infotec students developed
Web sites for the B.C. Sports Hall of Fame and Museum and the UBC Sports Hall of
Fame, under the guidance of TELUS Enterprise Solutions. The head designer of the
student group, Richard Bridgwater, recently took second-place honours in the
international Macromedia Student Web Design competition.

TD Canada Trust donated $10,000 to the Coast Foundation Society to help fund
services to people with a mental illness.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ETHICAL FUNDS;UNICEF: Ethical Funds vice-president Margaret Yee
(left) presents a cheque to UNICEF regional director Shirley Kepper.; Photo:
CHRISTMAS FAMILY BALL: Christmas Family Ball organizer Marina Knutson (left) and
incoming chair Anne Hankinson (right) present a spring-time Christmas present to
Grace McCarthy of the CH.I.L.D. Foundation.

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      Business and Financial Times (Ghana)

                           August 19, 2015 Wednesday

Pharmacists urged to embrace ethics

LENGTH: 500  words


Source: Obed Attah Yeboah & Khareema Thompson | B&FT Online | Ghana

Stakeholders in the pharmaceutical industry have asked pharmacists to adhere to
the ethics in their profession in order to grow their businesses. This was said
in a roundtable discussion on the topic: "Sustaining the Pharmaceutical
industry" held by the Centre for Sustainability and Entrepreneurial Development
of the University of Ghana Business School.

Speaking at the discussion, Richmond Adusa-Poku -- Sales Manager, Janssen
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson& Johnson, said that pharmacists must strive
to be ethical in marketing their products in order to keep the cost of seeking
medication moderate.

"When you don't have ethical marketing practices in the pharmaceutical sector,
the cost of medication will even rise because there may be corruption between
the prescriber and producer of the medicine; and therefore we must make sure
ethical marketing cuts across the industry through tenders at the various
pharmaceutical companies, hospitals and clinics.

Dr. Michael Agyekum Addo, CEO of KAMA Group, also opined that a fair and just
legal system has a key role to play if ethical standards are to be upheld in the
industry. He further stated that anyone who has been a victim of injustice by
the legal system will feel less inclined to report any case of unethical
practices in the industry.

"Our legal system should be fair and just to motivate companies to employ ethics
in their profession. I have personally suffered injustice in court when my
product was faked by another company and I had a very unfair ruling on the case.
So, frustrated, I texted the judge: "Do you think I would have the courage to
come to you next time to bring somebody who has faked my drug?"

"Our industry has to do with people's lives but the judiciary is not on our
side. So, no matter what we do there will be problems if the judiciary does not
help us," he added.

A discussant, Ralph Yaw Agyarko, Head of Sanofi Consumer Health Care, urged
pharmacists to be compliant with rules and regulations governing the industry
even if it will cost them a decrease in revenue.

"Complying with rules that governs a business is very important even though we
want to make money. But the very moment we put the rules aside then we are in
the jungle where anything goes. This is when good manufacturing practices come
in. For example, pharmacists must be truthful with the substances they use in
producing their drugs. If a particular drug does not contain a certain amount of
compound, it should not be stated as such.

"The other thing is also dealing with patients in prescribing medication. It is
very important to tell them the truth about the drug. We must make sure any
recommendation we make to patients is the right information. Your boss may not
be happy with you if you want to comply with the rules because it may result in
decrease in sales. But however little your business is, you can do things
ethically and you will feel proud about that," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1800


                  Copyright 2015 Business and Financial Times.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            November 13, 2005 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

OK, it's legal, but it's dead wrong;
MORAL MAZE

BYLINE: HUGH MACKAY, Email your ethical dilemma to moralmaze@fairfax.com.au

SECTION: NEWS; Extra; Pg. 90

LENGTH: 604 words


THE High Court has recently declared there was nothing unconstitutional about
the Government's media campaign advocating its new industrial relations laws.
But, as we all know, the fact that an action is legal doesn't necessarily make
it ethical. Obedience to the law is by no means the same thing as morality.

So there's still a perfectly legitimate moral question to be raised about that
campaign: was it ethical for the Government to spend $55 million of taxpayers'
money on propaganda designed to soften us up for legislation before it had even
been submitted to the Parliament? Is flagrantly political advocacy for proposed
legislation in the same moral league as government advertising designed to
explain people's rights and obligations under new legislation?

The Government's defence that the legislation was already under attack from the
trade union movement is no defence at all: trade unions, like commercial
organisations, can spend their own money to say whatever they like, but
taxpayers' money is in a different category. It doesn't take much imagination to
ponder all the things that might have been done with that $55 million. In public
hospitals all over Australia, staff would have wept with relief at the sight of
any of those millions in extra funding.

Legal? Yes. Right? I think not.

Now we are being confronted with a far more serious example of the tension
between what is legal and what is ethical. If the Government's proposed
anti-terror legislation passes into law, we will have legalised a process
imprisonment without charge that most Australians would once have regarded as
utterly wrong. And in the anti-sedition provisions of the proposed laws, we will
have eroded Australia's commitment to freedom of speech.

There is a great deal about the proposed anti-terror laws we still don't know,
but we do know this: the Government is proposing to give the police the power to
lock people up for 14 days without their being charged with anything. While
you're thinking about that, ponder the fact that such a law doesn't only
redefine what Australians regard as fair; it also contravenes international
human rights agreements to which Australia is a signatory.

In other words, we are not only sacrificing one of our most precious freedoms
freedom from the possibility of imprisonment without charge but we are turning
our backs on our moral obligation to uphold one of the most fundamental of human
rights. Is Australia, once again, to become known for its human rights abuses?

This is a retreat from values many of us thought were central to the Australian
way of life. It means that by our willingness to modify, in such radical ways,
the administration of justice in Australia, we have actually abandoned some of
the freedoms we are claiming to defend.

(By the way, this has nothing to do with the arrest of terrorist suspects in
Sydney and Melbourne this week: they have all been charged with offences under
existing anti-terrorist laws. Under the proposed legislation, no such charges
need be laid.)

Yes, we're all worried about the threat of terrorism. Yes, we know Australia has
become a more likely terrorist target because of our participation in the
invasion of Iraq. Yes, we want our authorities to administer the law without
compromise and to pursue any intelligence leads they may have. But are we really
sure that these particular provisions so obviously open to abuse and so
characteristic of regimes we have always found abhorrent are the best way to
preserve our national integrity?

If the proposed laws are passed, imprisonment without charge will become legal.
But that won't make it right.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2005 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                                 June 12, 2016
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Union fury as 'hospital staff gagged by the HSE';
Impact hits out at Crumlin's new 'restrictive' code of conduct

BYLINE: MAEVE SHEEHAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 579 words


THE country's largest health union has criticised a new code of conduct for
staff at Our Lady's Children's Hospital in Crumlin that it claims restricts
employees from speaking out.

The "code of ethical business conduct" issued to staff at Our Lady's Children's
Hospital in April instructs employees "to ensure that nothing they say or do
should ever weaken the reputation" of the hospital and its staff.

Another clause says employees "will avoid publicly criticising" the Board or the
hospital without having first exhausted every "internal avenue" of complaint.
All hospitals are now required to produce code of conducts and ethics for its
employees.

However, Impact, which represents a large number of staff at the hospital, has
criticised some "restrictive" clauses in the Crumlin children's hospital
document, which also covers conflicts of interest, business ethics, and how
employees should interact with patients and colleagues.

Sources claim the new code could stop employees from speaking out about issues
such as the location of the new National Children's Hospital which has been the
subject of huge debate amongst doctors and families.

"There was no discussion with employees, or their union Impact, before this code
of ethics was circulated to Crumlin hospital staff. Impact has since raised a
number of questions about the code with hospital management.

"We have queried the extent of the restrictions on staff members speaking out
about issues like the new children's hospital," said the Impact source.

"While the union has not adopted a position on the location of the new
children's hospital, we believe that citizens and parents have the right to
express an opinion regardless of where they happen to work, and that includes
staff of Crumlin hospital."

In a statement, Our Lady's Children's Hospital said it has not been contacted by
Impact, and said staff continue to sign the code of conduct.

"A Code of Ethical Business Conduct was issued to staff at Our Lady's Children's
Hospital, Crumlin, last month in line with corporate governance requirements
under the Hospital's Service Level Arrangement with the HSE. Procedures in
relation to dealing with media remain as they were prior to the introduction of
the Code."

The Department of Health urged all healthcare providers to introduce codes of
conduct for employees to help improve standards of care and performance.

Hospitals that didn't already have codes in place began introducing them last
year. Breaches of the codes can result in disciplinary procedures.

Codes differ from hospital to hospital. The code of conduct at Temple Street
Children's Hospital, for instance, encourages employees to speak on behalf of
patients when necessary.

The code states that employees should be "advocates" for patients and that "all
employees are responsible for promoting and protecting the interests of their
patients and families, taking into account all aspects of equality and
diversity.

"This could involve speaking up for people to make sure that what is best for
each individual is always taken into account."

Employees are also encouraged to "report in good faith to hospital management or
through the 'Protected Disclosure Policy' a workplace concern that relates to
the health or welfare of patients".

It also says reports must not be intended to undermine the reputation of any
colleague or service provider.

'Citizens have  ;  ;  the right to  ;  ;  express an  ;  ;  opinion no  ;  ;
matter where  ;  ;  they work'  ;

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SILENT TREATMENT: Staff at Our Lady's Children's Hospital are
restricted from speaking out against the Board

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

Eight Chinese quarantined as panic grips Ebola-hit west AfricaOver 1,000 killed,
1,848 infected by deadly virus, Liberia getting experimental drug

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 759 words


Agence France-Presse

FREETOWN, Geneva

Eight Chinese medical workers who treated Ebola patients have been quarantined
in Sierra Leone, as the latest World Health Organisation (WHO) data showed the
deadly virus has killed 1,013 people and infected another 1,848.

The fatalities include 52 deaths recorded between August 7-9 in three West
African countries at the centre of the epidemic â[#x20ac]" Guinea, Liberia and
Sierra Leone â[#x20ac]" according to the data released late on Monday.

China's ambassador to Sierra Leone Zhao Yanbo said that seven doctors and one
nurse who treated Ebola patients had been placed under quarantine, but would not
be drawn on whether they were displaying symptoms of the disease.

In addition 24 nurses in Sierra Leone, most from the military hospital in the
capital, have also been quarantined, according to Yanbo and hospital director
Sahr Foday.

Foday said a senior physician at Freetown's Connaught Hospital had contracted
Ebola but was responding well to treatment. The nation's sole virologist, who
was at the forefront of its battle against the epidemic, died from Ebola last
month.

Gripped by panic, west African nations battling the tropical disease ramped up
drastic containment measures that have caused transport chaos, price hikes and
food shortages.

Liberia, meanwhile, said it had requested samples of an experimental drug and
that supplies would be brought into the country "by a representative of the US
government" later this week.

There is currently no available cure or vaccine for Ebola, which the WHO has
declared a global public health emergency.

The disease has hit doctors hard in the ill-equipped and fragile health systems
of west African nations.

The use of an experimental drug called ZMapp on two Americans and a Spanish
priest infected with the virus while working in Africa has opened up an intense
ethical debate.

The drug, made by private US company Mapp Pharmaceuticals, has shown promising
results but is still in an early phase of development and had only been tested
previously on monkeys.

ZMapp is in very short supply, but its use on Western aid workers has sparked
controversy and demands that it be made available in Africa.

"Is it ethical to use unregistered medicines to treat people, and if so, what
criteria should they meet, and what conditions, and who should be treated?" said
WHO assistant director-general Marie-Paule Kieny on Monday.

"What is the ethical thing to do?"

Mapp Pharmaceuticals said it had sent all its available supplies to West Africa.

"In responding to the request received from a West African nation, the available
supply of ZMapp is exhausted," it said in a statement.

"Any decision to use ZMapp must be made by the patients' medical team," it said,
adding that the drug was "provided at no cost in all cases".

The company did not reveal how many doses were sent.

"The White House and the United States Food and Drug Administration have
approved the request for sample doses of experimental serum to treat Liberian
doctors who are currently infected with the deadly Ebola virus disease," the
Liberian presidency said.

The latest outbreak, which the WHO says is by far the worst since Ebola was
discovered four decades ago, has left more than 960 people dead, and infected or
possibly infected nearly 1,800.

In Liberia, where Ebola has already claimed about 370 lives, a third province,
Lofa, was placed under quarantine after similar measures in Bomba and Grand Cape
Mount.

"From now on, no one will be allowed to go to Lofa, no one will come out of
there," President Ellen Johnson Sirfleaf said. "We want to protect areas that
have not been yet affected."

Sirleaf also banned state officials from travelling abroad for a month and
ordered those outside the country to return home within a week.

While impoverished Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone account for the bulk of the
cases, the latest outbreak has spread further afield. Nigeria, Africa's most
populous country, has so far counted two deaths.

Numerous countries have imposed a raft of emergency measures, including flight
bans or screening of passengers.

In the latest such move, the Ivory Coast announced it was banning all flights
from the three hardest-hit nations.

And it said in the past few days it had turned back around 100 Liberians trying
to flee across the border into Ivory Coast, which has not reported any Ebola
cases.

Niger, which also has yet to confirm any cases, has put in place an "emergency
plan" to train health workers and boost checks at borders, airports and
stations. Togo has also strengthened health screenings.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 20, 1989 Friday

Freezing of human embryos raises legal, ethical questions

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 817 words


BY  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
 The Globe and Mail
   Canadian doctors are freezing embryos for future implantation in women
being treated for infertility, despite legal and ethical uncertainties
surrounding the practice.

These uncertainties include the need to answer questions about who owns
the embryos if a couple were to divorce, or a partner were to die, and
about how long unused embryos should be kept frozen before being
destroyed.

"There are no strict rules. It's like having an unwritten
constitution," said Dr. Ian Tummon, an infertility specialist at
University Hospital in London, Ont., which has been freezing embryos since
October, 1987. The hospital has frozen embryos for 15 couples.

Toronto East General Hospital started freezing a year ago and Toronto
General Hospital will begin doing so in the next few weeks.

At Toronto East General, some couples have donated their frozen embryos
to other infertile couples in the program.

Doctors say they have turned to freezing to help resolve the dilemma of
being stuck with surplus embryos that cannot be destroyed but if used,
increase a woman's chance of a multiple pregnancy.

The dilemma is created in hospitals every day: several eggs are
retrieved from infertile women who have been treated to superovulate and
all the eggs are fertilized (outside the womb) to maximize the potential
for achieving at least one pregnancy.

Doctors want to limit the number of embryos they implant to reduce the
chance of a multiple pregnancy , which can be medically risky or unwanted
by some people.

But that leaves a problem: put in too few embryos and you limit the
potential of getting at least one embryo to "take" in the womb, while also
being stuck with extra embryos that cannot be destroyed. Put in too many
embryos and you run the risk of the woman carrying triplets or even
quadruplets.

With freezing, doctors say they can fertilize all the eggs they
harvest, use some of the embryos and preserve the rest in storage as
backup if the woman doesn't get pregnant on the first try.

Freezing is also cheaper and less painful than putting a woman through
another round of egg retrieval. And a woman who gets pregnant through in-
vitro fertilization and wants more children has a frozen supply of embryos
ready for use.

However, thawed human embryos have a 50 per cent chance of not
surviving.

"I think we want to be small-c conservative and be aware of the
sanctity of potential human beings. A healthy embryo forces you to
freeze," Dr. Tummon said.

The issue of freezing human embryos is so murky that even those centres
involved in it agree they have not resolved many of the ethical and legal
questions.

The Toronto General has decided to put a two-year limit on embryo
storage, after which unused ones will be destroyed or donated for
research, Dr. Hannah Balakier, director of the hospital's in-vitro
fertilization laboratory, said in an interview yesterday.

She said the hospital will be ready to begin freezing in a few weeks.

The process involves coating the embryos in a special solution to
protect against the formation of ice crystals, which can damage the
organism. The embryos are then stored in liquid nitrogen.

Toronto East General and University Hospital have no time limit on
embryo storage.

"It's not the best thing in the world yet," said Dr. Sam Batarseh,
chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Toronto East General and an
infertility specialist. But, he said, it is the only way of getting around
the surplus embryo problem while maximizing the chance for a pregnancy.

He said the hospital will freeze no more than three or four embryos per
couple.

The embryos become the hospital's property should both spouses die
unexpectedly, he said. But it is still uncertain who owns the embryos if a
couple splits up.

According to Dr. Murray Kroach of the East General's infertility
clinic, the frozen embryos would be destroyed if an estranged couple could
not agree on ownership.

He also confirmed that some couples have agreed to anonymously donate
frozen embryos to other couples in the in-vitro program. This poses some
risk, he admitted, because a child will not know his or her genetic
history.
 Couples who want to donate frozen embryos are screened for genetic
defects, Dr. Kroach said. But that does not entirely eliminate the risk
that a child born to a woman who carries another couple's frozen embryo
could not one day have a medical problem that escaped screening detection.

Canada is not alone in embryo freezing. For several years, Australia,
England, France and the United States have been freezing embryos obtained
through in-vitro fertilization to get around the multiple pregnancy
problem.

But Dr. Tummon said embryo selection for freezing is biased. At one
U.S. clinic where he worked, Dr. Tummon said, the embryos frozen were the
least healthy of the lot.

Australia had the first case of "orphan embryos" when a wealthy couple
whose frozen embryos were left in an infertility clinic there died in an
accident.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    March 26, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Ethical approvals get study under way: One in two heart attack victims to test
effect of drug

BYLINE: PAMELA FAYERMAN, SUN HEALTH ISSUES REPORTER; VANCOUVER SUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B1 / Front

LENGTH: 670 words


More than 200 people in the Lower Mainland who will suffer heart attacks over
the next couple of years will be part of the first multi-hospital study ever
done on a drug that may reverse the death sentence they could face without it.

Ambulance paramedics or emergency room doctors attending to people in cardiac
arrest will administer a rapid-acting, blood clot-busting drug called TPA
(tissue plasminogen activator) to 122 study subjects while the other half of the
244 subjects will get a placebo of salt water in a double-blind, controlled
study.

Only people who are in a state known as pulseless electrical activity -- (PEA)
will receive a 15-minute infusion of the drug. In that group, there is
electrical output from the heart but ineffective pumping.

People with PEA heart attacks are believed to account for 600 of the 3,000 heart
attacks in B.C. each year. Such people have a 99-per-cent chance of dying.

Recent research indicates clots may be to blame for up to 50 per cent of heart
attacks, which is why some people take blood-thinning Aspirin or other
anti-coagulant agents as preventative therapy.

Under current therapy, 99 per cent of all such heart attack victims likely die
due to blood clots in an artery of the heart or lungs which don't respond to
standard therapy including intravenous fluids, CPR, oxygen and adrenaline.

Dr. Riyad Abu-Laban, an emergency room doctor at Vancouver Hospital who has
spent the past four years coordinating the complex study, said there are
anecdotal reports but no studies -- such as this one -- that suggest the drug,
an enzyme manufactured through genetic engineering, may dramatically increase
the chance of survival of people with PEA heart attacks.

"In the best-case scenario, we might be able to save 600 lives a year in B.C. if
this works," he said.

The $ 350,000 study is being paid for by the pharmaceutical company which makes
TPA, Hoffmann La-Roche. The drug is also used for stroke victims, to break up
blood clots in the brain.

Because TPA can cause bleeding complications, it is considered dangerous to use
in people who have bleeding disorders or who are at risk of internal bleeding.

Dr. Roy Purssell, head of the emergency department at Vancouver Hospital and the
emergency medicine division at the University of B.C., said the question of
resolving ethical issues pertinent to the study delayed its implementation.

The study won ethical approval from the Health Protection Branch in Ottawa, the
Justice Institute, the B.C. Ambulance Service and various hospitals.

The consent issue was one which was contentious since unconscious patients in
cardiac arrest aren't capable of giving consent to participate in a medical
study involving a drug which they don't even know whether they will receive.

In order to properly evaluate the study results, neither the patient, family,
paramedics or medical team will know whether the solution administered is real
or placebo.

The study was given the green light because death is almost a sure thing without
a new therapy and the drug is expected to give victims far greater chances of
survival, he said.

The study announcement was made at the Vancouver Trade and Convention Centre,
where nearly 2,000 emergency doctors from 34 countries around the world have
gathered for the International Conference on Emergency Medicine.

The five-day conference will examine such issues as ways to decrease reliance on
emergency care when public demand is out of step with fiscal realities, planning
for and dealing with disasters such as bombs, infectious or viral diseases, and
ethical issues.

Conference co-chair Dr. Anton Grunfeld, an emergency doctor at Vancouver
Hospital, said delegates will also be discussing the "shameful and
unconscionably long" patient waits for care in the emergency department.

"It's a reflection of our poor state of health care when the emergency
department function is being subverted because of lack of funding for acute care
beds," he said.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: Vancouver Sun / COMPLEX TASK: Dr. Riyad Abu-Laban to
coordinate test of heart drug.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            July 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Babies 'at risk' without doctors

BYLINE: JENNY DENNIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 337 words


ILLAWARRA doctors fear babies will die if midwife-only births are allowed at
Shellharbour Hospital.

Clinicians fear their concerns could be ignored in the face of political
pressure to have the Shellharbour birthing unit reopened.

A recommendation to introduce midwife-only births at Shellharbour has followed a
trial of the practice at Wollongong Hospital which was found to work well.

A review of the trial has found the midwife-only model could be viable and safe
for low-risk births at Shellharbour Hospital. This is despite safety concerns
raised by doctors.

"I don't know of one doctor in the Illawarra who supports the move," an
Illawarra doctor told the Mercury. He said the plan to reopen Shellharbour's
birthing unit would place doctors at the hospital in an ethical dilemma.

"Ethical doctors can't refuse to help in an emergency and they're relying on the
fact that people will come running if there's a problem."

Reopening the unit would place more stress on the hospital's emergency
department, which since January 1 has been operating without specialist
emergency physicians.

Illawarra Patient Safety Committee chair Paul Kovac said safety was about the
ability to respond to rare, life-threatening situations that child birth
inevitably threw up.

"Women undergoing midwife-only labour need to understand they are taking certain
risks by choosing to have their babies at a facility where there's a lesser
(medical) cover," Dr Kovac said. "It's not just having a doctor on site, you
need to have the right doctor."

A spokesman for NSW Health Minister Morris Iemma said the safety of mothers and
babies was paramount in consideration of maternity services and a midwifery-led
model would only proceed at Shellharbour if the steering committee believed it
could do so safely.

A Wollongong ambulance officer said the report's recommendation that an
ambulance be available for immediate transfers between Shellharbour and
Wollongong was unrealistic. His best estimate of transfer time between the two
hospitals was one hour.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2005 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Wilkie may yet reject all suitors;
Both major parties could miss out

BYLINE: CAROL NADER CANBERRA

SECTION: NEWS; Federal Politics; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 474 words


ANDREW Wilkie has left open the possibility of shunning both major political
parties and refusing to help either leader form a minority government. As Prime
Minister Julia Gillard and Opposition Leader Tony Abbott continue to court the
independent MPs, the member for Denison emerged last night from discussions with
both leaders and said it could still be some days before he chooses sides.
Previously Mr Wilkie has indicated he could decide as early as today, and that
remains a possibility.

He ruled out accepting any ministerial or speaker position, saying he was
"fiercely protective" of his independence. "I will support the party or parties
that I believe will deliver stable, competent and ethical government . . . and
I'm still to decide whether any one party or parties are going to do that," he
said. "I reserve the option of backing no party or parties . . . I note that in
the last few months the Labor government has been neither stable, competent nor
ethical, and I'm yet to be persuaded that the opposition can do any better." Mr
Wilkie has requested further meetings with each leader, and had dinner with the
other three independents last night. He said that if he did not side with either
party, he would do nothing to risk stability and would not block supply. If he
did side with a party, that party would have to negotiate with him on
legislation and he would vote for it on its merits. He insisted his list of 20
"priorities" he had given each leader were not demands. But he said there were
two particular issues there must be reform on - the "unacceptable" state of the
Royal Hobart Hospital, and poker machines. He wants $1 bet limits and losses of
no more than $120 an hour. Mr Wilkie denied his push for more funds for the
hospital was pork barrelling, saying Denison had been a safe Labor seat for more
than 20 years, which meant it had not received its fair share of funding. "The
tiles are falling off the walls in the hospital. What I am trying to achieve
here is catch-up," he said. On poker machine reform, he said both party leaders
had been receptive to the idea. "I think they both understand that poker
machines are doing terrible harm," he said. Mr Wilkie said neither party had
ethical policies on asylum seekers, although Labor's policy was the "least bad".
He also favoured Labor's policy on the national broadband network, but said the
Coalition's mental health policy was superior. Mr Wilkie also wants a price on
carbon, federal whistle-blower legislation, dental care to be included in
Medicare, a conscience vote on same-sex marriage and the introduction of a
national disability insurance scheme. Independent South Australian senator Nick
Xenophon, who shares Mr Wilkie's views on poker machine reform, told The Age
that a conscience vote might be the way to achieve tougher limits on poker
machines.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Wilkie meets Tony Abbott at Parliament House.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                           November 25, 2008, Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Around Town

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 473 words


Judges to split hairs over top moustaches

THE city's best moustache will be revealed at a huge party tonight.

As part of a prostate cancer campaign, men from across the Lothians have been
encouraged to grow a moustache throughout the month of November.

Hundreds of people have signed up for the Movember initiative.

A judging panel will be present tonight in The Caves on Niddry Street South to
assess the best and worst examples.

The event starts at 8pm.

Foulkes meets ID protesters

LOTHIANS Labour MSP George Foulkes is to address the next meeting of the
Edinburgh branch of the NO2ID pressure group.

The meeting takes place from 7.45pm tomorrow night at the Quaker Meeting House
on Victoria Terrace.

Christmas fair for the ethical

AN ethical Christmas fair will take place from December 6-14.

The Edinburgh Ethical Christmas Fayre brings together the very best in fair
trade, ethical, sustainable gifts, food and drinks from retailers across the UK
and beyond.

Girlie night aims to pamper up disability charity

DISABILITY charity The Thistle Foundation is offering the chance to pamper
yourself and raise money for its work.

The organisation will hold a Girlie Pamper Evening at Le Monde, George Street,
on Thursday.

There will be the chance to enjoy a Virgin Vie makeover, and bid in a charity
auction for prizes including the services of a professional cocktail barman and
a date with Forth One's Andy Booglas.

Tickets cost GBP 15. Check the website, www.thistle.org.uk, for more details.

Man taken to hospital after crash

A MAN was taken to hospital after a crash in the Capital.

Emergency crews were called to the single-vehicle crash at the roundabout
linking Fishwives' Causeway and Baileyfield Crescent in Portobello at 7.10am
yesterday.

Book signing by city sci-fi writer

AN award-winning science-fiction author is to sign copies of his latest book in
the Capital.

The city-based author Charles Stross will be reading from and signing copies of
Clan Corporate in the Waterstone's West End book shop. The free event is being
held on Thursday, December 11, at 6pm, and tickets are available from the shop.

Fundraising night helps cancer unit to race ahead

A RACE night raised more than GBP 4000 for research into breast cancer at the
Western General.

The event was put on by two workers at the Braid Hills Nursing Home.

Activity co-ordinator Barbara Thomson suffered from the disease last year and
said she wanted to stage the event at Liberton Rugby Club as a thank-you.

The event raised GBP 2450, a sum that was complimented by GBP 2000 from Bupa,
and she paid tribute to colleague Sally Duddy who helped organise it.

Picture caption

CARDINAL Keith O'Brien and Councillor Marilyne MacLaren help Niddrie Mill pupil
Shannon Gray and Humeira Din from St Francis plant a sapling to mark the spot of
the time capsule buried to mark their new Craigmillar campus.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              411 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Health dept rejects whistleblower calls

BYLINE: Daniel Bateman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 415  words


QUEENSLAND Health has dismissed a whistleblowers' claims of an alleged cover-up
and official misconduct at Townsville Hospital.

Jo-Anna Barber, a senior investigator with the health department's ethical
standards unit, has approached the Crime and Misconduct Commission with a number
of allegations about government employees not protecting public safety at the
Townsville and Gold Coast hospitals. She has given the CMC more than 30 hours of
recorded one-on-one interviews with hospital staff, testimonies and several
documents gathered during her investigation into the hospital's cardio-thoracic
unit crisis in 2008.

The surgical service was temporarily closed after bureaucrats were unable to
settle personality conflicts among some of the unit's staff.

Among Ms Barber's allegations are claims patients were brought to serious harm
by a surgeon in training; the investigation unit was woefully under-resourced;
there was a culture among department officials in ensuring complaints were not
seriously dealt with; and some Medical Board of Queensland members did not
understand their legal duties to protect patients.

Ms Barber, a former policewoman, is being assisted by Burnett MP Rob Messenger,
who helped another whistleblower bring Bundaberg Hospital's Jayant ``Dr Death''
Patel scandal to light seven years ago.

Townsville health district CEO Dr Andrew Johnson said the investigation into the
cardio-thoracic crisis was one of the most in-depth investigations ever carried
out by the department's ethical standards unit, under the supervision of the
CMC.

``Investigators collated and examined more than 5000 documents and conducted
more than 60 in-depth interviews with witnesses,'' he said.

``Queensland Health also referred this matter to the CMC to confirm the
allegations had been properly investigated.

``The CMC found that the Queensland Health investigation was entirely
appropriate and no further action was required.''

Dr Johnson, who was the head of the hospital during the crisis, had previously
said the decision to temporarily close the cardiac unit was the biggest
disappointment of his professional career.

Australian Medical Association Queensland president Dr Richard Kidd said it
would not be appropriate for him to pre-empt any CMC investigation into Ms
Barber's allegations.

``As the representative body, the AMA is supportive of any process that
contributes to accountability and transparency when it comes to patient care,''
he said.

daniel.bateman@townsvillebulletin.com.au

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Catholic Church told to butt out of new hospital

BYLINE: Jeremy Warren, Saskatchewan News Network

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 533  words

DATELINE: SASKATOON


SASKATOON -- The mayor of Humboldt is asking the provincial government to ensure
the Catholic Church is not involved in the city's new hospital.

"The message (city) council has received from the community is that there is a
clear desire for a public hospital," said Mayor Malcolm Eaton in an interview
with The StarPhoenix.

"In order to have a hospital that doesn't get into Catholic ethical issues, we
need a public hospital."

Construction will start on a new hospital this spring, which has prompted debate
about who will operate the new facility.

Other communities involved in the new hospital have also expressed support for a
publicly operated hospital instead of a faith-based facility, Eaton said.

But the final decision about governance will be made by Health Minister Len
Taylor, said Louise Greenberg, associate deputy minister of health.

The minister will meet with the Catholic Health Corp. and Catholic bishops in
the coming weeks, as well as people living in the communities served by the new
hospital, she said.

St. Elizabeth's hospital in Humboldt serves about 35,000 in the region and is
owned by the Saskatchewan Catholic Health Corp. The Catholic-run board receives
money from the Saskatoon Health Region to operate the facility.

Elective tubal ligation surgery, where a woman's fallopian tubes are severed and
sealed to prevent conception, was prohibited by the Catholic-run board in July.
That decision sparked ethical debates about faith-based hospitals in and around
Humboldt, about 100 kilometres east of Saskatoon.

"I stress that we have not severed ties with the Catholic church. No final
decision has been made," Eaton said.

Two family doctors -- Dr. Carrie Levick and Dr. Jacquie Bourgeois -- submitted
their resignations in December, leaving Humboldt to deal with a potential
shortage of doctors.

"Our immediate concern in the community is how can we create the circumstances
for the two doctors to reconsider or set aside their resignations," Eaton said.
"There's widespread support for (Levick and Bourgeois) in Humboldt."

Community representatives met with provincial health department and health
authority officials at a Jan. 18 meeting to discuss the operations of the new
hospital.

"At the end of the day it appeared officials heard and understood what we had to
say. The health region expressed to me they would be anxious to respect the
wishes of the communities involved," Eaton said.

The communities involved with the meeting were clear about their support for a
publicly operated hospital, but the province also heard there is still a role
for spiritual care, such as religious programs and chapel services, Greenberg
said.

"It's a complicated issue. It's not black and white," Greenberg said. "That
medical decisions should be made by the patient and doctor is only one view.

"People might not like the decision in the end, but at least they were involved
in the process."

According to the construction timeline to replace the 1955 building, tenders
will be issued in February or March, with the crews on-site in the spring.

Calls to the Saskatchewan Catholic Health Corp. and the Catholic diocese were
not immediately returned. The Saskatoon Health Region declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2007 The Leader-Post, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                    October 12, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

Doing the right thing at the end of life: Unique program takes ethics from books
to bedside

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

BYLINE: Andy Ogle, Journal Staff Writer

SECTION: City; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: Edmonton

Nothing in Gary Goldsand's five years of studying health ethics at university
quite prepared him for the real-life, bedside discussions he's having now at the
Royal Alexandra Hospital.

Take the decision about whether to insert a feeding tube into a terminally ill
patient's stomach.

"It's one thing to read about it in a textbook or in case studies; it's another
to speak to the patient, family and health-care workers," says Goldsand who is
in Capital Health's new one-year residency program in clinical ethics, the first
of its kind in Canada.

Textbooks and theoretical discussions just can't deal with the emotions that
arise in such moments, he says.

Goldsand, who is completing a doctoral degree in religion and bioethics at the
University of Toronto, said the hospital training he'll get this year will be an
invaluable part of his education.

Developed by the Royal Alex bioethics committee with the John Dossetor Health
Ethics Centre at the University of Alberta, the residency is designed to bridge
the gap between academic and clinical settings in an area where advances in
technology, new drugs, and workload pressures have increasingly raised complex
ethical questions.

It arises out of the pastoral care program at the Royal Alex, which was in its
infancy 15 years ago when Rev. Neil Elford joined it.

Elford, who is now manager of supportive care at the Alex and vice-chair of the
hospital bioethics committee, says increasing ethnic and cultural diversity in
Edmonton and other Canadian cities has also increased the complexity of ethical
questions in health care.

"A lot of the decisions that must be made around end-of-life questions and
quality of life are based on individuals' value systems and we need to take into
account different religions and different values," says Elford, who was ordained
in the United Church.

Dr. Rick Johnston, clinical chief for adult intensive care at the Royal
Alexandra Hospital, says the pastoral care service has become an invaluable part
of the hospital, with people from a dozen different religions offering support.

"It has gone from 'What the hell is pastoral care?' to 'Where the hell is
pastoral care -- we need them,' " Johnston says.

Over the last 10 years, he says, there has also been a strong push to bring
ethicists into hospitals to make sure a proper ethical framework is being
followed in deciding "what is the right thing to do."

This is especially true when there are disagreements between medical and nursing
staff and patients and their families, Johnston says.

"But one problem is if you read what has been published by ethicists, it becomes
extremely clear that very few of them have spent time at the coal face."

Their ideas may be correct but often it's a matter of how you word them, he
says.

Out of that arose the discussion of providing the same practical experience that
medical students get to a student of medical ethics.

This is exactly the component that Goldsand says he's lacked in his otherwise
excellent training at the U of T.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Lucas, The Journal; Facing the complex medical ethics
decisions at the Royal Alex are, from left, Rev. Neil Elford, Dr. Gary Goldsand
and Dr. Richard Johnston.

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

SGHS honors top nurses

BYLINE: Anna Hall, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 554 words


May 12--City, county and hospital officials gathered Monday to proclaim a
singular message: Thank you, nurses.

In honor of National Nurses Week, from May 5 through May 12, members of the
hospital and community came together for a banquet to let area nurses know they
are appreciated.

Honorees were nominated for awards and gift bags by hospital staff and
officials. The results of the nomination process was close to overwhelming for
Elizabeth Gunn, Southeast Georgia Health System vice president of patient care
services.

"We handed out a piece of paper and asked that people write down why a certain
nurse inspires them," Gunn said. "Turns out, one piece of paper wasn't enough.
The length nominators went to, to explain what nurse they chose and why, it was
amazing. The stories just kept coming in."

Every year, the hospital hosts a reception for its top nurses, simply to say
good job and note that their hard, ongoing work has not gone unnoticed.

This year, Brunswick mayor Cornell Harvey and county commission chair Dale
Provenzano, as well as hospital president and chief executive officer Gary
Colberg, delivered speeches to profess their gratitude for the men and women who
stand on the health front lines, proving invaluable to the success and forward
movement of the local heath care system.

"You, our nurses, are just like the police department, the fire department,"
Provenzano said. "You are there serving our community in immeasurable ways.
Nurses are there, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. Thank you
for all you do. It is appreciated."

The 2015 theme for the national week, "Ethical Practice. Quality Care," is
certainly fitting for Brunswick's nursing team, Colberg said.

"Our nurses fit that bill perfectly," Colberg said. "Ethical, providing quality
care and I would even venture to add one more title, that they are completely
committed to serving our community. They live it, they are it, every day."

Noting that he himself was a recent patient at the hospital, Colberg said he has
personally experienced the passion and consistent dedication the hospitals
nursing team exudes on a daily basis.

"We are lucky to have a nursing staff like this," Colberg said.

Harvey noted that the effects of their work is felt beyond the walls of the
hospital.

"I say it all the time, we are building a better Brunswick," Harvey said. "You,
our nurses, are contributing to that in ways you may not even know. You are
helping us build a better Brunswick."

For operating room nurse Nicole Angel, the afternoon event was a touching
reminder that her work, and that of her fellow team, has not gone unnoticed.
Having only been at the Brunswick center for a year, she admits she was slightly
surprised to be included in the league of her top peers. Nonetheless, knowing
that she is appreciated is always inspiring, she said.

"I love working here, with the small town feel and the love we all share for our
patients and other staffers," Angel said. "I can't wait to get back to work and
work with new patients."

Reporter Anna Hall writes about education and other local topics. Contact her at
ahall@thebrunswicknews.com, on Facebook or at 265-8320, ext. 322.

___ (c)2015 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150512-GE-SGHS-honors-top-nurses-0512-20150512

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2015 The Brunswick News


                              415 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           September 9, 2006 Saturday

Surgeons in Cavan warned on transfers

BYLINE: Eithne Donnellan, Health Correspondent

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 420 words


Consultant surgeons at Cavan General Hospital have been warned by the Health
Service Executive (HSE) that if they do not comply with a protocol governing the
transfer of patients in need of surgery from Monaghan hospital, they may be
reported to the Medical Council.

Despite the threat, the consultants in Cavan have refused to agree to the
document, which insists surgical patients who need transfers from Monaghan
should be accepted at Cavan without question and without reference to resource
availability.

The protocol was devised by the HSE, in conjunction with clinicians, after an
elderly man bled to death at Monaghan hospital last year. Doctors in Monaghan
tried to transfer Pat Joe Walsh (75) to Cavan as well as to Our Lady of Lourdes,
in Drogheda, but neither would accept him, claiming they had no intensive-care
beds available. Later it transpired they both had beds free.

Yesterday, Donal Duffy of the Irish Hospital Consultants Association (IHCA),
said that for the consultants in Cavan to give an undertaking to abide by the
protocol "would fly totally in the face of their ethical and legal obligations".

He said the Medical Council's ethical guide said that if a doctor considered
he/she did not have the necessary facilities to manage a patient, the patient
should be referred on. Furthermore, he said the High Court had found in 2004
that unless a consultant was satisfied the facilities required to successfully
complete an operation and allow a patient to recuperate were in place, the
consultant shouldn't start a procedure.

Therefore, if a consultant undertook to abide by the protocol and accept the
transfer of a patient without having an appropriate bed available, he/she could
subsequently be found to be negligent, he said.

Chris Lyons, manager of the HSE's northeast hospital network, said it was
interesting that everybody seemed to be complying fully with the protocol,
despite the protests of the IHCA. He said around 100 surgical patients had been
successfully transferred from Monaghan to Cavan so far this year.

He wanted to reassure patients that if they attended Monaghan hospital and
required surgical intervention they would be transferred to Cavan. He said all
hospitals across the State accepted patients in need of care whether there were
beds free or not and there was no reason why Cavan should be any different.

A report into the death of Mr Walsh found the unwillingness of surgeons in Cavan
and Drogheda to immediately accept his transfer in the hours before he died
"unacceptable".

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                February 7, 2003

Commission on Assisted Human Reproduction

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 420 words


Remit

The Commission (CAHR) was set up by the Minister for Health in March 2000 to
prepare a report on all aspects of this subject. Its chairwoman is Prof Dervilla
Donnelly, emeritus professor of organic chemistry in UCD. Its terms of reference
are "to prepare a report on the possible approaches to the regulation of all
aspects of assisted human reproduction and the social, ethical and legal factors
to be taken into account in determining public policy in this area."

In setting it up, Mr Martin pointed out that, while many countries had
legislation in this area, there was none in Ireland. Medical practice is
governed by the ethical guidelines of the Medical Council, but these do not
extend to any service operated by other people.

In Britain, the area is regulated by the Human Fertility and Embryology Act of
1990, and the general principles of this Act have been followed in most other EU
countries, with the notable exception of Germany, which has more restrictive
legislation. In the US, there is no federal regulation, and the market dominates
what services can and do operate.

The CAHR is intended to serve two purposes: to provide the medical, ethical and
legal expertise necessary for a detailed examination of the possible approaches;
and to prepare a report for the Minister which provides the basis for an
informed public debate. The report is expected to be ready by June.

Commission membership

Chairman: Prof Donnelly.

Dr Carol Barry Kinsella, obstetrician, Rotunda Hospital; Dr Aonghus Nolan,
Fertility Unit, University College Hospital, Galway; Prof Andrew Green,
geneticist, Our Lady's Hospital, Crumlin, and professor of genetics, UCD; Dr
Marina Lynch, Department of Physiology, TCD; Prof Tom Cotter, Department of
Biochemistry, UCC; Dr Deirdre Madden, lecturer in law, UCC; Mr Gerry Whyte,
senior lecturer in law, TCD; Ms Mary Cooke, Attorney General's office; Dr Alpha
Connolly, Department of Foreign Affairs; Dr Paul McCarthy, child psychiatrist,
St James's Hospital; Ms Noirin Hayes, head of Social Sciences, DIT; Dr Tony
Ryan, paediatrician, Erinville Hospital, Cork; Ms Caroline Harrison, counsellor
in the human assisted reproduction unit, Rotunda Hospital; Ms Nora Geary,
midwife, Erinville Hospital, Cork; Dr Miriam McCarthy, Northern Ireland
Department of Health and Social Services; Ms Helen Browne, Information
Infertility and Support Group, Cork; Ms Geraldine Luddy, director of the Women's
Health Council; Mr Brian Mullen, Department of Health and Children.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 The Irish Times


                              417 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 12, 2005, Friday

ORGAN SCANDALS HIT ETHICAL RESEARCH

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 151 words


Scandals in the UK involving the retention of children's organs by hospitals led
to a fall in donations for proper ethical research, a study revealed today.

There was widespread outrage after it emerged in 1999 that some hospitals,
including Alder Hey Children's Hospital in Liverpool, had kept thousands of
youngsters' organs without the knowledge of their families.

As a result legitimate medical research has been hampered due to a fall in
tissue being donated, according to researchers in the British Medical Journal.

They said that registrations of tumour samples in the national children's tumour
bank fell during the height of the organ retention controversy.

The samples are taken during procedures to diagnose and treat cancer after
consent is granted by the families.

These samples are then used by medical researchers in their studies to help
improve cancer treatments

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              418 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday

Doctor's charges: How high is too high?;
Public hospitals, insurance policies, peer pressure set 'ethical limit': Docs

BYLINE: Poon Chian Hui And Bryna Singh

SECTION: SINGAPORE

LENGTH: 574 words


DOCTORS have revealed which factors they use to determine the size of their
bills, in the wake of the Susan Lim overcharging case.

Public sector fees, insurance payouts and peer pressure all help them to gauge
the "ethical limit" on how much specific services should cost.

Eight doctors spoke to The Straits Times following Dr Lim's failure to overturn
her professional misconduct conviction.

The 58-year-old surgeon had appealed against her three-year suspension and
$10,000 fine for charging $24 million to treat a royal patient from Brunei.

But the Court of Three Judges upheld the verdict, saying medical fees have an "
ethical limit" - regardless of market forces or contracts signed by the patient.

While this limit is not fixed, fellow doctors and patients play a large role in
pricing policies in the private sector.

Medical oncologist Wong Seng Weng, who runs practices at Paragon and Mount
Elizabeth Novena Specialist Centre, said these factors give doctors a sense of
where the average price hovers.

"Most people who have been practising for quite some time will know roughly how
much a service costs from speaking to peers or to patients who may doctor-hop."

Dr Tony Tan, who heads the Obstetrical & Gynaecological Society of Singapore,
said peer pressure and criticism will probably keep up to 90 per cent of doctors
in check. "Doctors are the worst critics of one another," he added.

Liver specialist Desmond Wai, who practises at Gleneagles Medical Centre, said
one way to gauge how much to charge is to look at prices at public hospitals,
which are available on the Health Ministry's website. Patients' insurance
policies also help as there are fixed sums that can be claimed for specific
procedures.

But others believe clearer benchmarks will help prevent cases such as Dr Lim's
from happening again.

Fee structures are "necessary to prevent exploitation", said one primary care
doctor who did not want to be named. He added that medicine "cannot be treated
like any other business, subject to the same commercial considerations or
anti-competition laws".

The Singapore Medical Association published guidelines in 1987, but they were
scrapped six years ago due to the Competition Act, which aims to stamp out
anti-competitive practices.

Dr Jeremy Lim, an expert in health systems, said: "In the absence of specific
guidelines, it will be near impossible to know where the lines are drawn."

Meanwhile, lawyers told The Straits Times they are also subject to ethical
limits. "Overcharging is not allowed," said lawyer Nicholas Narayanan.

But like doctors, the legal profession does not have written price guidelines.
To minimise fee disputes, lawyers say they generally enter into written
agreements with clients right from the start.

Architects told The Straits Times they do not have ethical limits as their
industry is client-driven. When a tender is called, it is in their interest to
submit a competitive price.

"If you mark up your costs too high, you'll lose out," said architect Amy Heng,
27.

Meanwhile, the Health Ministry yesterday described the decision to turn down Dr
Lim's appeal as "necessary in order to preserve the relationship of trust and
confidence between the medical profession and the public".

The Straits Times understands that the surgeon may still be able to practise
overseas, even while suspended, if she can obtain the necessary medical
registration in that country.

chpoon@sph.com.sg

brynasim@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                          July 15, 1995, CITY EDITION

SETBACK AT THE MEATH

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; EDITORIAL COMMENT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 564 words


The decision by the board of the Meath Hospital to reject the proposed charter
for the new Tallaght hospital is deeply disappointing. It is a decision that
will anger the Minister for Health, Mr Noonan, greatly disturb the people of
Tallaght and will mystify many, including a significant section of the Meath
Hospital staff. Indeed, it would appear that the board of the Meath Hospital is
not unanimous in its rejection and it is noteworthy that, despite the matter
being of such vital importance to all concerned, the Meath Hospital board did
not vote on it.

The chairman of the board, Mr Gerry Brady, insists that the board's decision is
not based on a religious or ethical dispute but that "it has to do with
industrial relations and with ensuring that staff are properly looked after". Mr
Brady has cited a part of the proposed charter which establishes a link tween
appointments to the hospital and the services to be provided. It is quite
extraordinary that it should be deemed significant enough to reject the charter,
after years of discussion have been spent on it. One cannot help wondering if
other unstated objections exist.

The new hospital, which will include the Adelaide and the National Children's
Hospital as well as the Meath, is intended to incorporate the Protestant ethos
of the Adelaide in its charter. This means, for example, that patients seeking
sterilisation will be assured of treatment in Tallaght whereas such treatment
can be difficult to obtain in other hospitals because the staff, or the
management, or both, have ethical objections. It has been made clear that
ethical objections will not be held against any person seeking an appointment or
a promotion at the hospital. Nor should they be. Appointments must be made on
merit alone but with one important proviso - that the hospital will provide all
medical procedures relevant to a general hospital which are legal in the State.

Hypothetically, it is possible that all the persons in a particular section
might object to sterilisation or genetic counselling or whatever. In such a case
the hospital would have no alternative but to hire additional staff and merit
would not be paramount in their case. The board of the Meath Hospital (though
not all of the board) takes the view that the charter's linkage between
appointments and the requirement to provide all legal procedures, is
unnecessary. The board is wrong. It is essential if the hospital is to offer
pluralist services for all traditions pertaining in the State.

The task now falls to the Minister for Health to secure the Meath Hospital's
agreement on the charter. If this linkage is the only obstacle, hopefully he
will be able to persuade the hospital of its necessity and of his determination
to ensure that Meath personnel will not be disadvantaged by it. If, as reported,
another objection is that the Meath consultants want a guaranteed place on the
board of the new hospital, he should treat that objection with the contempt it
deserves. Tallaght is fifteen years in the planning. The charter has been under
discussion for eight years. All three hospitals agreed two years ago that it
will have a "multi denominational and pluralist character" and that it would
serve as "a focus for Protestant participation in the health services". Mr
Noonan will need to be fair but he must be firm. No more delays, please.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1995 The Irish Times


                              420 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                The Jordan Times

                             April 16, 2010 Friday

BUSINESSCLUB

LENGTH: 1031  words


PepsiCo-Jordan sponsors Dead Sea Ultra Marathon
In line with its interests to support the Society for the Care Of Neurological
Patients (SCNP) and as part of its dedication towards sponsoring and promoting
different sports activities throughout the Kingdom, PepsiCo-Jordan - the winner
of the King Abdullah II Award for Excellence/Private Sector - has sponsored the
17th Dead Sea Ultra Marathon that took place on April 9 for the fifth
consecutive year, under the slogan, "Run to The Lowest Point on Earth". The
marathon, which was organised by the SCNP, witnessed the participation of over
6,000 runners. A team of runners comprising 18 of PepsiCo-Jordan's employees
participated in the event. Muhannad Saleh, PepsiCo-Jordan's sales and marketing
director, said: "Our sponsorship of this event and the participation of our
employees serve to enhance our contribution to our local community and reflect
our belief in the importance of creating a strong and cohesive society."
Arab Bank Together and Madrasati cooperate on road safety
As part of Arab Bank's corporate social responsibility programme, Together, and
in collaboration with Madrasati, an awareness session was held for the Sewaniyeh
School in Salt about traffic issues on March 22. Organised by Arab Bank and
Madrasati, representatives from the Traffic Department visited the school to
give important lessons to the children about traffic safety.

The session included a brief presentation on main traffic issues, a general
discussion with the students about best practices, role playing activities and
distribution of educational colouring books to all the students. Last year, Arab
Bank adopted Sewaniyeh School under the Madrasati initiative led by Her Majesty
Queen Rania. Dina Shoman, executive vice president of branding at Arab Bank,
said: "This awareness session is very important because it deals with many
issues that these students see everyday. With high accident rates in the
country, it's important to spread knowledge and awareness. Children's safety is
paramount, and the more informed they are, the better decisions they can make on
a daily basis."
USAID supports Private Hospitals Association to attend the Moscow Fair
Promoting activities that enhance medical tourism in Jordan, USAID Jordan
Economic Development Programme (SABEQ) supported the attendance of six private
hospitals at the Moscow Fair for Medical Tourism held in Moscow from March 17 to
20. The Jordanian booth at the fair received a good number of visitors and the
delegation met with a number of Russian companies interested in cooperating with
Jordanian hospitals. The Jordanian delegation ran a series of activities that
aimed to inform interested public in medical tourism in Jordan. The chairman of
Private Hospitals Association (PHA) made a presentation on Jordan as a centre
for medical tourism explaining the benefits and attractions that Jordan has to
offer to Russian patients. Another presentation was made by Zahira Haram from
the Istishari Hospital, which highlighted modern medical facilities and
capacities at the hospital and the exceptional services it provides to local and
foreign patients.

InterContinental Hotels Group arranges media spokespersons workshop
Media Spokespersons of the InterContinental Hotels of Jordan & Palestine
gathered at InterContinental Jordan for a training programme carried out by Hill
& Knowlton for the first time in the region. The programme focused on three core
areas of a spokesperson's performance, which are: Message Development, Interview
Control and Message Delivery. Attendees were given techniques on how to approach
an interview with a defined objective, block difficult questions and manage body
language, gestures and posture and learned the differences between print, radio
and television. The training was attended by media spokesperson of
InterContinental Jordan, InterContinental Aqaba, InterContinental Jericho,
Crowne Plaza Amman, Crowne Plaza Petra, Holiday Inn Amman & Holiday Inn Dead sea

Standard Chartered named among the world's most ethical companies
Standard Chartered Bank has been recognised by the Ethisphere Institute as one
of the World's Most Ethical Companies for 2010. Out of a record number of
nominations for the award, Standard Chartered secured a hard-earned spot on the
list in recognition of its ongoing commitment to build a sustainable business
for the benefit of customers, clients and the wider communities in which it
operates. The Ethisphere Institute commended Standard Chartered Bank for going
the extra mile, implementing upright business practices and initiatives that are
instrumental to the company's success, benefit the community and raise the bar
for ethical standards within the industry. Geoffrey Buchanan, Standard Chartered
Bank's Jordan chief executive, said: "Standard Chartered's success is rooted in
our strong values-led culture. We have an unwavering commitment to run the bank
responsibly and to serve the long-term interests of our customers and clients,
employees and communities. It is an honour to be recognised for the high
standards which we have set and which we work to uphold everyday."
Sesame workshop joins the Global Road Safety Partnership
Sesame Workshop, the producers of the global educational brand, Sesame Street
and the Jordanian Co-Production Hikayat Simsim , has recently joined the Global
Road Safety Partnership in a move to contribute its educational media expertise
to the worldwide effort to reduce the number of accidents and fatalities among
children and families. The Global Road Safety Partnership is a partnership of
business, civil society and governmental organisations dedicate to improving
road safety conditions in low- and middle-income countries. "We, as an
organisation, recognise the immensity of this worldwide issue," said Gary Knell,
president and CEO of Sesame Workshop, adding that raising awareness and
knowledge of vital road safety behaviours is the key to reversing these
statistics." "Hikayat Simsim thrives to me an inhibitor in Road Safety education
in Jordan", said Khaled Haddad general manager of Jordan Pioneers and executive
producer for the series.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 62


                        Copyright 2010 The Jordan Times.
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                              421 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday

LEEF 2010 Opportunity to See How Serious Games are Effective Learning Solutions
for 'Soft' and 'Hard' Skills

LENGTH: 490  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, June 06 -- From leadership and program management, to emergency
evacuation or electrical safety - games, simulations and virtual worlds provide
an effective learning experience.

Through interactive case studies , attendees at the 2010 Learning and
Entertainment Evolution Forum at Harrisburg University of Science and Technology
will learn how experts at IBM, DAU, Applied Research Associates, Forio, the US
Naval Academy, Centrax, Novonics and others are overcoming challenges and
implementing effective solutions with games, sims and virtual worlds!

The event is set for June 17-18 and its lineup will include more than a dozen
case studies, including:

Forio Corporation Business Simulations:How do you teach leadership at your
organization? Harvard Business Publishing and Forio offer a simulation on
leadership styles and team dynamics. Working with subject matter experts, they
created a storyline, embedded educational components, added game play challenges
and built the online multi-player simulation. Now one of their most popular
simulations, the team will share their design and development process.

Novonics Corporation:The Intact Team Training (ITT) simulation provides a
virtual collaborative learning environment in support of the Program Management
(PM) curricula at the Defense Acquisition University (DAU). The simulation
presents a role playing environment requiring learners to solve program
management challenges. The simulation is designed to accelerate skill
acquisition by allowing learners to experience a context-specific slice of
reality within a "micro-world" and eventually transfer the acquired skills to
real-life tasks.

Stockdale Center for Ethical Leadership , US Naval Academy:Blending innovative
interactive simulation technology into traditional educational environments has
been successfully achieved at the US Naval Academy and the Surface Warfare
Officer School. Students joining the military expect greater degrees of activity
and experiential learning. Teaching ethical decision making using computer-based
interactive simulations over the last four years report positive quantitative
and qualitative assessment results. Learn how simulations are used to teach
ethical decision making and leadership development, and experience the content.

Centrax Corporation:'How do you stay always ready in case of disasters in a
24/7/365 facility, where shutting down for drill/practice is not an option?'
Children's Memorial Hospital and Centrax Corp created an innovative learning
solution to address a hospital training challenge - How to practice disaster
preparedness training at a reasonable cost, without endangering the staff or
putting patients at risk? Centrax created a virtual hospital in Second Life
replicating the hospital Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              422 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday

MY VIEW: CREATE ETHICS OFFICER POST TO OVERSEE MERGED HOSPITAL

BYLINE: HALLEY S. FAUST

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 435 words


Now that the Christus Health and St. Vincent Regional Medical Center merger has
been approved by the Department of Health and the Department of Human Services,
and the deal has closed, I propose that the hospital move immediately to appoint
an independent corporate ethics officer.

The community and St. Vincent employees repeatedly have been assured that all
services previously provided will continue to be provided by the newly merged
hospital, and that the ethical and religious directives of the Catholic Church
will not substantively impact care. These reassurances have been made as
representations by the board and management while explicitly denying the
community the ability to view the merger documents.

The duty of the ethics officer would be to identify, respond to, investigate,
and attempt to resolve issues fairly, without being beholden to the institution,
any individual, the management, or the Catholic Church.

The ethics officer would be an ex officio member of the hospital's board of
directors, have complete and direct access to all documents, employees,
managers, and others of the hospital, and be a member of and work closely with
the hospital's bioethics committee to develop and encourage an ethical
environment conducive to the diversity of the Santa Fe community.

Saint Vincent Regional would assure unencumbered direct access to the corporate
ethics officer for all stakeholders, including Christus' employees and
management, patients and their families, suppliers, health-care providers,
citizens of the service cachement area and others.

To guarantee independence, the ethics officer would be compensated in a way
pioneered in the medical-device business by Abiomed: a five-year budget would be
developed, mutually agreed-upon between the proposed ethics officer and the
hospital, and placed in an escrow account only accessible by the ethics officer
or his/her successor. This would minimize financial conflicts of interest, and
permit the ethics officer to respond to sensitive issues in the most beneficial
way taking into account the complainant's, hospital's and community's needs.

The person chosen for the position should be trusted by management, the board,
and the community, and trained and knowledgeable in business ethics, health-care
ethics, health-care management and clinical care. By developing such a position,
the Hospital would be on the forefront of institutional ethics while at the same
time providing the reassurance the community needs.

Halley S. Faust, MD, MPH, MA, is a business and medical ethicist, physician, and
a member of the hospital's bioethics committee.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The New Mexican


                              423 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                           September 20, 1999, FINAL

Entertainment News

SECTION: Arts; B11

LENGTH: 640 words


Marilyn Monroe Memorabilia Display Opens in London

Marilyn Monroe's driver's licence and her invitation to President John F.
Kennedy's birthday party in 1962 went on display in London yesterday before
being shipped to New York with other memorabilia for auction next month. The
invitation and program for Kennedy's party at Madison Square Garden, where she
sang Happy Birthday, is valued at about $15,000 U.S., the auctioneers at
Christie's said yesterday. The singer's licence, issued in Los Angeles in
February 1956 when she was 29, includes the information: ''Eyes -- blue, hair --
blonde.'' Clothes, movie scripts and books are also in the London exhibition,
which runs until Wednesday. ''She will never grow old and will always look
fabulous, '' said Christie's director Meredith Etherington-Smith.

McLachlan Makes McCartney Cry

Sarah McLachlan's mournful ballad Angel reduced Paul McCartney to tears at an
animal rights awards show. McCartney, who was hosting the event sponsored by the
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Saturday night, returned teary-eyed
to the stage after McLachlan's piano solo. He explained that the song was
brought to his attention after his wife, Linda McCartney, an active animal
welfare crusader, died of breast cancer in April 1998. It includes the lyrics:
''You're in the arms of an angel. May you find some comfort there.''

TV Game Show Host Bob Barker to Undergo Surgery

Veteran television game show host Bob Barker will undergo surgery today to
unblock an artery on the left side on his neck, a spokeswoman for George
Washington University Hospital said. ''If it's not treated he could potentially
have a stroke, which is why he wants to undergo treatment right away,'' said
Lisa Saisselin, director of public relations at the hospital. The 75-year-old
host of The Price is Right is in ''great spirits,'' Saisselin said. ''He's doing
well and we're just awaiting surgery on Monday.'' Barker was admitted to the
hospital Thursday after he complained of feeling fatigued. The blockage was
discovered during neurological tests the next day, Saisselin said. Barker will
undergo a procedure known as an endartery ectomy to clear out his artery,
Saisselin said.

Living the Good Life

Patricia Duff, who is fighting billionaire Ron Perelman for custody of their
four-year-old daughter Caleigh, has requested $4,400 a day in child support for
the next 14 years. This amount (which would be in addition to $1.3 million a
year in alimony) includes: $9,935 a month in travel expenses for the child and
her nanny; $3,175 a month for the girl's clothing; $1,450 a month for her
restaurant expenses; $3,585 a month for ''recreational'' activities; and $30,098
a month for nannies and maids.

Moving on Up to the East Side

Michael Jackson, his two children, wife and entourage are living in what real
estate agents are calling the most expensive townhouse ever rented in Manhattan.
Jackson is paying $75,000 a month for the six-storey, 12,000-square-foot house
on the Upper East Side. Jackson has a six-month lease that runs through
November. His landlord is Richard Sabella, who bought it in 1994 for $3.1
million, renovated it and has it on the market for $12.75 million.

She's Says It's Hot, He's Not So Sure

''He's not a Latin lover. That term doesn't do him justice. He is an incredible
lover. I'd say he's definitely smouldering. But he's also intelligent and
humble.''

-- Melanie Griffith about her husband, Antonio Banderas.

''I wouldn't say that we were going to be forever together. Sometimes you may be
happy; sometimes you may not get along anymore. But for now, everything is going
perfectly, very good. But many things in life are a surprise.''

-- Antonio Banderas about his marriage, in the New York Daily News.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1999 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              424 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                December 2, 2000

Cornhill ward set to close

BYLINE: By Ayoung

SECTION: News:Other:Others, Pg.3

LENGTH: 571 words


STAFF at the Royal Cornhill Hospital in Aberdeen have been briefed regarding the
proposed closure of an old age psychiatry ward next year. Grampian Primary
Healthcare Trust spokesman John Miller said yesterday staff had been given
details of the plan earlier this week. No jobs will be lost and it is hoped
staff will be relocated either in the hospital or locally when the ward closes
next March. Some of the patients who have been assessed as not requiring NHS
care will go to local nursing homes, while others will be transferred to other
areas of the hospital. The ward closure is expected to save around GBP 400,000
which will be ploughed back into developing community services.

Animal protest

ANIMAL rights campaigners will be protesting outside the British Heart
Foundation shop in Aberdeen today. The People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals claim recent research funded by the charity has involved "primitive
experiments on dogs, cats, and rodents".  Supporters will be wearing beagle
masks outside the shop from 2pm to 4pm today.

Maths tuition

A LEADING UK mathematics expert will be in Aberdeen next week to work with
teachers in the city. Peter Patilla will be holding a series of courses with
primary, secondary and special education teachers, demonstrating new ways of
encouraging mental agility. He will be working with teachers at Summerhill from
Monday to Wednesday.

Finalists

SIX postgraduate students from Aberdeen University have reached the final stages
of Britain's Younger Engineers in 2000 competition. The talented team have been
selected to attend a lunchtime reception at the House of Commons hosted by MP
Claire Curtis-Thomas. The successful Aberdeen students, who are from the
departments of engineering, orthopaedics and biomedical physics, are Fazilat
Dar, Godfrey Azangwe, Kheng-Lim Goh, Leanne Burgin, Jenny Gregory and Peter
MacConnell.

Antiques fair

MARYCULTER House Hotel, near Aberdeen, is the venue tomorrow from 10.30am-4.30pm
for an antiques and collector's fair. Alongside silverware and fine furniture,
the Grampian Fairs event will include a stall specialising in books on the North
-east and historic postcards of the area.

Loose change

SPARE change from passengers at Aberdeen Airport is giving a welcome boost to
the funds of four local causes. The charity box at the airport's information
desk was opened after 18 months last week to reveal more than GBP 1,400. The
money will be divided equally between Voluntary Services Aberdeen, the People's
Dispensary for Sick Animals, Hazelwood Special School and Agecare Aberdeen.

VSA appeal

THE children of Aberdeen's Middleton Park School in Bridge of Don will be
presenting the toys and food parcels they have collected for the annual
Voluntary Service Aberdeen Christmas appeal on Monday. Anyone who would like to
contribute to the appeal can drop off parcels or toys at the VSA offices in
Castle Street. Those wanting more information on what kind of food or toys are
required should contact VSA on 01224 212021.

GBP 1,000 raised

SUPPORTERS of Aberdeen's charity Archway will be raising their glasses to say
cheers to the North East of Scotland Real Ale drinkers, who have donated more
than GBP 1,000 to the charity. The Campaign for Real Ale group raised money for
the charity during a raffle, collecting cans and the proceeds from unused beer
tokens at the organisation's recent annual beer festival.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2000 Aberdeen Press and Journal


                              425 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Kudos

BYLINE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: BUSINESSBC; Keeping Track; Pg. D8

LENGTH: 462  words


Interfor donated $15,000 to the Pacific Parklands Foundation to complete the
Camosun Bog boardwalk in Pacific Spirit Regional Park.

- - -

BC winners at the 2005 Canadian Investment Awards Gala in Toronto were The
Ethical Funds Company (the Canadian Small Cap Equity Fund Award for its Ethical
Special Equity Fund and the Imagine Canada Socially Responsible Investment Fund
Award for its Ethical Canadian Dividend Fund) and Coast Capital Savings (Imagine
Canada Corporate Citizenship Award for integrating responsible and accountable
social, environmental and financial objectives into its business practices).

- - -

Best Buy Canada celebrated the opening of its new store at Landsdowne Shopping
Centre with a $2,500 donation to Big Sisters of BC Lower Mainland.

- - -

The MS Society of Canada (BC) received $12,102 from Silex Restorations. Silex
had announced through Team 1040 Sports Radio that it would donate $2 to the
society for every yard passed by the BC Lions this season.

n

Brenda Waechter and Laurie Dye received the Certified General Accountants
Association of B.C.'s highest honour, a Life Membership. It recognizes exemplary
service to the association and the profession. Bruce Hurst received the CGA-BC's
Harold Clarke Award of Merit for outstanding service at the provincial committee
level.

- - -

Victoria-based health technology company Vigil Health Solutions was the only
Canadian firm selected to participate in the Center for Aging Services
Technologies' technology exhibition at the White House Conference on Aging in
Washington, DC. The conference occurs once a decade to make aging policy
recommendations to the president and congress. Vigil will demonstrate its
Wireless Dementia System.

- - -

GenoLogics Life Sciences Software of Victoria received Frost & Sullivan's 2005
Drug Discovery Technologies Niche Player of the Year Award for its success in
the systems biology market for the fiscal year 2004. The award is presented to a
company that has a track record of excellence in its market niche and
demonstrated business and marketing strategies that ensure market success.

- - -

West Vancouver event planning and concierge service company Outstanding
Solutions and its president Rozmin Watson donated 500 gingerbread men to B.C.
Children's Hospital, Silver Harbour Seniors Club (North Shore) and Ambleside
Youth Centre Project Share Initiative.

- - -

The 10th annual Coats for Kids campaign, organized by the Greater Vancouver Home
Builders' Association, brought in over 3,000 winter coats, blankets, sweaters
and scarves for needy children, teens and adults.

- - -

E-mail details of corporate awards, donations, etc. to
keepingtrack@png.canwest.com. Include the information in the body of the e-mail.
Photos can be attached, but their inclusion depends on space.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Laurie Dye receives a Life Membership award from CGA-BC president Rita
Estock.;
Photo: Shaking hands in front are Ric Slaco of Interfor, Laurence Brown of the
Camosun Bog Restoration Group and John Scott of the Pacific Parklands
Foundation, surrounded by directors of the foundation and the Camosun Bog
restoration group.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

'Saviour sibling' only hope for B.C. boy battling cancer

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1003  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Parents Mike and Pam Obadia are opting for desperate -- and controversial --
measures to boost the survival odds of their son, who's been in a five-year
battle with leukemia.

Eight-year-old Benjamin is currently receiving chemotherapy treatment at B.C.
Children's Hospital in Vancouver after suffering a relapse of the acute
lymphoblastic leukemia he first got in 2002.

A bone-marrow transplant would improve the odds of finally beating the cancer,
but there are no family matches and an international registry of volunteer
donors has also not turned up any, after nearly two years of searching.

So even though the odds of fertility success are ever so slim because of Pam's
age (47), the couple will try to create a "saviour sibling" -- a term used to
describe a test-tube baby created to save an older, sick sibling through donor
stem cells from the newborn's umbilical cord.

But the couple from Port Coquitlam has to go to Chicago for the procedure, which
will cost up to $30,000.

Doctors at Children's and Women's Hospital in B.C. aren't prepared to aid their
quest because of ethical and moral concerns about creating -- and exploiting --
a life to potentially save another.

The couple has fully weighed all the issues and are still convinced they are
doing what they must as parents who can't bear to lose a child.

"We have to do this to exhaust all the possibilities to help Benjamin," says
Pam. "It's not like we are trying to create a designer baby. We want another
child, we will love another child. If we succeed . . . (it) may help with
Benjamin's illness."

When he relapsed nearly two years ago, his younger sister, who was then four,
was overcome with sadness and confusion. She asked her parents "why the doctors
gave Benjamin his cancer back."

They told her that the drugs weren't strong enough. This time around, Benjamin
is on a regimen of about six drugs, sometimes requiring hospital stays. So far,
Benjamin has endured 295 courses of chemotherapy, 263 needles, 16 blood
transfusions and 13 bone-marrow biopsies. His life and cancer treatment are
documented on a website at www.mobadia.ca.

He was only three when cancer struck, an age when he loved sitting on his
parents' laps, having them read books such as The Giving Tree to him. By age
four, he was reading himself.

The couple readily admit they are grasping for a miracle.

"Though we've been told our chances are nil and it will cost us $30,000, we will
try anything to save our son," says Mike, "and we will also try naturally to
have a child and take our chances that it will be a match."

The process begins with conventional in vitro fertilization in which embryos are
created in a laboratory with the mother's eggs and father's sperm. But the next
step is controversial; doctors at the Reproductive Genetics Institute in Chicago
then screen embryos to look for one that is a tissue match. The matched embryo
would then be implanted into the mom's uterus and when the baby is born,
umbilical cord stem cells would be harvested for transplantation.

Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) has been available for genetic
screening of inherited diseases for about 15 years, but only in recent years has
it been used as well to make saviour babies. The Chicago clinic has done at
least three dozen such tissue-typing cases.

Dr. Paul Rogers, medical director of pediatric oncology at B.C. Children's
Hospital, said the medical centre here has never offered the procedure for
cancer patients. B.C. Children's Hospital did, however, use the umbilical-cord
blood from a naturally conceived newborn to transplant into an older sibling,
who was then cured of his life-threatening bone-marrow disease. In that case,
the mother was already pregnant when the older child got sick. In other words,
the baby was not conceived for the purpose of being a saviour child.

Lori d'Agincourt-Canning, a clinical ethicist at B.C. Children's and Women's
Hospitals, said it has not become standard practice because of cost, moral and
ethical issues.

"We understand that parents will seize on anything to help their sick children,
but the (uninsured) costs to them are so high that we don't want to create a
burden on parents who cannot afford this," she said. "There are also ethical
concerns about whether it is right to conceive a child for the sake of another.
What if something goes horribly wrong? What if the sick child gets sick again
after a transplant? Do we presume we have the right to seek yet another donation
from the saviour child if the effects of the first wane?"

Even when bone-marrow or umbilical-cord-blood stem-cell transplants are given to
patients, there is no guarantee of a cure, she said.

But she concedes that the Obadia case should prompt the hospital to conduct a
review on the potential harms, benefits and ethical issues. After that, some
guidelines and policies could be formed.

Pam Obadia hopes the hospital will, at the very least, tell parents about the
procedures. She's distressed that PGD for tissue typing wasn't mentioned to them
by oncologists at Children's Hospital two years ago when Benjamin relapsed. At
that time, she might have had slightly better odds of getting pregnant.

Dr. Tim Rowe, head of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at UBC, who is
not involved in the case, said it is "almost certain" that she won't produce
"viable embryos."

"So you have to wonder about the ethics of the Chicago company that is willing
to take that much money from a couple facing almost certain odds of pregnancy
failure," he said.

Echoing the perspective of the hospital's ethicist, he said: "This is the kind
of story that pulls at everyone's heart strings. Yet there are deeper concerns
here, like what if a saviour child does not help save the older sibling's life?
Think about the guilt that child might feel."

Vancouver Sun

- - -

How it's done

In the event that the mother becomes pregnant with a baby who is a tissue match
for her sick child, the newborn would become a stem-cell donor, with stem cells
harvested from its umbilical cord at birth.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Benjamin Obadia needs a bone marrow transplant. ;
Photo: Stuart Davis, Canwest News Service; Benjamin Obadia, 8, is surrounded by
his family at their home in Port Coquitlam. They are: his sister, Stephanie, 6,
mom, Pam and dad, Michel. Benjamin needs a bone marrow transplant and the family
is waiting for a donor. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 25, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

V.A. Hospital Is Told to Halt All Research

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 781 words


The Department of Veterans Affairs has for the first time suspended all research
in one of its health care centers, saying the center has failed to meet ethical
guidelines in human experiments.

After six years of investigations and temporary suspensions, the hospitals and
clinics of the Veterans Affairs of Greater Los Angeles Health Care System --
including the West Los Angeles Veterans Affairs Medical Center, one of the
nation's largest research hospitals -- were ordered on Monday to halt all of
their animal and human experiments. The order will go into effect on Friday.

About 100 researchers are conducting 500 experiments there, officials said.

Dr. Dean C. Norman, acting chief of staff at the Los Angeles veterans hospitals,
said in a telephone interview that several managers of research projects would
be removed from their jobs and an interim team would be put in place to correct
the problems.

Dr. Norman added that "no patients or animals have been harmed" and that the
failures were breakdowns of administration, not of patient care.

The shutdown was ordered by Dr. Kenneth W. Kizer, Under Secretary for Health at
the Department of Veterans Affairs, who noted that the hospitals had already
been put on probation and that the management had repeatedly failed to correct
the problems.

At the same time, the Department of Health and Human Services office in charge
of overseeing human experiments officially cut off all Federal funds to the Los
Angeles hospitals. Dr. Kizer's order also halted all private funds for the
hospitals.

The problems mainly involve experiments carried out on veterans who are mental
patients. In some experiments, advocates for the patients say, subjects in the
experiments were deliberately taken off their medicines and allowed to suffer
relapses so that researchers could study the course of their symptoms.

In other experiments, the subjects were given drugs that intentionally made the
symptoms worse so that doctors could observe them as they occurred.

The investigation of the Los Angeles hospitals began in 1993 when Federal
officials found, among other violations, that proper informed consent was not
obtained from patients in the experiments.

To protect against such problems, hospitals are charged with establishing review
boards that monitor proposed experiments for abuses, said Dr. John F. Feussner,
the chief research and development officer at the Department of Veterans Affairs
in Washington.

It is the failure of the Los Angeles hospitals to properly monitor and report on
the sensitive experiments, he said, rather than any specific abuses of patients,
that led to the Government's order to suspend the research this week.

Dr. Adil Shamoo of the University of Maryland, an expert on ethical issues in
psychiatric experiments, said yesterday that the action against the Los Angeles
hospitals showed that "levels of concern on these kinds of experiments have been
rising."

"People are now seeing some potential harm to patients if these issues are not
taken seriously," Dr. Shamoo added.

Dr. Feussner, describing the research system as "an honor system," said: "It
requires that responsible officials assure us that their human and animal
studies meet Federal policies and my expectations. In this case, the processes
in place do not provide us with that assurance. I don't have any evidence that
harm is taking place, but I don't have the proper assurance that it isn't,
either."

He continued, "I am unwilling to assume things are fine, because the costs of
being wrong are too high for the patients."

In a six-page letter on Monday, the Department of Health and Human Services'
Office for the Protection from Research Risks charged the hospitals with
multiple violations, including these:

*Failure to include at least one representative to speak for the experimental
subjects on the board that gives ethical approval for the experiments.

*Failure over five years to establish a "data safety monitoring board" to
oversee events during experimental treatments as they were going on to assure
the safety of particularly sensitive subjects like those with severe psychiatric
disorders.

*The hospital ethical review board's continuing, despite warnings, to approve
human experiments when few board members were present and even though
insufficient information to decide on the ethics of the experiments was given to
the board members.

Dr. Feussner said that it would take 30 to 90 days to correct the problems
initially, but that the Department of Veterans Affairs expects to monitor the
Los Angeles hospitals for at least a year after new rules and new managers are
put in place.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              428 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           January 13, 2010 Wednesday

Finding meaning in dying;
We need to make death the last great act of living

BYLINE: MARGARET SOMERVILLE

SECTION: COMMENT; 'DIGNITY THERAPY'; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 906 words


Founding director of the Centre for Medicine, Ethics and Law at McGill
University

****

A friend just e-mailed me an update about a mutual friend. Michael (not his real
name) had major surgery for very advanced stomach cancer a year ago. Now he's
been admitted to hospital because of excruciating pain. He is weak, dizzy, panic
stricken and very upset at being in hospital again. He is also taking large
doses of pain medication.

My friend writes: Michael phoned his wife to say the hospital was "starving him"
and he wanted her to take him out to find something to eat. He did not intend to
tell the hospital staff of this "outing" and said no one would notice he's gone.
She refused to co-operate. He got out of bed and into his clothes and, without a
word to anyone, walked out, intending to go to mass in a church near the
hospital. But it was the wrong time, so he took a bus to another church, heard
mass, then walked back to the hospital and treated himself to a coffee in the
hospital's café.

My friend goes on to say: I remember about 30 years ago a doctor telling me that
all his patients had their clothes taken off them because matron liked to have
them all powerless in bed and in pyjamas, but most of them didn't need to be
dehumanized like that. Anyway, I'm sure Michael's revolt did him no harm, and
restored his self-respect. He feels his treatment is out of his control, he is
hungry and, in fact, his life is out of control and he is terrified.

So what lessons can we learn from this sad but everyday story?

Michael's wish to temporarily leave the hospital is a response to two related
feelings: First, that his body has completely collapsed and that he's no longer
in control of it or what happens to him. And, second, that the "real" him is
trapped inside his body and needs to escape. Michael is experiencing intense
suffering.

Eric Cassell, in his book The Nature of Suffering and the Goals of Medicine,
describes suffering as a sense of your own disintegration and a loss of control
over what happens to you. While not all of Michael's suffering can be relieved -
for instance, his fear of death, a fear most of us experience - the
professionals caring for him have ethical obligations to relieve his suffering
to the extent that is reasonably possible and, certainly, not to exacerbate it.
That means they must try to give Michael a sense of control.

So how can they do that?

Euthanasia is proposed by its advocates as an appropriate response to pain and
suffering, precisely because, they argue, it gives patients ultimate control
over what happens to them. But if, for ethical and practical reasons, we believe
(as I do) that legalizing euthanasia is a very bad idea, what else can we do to
reduce the suffering of seriously ill and dying people?

First, everyone has a right to all necessary pain-relief treatment: We must kill
the pain, not the person with the pain. To unreasonably leave someone in pain is
a breach of a fundamental human right and a breach of trust.

Trust in one's caregivers is very important in reducing suffering. In the past
30 or so years, we have changed from blind trust - "trust me because I know
what's best for you" - to earned trust - "I will show you can trust me and will
earn your trust."

Earned trust requires honesty, and shared information and decision-making, all
of which increase the patient's sense of control, thereby reducing suffering.
When it's not possible for the patient to be in control, honouring the patient's
trust becomes even more important.

We have medicalized, depersonalized, dehumanized and technologized death - and,
as a result, dying people suffer intense premortem loneliness. We need to
recognize and address that loneliness. Euthanasia is a medical technological
response to suffering and death. But in a caring, ethical society, the answer to
loneliness and abandonment is not a lethal injection.

We need to understand what seriously ill or dying people require to feel
respected. Harvey Chochinov, a Manitoba psychiatrist who specializes in the care
of terminally ill people, and his colleagues have developed a treatment they
call "dignity therapy." They identified the elements that contribute to dying
people's suffering and designed interventions to counteract these elements.
Hope, for instance, is very important in reducing suffering. It requires having
a sense of connection to the future. We can give people "mini-hopes" - things to
look forward to - even when a long-term future is not possible.

Leaving a legacy also helps create such a connection. Feeling that one's life
has had meaning, that it was worthwhile, is important to dying peacefully.
People were helped to experience that feeling. "Post-treatment measures of
suffering showed significant improvement and reduced depressive symptoms."
Patients reported "life feeling more meaningful and having a sense of purpose,
accompanied by a lessened sense of suffering and increased will to live."

A central element of the essence of our humanness is that we are meaning-seeking
beings. The challenge is to find meaning in dying - to make dying the last great
act of living. A lethal injection is a simplistic, cheap, quick technological
fix. Finding meaning in dying is none of these. But it's probably necessary if
we're to find meaning in life and pass on ways we can do this to future
generations. Maybe that's one important reason why we've prohibited euthanasia.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday

Duty to abide by ethical medical code

SECTION: THINK

LENGTH: 316 words


Some employers request that their appointed medical service providers issue
fewer days of medical leave to their workers so as to avoid having to report
workplace accidents ("Docs told to give injured workers enough leave" and
"Injured workers tell stories of leave denied"; last Sunday).

A high incidence of workplace accidents may subject the employer to queries from
the relevant authorities, resulting in severe consequences. For example, in the
building and construction industry, such inquiries may result in stop-work
orders that will affect the progress of projects.

Other possible reasons to avoid trouble with the authorities include minimising
the negative impact on the employer's applications for new work passes and
permits, or on its attractiveness to future hires.

Giving workers insufficient medical leave not only inhibits their recovery but
also creates unnecessary anxiety as they would ponder how they can resume work
given their less-than-fit state.

Such workers are usually later referred to public hospitals for treatment. This
adds to the patient loads at already-strained public health-care institutions.

Medical service providers should not give workers insufficient medical leave as
their core duty is to provide competent, compassionate and appropriate care to
patients.

An ethical medical service provider should act as a constructive partner to the
employer to ensure that the latter complies fully with local labour laws.

According to the Singapore Medical Council's Ethical Code and Ethical
Guidelines, "the issuance of a medical certificate by a doctor carries with it
the responsibility to ensure that the patient deserves it on proper medical
grounds and that such grounds have been arrived at through good clinical
assessment".

This principle has not changed.

It is unfortunate that errant practices exist, but I believe those clinics are
in the minority.

Ian Sim

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              430 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

Virginia: Alumna returns to campus to talk medical ethics with new students

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Richmond: Virginia Commonwealth University has issued the following news
release:



 When students first arrive at medical school, they expect to dive right into
the hard science that will form the basis of their medical knowledge. This year,
Rebecca Bigoney, M.D., an alumna of the Virginia Commonwealth University School
of Medicine, got the chance to show incoming first-year students another side of
medicine that is equally important, yet often overlooked by students early in
their medical education. This fall she returned to the MCV Campus to talk about
medical ethics and the puzzling dilemmas the members of the Class of 2019 will
assuredly encounter.





 Bigoney has confronted a wide variety of situations involving medical ethics
over the course of her career, which includes 18 years in private practice and a
term as vice president of medical affairs at Mary Washington Hospital in
Fredericksburg, where she now works as chief medical officer.



 She shared some of her experiences with students as a guest speaker for the
&ldquo;Patient, Physician, and Society&rdquo; curriculum in the School of
Medicine. Her talk illustrated the complex situations that doctors can encounter
at what Bigoney called &ldquo;the intersection of ethics, liability, policy and
reality.&rdquo;



 The told the story of a patient who declined kidney surgery because a traveling
preacher told her she had been cured, of factory workers exposed to dangerous
heavy metals with no protections from their company, and of a wife who tried to
interfere with her husband's treatment because of the race of his doctor.



 &ldquo;The ethical problems you face most likely will not be catastrophic or
dramatic like the ones I've described, but you'll encounter ethical challenges
every day.&rdquo;



 These types of situations, Bigoney explained, require doctors to weigh medical,
ethical and procedural decisions to arrive at acceptable, though often
imperfect, conclusions.



 For many of the assembled students, these were new situations and questions
they had not previously considered. Students asked frequent questions throughout
Bigoney's presentation, wanting to clarify the decisions she had made to resolve
certain situations. At a student's prompting, she walked the class through her
logic in a hypothetical mass casualty situation -- which patients would receive
priority, how limited hospital resources might be divided up and how legal
liability factors into such decisions.



 Bigoney made sure to remind students that, &ldquo;The ethical problems you face
most likely will not be catastrophic or dramatic like the ones I've described,
but you'll encounter ethical challenges every day.&rdquo;



 Mark Ryan, M.D., a School of Medicine alumnus and an assistant professor in the
Department of Family Medicine, was also on hand to help facilitate the
presentation. He praised Bigoney for showing students that &ldquo;being a good
doctor is more than knowing biochemistry or physiology -- it is about learning
to work with people, and the often complicated and difficult situations in which
they find themselves.&rdquo;



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              431 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            January 10, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Calvary dedicated to providing quality care for all

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 696  words


When considering future options for health services in the ACT it is appropriate
to consider major issues such as quality of life, equity of access, social
justice and affordability.

Some recent media contributors have suggested the practice of the Code of
Ethical Standards for Catholic Health and Aged Care Services at Calvary in some
way diminishes the services available to the community or denies access to some
within our community.

Other contributors have focussed on the need for planning and access to health
care in a plural health care system of government, not for profit, commercial
and advocacy organisations all of whom play a vital part.

In any case, from a consumer point of view, the key issues remain access,
outcomes and performance, not structures of command and control. In response to
"Streamline health for wealth" (P 15, CT 6 January 2011), there are abundant
examples of Calvary working in an integrated and coordinated manner with ACT
Health, service providers and consumers. The outcome is high quality hospital
and health services and well-being for the local and surrounding communities.

In terms of access for patients, Calvary has, for more than 30 years, provided
welcome, comfort and care to people of all cultures, beliefs or backgrounds.

Caring for the sick and dying in any of these circumstances is at the heart of
Calvary's approach founded by the Sisters of the Little Company of Mary and
reinforced by our values, particularly those of hospitality and respect.

A notable example is that that through the 1990s Calvary led the way in the
provision of palliative care services to many HIV/AIDS patients.

This care encompassed physical, mental and social well-being in addition to
disease management, and above all never denied care and dignity to those in
need.

The history of this approach, spanning 125 years in Australia and evidenced by
what we do today, gives us confidence that Calvary can continue to respond to
both changing community needs and the governance frameworks that encompass
economic, social and cultural rights in health.

Calvary does take a Catholic ethical approach to health care service delivery
which is based on respect for life and dignity of the human person. This ethical
approach is not inconsistent with Calvary's current role in the ACT health
system.

Furthermore, across the health care system it is evident that not every hospital
provides every procedure and many services are appropriately not provided in a
hospital setting.

The challenges in health care service delivery are increasing steadily.

Calvary's contribution to the debate about the future indicates a willingness to
both listen and respect a variety of views.

Above all, Calvary and its dedicated staff are totally committed to an ongoing
and significant contribution to caring for Canberrans regardless of their
cultures, beliefs or backgrounds.

Dr Allan Pelkowitz, director of Medical Services, Calvary Hospital, Bruce When
Ernst Willheim (Letters, January 5) suggests that the Little Company of Mary's
funding to conduct a public hospital be compatible with the right of the ACT
community to health services without discrimination on religious grounds if the
recommendations of the ACT Economic Social and Cultural Rights research project
be included in the Human Rights Act should be be central to the current debate
one wonders what "current debate" he is talking about. Is it the debate on the
issue of funding for the Little Company of Mary and Calvary Hospital, or is it
the debate on the extent and definition of individual "human rights" that can be
included in human rights legislation.

Adding to the long list of human rights that are currently defined in
Australia's anti-discrimination legislation would no doubt be a goldmine for the
legal fraternity, of which Willheim is a member.

The central debate should be about where we call a halt to the burgeoning human
rights industry and the nightmare of increasing individual rights definitions
that will clog up the courts increasingly, rather than focus on the Little
Company of Mary, whose community work is, after all, performed in the ACT
community's best health interests.John Bell, Lyneham

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              432 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            January 10, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Calvary dedicated to providing quality care for all

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 696  words


When considering future options for health services in the ACT it is appropriate
to consider major issues such as quality of life, equity of access, social
justice and affordability.

Some recent media contributors have suggested the practice of the Code of
Ethical Standards for Catholic Health and Aged Care Services at Calvary in some
way diminishes the services available to the community or denies access to some
within our community.

Other contributors have focussed on the need for planning and access to health
care in a plural health care system of government, not for profit, commercial
and advocacy organisations all of whom play a vital part.

In any case, from a consumer point of view, the key issues remain access,
outcomes and performance, not structures of command and control. In response to
"Streamline health for wealth" (P 15, CT 6 January 2011), there are abundant
examples of Calvary working in an integrated and coordinated manner with ACT
Health, service providers and consumers. The outcome is high quality hospital
and health services and well-being for the local and surrounding communities.

In terms of access for patients, Calvary has, for more than 30 years, provided
welcome, comfort and care to people of all cultures, beliefs or backgrounds.

Caring for the sick and dying in any of these circumstances is at the heart of
Calvary's approach founded by the Sisters of the Little Company of Mary and
reinforced by our values, particularly those of hospitality and respect.

A notable example is that that through the 1990s Calvary led the way in the
provision of palliative care services to many HIV/AIDS patients.

This care encompassed physical, mental and social well-being in addition to
disease management, and above all never denied care and dignity to those in
need.

The history of this approach, spanning 125 years in Australia and evidenced by
what we do today, gives us confidence that Calvary can continue to respond to
both changing community needs and the governance frameworks that encompass
economic, social and cultural rights in health.

Calvary does take a Catholic ethical approach to health care service delivery
which is based on respect for life and dignity of the human person. This ethical
approach is not inconsistent with Calvary's current role in the ACT health
system.

Furthermore, across the health care system it is evident that not every hospital
provides every procedure and many services are appropriately not provided in a
hospital setting.

The challenges in health care service delivery are increasing steadily.

Calvary's contribution to the debate about the future indicates a willingness to
both listen and respect a variety of views.

Above all, Calvary and its dedicated staff are totally committed to an ongoing
and significant contribution to caring for Canberrans regardless of their
cultures, beliefs or backgrounds.

Dr Allan Pelkowitz, director of Medical Services, Calvary Hospital, Bruce When
Ernst Willheim (Letters, January 5) suggests that the Little Company of Mary's
funding to conduct a public hospital be compatible with the right of the ACT
community to health services without discrimination on religious grounds if the
recommendations of the ACT Economic Social and Cultural Rights research project
be included in the Human Rights Act should be be central to the current debate
one wonders what "current debate" he is talking about. Is it the debate on the
issue of funding for the Little Company of Mary and Calvary Hospital, or is it
the debate on the extent and definition of individual "human rights" that can be
included in human rights legislation.

Adding to the long list of human rights that are currently defined in
Australia's anti-discrimination legislation would no doubt be a goldmine for the
legal fraternity, of which Willheim is a member.

The central debate should be about where we call a halt to the burgeoning human
rights industry and the nightmare of increasing individual rights definitions
that will clog up the courts increasingly, rather than focus on the Little
Company of Mary, whose community work is, after all, performed in the ACT
community's best health interests.John Bell, Lyneham

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 25, 2014 Friday

MARS acquires Kinder IVF, expands footprint across India through Mangalore

BYLINE: Jaideep Shenoy

SECTION: MANGALORE

LENGTH: 306 words


MANGALORE: Manipal Ankur Andrology and Reproductive Services (MARS), chain of
fertility focused hospitals has acquired Kinder IVF centre here to deliver
specialized service in ambit of andrology, men's health and reproductive
medicine in the city. Manipal Ankur having its presence in south and central
India, is part of Manipal Health Enterprises. Deputy Commissioner AB Ibrahim and
DHO Dr H S Shivakumar inaugurated the revamped clinic at Kadri.

MARS is a comprehensive healthcare provider in the areas of reproductive
medicine - IVF, andrology and men's health. This acquisition and presence of
Manipal Ankur at Mangalore amplifies expertise of MARS in managing standalone
fertility focused hospitals across multiple locations in India. Currently, MARS
is the second largest infertility chain of hospitals in the country by footprint
having 10 centers across seven cities and five states.

Dr Vasan S S, chief executive officer, MARS told reporters here on Wednesday,
"The kind of success and response we have received, has only encouraged us to
take this world class medical service beyond boundaries of Bangalore where we
started this journey. We as a brand want to establish ourselves as
technologically advanced and continuously innovating service provider, in
addition to being highly focused towards patient care and ethical values."

Nitin Nag, chief operating officer, Manipal Ankur said, "Our endeavor is to be a
premier service provider in India and stride into Mangalore is reflection of
that aspiration. We will continue to expand into other major markets in the
country and strive to deliver quality services in an ethical manner to
patients." Currently nearly more than 20,000 patients walk into centers of
Manipal Ankur in a year, Nitin said. Call: Dr Siddhi Rane, Manipal Ankur,
9901477756.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              434 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             July 6, 2000, Thursday

Medical rules have a role in abortion issue

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544 words


ABORTION causes wide division within society because of its complex ethical,
religious and social dimensions. Even so, there has been a settlement of sorts.
The law does not speak clearly about it but abortion takes place and goes
unpunished. It is difficult to see renewed debate about abortion as a general
question leading anywhere but to deeper division. Yet, an issue has arisen that
cannot be avoided: late-term abortions. This has arisen as a discrete issue and
it should be discussed and dealt with as such. It has been raised by the medical
profession, which has a responsibility -- and the capacity -- to clarify the
points of contention.

The matter of late-term abortion is assuming more prominence because advances in
medical technology and practice allow a foetus to become viable at an
increasingly early stage of gestation. This continually raises questions about
our concepts of the beginning of human life and the ethical questions that lie
at the heart of this debate. An explicit example of this emerged last year when
an abortion carried out in Darwin produced a foetus that survived for 80 minutes
outside the womb. A different, but equally troubling dilemma, is represented in
the case of an eight-month-old foetus aborted by doctors at a Melbourne
hospital.

Situations such as these are, understandably, causing unease among the medical
profession. The sense of disquiet has led to members of the profession turning
in their own. The incident at Melbourne's Royal Woman's Hospital is now subject
to an internal investigation. Three senior staff have been suspended and the
hospital has forwarded details of the event to the state coroner. Yet, the
coroner has questioned whether he has any investigative role. This growing sense
of both medical and legal uncertainty leads to the view that existing laws and
protocols are insufficient in guiding doctors, nurses and hospitals in such
troubling circumstances.

It must be acknowledged that late terminations are very difficult to tackle
legally. Each Australian state and territory has different regimes. Legal
continuity is made more difficult because in most jurisdictions there are no
statutes referring to legal abortion: the practice of abortion relies on
judge-made common law. There has been no political will to legislate for clarity
in this area and without legislation referring to legal abortion it is hard to
think of a law covering late terminations.

The issue faces doctors, hospitals and their ethics committees. They need to
consider the development of protocols to deal with late-term abortion. This
exercise will present them with very difficult choices. But they have experience
in dealing with thorny ethical dilemmas, such as those involving withdrawal of
treatment and life-support machinery. It may be impossible for the issue of
late-term abortions to be clarified, and the practice controlled, without
returning to past debates about abortion generally. The Australian is never
opposed to discussion on issues of public concern but we should not expect such
a debate to resolve the basic question -- or to bring greater clarity to the
issues of late-term abortions. But it remains the case that the medical
profession must tackle the matter squarely.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              435 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             July 6, 2000, Thursday

Medical rules have a role in abortion issue

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544 words


ABORTION causes wide division within society because of its complex ethical,
religious and social dimensions. Even so, there has been a settlement of sorts.
The law does not speak clearly about it but abortion takes place and goes
unpunished. It is difficult to see renewed debate about abortion as a general
question leading anywhere but to deeper division. Yet, an issue has arisen that
cannot be avoided: late-term abortions. This has arisen as a discrete issue and
it should be discussed and dealt with as such. It has been raised by the medical
profession, which has a responsibility -- and the capacity -- to clarify the
points of contention.

The matter of late-term abortion is assuming more prominence because advances in
medical technology and practice allow a foetus to become viable at an
increasingly early stage of gestation. This continually raises questions about
our concepts of the beginning of human life and the ethical questions that lie
at the heart of this debate. An explicit example of this emerged last year when
an abortion carried out in Darwin produced a foetus that survived for 80 minutes
outside the womb. A different, but equally troubling dilemma, is represented in
the case of an eight-month-old foetus aborted by doctors at a Melbourne
hospital.

Situations such as these are, understandably, causing unease among the medical
profession. The sense of disquiet has led to members of the profession turning
in their own. The incident at Melbourne's Royal Woman's Hospital is now subject
to an internal investigation. Three senior staff have been suspended and the
hospital has forwarded details of the event to the state coroner. Yet, the
coroner has questioned whether he has any investigative role. This growing sense
of both medical and legal uncertainty leads to the view that existing laws and
protocols are insufficient in guiding doctors, nurses and hospitals in such
troubling circumstances.

It must be acknowledged that late terminations are very difficult to tackle
legally. Each Australian state and territory has different regimes. Legal
continuity is made more difficult because in most jurisdictions there are no
statutes referring to legal abortion: the practice of abortion relies on
judge-made common law. There has been no political will to legislate for clarity
in this area and without legislation referring to legal abortion it is hard to
think of a law covering late terminations.

The issue faces doctors, hospitals and their ethics committees. They need to
consider the development of protocols to deal with late-term abortion. This
exercise will present them with very difficult choices. But they have experience
in dealing with thorny ethical dilemmas, such as those involving withdrawal of
treatment and life-support machinery. It may be impossible for the issue of
late-term abortions to be clarified, and the practice controlled, without
returning to past debates about abortion generally. The Australian is never
opposed to discussion on issues of public concern but we should not expect such
a debate to resolve the basic question -- or to bring greater clarity to the
issues of late-term abortions. But it remains the case that the medical
profession must tackle the matter squarely.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              436 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday

PSSID, AIMS organize various informative activities

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 63

LENGTH: 458  words


The Pakistan Society for Study of Liver Diseases (PSSID) and Asian Institute of
Medical Sciences (AIMS) Hyderabad jointly arranged a two-day informative
activities including holding of Single Topic Conference on Medical & Ethical
Aspects of Liver Transplantation, informative & awareness programmes and
Facilitate to the liver patients for their Medical Checkup at the premises of
AIMS Hyderabad on March 9th & 10th, 2013 respectively.

According to the head of AIMS Hyderabad Professor Dr. Sadiq Memon, the Single
Topic Conference on the Medical & Ethical Aspects of liver transplantation would
be held on March 9, 2013 at 10-30 am at the AIMS premises while another
programme about creating awareness among the liver patients about taking care &
cure methodologies before and after transplantation would be held on March 10,
2013 from 09 am to 04 pm where renowned physicians and surgeons of liver
diseases from APOLLO Hospital, New Delhi, India would check up the interested
liver patients and to advise them taking pre and post liver transplantation
care.

The Single Topic Conference on Medical & Ethical Aspects of Liver
Transplantation which is scheduled to be held on March 09, 2013 would have three
sessions including inaugural session followed by first & second session to be
attended by physicians/ surgeons of liver diseases.

The main topics including "what is the estimated national burden of chronic
liver disease and need for liver transplantations", " how to asses severity of
liver disease", "who is good candidate for liver transplantation and who is
not", "who could be the donor", "how we evaluate a potential donor",
"pre-transplantation recipients evaluation, what additional tests are needed" to
be discussed in session one while other topics including "Managing liver
Transplantation in HCC patients", "AIMS Experience of post liver Transplantation
of patients", "Handling Immune-suppression after liver transplantation", "post
transplantation management of HCV & HBV infections", "post transplantation
biliary complications /management and ethical consideration in liver
transplantation" would be discussed in second and last session.

He said that programme for creating awareness among the patients about liver
diseases and liver transplantation would be held at same premises on March 10,
2013 from 09 am to 04 pm. He said that during the programme the renowned
physicians and surgeons of liver transplantation from APOLO Hospital New Delhi,
India would check up the liver patients. Professor Dr. Sadiq Memon advised the
interested patients to get themselves registered in advance and to bring their
pre and post transplantation tests, reports and hospital discharge summary with
them while coming for their medical checkup.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              437 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             THE WEEKEND AUSTRALIAN

                           November 9, 1996, Saturday

A question of ethics / NHMRC: 60 YEARS OF EXCELLENCE

SECTION: FULLPAGE / FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 509 words


THE Australian Health Ethics Committee (AHEC), has had a major impact on the
maintenance of very high ethical standards in medical and health research its
chairman, Professor Don Chalmers said.

The AHEC is the successor of the Medical Research Ethics Committee which existed
between 1982 and 1992, and Professor Chalmers took over the leadership from Ms
Robyn Layton, QC, of South Australia.

"Australia was one of the first countries in the world to produce ethical
standards on human experimentation," Professor Chalmers said.

In some institutions there had been institutional ethical committees (IECs)
dating back to the 1960s.

These 180 committees ensure the protection of participants in research projects
in universities, laboratories and hospitals. They set guidelines for medical
research and provide compliance reports.

Service on these IECs is voluntary and unpaid, saving costs and avoiding
conflict of interests.

The committees operate through consultation and the application of commonsense
ethical judgments.

AHEC has sole responsibility for the publication of guidelines for the conduct
of health and medical research.

Consultation takes place in the preparation of the guidelines, which once
established were again subject to public consultation.

This unique process, though maybe cumbersome, avoided the possibility of ethical
committees setting their own guidelines.

The AHEC had been responsible for setting the guidelines for assisted
reproduction, organ transplantation and women in clinical trials.

In the future AHEC will be taking a comprehensive look at the ethical, legal and
social implications of human genetic research.

The committee was required to keep abreast of the international bioethical
debate.

Professor Chalmers said the standard of public debate in Australia on ethical
standards had been mature with a high intellectual content in the areas of
reproductive technology, genetics and euthanasia.

While it had been shown in the United States there had been some unethical
research involving prisoners and others in institutions in the 1950s and 1960s,
there had been no evidence of such occurrences in Australia.

The next task of AHEC will be to look at living donation of organs and donations
from deceased relations.

The arguments would be presented in plain English as it was necessary to explain
what was involved and convince people of the need for more donated organs. The
focus was to be on the community and not the professionals in the field.

"It will help individuals come to a decision," he said.

Professor Chalmers said that some issues were likely to endure, "but in a
pluralistic society we must be guided by some general transcendent principles
such as the respect for life and human dignity; principles like justice, a fair
go and respect for the individual.

"It is the paradoxical nature of all ethical debate that there are no
universally agreed right answers but we are all duty bound to engage in the
debate to strive for better solutions,"he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 1996 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              438 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 15, 2005 Friday
                                 First Edition

The Vioxx scandal: a lesson in corporate sponsorship

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 454 words


IMAGINE if, as a young scientist in one of our university research laboratories,
you had done the foundation studies that led to the active molecule known as
rofecoxib becoming packaged up in a pill and marketed as Vioxx.

Now you must stand by and watch as the greater part of a life's work is
destroyed in lawsuits, and the nightmare unfolds that your molecule has probably
been responsible for the deaths of thousands.

This current scandal, the story of unbridled corporate sponsorship resulting in
disaster, is going to affect many Victorians.

Some of the side effects will be disadvantageous, but there is a clear
opportunity for vice-chancellors to initiate reforms that will give Victoria's
research base a strong future.

Most research and development now relies on investment. Money will not come from
reputable sources unless we can guarantee the best standard of ethical practice
in our universities.

I have worked for decades as a medical microbiologist in Victoria's public
hospital diagnostic laboratories and have watched the shroud of corporate
sponsorship descend over my tiny corner of the medical world, and over the wider
aspects of medical practice. This parasitic organism of sponsorship has grown
while traditional, ethical practice has been starved. Sure, the brochures are
bright and glossy, but the overwhelming biases injected by sponsorship have
irreversibly perverted much of the medical profession. Now, if a department in a
public hospital needs an essential piece of equipment, and the annual budgets
are exhausted, managers are told to seek corporate sponsorship. This threatens
the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake.

We must ask whether privately funded units are given preferential treatment over
the struggling public branches. Is the intellectual property of all the young
researchers, their experimental data and their access to the publishing mill
dealt with equitably? Is there any risk that the sponsored laboratory might be
able to steal, or appropriate, the results of the publicly funded unit?

The reforms that are taking place around the world suggest our universities
should be preparing to answer questions about the ethical conduct of research.
All vice-chancellors need to consider these questions: does your university have
structures to protect the integrity of scientists, especially the beginners?
Does it support mandatory registration of all clinical trials of candidate
medicines? Does it support mandatory open-access registration of the pecuniary
interests, including gifts received, of all parties to the commercialisation
process? By all means seek funding from the corporate sector, but make sure it
is on an open, transparent and accountable basis.

Trevor Kerr, Blackburn

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              439 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             The Malaysian Reserve

                           October 01, 2015 Thursday

Govt to recognise ethical companies

BYLINE: Farah Adilla

SECTION: C - CENTRAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 364 words


The government will formulate a mechanism to recognise companies which are
certified as ethical to attract more foreign investment into the country.

International Trade and Industry Minister II Datuk Seri Ong Ka Chuan said
besides being a testament to their professional practice, it will promote the
companies and make them more appealing as possible partners for foreign
companies.

"National Corporate Ethics Award (NCEA) is the first of its kind award ceremony
in Malaysia and we want to encourage this. Presently, we don't have the
mechanism but the government should look into it," he told reporters at the
Malaysian International Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MICCI) NCEA15 in Kuala
Lumpur on Tuesday.

Ong said the mechanism could incentivise companies with tax incentives to
promote and market their products and services globally.

Meanwhile, MICCI president Datuk Wira Jalilah Baba said the winners of the NCEA
awards enjoy a significant boost in marketing their products.

Meanwhile, MICCI, along with founding partners, Ethical Alliance, and award
sponsors, AIA Group Ltd and Exxon Mobil Corp, announced the recipients of the
NCEA15.

A total of 21 companies, from manufacturing and services industries, were
nominated for the three awards - Exceptional, Excellent and Notable - with the
top performer in the small and medium enterprise (SME) and large enterprise
categories being awarded a challenge trophy.

Kelana Stabil (M) Sdn Bhd, Linde Malaysia Sdn Bhd and Panasonic Industrial
Devices Malaysia Sdn Bhd bagged the Exceptional awards. The Excellent award was
presented to 10 companies including Intel Malaysia, Siemens Malaysia Sdn Bhd,
MEMC Ipoh Sdn Bhd and Pastry Pro Sdn Bhd.

Eight Notable awards were bagged by Citibank Bhd, Ferucci Sdn Bhd, KPJ
Healthcare Bhd, Nestlé (M) Bhd and Texchem Resources Bhd.

MICCI said the criteria included the adoption of the Code of Business Ethics,
clear support from top management for anti-corruption policies and staff
awareness and training to ensure integrity and ethical conduct.

It said the NCEA Technical Committee selected recipients who demonstrated the
necessary high standards of anti- corruption and ethical policies.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 Syed Hussain Publications Sdn Bhd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              440 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            February 5, 2010 Friday

New stem-cell regulation draws flak

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 438 words


A law professor yesterday slammed the Medical Council for issuing a new
regulation requiring stem-cell researchers to seek additional approval from a
newly set up national regulatory body, saying that the new rule would benefit
private hospitals rather than foster research.

"This regulation would benefit private hospitals because I know many private
hospitals have invested a lot for stem-cell research," Sawang Boonchalermvipas,
a prominent law professor from Thammasart University, said.

According to law, private hospitals are not allowed to conduct research, just
provide medical services to patients, he added.

Earlier, all stem-cell studies just needed approval from an ethics and academic
committee at medical schools, hospitals and educational institutions. However,
under the Medical Council's new regulation, which took effect in November, all
stem-cell research also needs to be approved by the council's ethical committee.

In addition, the new regulation also controls the use of stem-cell treatment in
diseases related to veins, organ transplants and heart disorders.

Stem-cell technology is already being used in bone-marrow transplants and blood
disorders.

Sawang is worried that the new regulation would allow private hospitals to do
stem-cell research because they can get easy approval from the Medical Council's
panel.

"I wonder if the Medical Council issued this new regulation to support stem-cell
research or stem-cell treatment that is already being conducted in many private
hospitals," he said. "After all, many members of the Medical Council's board are
representatives of private hospitals."

Sawang also wondered if the new regulation would present obstacles for state
research agencies because the Medical Council's ethical committee might control
proposals put forward by government agencies.

"I am not sure if the Medical Council's new regulation would effectively control
illegal stem-cell treatments, because I wonder how it could investigate illegal
research and treatment because it usually asks royal colleges to do this job,"
he said.

The Medical Council's secretary-general, Dr Somsak Lohlekha, said the council
had issued this regulation because it wanted to control the standard of
stem-cell research and treatment because international research communities had
already condemned Thailand for substandard work.

He also insisted that the council's regulation would not present obstacles for
state agencies or benefit private hospitals. The council will hold a public
forum at the Public Health Ministry on February 12 to explain how its new
regulation would control stem-cell research in the Kingdom.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              441 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             THE WEEKEND AUSTRALIAN

                          September 13, 1997, Saturday

Save the planet

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Amanda Silins

SECTION: FULLPAGE, FEATURES; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 1069 words


Are investors morally responsible for how their money is used? Amanda Silins
reports

...

  WHEN investors hand their money over to a bank or fund manager they rarely ask
how the money will be used.

They might not always want to know the answer.

Dr John Ratcliffe is an investor who believes people are morally responsible for
how their money is used.

"If a person lends money to a bank which then lends to a sex-tour operator in
The Philippines, the initial investor is responsible for that," he said.

"People should be aware where their money's going."

Dr Ratcliffe and his wife, Helen Kerr, also a doctor, are among a group of
investors who choose to invest in an ethical or socially responsible manner.

For the past two years, the couple have channelled their investment and personal
superannuation dollars into enterprises consistent with their personal values.

They avoid investing in businesses involved in tobacco products, woodchipping or
exploitation of women or children and are very cautious about mining and
petroleum companies.

"I believe that people shouldn't profit from immoral or unethical business, and
shareholders profit as much as anybody,"

Dr Ratcliffe, a specialist at Brisbane's Royal Children's Hospital, said.

Ethical investments can be accessed in a variety of ways, including listed and
unlisted shares, unit trusts, insurance and friendly society bonds, super funds
and community-based funds.

...

  <<<-[Page F06]->>>

Ross Knowles, editor of the recently published Ethical Investment, says the
Australian ethical investment market is much smaller and less researched than
those in the United States and Britain.

He estimates there is over $200 million invested in Australian ethically managed
funds.

Australian Ethical Investment Ltd -established in the late 1980s -manages over
$25 million in its Australian Ethical Investment and Australian Ethical Equities
trusts.

James Thier, a director of Australian Ethical Investment Ltd, says the trusts'
2500 investors can gain exposure to more than 70 different investments.

These include listed and unlisted shares, property, term deposits, bank and
government securities and business loans.

The trusts invest in businesses involved in recycling, waste management,
alternative energy, solar architecture, community tenancy schemes and
convalescent rehabilitation centres.

Australian Ethical Investment Ltd does its own research and selects investments
against an ethical charter.

Mr Thier said ethical investment grew out of the US anti-war movement
surrounding Vietnam and the anti-apartheid movement. In the early 1960s, people
were motivated to avoid investing in militarism or South Africa.

Over the years, the concept of ethical investing had extended to animal welfare,
uranium mining and native forest logging, Mr Thier said.

A number of consultancies now specialise in corporate, social and environment
research.

Lou de Leeuw, chief executive of Ecobusiness Consultants Pty Ltd in Adelaide,
said there was a lot of demand for information about the effect of companies on
the environment.

Mr De Leeuw -a chartered accountant -uses annual reports, environmental
statements and Internet sites to research listed and unlisted companies.

He gathers information on companies' safety records, environmental records and
their financial details.

This research is then used by investment advisers, fund managers, stock brokers
and individual investors.

"Investors should have a look at the social and environmental history but should
also look at the asset backing and rate of return," Mr De Leeuw said.

"I tend not to make judgements . . . what people want is information so they can
make their own decisions.

"One person's ethics are not the next person's ethics."

A broad range of people are involved in ethical investment.

Mr Thier said investors involved with Australian Ethical Investment Ltd included
teachers, students, a lot of scientists and engineers, computer specialists and
paramedical and medical staff.

Brisbane-based ethical investment adviser Terry Pinnell has clients ranging in
age from 30 to 78.

Most are tertiary-educated and have an average of $200,000 invested.

Mr Pinnell started Directed Ethical Investment -licensed to Personal Investment
Planners in 1992.

He applies different screens in the investment selection process.

Some screens are positive attractive investments such as recycling and
alternative energy, while others are negative investments to avoid such as
gambling or tobacco.

Mr Pinnell said investments could also be neutral.

"Some may not be too crash hot or particularly ethical but they're not doing a
lot of damage," he said.

Mr Pinnell seeks to provide his clients with as much choice as "normal"
investors.

"The managed ethical investment field is fairly narrow but what I would say is
that you can expand far more with direct shares and other direct investments,"
he said.

Mr Pinnell's client list includes Dr Ratcliffe and his wife.

The couple have expanded their ethical investment portfolio with direct shares.

Dr Ratcliffe describes their portfolio as "fairly broad and liberal". Their
investments extend to mainstream companies such as Woolworths, which the couple
believe have good industrial relations policies and provide good services.

The couple have seen a 25 per cent capital growth on their ethical investments
over the past two years.

There need not be a cost to ethical investing.

Mr Thier said the Australian Ethical Investment Trust had a 10.2 per cent
return, net of management fees, for the year to June 30, 1997.

The Australian Ethical Equities Trust had a 14.3 per cent return for the same
period, net of management fees. Some of the shares also had franking credits.

Mr Pinnell said a conservative estimate of his clients' average portfolio return
was 15 to 20 per cent after fees.

"A lot of people think ethical investing is tantamount to charity but it doesn't
have to be," he said.

  Mr Pinnell said ethical investing provided three types of dividend

  "The first, growth in investment, the second, income return, and the third the
difference many will make to society and the environment.

  "They will have a cleaner, safer, better place to live," he said.

  "If everybody invested ethically, the world would be a much better place."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              442 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Taranaki Daily News (New Zealand)

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 271 words


Many of the senior doctors at Taranaki Base Hospital are very disappointed at
the implications of the recent article concerning the use of funds obtained from
completion of cremation certificates (''Ghoulish' cremation certificate fees
funds parties, Daily News Nov 3).

We feel that the article unfairly misrepresented the junior doctors as lacking
ethical standards for a practice about which the current junior doctors have
never had any say. It is the Taranaki District Health Board which invoices a
charge for the completion of the certificate and has done so for at least 50
years, as have other DHBs.

The TDHB chooses to pass the funds raised to the junior doctors collectively to
use in funding their projects, which include refurbishment of their after-hours
quarters and an end-of-year social function. A cremation certificate is a
distinct legal document, different from a Death Certificate, and we are not
defending the current practise of accepting a fee for this work.

The junior doctors currently working at Taranaki Base Hospital are dedicated
healthcare professionals with strong moral and ethical standards and to suggest
otherwise fails to recognise the role they play.

The junior doctors deserve the recognition and appreciation of the community.
The senior doctors wish our current team of junior doctors well, as they leave
to continue their professional careers and thank them for the care and
compassion they have shown to the patients of Taranaki.

We also welcome the new young team of doctors about to start within the next few
weeks.

LAIRD D MADISON

Chairman, Medical Staff Association

Taranaki Base Hospital

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              443 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          November 17, 1999 Wednesday
                                National Edition

Quebeckers weigh cost of saving lives  Elderly infuriated by health-care report
from cash-strapped hospital association

BYLINE: RHÉAL SÉGUIN Quebec Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 511 words

DATELINE: Quebec


At what age does a patient become too old to receive a new heart, to undergo a
hip replacement or dialysis, or even to have a pacemaker implanted? At what
point does it cost too much to save a life?

The Quebec Hospital Association has created panic among Quebec's elderly and
triggered an outpouring of condemnation with a report this week that considers
such ethical questions in the light of health-care cutbacks.

The hospital association's vice-president, Daniel Adam, said that without
additional funds, hospitals will have to make difficult decisions.

"We will have to ask certain questions," he said. "Do we implant a pacemaker or
a replace a hip on an 82-year-old patient? Do we accept to give dialysis to a
90-year-old patient?"

He said that as the population gets older, health needs will grow and so will
the cost of delivering the services when funds are critically limited.

"The phone hasn't stopped ringing all day," Guy Fournier, vice-president of the
Association québécoise de défense des droits des retraités, a group defending
the rights of the elderly in Quebec, said yesterday. "The elderly are afraid to
have to use the health-care system, of becoming victims of a system where
ethical and humanitarian concerns are being ignored."

Mr. Fournier said people feel guilty if they get sick and are increasingly
suspicious of doctors and hospitals.

The issue has been simmering for years but the controversy has been brought into
the open by hospital administrators who condemned the $350-million total deficit
accumulated by almost 100 of the province's 130 hospitals.

The elderly complained that they have become pawns in a political struggle
involving hospitals, doctors, health-care workers and the provincial government,
all calling for a bigger share of the $95-billion surplus projected by the
federal government over the next five years.

Liberal Opposition Leader Jean Charest blamed the Parti Québécois government for
allowing the health-care system to deteriorate.

"What was said yesterday is extremely serious," Mr. Charest said yesterday in
the National Assembly, referring to the comments made by the Quebec Hospital
Association.

"I can tell you that a lot of elderly people in Quebec heard it and that they
must be concerned, Mr. Charest said. "Because people in the health-care system
are saying that at the rate at which services are eroding, there will have to be
arbitrary decisions to implant pacemakers, to offer dialysis, to get a
prosthesis."

Quebec Health Minister Pauline Marois said it is wrong for hospitals to tell the
elderly that cost factors would prevent them from receiving quality care. In an
effort to reassure the elderly, Ms. Marois said that more money will be made
available for health-care services but that there must be a public debate soon
to decide how to ensure stable funding for the future.

"We will have to work to change the situation and, I think, invest more money in
our system. But to do that we will have to accept to put more money than what we
invest now because our collective wealth is not enough," shesaid.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1999 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              444 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

                              May 2, 2017 Tuesday

Vulnerable at risk - advocate

BYLINE: NICHOLAS MCBRIDE

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 413 words


Changes to New Zealand's medical ethics could lead to a repeat of one of its
worst breaches of patient rights, a health advocate has warned.

The Health and Disability Commissioner finished consulting on Sunday on the
rights of patients when they are unable to provide consent.

However, concerns have been raised that a review could open up further risk to
those most vulnerable.

There are also worries a scenario similar to the Unfortunate Experiment, where
treatment was withheld from patients at National Women's Hospital in Auckland,
could happen again.

Federation of Women's Health Councils co-convenor Barbara Robson said the issue
was not black and white.

Under the present law in New Zealand, patients in comas can be experimented on
without their consent. Doctors can proceed if they prove research is in the
patient's "best interests".

However, next of kin cannot give consent on behalf of another adult, except in
specific circumstances. A law change would be required for that.

Robson said it was not just a legal issue, but an ethical one. She questioned
who decided what the best interests of a patient were.

She also worried that the ethical review process had been watered down.

"The [Unfortunate Experiment] could happen again if the drivers are the wrong
ones, if [ethics] continue to be watered down and the protection of patients is
not the most important priority of ethical reviews."

Michael Hills was in an induced coma for 21 days after a car crash in 2003.

He was 18 at the time. Though he had no obvious physical injuries, his brain
bore the brunt of the crash.

"My short-term memory was non-existent.

"If you told me something, I could not tell you it a minute later.

"I have been going good for a few years now but it did take a while."

Hills is now a husband and father of three and works on a dairy farm in
Feilding.

He said doctors were prepared to operate on his brain to relieve the swelling,
but he responded before this was necessary. He said doctors did the right thing.

"If you're in that position, I fully believe the doctors can make the calls.

"They want what is in the best interest for you."

University of Otago medical ethics lecturer Dr Angela Ballantyne said research
had to go through far more "checks and balances" than general treatment did.

General treatment could vary between hospitals and clinicians.

"There has to be a bit of trust that doctors are there to help, and they would
not agree to do research if it was not in the patient's best interest."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              445 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 31, 2016 Tuesday

Seminar on affordable healthcare

SECTION: CHANDIGARH

LENGTH: 384 words


CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Press Club organized a seminar on ethical and affordable
healthcare in India in collaboration with SPEAK (Society for Promotion of
Ethical and Affordable Healthcare) on the occasion of the first anniversary of
the NGO. The event saw the re-launch of updated version of SPEAK's website for
healthy lifestyle, patient education, prevention of disease and promotion of
ethical and affordable healthcare.Vivek Atray, an IAS officer, mentioned about
the role of positive thinking in better health outcome. Dr Dilpreet Sandhu from
Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, dwelt on the issues
concerning avoidable surgeries in gynaecology and other areas.

Dr Pallab Ray, professor, medical microbiology, PGI, spoke on the problem of
over-exploitation of lab and imaging tests. Dr A K Kaushal, former secretary,
IMA, spoke about model of affordable health care. Dr R Kumar warned of dangers
of medicalization, misuse of antibiotics and medical interventions by patients
themselves or on prescription of doctors.SPEAK made several recommendations of
far-reaching importance to the government and society. Some very pertinent were
due weightage for compassion and ethics as the criteria in admissions to
medicine courses apart from academics, providing free medicines and tests to all
and 'second opinion' centres to weed out medical malpractices. It also
recommended higher public investment in healthcare sector. The point that came
out at the seminar was the need to shift to healthy lifestyle and prevention of
disease. Speakers called for adequate surgical facilities in the public sector.
A recommendation was made of ample medical faculty to make medical institutes
function in an effective way. Another very important suggestion was that
government should give aid and incentives to private doctors to set up clinics
in each locality.Dr R Kumar, administrator of the website
www.speakforhealthyindia.com said "The website is a movement that focuses on
bringing medical ethics to the fore while highlighting the good work being done
by the doctors. We do not intend to criticize any particular doctor or interfere
in the treatment. The site is purely educational and is your family friend and
is not intended to replace the family doctor."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              446 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 August 22 1993

Doctors who play God's role: Peter Hillmore questions the right of the medical
profession to refuse treatment on moral grounds

BYLINE: PETER HILLMORE

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 899 words


LONG before PC meant Political Correctness, it stood for Physical Correctness.
The decision by doctors at Wythenshawe Hospital not to give an operation to a
heart patient, on the grounds that he was a smoker, is just the latest example
of doctors using their medical knowledge to pass moral judgment. Like
masturbation, much inveighed against by doctors of previous generations, smoking
is 'self-abuse'.

In the words of the contemporary French philosopher Michel Foucault, 'A new kind
of power relationship has arisen in modern society. Authorities who understand
our bodies have gained the right to make and enforce rules about morality.'


The bacteria which cause syphilis were once medically known as 'God's Little
Allies' because they were seen as punishment for indulging in sex, a fearsome
incentive to moral behaviour. Many doctors opposed the distribution of
prophylactics on the grounds that they would be an encouragement to sexual
licence.

Sex within marriage would not seem to be an area rich in moral uncertainties,
nevertheless Dr Louis Bergeret produced a treatise arguing that sex which does
not lead to conception was harmful. Not only morally harmful, but also medically
harmful. It could lead to nymphomania, cancer, prolapse, insanity and blindness.
If all those misfortunes weren't enough, it could also cause backache.

In the early days of the Aids epidemic, many homosexuals felt that doctors were
exaggerating the effects of the disease, in order to discourage 'immoral'
behaviour. Unfortunately, this proved not to be the case.

In 1974, the American Psychiatric Association decided that homosexuality was not
an illness. It did not reach this decision by empirical medical analysis, but by
taking a vote among its members. It was moral decision, and probably the first
time that a disease has been diagnosed by a vote.

Big Doctor is still watching you. Although smoking, unlike masturbation, is
demonstrably dangerous to health, the decision to deny Harry Elphick an
operation was made on moral grounds, in keeping with the hospital's standpoint
that it is unable to waste scarce resources on patients who, it claims, will die
prematurely anyway.

'If people don't stop smoking, they don't get the surgery,' said consultant
surgeon Christopher Ward when the hospital's policy was announced. He then added
the clinching moral reasoning: 'It's a good way to persuade them to give up.'

Although the refusal to treat Mr Elphick before he convinced the hospital he had
given up smoking has been criticised by the British Cardiac Association on
medical grounds, it was defended last week by the British Medical Association on
moral grounds. A former president of the Association of Physicians, Sir Raymond
Hoffenberg, has publicly advocated that people with smoking- or drinking-related
illnesses should pay for their treatment.

Ian Kennedy, Professor of Medical Law and Ethics at King's College, London, has
said that 'the majority of decisions taken by doctors are not technical. They
are instead moral and ethical. They are decisions about what ought to be done in
the light of certain values.' But, Professor Kennedy said, 'Doctors are not
uniquely competent to make ethical decisions. They receive no training to
prepare them for such a role. They have no preparation in moral philoso- phy,
they have no special skills in ethical analysis.' There is a danger, he added,
that doctors are 'making ethical decisions in a haphazard, idiosyncratic way.'

Dr Alex Comfort wrote a book whose title explains its thesis: The Anxiety
Makers. In it, he argues that society has given doctors a special role in
society women's magazines often suggest discussing emotional problems with a GP
for which they have no training, and which gives their own personal beliefs a
spurious authority.

Doctors have always made medical decisions on moral grounds: whether to let a
badly deformed foetus survive with medical treatment, for example. But the
current debate in the medical journals, brought into the public arena by the
Elphick case, is that the spending cuts and curbs on the National Health Service
mean that doctors and surgeons have to be selective about who and what they
treat. This could result in more medical decisions being made from a moral
standpoint, perhaps even by a vote.

If the Wythenshawe principle is established, that a patient's lifestyle can be
used as a criterion for providing or denying treatment, then it could be
extended to any condition with a self-inflicted factor, even if there is nothing
illegal in the patient's behaviour.

Liver transplants are already covertly withheld from former alcoholics who
refuse to give up drinking. If people inflict injury on themselves by bungee
jumping, and a doctor disapproves of bungee jumping, then withholding treatment
would be a good way to persuade them to give up.

Every student of moral philosophy knows the stock question posed by William
Godwin in his Enquiry Concerning Political Justice, first published 200 years
ago. Two people are trapped in a burning building, one is an archbishop the
other is his valet. The rescuer can only save one. Which should it be? Given the
present NHS crisis, and the moral certainty many doctors seem to possess, any
inquiry into medical justice could soon have the rescuer questioning the victims
about their lifestyles.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              447 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                       October 5, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Lawsuit accuses Catholic Hospital of Failing to Provide Abortion Services

BYLINE: Diane Hoffman

LENGTH: 312  words


The American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan (ACLU) has filed a lawsuit
against a Catholic health-care provider for failing to provide women with
emergency abortions with pregnancy complications.

Eve Pidgeon, manager of public relations at Trinity Health Corporations, said,
"This case has no merit.  A federal court already dismissed a similar ACLU
claim, and we will seek dismissal of this suit for the same reason".

Trinity Health Corporations is a multi-facility operation headquartered in
Livonia, a Detroit suburb, with more than 80 other hospital locations across
America.

The health group follows the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops'
ethical and religious protocol for medical practice. These practices include the
refusal to perform abortions and tubal ligations within their hospitals.

The ACLU and the ACLU of Michigan are suing Trinity Health over allegations that
pregnant women are being denied emergency health care specifically abortions
when they seek care at their hospitals.

ACLU said that they are taking stand for pregnant women who are denied
potentially life-saving care because doctors are forced to follow religious
directives rather than best medical practices.

In the lawsuit, the ACLU said that catholic bishops are not licensed medical
professionals and they do not have any right to tell doctors how to practice
medicine.

Eve Pidgeon, a spokeswoman for Trinity Health, said the Ethical and Religious
Directives are entirely consistent with high-quality health care. Their
clinicians are determined to provide best care throughout the communities
wherever they serve, said Pidgeon. More than 25,000 licensed physicians work
with Trinity Health.

Topics: Health (http://nycity.today/section/health)Region: Michigan
(http://nycity.today/location/michigan)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              448 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday

MCI to consider telemedicine's ethical efficacy

LENGTH: 463  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, April 23 -- With the concept of telemedicine fast catching the fancy
of the healthcare sector, the Medical Council of India (MCI) has decided to look
into its ethical aspects.

Till now, its cost effectiveness and practical ways to deliver services to the
patient's doorstep have only increased popularity, especially in remote areas.

A large number of super-specialty and Government hospitals are opting for
telemedicine facilities, which envisage transfer of a patient's medical data -
demographical information and history, images like X-ray, CT scan and MRI for
diagnosis, treatment as well as clinical consultation - in electronic format.

However, currently, in India there is no law on the e-health and in its absence
there is no check on such facilities in case of any medication errors or medical
violations by them.

Dr SK Sarin, chairman of the MCI board of governors, while underlining the
increasing need for such facilities to reach out to far-flung areas, felt that
one has to ensure that it is not misused.

Expressing similar views, Dr Ranjit Roy Chaudhary, an MCI member, too warned a
word of caution saying that "MCI will soon form a panel to look into ethical
issues relating to the e-healthcare facilities."

Medical information is being provided through mobile phones. For instance, the
Apollo Hospitals group has recently announced major plans to launch Healthcare
India pharmaceutical registry (Hipaar), a drug database for its patients and
doctors for reference.

"Through this process, a person can know whether she or he has been prescribed
the right medicine or not. It also gives information on side effects," said K
Ganapathy, president Apollo Telemedicine Networking Foundation and president of
Telemedicine Society of India.

Taking the concept further, MediAngels, the world's first complete specialised
global eHospital has empanelled over 300 medical experts from 25 countries to
help the patients make informed decisions regarding their health through
internet.

Dr Vinay Aggarwal, President of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) felt the
concept is a boon for the healthcare sector "Patients can have a choice of
doctors without wasting their time and money in trying to reach hospitals unless
it is emergency. Moreover, in this new era of the interconnected world, it will
serve as the future means of delivering healthcare."

Dr Debraj Shome, co-founder of MediAngels, said, "Our company actually satisfies
the toughest US law, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA) Privacy Rule. Hence, there is no question of any violation." Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              449 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      June 16, 1999, Wednesday, Edition 1

HEALTH PROFESSIONALS SET ETHICS GUIDELINES

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 420 words


WINNIPEG (CP) - Open communication between professionals and
 patients and fully informed consent are keys to preventing and
 resolving ethical conflicts over treatment, say Canada's
 hospitals, doctors and nurses.

 But the joint policy statement they issued yesterday likely isn't going to head
off all the heated and emotional disputes that can arise over things like
do-not-resuscitate orders.

''Everything should be communicated very, very clearly and hopefully resolved by
a rational process, but at the end of the day sometimes it can't be,'' said
Sharon Sholzberg-Gray of the Canadian Health Care Association, which represents
hospitals and health authorities.

Two cases last year helped draw attention to the ethical dilemmas that can face
hospitals and health-care professionals when patients or their families do not
agree with what is supposedly a medical decision.

In Winnipeg, Helene Sawatzky had to go to court to get a do-not-resuscitate tag
removed from the wrist of her 79-year-old bedridden husband, Andrew, at the
Riverview Health Centre.

In Montreal, the Jewish General Hospital was criticized by the family of Herman
Krausz, a 76-year-old-man who died after he was taken off a respirator against
his wishes.

''The policy provides a framework,'' said Lynda Kushnir Pekrul, president of the
Canadian Nurses Association.

''It provides a guided step-by-step process. It raises issues for consideration.
It flags points where there could be additional problems or concern, but there
is no simple recipe to fix what are extremely complicated situations.''

The new policy on ethical conflicts starts with the principle that ''the needs,
values and preferences of the person receiving care should be the primary
consideration in the provision of quality health care.''

But it also incorporates a 1995 position on do-not-resuscitate orders that
''there is no obligation to offer a person futile or non-beneficial treatment.
''

It also says care providers shouldn't have to do anything ''contrary to their
professional judgment or personal morals.''

In addition, it notes that ''limited health-care resources and the constraints
of existing organization policies may also make it difficult to satisfy the
person's needs.''

If there is no agreement and mediation doesn't work, the new policy suggests a
patient be moved to another facility where their wishes would be met.

If that's not possible, the courts remain the final option for resolving
disputes.


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              450 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

Spanish priest with Ebola dies

SECTION: CENTER

LENGTH: 466 words


MADRID-- A Spanish missionary priest being treated for Ebola died Tuesday in a
Madrid hospital amid a worldwide ethical debate over who should get an
experimental Ebola drug.

Spain's Health Ministry said Monday it had obtained a course of the US-made
experimental Ebola drug ZMapp to treat Father Miguel Pajares, 75.

Pajares died Tuesday at Carlos III Hospital, the hospital and his order said.
The hospital would not confirm that he had been treated with the drug, but his
order said earlier that he would be.

He is one of only three Ebola patients thought to have received the experimental
treatment. The others are two Americans evacuated to Atlanta. The vast majority
of those sickened by the virus have been Africans.

The World Health Organization says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola
outbreak in West Africa and authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected, probable
or confirmed cases of the killer virus. The virus was detected in Guinea in
March and has since spread to Sierra Leone, Liberia and possibly Nigeria.

Pajares had been treating people with Ebola at the San Jose de Monrovia Hospital
in Liberia when he became ill, and was evacuated to Spain on Thursday. He worked
for the San Juan de Dios hospital order, a Spain-based Catholic humanitarian
group that runs hospitals around the world.

On Tuesday, the UN health agency denied reports from Liberia that it had
authorized the experimental Ebola drug for that hard-hit nation.

"We were not involved in transferring the serum and we will not be involved in
any future transfers of it," said Gregory Hartl, a WHO spokesman. "WHO doesn't
have any role in handing out the serum or any other experimental medicines."

WHO was holding a news conference later Tuesday to discuss the ethical issues
surrounding unproven Ebola drugs and vaccines.

Liberia also backed away from its earlier claim that President Barack Obama had
approved the use of experimental Ebola drugs for two Liberian doctors.

In a statement Tuesday, a UK-based public relations firm representing the
Liberian government said the experimental Ebola treatment would be arriving
within the next 48 hours.

"The two doctors gave their consent, themselves being medical professionals, for
the drug to be administered," the statement said. "The drugmaker has agreed to
supply a sufficient amount of this drug only for these two patients."

Also Tuesday, Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf suspended all travel by
executive branch officials for one month. She also ordered those already abroad
to return home within a week "or be considered as abandoning their jobs,"
according to a statement from her press secretary.

Most airlines flying in and out of the Liberian capital of Monrovia have
suspended flights amid the unprecedented health crisis.

Related stories:

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                     June 20, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Health-care workers offer comfort

BYLINE: CHRIS ALLNUTT; VANCOUVER SUN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 200 words


I was somewhat surprised by your June 17 article, "Ishtar growing old
profitably," because the Ishtar portrayed there bears little resemblance to the
company the Hospital Employees' Union has come to know.

For example, Arbutus Manor, where your photographer posed a smiling chief
executive officer Samir Manji, is staffed by HEU members who provide the
services that make the residence such a pleasant and comfortable place for
seniors and who contribute significantly to the prosperity Ishtar and its
investors enjoy.

The profitability that Ishtar brags of is conveniently forgotten at the
bargaining table, where our Arbutus members are trying to negotiate a new
contract. The company's recent, final offer included no wage increases over a
four-year contract, no long-term disability plan and an unreasonable termination
clause for casual workers.

In its investment promotion material, Ishtar claims it "offers investors both a
profitable and ethical association with Canada's growing retirement industry."
Ethical implies fairness and that fairness must extend to include the workers.

Chris Allnutt,

Secretary-business manager,

Hospital Employees' Union,

Vancouver


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              452 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday

Raiding hospitals

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 274

LENGTH: 426  words


IT is becoming increasingly common, at least in the city of Karachi, to hear of
law-enforcement agencies raiding hospitals and detaining doctors and staff.

These raids are often carried out because suspected militants are thought to be
receiving treatment at the hospital; in other cases, the hospital administration
is believed to be involved in corruption.

A series of raids over the last few days at a number of private hospitals in the
city saw suspected militants being taken into custody; in at least one case, a
doctor and some members of the hospital staff were also detained, allegedly for
administering medical treatment to militants.

Take a look: Doctor, wounded militants held in raids on three Karachi hospitals

In the most recent of such raids, a patient nabbed from a hospital in Karachi's
Bahadurabad locality reportedly gave police information that led to the
detention of suspects from other locations; the law enforcers were also told
that around 100 Taliban fighters wounded in the tribal areas were being treated
in various health facilities in the city.

In this particular case, police claimed to be acting on a tip from intelligence
agencies that some of the staff from the hospital in question was extending
treatment to militant fighters without alerting the authorities that they were
required to do.

In response, police say that they are preparing a set of recommendations on
administering medical treatment to patients whose injuries suggest they may be
linked to militant activity.

This is very sensitive ground, and the agencies preparing these recommendations
must take due care to ensure that they do not put doctors and other medical
practitioners in a position where they have to violate one of the central
pillars and the ethical foundations of the medical profession: their obligation
to extend treatment to anyone who seeks it.

Apprehending suspected militants when they try to flee or seek treatment for
injuries is a necessary part of the ongoing fight against terrorism, but doctors
must not be forced into a position where they have to judge the patient first
before extending medical help.

Such a dilemma also creates a perverse incentive for doctors to look for reasons
to deny treatment on suspicion that the patient may be linked to militant
activity.

The fight against terrorism and extremism must continue, and in times to come it
will undoubtedly take us deeper into uncharted terrain. And yet, the ethical
foundations of other professions, especially medicine, must be respected in the
course of carrying on this fight.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              453 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Financial Daily

                             March 1, 2016 Tuesday

'Teaching tools' of medicine

BYLINE: Farhat Moazam

LENGTH: 1050  words


According to Greek physician Hippocrates, whereas life is short, medicine is a
long art. As physicians, for many of us this is as true today as it was then.
And despite the advances in scientific knowledge and biotechnology that have
irrevocably changed the nature of medicine since Hippocratic times, a constant
remains the central role of patients in the education and training of
physicians.

William Osler, a 19th-century physician, stated correctly that while books are
needed to chart the vast sea of medicine "he who studies medicine without
patients does not go to sea at all". So when physicians proclaim that it is
patients who need them they tell only half the story. The ignored half is that
the existence and continuation of all aspects of medicine - our education,
experience and skills, clinical practice and biomedical research - would be
impossible without members of the public serving as patients and research
subjects.

However, this symbiotic relationship between two sets of human beings -
physicians and the public has been reduced to one in which the latter are used
as a mere means to further the ends of the former. Our health systems are
replete with examples of an unethical, callous approach to patients in which the
latter's dignity and rights are trampled upon in multiple ways. Medical language
itself reflects the objectification and dehumanising of patients. Bioethics
continue to elude our doctors in the treatment of patients.

In medical colleges, they are often referred to as teaching 'tools' or
'material' for educating students, terms which disembody and reduce individuals
to biological diseases divorced from human identity. It is not uncommon to hear
medical students and trainees identify patients as the 'case with hot
cholecystitis on bed 3', or the 'huge abdominal mass in ward 2',' or 'bed 10
with amazing arrhythmias of the heart'.

When bara doctors (consultants) with white-coated residents cluster around ward
beds for teaching rounds their discussions are in English, incomprehensible to
many patients. One after the other, students are summoned to demonstrate
'interesting findings' on the patients lying nameless and mute before them. No
effort is made to greet the patients by their names, explain anything, or seek
their assent before laying bare their bodies for scrutiny.

When questioned, physicians generally say 'they (the patients) know this is a
teaching hospital when they come for treatment. After all, we have to train our
doctors'. The irony is that within the private wards of the same 'teaching'
hospitals patients are treated with deference and students' access to them is
restricted.

Patients are also mistreated when used for clinical specialty exams that must be
passed to qualify as medical specialists. In the absence of paid volunteers
trained to serve as 'simulated patients' on whom affluent countries increasingly
rely, in Pakistan real patients are selected from public hospitals and bussed to
examination centres. Speaking with them reveals the extent of deception and
disrespect in this practice.

They aren't told they will be used to assess the training of nervous doctors,
and their permission is not sought for this purpose. In fact, patients are
generally told they are being taken to be examined by a 'big' doctor in another
hospital for their own good. In reality, as the exams extend over many hours
patients suffer rather than benefit.

Technological advances have accelerated the trend among physicians to photograph
and make video recordings of their patients. These are shared with each other
through social media, used in the press and on billboards to raise hospital
donations and zakat, and featured at conferences. No attempt is made to obtain
the patients' consent or to take appropriate steps that ensure dignity and
safeguard privacy and confidentiality. It would not be wrong to say that few if
any of us would allow our family members to be used in this fashion.

Another emerging practice is to invite 'renowned' international surgeons to
undertake dramatic live surgical procedures broadcast to hundreds of
participants in auditoriums. This too raises ethical concerns and the
possibility of causing harm to patients when teaching is combined with patient
care. Last year, a live liver resection demonstration by a Japanese surgeon in a
workshop organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in India ended
in the death of the patient. The case made headlines and is under investigation.

Clearly, it is indigent patients from public hospitals who are selected for live
surgery; it remains unclear whether a fully informed, detailed consent is
obtained from them and their family.

With the tremendous physicianpatient power differentials in our region indigent
patients are less likely to question or even refuse permission for live
demonstrations in which details of their medical history and bodies will be
broadcast to strangers. The potential for exploitation of patients through this
practice has led the British Medical Association, and others, to constitute
ethical guidelines to which our physicians remain oblivious.

We forget that the practice of medicine is always a moral undertaking. Neither
institutions such as the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council and College of
Physicians and Surgeons, nor the medical community and their professional
organisations appear to understand this. Except for a few medical colleges none
allocate time in their curricula to teach students even the rudiments of medical
ethics.

Ethics guidelines prepared by the National Bioethics Committee of Pakistan to
correct this curricular deficiency have received no attention from PMDC despite
multiple attempts. Workshops for medical trainees continue to focus only on
scientific methodologies of human research seemingly unaware that unethical
research is bad research.

Pakistan has some of the most ethical, caring physicians I know. But many remain
silent spectators, wringing their hands that nothing can be done. This will be a
self-fulfilling prophecy unless physicians realise that their responsibility is
to help produce not only skilled technicians but also ethical healthcare
professionals. Hippocrates also believed that to the love of her/his profession
"the physician must also add the love of humanity.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Financial Daily
                              All Rights Reserved


                              454 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday

Iran media, Facebook users hail top official's "ethical behaviour"

LENGTH: 408 words


Iran's reformist papers, news websites and Facebook users have hailed
Vice-President Ali Akbar Salehi's "ethical behaviour" after he visited his
outspoken critic, hard-line MP Ruhollah Hoseynian in hospital.

During a parliamentary debate on ratifying the 14 July nuclear deal, Hoseynian
told Salehi that "you will be hanged right here [in the parliament], your body
will be thrown into the Arak nuclear reactor, cemented and buried there".

Reportedly, Hoseynian was admitted to a hospital after the parliamentary session
due to chest pains.

On 12 October, hard-line MP Hamid Rasa'i wrote on his Instagram page that
"Hoseynian was hospitalized due to heavy pressure and chest pains".

He also criticized Salehi for his "unethical and demonstrative behaviour" in the
parliament, describing Hoseynian's remarks a "private joke" that was not needed
to be publicized. (http://tinyurl.com/ot7l9vg)

Press and news websites

Newspapers of reformist and centrist ideological inclination have highlighted
Salehi's visit to ailing Hoseynian on their front pages with meaningful
headlines.

Centrist newspaper Qanun reported about the visit with the caption "Salehi's
lesson for opponents; vice-president visits Hoseynian after a threat".

Moderate Arman also hailed Salehi's move as "a praiseworthy" and "ethical
behaviour".

On 13 October, Entekhab news website and Tabnak also praised Salehi for his
behaviour.

Tabnak news agency described Salehi's behaviour as "admirable political
behaviour" and added that his move "was an indication of the fact that political
disagreements does not influence personal relations".

Tabnak also reported Salehi as saying he became "really sad and immediately went
to hospital to see him [Hoseynian]" when he got the news.

According to the report, Salehi said that all political players in the country
back "national interests" and described what happened in the 11 October
parliament session as only "a political discussion".
(http://tinyurl.com/o5t5g2o) and (http://www.entekhab.ir/fa/news/229910)

Facebook users

Facebook user "Jamshid Borairi" wrote that Salehi "taught a lesson as a Muslim"
to a cleric who "does not know basics of the Islamic ethics".
(http://tinyurl.com/na344ja)

Facebook user "Behzad Amiri" wrote that Salehi taught Hoseynian "a lesson of
being a human being ". (http://tinyurl.com/p446w2w)

User "Fahimeh Nosrati" called them both "good showmen" who "ignore people's
rights". (http://tinyurl.com/q3azzyt)

Source as listed:

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              455 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       The Metropolitan Corporate Counsel

                        December, 2003 Northeast Edition

Seminar Focus: Legal, Ethical Issues In Public Health Emergencies

SECTION: CORPORATE COUNSEL ORGANIZATION HIGHLIGHTS; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 190 words


The Boston Bar Association (BBA) and the Massachusetts Medical Society this
month will jointly offer a seminar titled Public Health Emergencies: Legal
Issues, Practical Solutions, Ethical Concerns.

The program, presented in cooperation with the Massachusetts Hospital
Association and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, will take place
on Friday, December 12 from 8:30 a.m. to noon at the Massachusetts Medical
Society headquarters, 860 Winter Street, Waltham, MA. Registration will begin at
8 a.m.

The session will provide an overview of current legal and ethical considerations
related to public health emergencies due to terrorism and/or disease outbreaks
such as SARS.

Among the speakers for the morning session are Alfred DeMaria Jr., MD, assistant
Massachusetts commissioner of public health; Donna Levin, general counsel,
Massachusetts Department of Public Health; Wendy Parmet, professor, Northeastern
University School of Law, and Bruce Auerbach, MD, vice president and chief of
emergency and ambulatory services, Sturdy Memorial Hospital.

For reservations, call (617) 742-0615 or access www.bostonbar.org

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 The Metropolitan Corporate Counsel, Inc.


                              456 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     April 2, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Administrator posed an ethical question

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 231 words


As a hospital chief executive officer, I have become accustomed these days to
bearing the brunt of criticism for the problems of the health care system.
However, I am somewhat distressed to see two letters to the editor critical of
my comments to your reporter, Lois Sweet, which were quoted in your article,
Health care in crisis. Having read and reread the quote, I have difficulty in
understanding the criticisms raised in these letters.

I at no time associated the issue of increasing patient expectations with that
of putting a price tag on health care costs. In fact, the issue I was raising
was the ethical dilemma we all face as we push the boundaries of what science
and technology may offer us in terms of heroic medical intervention balanced
with the over-all needs of society and the quality of life enjoyed. I have to
admit to being somewhat less than helpful by not offering a solution, but rather
posing the question of how far should the boundary continue to move as one that
needs to be answered.

As the president of a teaching hospital which has a major research focus, I am
committed to advancing knowledge to improve health. However, that does not mean
I believe in pursuing these advances without discussion of the complex, ethical,
moral and fiscal issues they generate.

PETER H. ELLIS

President and CEO

Sunnybrook Health

Science Centre



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              457 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     April 2, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Administrator posed an ethical question

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 231 words


   As a hospital chief executive officer, I have become accustomed these days to
bearing the brunt of criticism for the problems of the health care system.
However, I am somewhat distressed to see two letters to the editor critical of
my comments to your reporter, Lois Sweet, which were quoted in your article,
Health care in crisis. Having read and reread the quote, I have difficulty in
understanding the criticisms raised in these letters.

I at no time associated the issue of increasing patient expectations with that
of putting a price tag on health care costs. In fact, the issue I was raising
was the ethical dilemma we all face as we push the boundaries of what science
and technology may offer us in terms of heroic medical intervention balanced
with the over-all needs of society and the quality of life enjoyed. I have to
admit to being somewhat less than helpful by not offering a solution, but rather
posing the question of how far should the boundary continue to move as one that
needs to be answered.

As the president of a teaching hospital which has a major research focus, I am
committed to advancing knowledge to improve health. However, that does not mean
I believe in pursuing these advances without discussion of the complex, ethical,
moral and fiscal issues they generate.

PETER H. ELLIS

President and CEO

Sunnybrook Health

Science Centre

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              458 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            February 29, 2016 Monday

'Teaching tools' of medicine

BYLINE: FARHAT MOAZAM

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 60

LENGTH: 1050  words


ACCORDING to Greek physician Hippocrates, whereas life is short, medicine is a
long art. As physicians, for many of us this is as true today as it was then.
And despite the advances in scientific knowledge and biotechnology that have
irrevocably changed the nature of medicine since Hippocratic times, a constant
remains the central role of patients in the education and training of
physicians.

William Osler, a 19th-century physician, stated correctly that while books are
needed to chart the vast sea of medicine he who studies medicine without
patients does not go to sea at all. So when physicians proclaim that it is
patients who need them they tell only half the story. The ignored half is that
the existence and continuation of all aspects of medicine - our education,
experience and skills, clinical practice and biomedical research - would be
impossible without members of the public serving as patients and research
subjects.

However, this symbiotic relationship between two sets of human beings -
physicians and the public - has been reduced to one in which the latter are used
as a mere means to further the ends of the former. Our health systems are
replete with examples of an unethical, callous approach to patients in which the
latter's dignity and rights are trampled upon in multiple ways. Medical language
itself reflects the objectification and dehumanising of patients.

Bioethics continue to elude our doctors in the treatment of patients.

In medical colleges, they are often referred to as teaching 'tools' or
'material' for educating students, terms which disembody and reduce individuals
to biological diseases divorced from human identity. It is not uncommon to hear
medical students and trainees identify patients as the 'case with hot
cholecystitis on bed 3', or the 'huge abdominal mass in ward 2',' or 'bed 10
with amazing arrhythmias of the heart'.

When bara doctors (consultants) with white-coated residents cluster around ward
beds for teaching rounds their discussions are in English, incomprehensible to
many patients. One after the other, students are summoned to demonstrate
'interesting findings' on the patients lying nameless and mute before them. No
effort is made to greet the patients by their names, explain anything, or seek
their assent before laying bare their bodies for scrutiny.

When questioned, physicians generally say 'they (the patients) know this is a
teaching hospital when they come for treatment. After all, we have to train our
doctors'. The irony is that within the private wards of the same 'teaching'
hospitals patients are treated with deference and students' access to them is
restricted.

Patients are also mistreated when used for clinical specialty exams that must be
passed to qualify as medical specialists. In the absence of paid volunteers
trained to serve as 'simulated patients' on whom affluent countries increasingly
rely, in Pakistan real patients are selected from public hospitals and bussed to
examination centres. Speaking with them reveals the extent of deception and
disrespect in this practice.

They aren't told they will be used to assess the training of nervous doctors,
and their permission is not sought for this purpose. In fact, patients are
generally told they are being taken to be examined by a 'big' doctor in another
hospital for their own good. In reality, as the exams extend over many hours
patients suffer rather than benefit.

Technological advances have accelerated the trend among physicians to photograph
and make video recordings of their patients. These are shared with each other
through social media, used in the press and on billboards to raise hospital
donations and zakat, and featured at conferences. No attempt is made to obtain
the patients' consent or to take appropriate steps that ensure dignity and
safeguard privacy and confidentiality. It would not be wrong to say that few if
any of us would allow our family members to be used in this fashion.

Another emerging practice is to invite 'renowned' international surgeons to
undertake dramatic live surgical procedures broadcast to hundreds of
participants in auditoriums. This too raises ethical concerns and the
possibility of causing harm to patients when teaching is combined with patient
care. Last year, a live liver resection demonstration by a Japanese surgeon in a
workshop organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in India ended
in the death of the patient. The case made headlines and is under investigation.

Clearly, it is indigent patients from public hospitals who are selected for live
surgery; it remains unclear whether a fully informed, detailed consent is
obtained from them and their family.

With the tremendous physician-patient power differentials in our region indigent
patients are less likely to question or even refuse permission for live
demonstrations in which details of their medical history and bodies will be
broadcast to strangers. The potential for exploitation of patients through this
practice has led the British Medical Association, and others, to constitute
ethical guidelines to which our physicians remain oblivious.

We forget that the practice of medicine is always a moral undertaking. Neither
institutions such as the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council and College of
Physicians and Surgeons, nor the medical community and their professional
organisations appear to understand this. Except for a few medical colleges none
allocate time in their curricula to teach students even the rudiments of medical
ethics.

Ethics guidelines prepared by the National Bioethics Committee of Pakistan to
correct this curricular deficiency have received no attention from PMDC despite
multiple attempts. Workshops for medical trainees continue to focus only on
scientific methodologies of human research seemingly unaware that unethical
research is bad research.

Pakistan has some of the most ethical, caring physicians I know. But many remain
silent spectators, wringing their hands that nothing can be done. This will be a
self-fulfilling prophecy unless physicians realise that their responsibility is
to help produce not only skilled technicians but also ethical healthcare
professionals. Hippocrates also believed that to the love of her/his profession
the physician must also add the love of humanity.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              459 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 8, 2008 Thursday
                                  EAST EDITION

EXCELA HEALTH BUYS MERCY HOSPITAL

BYLINE: Amy McConnell Schaarsmith, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. EZ-6

LENGTH: 501 words


After struggling financially for years, Mercy Jeannette Hospital has finalized
its sale to Excela Health, in an effort to stem losses while continuing to
provide local hospital care and hundreds of jobs to the Jeannette area.

The hospital, founded in 1959 by the Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill in
Greensburg, lost $6.5 million from its operations last year.

In the sale, finalized last Thursday, the hospital was renamed Excela Health
Westmoreland Hospital at Jeannette.

While some services, such as obstetrics, are moving to other Excela facilities,
the hospital will continue providing emergency care; inpatient care, including
medical, surgical and critical care service; and advanced diagnostics.

Excela plans to keep the hospital's 500 workers and provide training to help
them get used to the new system, according to hospital officials.

"This transaction represents the best solution for our patients, employees and
community because it directly addresses the challenges we could not overcome as
a stand-alone hospital in the region," Julie Hester, president and chief
executive officer of Mercy Jeannette, said in a prepared statement.

"In Excela Health, we found an experienced partner with a proven track record of
preserving access to health-care services throughout the region."

The Jeannette campus, an extension of Westmoreland Hospital, will join Frick
Hospital in Mount Pleasant, Latrobe Hospital and Westmoreland Hospital
(Greensburg) under the Excela name.

Excela was chosen as Mercy Jeannette's successor in November by Catholic Health
East, Pittsburgh Mercy Health System, the Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill --
who still sponsor the hospital -- and Mercy Jeannette officials, in part because
it had pledged to honor the Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health
Care Services.

The ethical and religious directives provide guidance in following Catholic
spirituality and doctrine in providing health care. It includes respecting the
sacredness of human life from birth to natural death, honoring a patient's right
to adequate health care, following the Biblical mandate to care for the poor,
and embracing the psychological, social and spiritual health -- as well as the
physical health -- of a patient.

Excela's pledge also helped it win the Vatican's approval of the sale Feb. 28,
along with approvals from state Attorney General Tom Corbett and the
Westmoreland County Court of Common Pleas, Orphans' Court Division.

All three approvals were necessary for the sale to proceed.

In addition to obstetrics, adult inpatient rehabilitation, behavioral health and
skilled nursing are being relocated to other Excela Health hospitals. Patients
began going to the new locations for those services on April 28.

"As Excela Health fulfills its strategic vision to grow to meet the needs of the
community, we are proud of our combined hospitals' strengths," David S.
Gallatin, chief executive officer of Excela Health, said in a prepared
statement.

"Together, we are stronger than we were apart."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WESTMORELAND/ Amy McConnell Schaarsmith can be reached at
aschaarsmith@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1122.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              460 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           October 27, 2016 Thursday

OU to provide reproductive health services

BYLINE: Sarah Terry-Cobo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 732  words


OKLAHOMA CITY - OU Medicine will create an island for reproductive health
services, as part of a deal to merge with a Catholic-affiliated hospital group.
SSM Health CEO William Thompson said there is some conflict between the church's
teachings and statutory obligations to provide medically necessary health
services.

So St. Anthony's hospital system and the University of Oklahoma's teaching
hospital negotiated a way to separate the religious principles that guide the
St. Anthony hospital system from reproductive services.

Mary Richard Holloway, Phillips Murrah health care attorney, said there is no
established Oklahoma case law on whether a physician can refuse to provide
treatment based on religious beliefs.  Medical ethicist John Banja said it
depends on how one interprets Catholic teachings as to whether a health care
provider violates religious ethics by referring a patient to another provider
for reproductive services.

Saint Louis, Missouri-based SSM Health and OU Medicine signed an agreement
Wednesday to merge the two hospital systems. State and federal regulators must
approve the deal. The transaction could close in the first half of 2017, said OU
Medicine spokesman Paul Sund.

Thompson said negotiations between the two hospital systems, the physicians'
group and the university's hospital authority trust were complex and lasted
nearly two years. The new corporation that will be formed will not be a Catholic
organization, he said.

Procedures that aren't in accordance with Catholic principles won't be performed
within SSM buildings, nor by SSM staff, Thompson said.  His hospital system
won't be involved in any finances related to those services, he said.

Sund said OU Medicine will dedicate a separate building for those services,
which include: medically necessary abortions, long-term birth control implants
and sterilizations for men and women. The location hasn't yet been determined,
he said.

Both parties will share governance duties, except for OU Medicine's reproductive
services center, Thompson said.

OU Medicine's physicians are bound by state statutes to provide abortions for
women in cases of rape, incest, or whose lives are in danger by bringing the
fetus to term. The organization does not provide elective abortions, Sund wrote
in an email to The Journal Record. He declined to provide the number of
emergency abortion procedures, because the figure is so small it could
potentially identify a patient.

In the previous fiscal year, OU Medicine provided 400 sterilization services and
implanted 300 birth control devices. OU Physicians treated patients in more than
650,000 clinic visits in the same time frame.

Richard said there is case law in other states that addresses religious
objections to providing a patient with medical services or birth control.
Physicians have the latitude to decline to provide services, in general.
However, if the physician or pharmacist is the sole provider, and the woman is
seeking the morning-after pill to prevent pregnancy, the health care
professional must provide it.

But courts vary on interpretation in different states.

Banja, Emory University professor and Center for Ethics Director, said it's not
necessarily an ethical conflict for a Catholic physician or nurse to provide a
referral for a patient to receive reproductive services. That depends in part on
whether the person has a liberal or fundamentalist interpretation of Catholic
dogma.

"Is the accuracy of the belief system in congruence with the Vatican?" Banja
said.

But difficult ethical situations are often multifaceted, he said. There could be
a potential ethical conflict in an extreme or traumatic situation, if a woman is
raped and comes to the emergency room for treatment, including the birth control
known as the morning-after pill.

"I think some of the most fundamentalist variety would say you are complicitous
in an immoral act, by virtue of the referral," Banja said.

However, if the two entities spent 24 months negotiating a deal, they should
have the most compelling rationale to separate governance of the reproductive
services center from SSM Health, he said.

"You get the best of both worlds: a good teaching facility and treatment that's
in accordance with Catholic ideology," Banja said.

http://www.journalrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

Copyright © 2016 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              461 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                               May 5, 2006 Friday

What happened to ethical stance?

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 103 words


Sick Kids' lottery

We were extremely disappointed to hear a radio ad for the Hospital for Sick
Children lottery. A few years ago, a spokesman for the hospital was quoted in
the Star as saying that the hospital had once run a lottery but had decided
never again. It had decided it was wrong to appeal to people's greed rather than
their charitable instincts, especially since it was a children's hospital and
should be setting a good example.

As a result of this rare ethical stance, the hospital became one of our
favourite charities. We're sorry now to have to cross it off our list. What
happened?

Rob and Ann Ewan, Toronto

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2006 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              462 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                            October 13, 2014 Monday

Frere forced 'to play God'

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 440 words


THE following lines come from a 1964 version of the Hippocratic Oath: "If it is
given me to save a life, all thanks. But it may also be within my power to take
a life; this awesome responsibility must be faced with great humbleness and
awareness of my own frailty. Above all, I must not play at God".


 It was revised all those years ago by Louis Lasagna, a famed American
pharmacologist.
 Today, the traditional declaration taken by medical graduates comes in various
forms. Some have kept fraternity with the divine while others have forgone all
godly references.
 Laymen understand the oath to be the ethical charter by which physicians
conduct their work.
 It is meant to be a set of guiding moral principles, to help medical
practitioners navigate the complexities that inevitably arise when faced with
matters of life and death.
 Sometimes, though, not even an oath of ancient provenance can counsel the
doctor who must make this excruciating choice.
 At Frere Hospital in East London, it happens every day.
 In the renal unit, it is hospital policy to grant dialysis treatment only to
patients younger than 50. The age threshold drops to 45 for those also living
with diabetes.
 Last week, the Dispatch reported the plight of Nomonde Langa.
 From Mdantsane, she is 54 and in desperate need of dialysis. She was refused
treatment at Frere, based on the hospital's policy.
 "I never knew that our own government hospitals, meant for the poor, would shut
their doors to me when I needed help most," Langa said.
 Unemployed, her financial means are insufficient to pay for medical aid and
thus open the door to private care. Her outlook, and many in her position, is
grim.
 Statistics given to the Dispatch reveal that of the nearly three million
patients potentially referred to Frere, there is capacity to treat only 70 with
renal failure.
 With limited resources available, the hospital has had to "play at God" by
filtering out those deemed to have less hope of survival.
 Langa raises an excellent point because it would be terribly easy to condemn
the medical staff.
 "The situation is impossible. No one wants to make such life and death
decisions but we are forced to," head of the renal unit Dr Alan Gordon said.
"Unfortunately, it does become a death sentence and it's a nightmare."
 The ethical conundrum is a hazard of the job, for which there can never be a
universally acceptable solution.
 If Langa had money, she could access the treatment. If government wasn't so
slovenly, she wouldn't need medical aid.
 Point is, Langa relies on the state and the state is failing her. One imagines
that not even the venerable oath has a remedy in mind.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2014 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              463 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                            October 13, 2014 Monday

Frere forced 'to play God'

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 440 words


THE following lines come from a 1964 version of the Hippocratic Oath: "If it is
given me to save a life, all thanks. But it may also be within my power to take
a life; this awesome responsibility must be faced with great humbleness and
awareness of my own frailty. Above all, I must not play at God".


 It was revised all those years ago by Louis Lasagna, a famed American
pharmacologist.
 Today, the traditional declaration taken by medical graduates comes in various
forms. Some have kept fraternity with the divine while others have forgone all
godly references.
 Laymen understand the oath to be the ethical charter by which physicians
conduct their work.
 It is meant to be a set of guiding moral principles, to help medical
practitioners navigate the complexities that inevitably arise when faced with
matters of life and death.
 Sometimes, though, not even an oath of ancient provenance can counsel the
doctor who must make this excruciating choice.
 At Frere Hospital in East London, it happens every day.
 In the renal unit, it is hospital policy to grant dialysis treatment only to
patients younger than 50. The age threshold drops to 45 for those also living
with diabetes.
 Last week, the Dispatch reported the plight of Nomonde Langa.
 From Mdantsane, she is 54 and in desperate need of dialysis. She was refused
treatment at Frere, based on the hospital's policy.
 "I never knew that our own government hospitals, meant for the poor, would shut
their doors to me when I needed help most," Langa said.
 Unemployed, her financial means are insufficient to pay for medical aid and
thus open the door to private care. Her outlook, and many in her position, is
grim.
 Statistics given to the Dispatch reveal that of the nearly three million
patients potentially referred to Frere, there is capacity to treat only 70 with
renal failure.
 With limited resources available, the hospital has had to "play at God" by
filtering out those deemed to have less hope of survival.
 Langa raises an excellent point because it would be terribly easy to condemn
the medical staff.
 "The situation is impossible. No one wants to make such life and death
decisions but we are forced to," head of the renal unit Dr Alan Gordon said.
"Unfortunately, it does become a death sentence and it's a nightmare."
 The ethical conundrum is a hazard of the job, for which there can never be a
universally acceptable solution.
 If Langa had money, she could access the treatment. If government wasn't so
slovenly, she wouldn't need medical aid.
 Point is, Langa relies on the state and the state is failing her. One imagines
that not even the venerable oath has a remedy in mind.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2014 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              464 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday

County chefs praised for their cooking

BYLINE:  Lyn Barton

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 368 words


Cornwall continues to cement its reputation as a foodies paradise with the
announcement that two pioneering and very different schemes have won national
recognition.

The highly respected 2007 Food Awards in The Observer Food Monthly heaped
accolades on local projects.

Celebrity chef turned food campaigner, Jamie Oliver's inspired restaurant
Fifteen Cornwall was the winner of the Best Location Award.

Meanwhile, Cornwall NHS Food was runner-up in the Ethical Contribution Judge's
Award.

The OFM poured praise on Fifteen Cornwall saying: "Teetering like a crow's nest
high above the beach, this has to have one of the best sea views in Britain."

It adds: "Students wear white hats, qualified staff are in black ones, all
scurrying around in the open kitchen. Food is sourced locally as much as
possible and great emphasis is placed on recycling."

Fifteen Cornwall was set up along the lines of Jamie Oliver's successful Fifteen
in London.

Each year young people from targeted deprived areas are trained to become chefs.

The restaurant is also proud of the fact that more than 80 per cent of its
produce comes from Cornwall and all profits are reinvested into the Fifteen
Foundation Charity.

The other Cornish winner in the prestigious 2007 OFM Food Awards was,
surprisingly, hospital food.

It is a subject which rarely arouses  enthusiasm amongst culinary  experts.

But the project to bring local produce into Westcountry hospitals has astounded
judges.

The NHS Food Programme, set  up by the Cornwall Partnership Trust, has won
second place in  the Ethical Contribution category, beaten only by  Friends of
the Earth.

The programme pushes forward  the use of local produce in hospitals throughout
Cornwall to  give patients, visitors and staff  healthy meals and support local
businesses at the same time.

The Observer said: "Hospital  food in Cornwall has gone local  - this NHS
programme means  much of it is sustainably  sourced, with Cornish milk,  fish,
eggs, cheese and yoghurt  on the menu, too."

Sandra Benjamin, chairman of  Cornwall Partnership NHS  Trust is thrilled with
the recognition from the Observer.

She said: "We're delighted by  the ongoing success of this programme."

lbarton@ westernmorningnews.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              465 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday

County chefs praised for their cooking

BYLINE:  Lyn Barton

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 368 words


Cornwall continues to cement its reputation as a foodies paradise with the
announcement that two pioneering and very different schemes have won national
recognition.

The highly respected 2007 Food Awards in The Observer Food Monthly heaped
accolades on local projects.

Celebrity chef turned food campaigner, Jamie Oliver's inspired restaurant
Fifteen Cornwall was the winner of the Best Location Award.

Meanwhile, Cornwall NHS Food was runner-up in the Ethical Contribution Judge's
Award.

The OFM poured praise on Fifteen Cornwall saying: "Teetering like a crow's nest
high above the beach, this has to have one of the best sea views in Britain."

It adds: "Students wear white hats, qualified staff are in black ones, all
scurrying around in the open kitchen. Food is sourced locally as much as
possible and great emphasis is placed on recycling."

Fifteen Cornwall was set up along the lines of Jamie Oliver's successful Fifteen
in London.

Each year young people from targeted deprived areas are trained to become chefs.

The restaurant is also proud of the fact that more than 80 per cent of its
produce comes from Cornwall and all profits are reinvested into the Fifteen
Foundation Charity.

The other Cornish winner in the prestigious 2007 OFM Food Awards was,
surprisingly, hospital food.

It is a subject which rarely arouses  enthusiasm amongst culinary  experts.

But the project to bring local produce into Westcountry hospitals has astounded
judges.

The NHS Food Programme, set  up by the Cornwall Partnership Trust, has won
second place in  the Ethical Contribution category, beaten only by  Friends of
the Earth.

The programme pushes forward  the use of local produce in hospitals throughout
Cornwall to  give patients, visitors and staff  healthy meals and support local
businesses at the same time.

The Observer said: "Hospital  food in Cornwall has gone local  - this NHS
programme means  much of it is sustainably  sourced, with Cornish milk,  fish,
eggs, cheese and yoghurt  on the menu, too."

Sandra Benjamin, chairman of  Cornwall Partnership NHS  Trust is thrilled with
the recognition from the Observer.

She said: "We're delighted by  the ongoing success of this programme."

lbarton@ westernmorningnews.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              466 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            December 26, 2008 Friday

Nursing and med students learn ethics from TV;
House, Grey's Anatomy are their top influences

BYLINE: Stuart Laidlaw, Toronto Star

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. L01

LENGTH: 787 words


Maybe it's natural for a generation raised in front of the television, learning
about counting with Kermit or about sharing with Polkeroo.

A new study suggests today's medical and nursing students are learning about
medical ethics from TV medical dramas.

The top influences are House, for the male students, and Grey's Anatomy, for
female, according to the study in December issue of The American Journal of
Bioethics.

"When you think about the busy lives these students live, you wonder when they
get the time," says Dr. Ruth Faden, director of the Berman Institute of
Bioethics at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore.

The phenomenon is not unique to medical students, Faden says, adding her
daughter liked to watch legal dramas while in law school.

One of the study's authors, Matthew Czarny, is a third year medical student at
Johns Hopkins.

"I used to watch a lot of House," says Czarny, who says his TV viewing has
dropped off since beginning his in-hospital training last spring.

Faden and her colleagues surveyed medical and nursing students at Johns Hopkins
in the fall of 2007, asking them about their TV viewing habits over the previous
year.

They found that 84 per cent of medical students and 81 per cent of nursing
students watched medical dramas regularly, with House and Grey's Anatomy the top
picks.

Grey's had a much more loyal audience, with 49 per cent saying they had seen the
show in the previous week, compared to 31 per cent for House.

The study recommends that medical schools harness the popularity of the shows to
assist in teaching medical ethics. It would help, for instance, to lift an issue
such as organ donation out of the theoretical by giving students a specific case
to discuss.

"A brief clip from a medical drama portraying such an issue could stimulate
students' ethical analysis and allow for faculty guidance," the study says.

Faden says that typical class work involves reading a case study, but there is
"an emotional distance" from the subject with that form of study.

"When you watch a dramatization, you get a sense of the emotional pull," she
says.

Czarny said using dramatization would help him and his fellow students think
more about ethics.

"Actually seeing an interaction can convey a lot more than reading about it," he
says.

Faden says the preferences of students tended to reflect gender lines more than
areas of study. Eighty-three per cent of male students, whether in medicine or
nursing, preferred House, while 81 per cent of women preferred Grey's Anatomy.

House features an aggressive, sarcastic lead character, Dr. Gregory House, while
Grey's features an ensemble cast and places a heavier emphasis on relationships
among the characters.

Both, however, feature ethical issues as central to their weekly plot lines,
something the students said often stimulates discussions among classmates and
families about medical ethics issues. As well, many students reported watching
the shows with groups of other students.

"Such group viewing provides easy opportunities to discuss the ethical issues
that are depicted, either during the viewing or at a later time," the study
says.

Faden and the other study authors are concerned that the TV dramas may be
influencing the ethical attitudes of tomorrow's medical leaders.

"The simulated realism of dramatized cases involving medical ethics issues may
prompt students not only to imagine, but also to shape their responses to such
issues," the study said.

In an interview, however, Faden is quick to add that not all ethical decisions
made in the shows are bad, and that even the bad decisions can be helpful from a
teaching point of view by encouraging discussion about what should have been
done.

When asked how they form their attitudes about medical ethics, only 14 per cent
of the students cited television as "important," with 91 per cent saying their
school was more significant and 81 per cent citing family. Scholarly journals,
such as the one publishing the study, were picked by 79 per cent.

Faden and the other researchers viewed such rankings with some skepticism,
however, given the popularity of the medical dramas with the students.

They recommended a deeper study, looking at students' ethical attitudes before
and after watching the shows in order to better gauge their impact.

The more in-hospital experience a student had, however, the less likely that
student was to regard the ethical issues raised on the shows as accurate.

Among medical students with no clinical experience, 44 per cent rated the
depictions as "mostly adequate," compared with 33 per cent of medical students
with clinical experience. Nurses were slightly more skeptical, with only 31 per
cent saying the dramas did a good job of portraying ethical issues.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              467 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                             March 10, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A world of competing sorrows

BYLINE: Margaret Somerville, Citizen Special

SECTION: NEWS; Margaret Somerville; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1708  words


Regarding withdrawal of treatment, we need to distinguish a doctor's 'medical
decisions' from 'decisions in a medical context,' which implicate a broad range
of values

The facts are an everyday reality; but they open up a complex world of competing
sorrows.

Samuel Golubchuck, whose health has been deteriorating, is an 84-year-old man on
a ventilator in a Winnipeg hospital. The physicians and hospital want to remove
the ventilator. His family wants it continued, including for religious reasons.
They've gone to court.

Justice Perry Schulman of the Manitoba Court of Queen's Bench has held the
ventilator must be continued until a court can rule on the issues, which he said
are "wide open," "not frivolous (legally)," and must "be decided for the good of
the parties and in the public interest."

So what are the issues? In early court cases involving conflict between
physicians and patients or their families about treatment, the issue was
over-treatment. People were frightened of being "left at the mercy of doctors
and their machines," especially when they were dying.

To remedy that situation, in cases such as Karen Anne Quinlan in the United
States, Tony Bland in the United Kingdom and Nancy B in Canada, courts
recognized the legal rights of patients, or the families of incompetent
patients, to refuse treatment. Advance directives -- "living wills" containing
the patient's instructions about treatment and "durable powers of attorney" that
allowed patients to choose their substitute decision-maker if they were
incompetent -- further enshrined this right.

Concurrently, ethical justifications for withdrawing treatment with consent,
such as the suffering the treatment inflicted outweighed any possible benefits
it offered, were articulated. And, while maintaining the ethical and legal
presumption in favour of life, a language and practice of not wrongfully
"prolonging dying" was developed.

The underlying principles were respect for individuals and their rights to
autonomy, self-determination and inviolability -- their right not to be touched,
including by treatment, without their informed consent to it.

And religion was a factor in some of these cases. For instance, a competent,
adult Jehovah's Witness had the legal right to refuse blood transfusions, even
though it meant she would die.

In contrast, in Mr. Golubchuck's case, the conflict is about under-treatment. If
we apply the same concepts and rights as those outlined above, does he -- and,
likewise, would we -- have a right to demand treatment?

We've been struggling to answer. Here are some of the concepts, definitions and
principles we've used so far in trying to do so.

Levels of Decision Making

A physician has a primary obligation of personal care to each individual
patient. The physician must not place the interests of others in front of the
patient's or be in conflict of interest in making decisions affecting the
patient. So saving resources for other patients at the patient's expense is
unethical.

Legally, the physician must offer the patient the range of treatment that a
reasonably careful and competent physician would offer in the same
circumstances, which could require taking into account the patient's religious
beliefs. If there is disagreement as to what that range is, as in Mr.
Golubchuck's case, ultimately it will be decided by a court. Although the expert
evidence of physicians would be considered by the court, it is not definitive in
determining that range.

If a treatment is medically indicated, it may only be withheld with the
patient's (or his substitute decision maker's) informed refusal of it --
informed refusal is the companion doctrine to informed consent.

Moreover, physicians have ethical and legal obligations to inform patients about
medically indicated treatments even though they are not available, which can
cause very difficult situations for physicians.

Hospitals owe ethical and legal obligations to all patients, and ethics requires
they take into account efficient and effective use of health care resources in
order to benefit everyone. A general decision at this level can mean a certain
treatment might not be available to a particular patient. But hospitals must act
justly and equitably in making resources available, including not discriminating
on prohibited bases, such as age.

So, while a hospital might validly decide not to install an intensive care unit,
for example, it could not, as one Saskatchewan hospital did, decide that no
patients would be given cardio-pulmonary resuscitation. Ethically and legally,
the latter requires individual decision making.

Futility

Futility is a vexed concept. It's used by health care professionals with the
intention of justifying withholding treatment. It often hides value judgments,
especially ones based on quality of life; treatment is labelled as futile in
order to withhold it from people seen as having a life not worth living and,
therefore, not worth the cost of maintaining it. But, even apart from other
problems with futility, research shows healthcare professionals perceive
patients' quality of life as lower than patients themselves do.

"Medical futility" is a narrower concept than futility that does not involve the
same risks of abuse. There is no ethical or legal obligation to provide
treatment that will have no effect -- for instance, give a blood transfusion to
a person not needing blood. Mr. Golubchuck's ventilator is keeping him alive so
it is not medically futile. That does not mean the ventilator must not be
withdrawn; rather, its withdrawal cannot be justified on the basis of futility.

The facts of the Herman Krausz case, in which the treating-physician turned off
Mr. Krausz's ventilator, are very similar to the Golubchuck case. That resulted
in a 16-day, Quebec coroner's enquiry. The coroner ruled the ventilator
supporting Mr. Krausz's life was not "medically futile"; that he was competent
and had not given informed consent to its withdrawal; and that this withdrawal
caused his death.

But she also found -- somewhat confusingly and without explaining the relevance
or proper application of this previously unknown concept -- that the ventilator
was "therapeutically futile." That meant, she explained, the patient could not
be cured and would die, whether or not the ventilator was withdrawn; the only
difference was when he would die. But that's true for all of us who need medical
treatment to keep us alive, and it's also true that in the end we all die.

Ethical Justification

The heart of "doing ethics" when values conflict, as in Mr. Golubchuck's case,
is to ethically justify breaching the values that are not respected by the
course of action adopted. It is these ethical justifications, not the decision
outcomes in particular cases, that create the precedents that will be used in
future cases. That is a major reason they are so important.

Those arguing treatment should be withdrawn try to establish such justification
first, by setting a nasty medical scene. A nurse gave evidence in court that
"Mr. Golubchuck had 45 litres of excess fluid leaking from his body and was
rotting from the inside out." Language affects how we see ethics, because it
affects our moral intuitions and emotional responses.

Another justification given is that Mr. Golubchuck "does not speak or get out of
bed ... (and arguably) his brain is functioning barely above a vegetative
state." But that's also true for many disabled people.

As well, it has been argued that Mr. Golubchuck has no worthwhile quality of
life and respect for his dignity requires that his life not be sustained. These
are the same justifications used to support euthanasia, as is the proposition
that the only ethical obligation is "to ensure he has a dignified, painless and
distress-free death."

Other factors that are relevant to decision making about withdrawing treatment,
but if accepted as justifications would validate withdrawal in a very broad
range of circumstances, have also been presented.

They include that Mr. Golubchuck's condition has not improved; "it's rare to
have survivors from such prolonged ICU stays"; "a public health-care system ...
does not have unlimited resources to fund ICU stays" (but that's true of all
treatment); the "treatment ... has been medically determined to be of no benefit
(which raises the question in dispute, namely whether it is of benefit) which
violates the basic ethical tenets of all health care professionals"; treating
Mr. Golubchuck is "painful" and distressing for him (as many treatments can be
for patients); the cost of taking the case to court is a waste of taxpayers'
money and the delay involved is traumatic for health care workers who want
treatment stopped; and that a court cannot order treatment continued -- a stance
which is legally in error.

When so many justifications are needed, it indicates no one of them -- or all of
them together -- is sufficient. There are ways to justify, ethically and
legally, withdrawing treatment and to do so without setting dangerous
precedents, but they are not articulated above. For instance, one such is the
patient's or family's informed consent to withdrawal.

So, bottom line, when values conflict, as in the Golubchuck case, whose should
prevail, the patient's and family's or the physicians'?

We need to distinguish "medical decisions" (e.g. what is the correct dose of a
drug) which are properly the province of physicians, from "decisions in a
medical context," which implicate a broad range of values, including religious
ones.

"Decisions in a medical context" should not be the sole, or even the primary,
province of physician decision making. I propose that when patients' and
physicians' values conflict in making these decisions, we should use a basic
presumption that the patient and his family should prevail, unless the
physicians can prove an exception should apply.

All of which is to say that the precedent the Golubchuck case could set in
relation to who has the right to decide on medical treatment is of great
importance to all of us as individuals, and as a society in terms of our shared
values.

Margaret Somerville is director of the Centre for Medicine, Ethics and Law at
McGill University, and author of The Ethical Imagination: Journeys of the Human
Spirit.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Reuters; There's usually a judgment call that goes beyond medical utility
in deciding to provide or withdraw treatment, writes Margaret Somerville. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2008 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              468 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             October 2, 2016 Sunday

Doctor with C-section record under scrutiny

BYLINE: Prabeerkumar Sikdar

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 308 words


HYDERABAD: A decade-old medical feat that involved performing the fastest
emergency C-section delivery on a woman in Warangal, has landed doctor PS
Sugunakar Raju in soup. A complaint was registered against the doctor on ethical
grounds regarding this case and another with the Telangana state medical council
on Thursday.The complainant P Damodhar, a senior geophysicist in ONGC in
Chennai, alleged that it was unethical of Raju to have video-graphed the
C-section performed on one Guda Aruna. On 14 December, 2005, Raju performed the
'C section' in nine minutes and fourteen seconds flat.

The feat earned him a place in Limca Book of Records-2007. However, now,
Damodhar has found fault with the videographing of the woman's delivery. In
fact, Damodhar has sought disciplinary action against Raju for another 'medical
feat' recorded at private hospital at Medipally, Hyderabad, in 2014 on ethical
grounds. The case involved successful C-section delivery on a coma patient B
Rama Devi that got Raju another mention in Limca Book of Records-2016 for the
"first Csection performed on a woman in coma".Dr Sugunakar, for his part,
brushed aside allegations saying he was being maligned by a few people with
vested interests. He clarified he had performed the C-sections on two patients
after ruling out normal delivery option. "In the first case, I videographed the
delivery at Jangaon Area Hospital as the patient remained unattended for 36
hours.Politicians and others landed outside the hospital to stage a protest.
This forced us to videograph the procedure for our own safety and this was done
with the permission of my senior Dr Rajeshwar Rao," he said.In the second case,
he said he had taken video consent of patient's family. "This was done as no
other doctor was willing to take up the procedure," he added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              469 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             October 2, 2016 Sunday

Doctor with C-section record under scrutiny

BYLINE: Prabeerkumar Sikdar

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 308 words


HYDERABAD: A decade-old medical feat that involved performing the fastest
emergency C-section delivery on a woman in Warangal, has landed doctor PS
Sugunakar Raju in soup. A complaint was registered against the doctor on ethical
grounds regarding this case and another with the Telangana state medical council
on Thursday.The complainant P Damodhar, a senior geophysicist in ONGC in
Chennai, alleged that it was unethical of Raju to have video-graphed the
C-section performed on one Guda Aruna. On 14 December, 2005, Raju performed the
'C section' in nine minutes and fourteen seconds flat.

The feat earned him a place in Limca Book of Records-2007. However, now,
Damodhar has found fault with the videographing of the woman's delivery. In
fact, Damodhar has sought disciplinary action against Raju for another 'medical
feat' recorded at private hospital at Medipally, Hyderabad, in 2014 on ethical
grounds. The case involved successful C-section delivery on a coma patient B
Rama Devi that got Raju another mention in Limca Book of Records-2016 for the
"first Csection performed on a woman in coma".Dr Sugunakar, for his part,
brushed aside allegations saying he was being maligned by a few people with
vested interests. He clarified he had performed the C-sections on two patients
after ruling out normal delivery option. "In the first case, I videographed the
delivery at Jangaon Area Hospital as the patient remained unattended for 36
hours.Politicians and others landed outside the hospital to stage a protest.
This forced us to videograph the procedure for our own safety and this was done
with the permission of my senior Dr Rajeshwar Rao," he said.In the second case,
he said he had taken video consent of patient's family. "This was done as no
other doctor was willing to take up the procedure," he added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              470 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Vatican steps into fray on hospital sale Catholic Church wants Mercy, Little
rock bishop to settle differences before sale gets OK.

BYLINE: By Jim Doyle jdoyle@post-dispatch.com 314-340-8372

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 552 words


Vatican officials in Rome have put the brakes on Mercy Health's plan to sell one
of its Arkansas hospitals.

Tim Johnson, chief executive of Mercy Hospital Hot Springs, told employees in an
email Friday that the Vatican has ordered Mercy executives to sit down with
Bishop Anthony Taylor of Little Rock and try to resolve their differences.

Taylor has opposed the pending hospital sale to Capella Healthcare Inc. and has
accused Mercy chief executive Lynn Britton of pushing the deal forward at the
expense of the nonprofit's century-old charity mission in the Hot Springs area.

In a written statement, Mercy spokeswoman Barb Meyer acknowledged the
Chesterfield-based health system has received new marching orders from the
Vatican.

"Rather than provide approval or denial of our petition at this time," the
statement said, "the Vatican has asked that Mercy engage in further discussions"
with the bishop to address his concerns about "ongoing care for the poor, the
continuation of Ethical and Religious Directives and the impact of the
transition on coworkers."

Last spring, Mercy announced its plan to sell the 309-bed Mercy Hospital Hot
Springs to Capella, the owner of Mercy's crosstown rival, the 166-bed National
Park Medical Center. The sale would leave only one hospital operator in Hot
Springs.

The Federal Trade Commission is looking into the deal's antitrust implications,
including its potential effect on hospital prices and services in the area.

Board members of the Mercy hospital in Hot Springs, who say they were blindsided
by the decision to sell the hospital, have voiced concern that it will result in
higher medical prices, reduced quality of care and less access for the poor.

The decision to sell the hospital also sparked the resignation of Eric Jackson,
who sat on Mercy's national board.

Bishop Taylor, who in late October made his case against the sale to Vatican
officials in Rome, has accused Mercy of abandoning its ministry to the poor and
of failing to advocate aggressively for Catholic principles.

He also has accused Mercy officials of violating canon law by not seeking out a
better - meaning Catholic - buyer for the hospital. And he has voiced concern
that the hospital's new owners may permit abortions after a 5-year period in
which Capella has agreed not to perform the procedure.

Capella, a for-profit health system based in Franklin, Tenn., issued a written
statement on Friday from Mike Wiechart, its chief operating officer, who
indicated that Capella "remains committed to the vision of a united health
system in Hot Springs."

Wiechart also vowed to observe the Catholic traditions of the hospital, which
established an infirmary in Hot Springs in 1888.

"We are deeply committed to honoring the ethical and religious directives of the
Catholic Church at Mercy Hot Springs and to caring for the neediest of
patients," he said. "We look forward to working with Mercy and Bishop Taylor to
clarify any concerns, provide assurances, and together, find a solution that is
best for Hot Springs."

Meanwhile, the Post-Dispatch also learned that Mercy's board chairman, Ronald
Ashworth, resigned recently from the board. Meyer said she was unaware of any
differences that Ashworth might have had with other board members or Britton.
Longtime board member Charles Thoele will replace Ashworth.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              471 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

'Advertising' by docs: Lodge a complaint

                            October 14, 2005 Friday


I REFER to the letter, 'Does media exposure constitute ads by docs?' (ST, Oct
4), by Dr Michael Loh.

Health-care institutions are allowed to provide information about the services
they provide to members of the public through advertisements. This is regulated
by the Private Hospitals and Medical Clinics (Publicity) Regulations 2004.

The provision of information by doctors is governed by the Singapore Medical
Council (SMC)'s Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines.

If Dr Loh is of the view that certain advertisements or information provided
compromise ethical standards, it would be appropriate for him to lodge a formal
complaint with the SMC for the Complaints Committee's investigation.

The SMC will not pass judgment on a case without having conducted a proper
investigation or hearing.

Tan Hui Cheng (Ms) Administrative Manager Singapore Medical Council

SECTION: ST Forum

LENGTH: 146 words

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                              472 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

'Advertising' by docs: Lodge a complaint

                            October 14, 2005 Friday


I REFER to the letter, 'Does media exposure constitute ads by docs?' (ST, Oct
4), by Dr Michael Loh.

Health-care institutions are allowed to provide information about the services
they provide to members of the public through advertisements. This is regulated
by the Private Hospitals and Medical Clinics (Publicity) Regulations 2004.

The provision of information by doctors is governed by the Singapore Medical
Council (SMC)'s Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines.

If Dr Loh is of the view that certain advertisements or information provided
compromise ethical standards, it would be appropriate for him to lodge a formal
complaint with the SMC for the Complaints Committee's investigation.

The SMC will not pass judgment on a case without having conducted a proper
investigation or hearing.

Tan Hui Cheng (Ms) Administrative Manager Singapore Medical Council

SECTION: ST Forum

LENGTH: 146 words

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                              473 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Finding the key to ethical research

LENGTH: 227 words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, Jan. 26 -- Research Ethics Education is the key to responsible
clinical research in India and around the world. In an effort to further that,
experts from India and the US came together to share their views and perception
on the state of Ethical Research and to discuss ways to enhance the responsible
conduct of research in India. Present at the discussion were Professor Kakarla
Subba Rao, former director of Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences, Dr B
Sesikaran of the National Institute of Nutrition and managing director and
Chairman of Global Hospitals, Dr Ravindranath, among others.

Part of the discussions was an initiative programme - the CITI Programme, which
has been adapted for keeping the Indian culture and context in mind. This
educational programme ( CITI-India ) is web-based and is available to all
research centers in India. It is being conducted in Collaboration with the Sri
Ramachandra University, Chennai and the CITI Programme of Miami, U.S.A.

Global hospitals will be conducting a workshop programme in collaboration with
CITI-Inida & CRS to create awareness among people with regards to ethical
conduct in biomedical research. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
New Indian Express. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              474 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 7, 1980 Thursday

Group gives advice on life-support withdrawal

BYLINE: CP

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: CALGARY AB


CALGARY  (CP) - A newly formed group at Foothills Hospital is helping
 families and their doctors with the ethical decisions concerning so-called
 passive euthanasia - withdrawal of life-support systems when there is no
 hope of a patient recovering.

The Foothills 'consultation committee,' used sparingly since it was
 formed about three months ago, has won the support of the hospital
 administration and stirred interest in medical circles throughout the
 country.

The committee is made up of a doctor, a nurse, a theologian, a
 psychiatrist, a social worker, a chaplain, a lawyer and a philosopher
 specializing in analysing and discussing ethical problems.

As a group, they try to take some of the loneliness out of a decision
 that has traditionally been made by a doctor in consultation with the
 family of the patient.

The decision whether to end or prolong a terminal patient's life,
 especially if that person is in pain, is a difficult one.

As medical technology improves, doctors can prolong a patient's life
 even after his heart stops beating or his lungs fail to take in air.

At some point, however, every doctor treating a terminal patient must
 decide whether to continue life-giving care or to allow a patient to die.

But then there is the risk of lawsuit by relatives who feel the patient
 should have been kept alive as long as possible, not to mention the
 ethical dilemma that no doctor should play God.

Lilas Lysne, one of the founders of the consultation committee, says
 the patient's right to the most humane treatment possible must be upheld
 while at the same time all points of view of those concerned must be
 heard.
    'We want to sensitize everyone to the fact that there are different
 sides to the issue. How do we die and how do we live? This is the ethical
 dilemma.'
    She said the group provides psychological support to those fced with
 tough decisions about other people's lives. But the final decision is
 still up to the doctor and the family - the committee cannot tell anyone
 else what to do, Miss Lysne said.

Dr. Bruce Hatfield, a specialist in internal medicine, says the
 committee is useful.
    'I feel a much less lonely decision-maker,' he said of his experience
 with the committee. 'For me it has been a godsend to see outsiders
 willing to wrestle with the problems we have had to wrestle with for a
 long time.'
    Dr. Hatfield said many doctors are uncomfortably aware of the power
 they hold over patients' lives and welcome help in making some of the
 tough decisions.

He said one dilemma occurs when a doctor has succeeded in keeping a
 patient alive, but the person has no real hope of recovery. If the doctor
 takes measures to discontinue life-support, he may be in conflict with the
 law or relatives who might hold unrealistic hopes that a miracle will
 occur.
    'Also, when you have 20 beds and they are full, and you have one
 person who will not make the grade no matter what you do, and then you
 have one who stands a chance, what do you do? How do you make a choice?'
    Patients, doctors and families who have consulted with the committee
 say they have been able to leave the sessions with a clearer idea of the
 decision they want to make.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1980 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              475 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             July 15, 2008 Tuesday

Ethics the heart of health care;
Good hospital programs raise employee morale, help recruitment and decrease
staff turnover

BYLINE: Stuart Laidlaw, Toronto Star

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. L04

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: HAMILTON


A good ethics program is no frill for a modern hospital, but an essential part
of providing excellent health care, a gathering of hospital ethicists has heard.

"Ethics is the heart of health care," Murray Martin, chief executive of Hamilton
Health Sciences, told the annual Clinical Ethics Summer Institute yesterday.

Speaking as a hospital administrator, Martin said hospitals with good ethics
programs report higher staff morale, easier recruitment and lower staff
turnover. Resources are used more efficiently, he said, and patient satisfaction
is higher.

But the field, which has emerged only in the past decade or so, can be seen by
many in the health care world as an add-on to the real work of curing people,
says Sunnybrook Health Sciences ethicist Karen Faith, who was a presenter at the
institute.

"We work at a certain pace in health care. It's hard to get the space for some
of these considerations," she said in an interview.

But the time needs to be made, she said, however brief. "Ethical issues are
faced every day and everywhere in health care," she said.

The annual summer institute for ethicists began in Toronto two years ago, but
now has a permanent home at Hamilton Health Sciences, allowing the group to
expand the training and support it provides to hospital ethicists at its
week-long courses.

But beyond the practical training provided in sessions such as conflict
resolution and confronting competing ethics, attendees will develop a support
network among the 120 participants, said Andrea Frolic, ethicist at Hamilton
Health Sciences.

"It can be very lonely," she said in an interview.

Several times yesterday, participants were urged to develop "communities of
support" with other ethicists at nearby hospitals or universities to whom they
can turn throughout the year for advice and moral support.

Even within the health-care field, Faith said, few fully appreciate what
ethicists do.

"Ethics is an emerging field; it's not really understood," she said.

As a result, she says, expectations are often imposed on hospital ethicists that
are not appropriate or realistic.

Many people, for instance, expect the ethicist to swoop in at the critical
moment of discussion among doctors, nurses, patients and the family to pronounce
on what the most ethical thing to do would be in any given situation.

And while some ethicists do operate that way, she said, the field is evolving
into more of a consultative role.

"Many people are focused on the outcome, but the process is as important as the
outcome," she said.

The job of the ethicist, she said, is to assist in the conversations taking
place during a patient's care about the treatments available and the best
options for the patient involved.

The ethicist makes make sure all involved understand the moral implications of
whatever they decide.

But what is best, she said, will change from case to case.

"There are no easy answers in the challenges we face every day," she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  toronto star file photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              476 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                             August 29, 2014 Friday
                               Townsville Edition

Bishop honoured for work in health

BYLINE: EMMA CHADWICK emma.chadwick@news.com.au

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 262  words


TOWNSVILLE'S former bishop Michael Putney has been recognised posthumously with
a national award for his work improving ethics in health and aged care.

The Lifetime Achievement Award was given to Bishop Putney at a conference of
health leaders in Brisbane this week.

Bishop Putney died on March 28 after a battle with stomach cancer and was a
highly regarded community leader who spoke with compassion and peace about
living with terminal illness in order to help others.

During his final 12 months, the Bishop was also bestowed with an Order of
Australia medal, and wrote a book.

Townsville's Mater Hospital board member Geraldine O'Brien said Bishop Putney
was a worthy recipient for his work heading a team to draw up a Code of Ethical
Standards for Australia's Catholic hospitals and aged care facilities.

The code, published in 2001, received international recognition and is the
ethical blueprint used by health professionals.

"It is a significant award for people in Catholic Health, there are 70,000
employees engaged in Catholic health sectors in Australia," Mrs O'Brien said.

Townsville diocesan administrator Father Mick Lowcock said Bishop Putney would
be remembered as much for the dignified way he had lived out his last days as
much as for his invaluable life's work.

"(The award) has also raised the profile of the Mater Hospital on a local level
and Catholic Health on a national level," Fr Lowcock said.Catholic Health
Australia's stewardship board chairwoman Rowena McNally said Bishop Putney
played a major role in shaping Catholic Health over the past two decades.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              477 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                             August 29, 2014 Friday
                               Townsville Edition

Bishop honoured for work in health

BYLINE: EMMA CHADWICK emma.chadwick@news.com.au

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 262  words


TOWNSVILLE'S former bishop Michael Putney has been recognised posthumously with
a national award for his work improving ethics in health and aged care.

The Lifetime Achievement Award was given to Bishop Putney at a conference of
health leaders in Brisbane this week.

Bishop Putney died on March 28 after a battle with stomach cancer and was a
highly regarded community leader who spoke with compassion and peace about
living with terminal illness in order to help others.

During his final 12 months, the Bishop was also bestowed with an Order of
Australia medal, and wrote a book.

Townsville's Mater Hospital board member Geraldine O'Brien said Bishop Putney
was a worthy recipient for his work heading a team to draw up a Code of Ethical
Standards for Australia's Catholic hospitals and aged care facilities.

The code, published in 2001, received international recognition and is the
ethical blueprint used by health professionals.

"It is a significant award for people in Catholic Health, there are 70,000
employees engaged in Catholic health sectors in Australia," Mrs O'Brien said.

Townsville diocesan administrator Father Mick Lowcock said Bishop Putney would
be remembered as much for the dignified way he had lived out his last days as
much as for his invaluable life's work.

"(The award) has also raised the profile of the Mater Hospital on a local level
and Catholic Health on a national level," Fr Lowcock said.Catholic Health
Australia's stewardship board chairwoman Rowena McNally said Bishop Putney
played a major role in shaping Catholic Health over the past two decades.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              478 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                             August 29, 2014 Friday
                               Townsville Edition

Bishop honoured for work in health

BYLINE: EMMA CHADWICK emma.chadwick@news.com.au

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 262  words


TOWNSVILLE'S former bishop Michael Putney has been recognised posthumously with
a national award for his work improving ethics in health and aged care.

The Lifetime Achievement Award was given to Bishop Putney at a conference of
health leaders in Brisbane this week.

Bishop Putney died on March 28 after a battle with stomach cancer and was a
highly regarded community leader who spoke with compassion and peace about
living with terminal illness in order to help others.

During his final 12 months, the Bishop was also bestowed with an Order of
Australia medal, and wrote a book.

Townsville's Mater Hospital board member Geraldine O'Brien said Bishop Putney
was a worthy recipient for his work heading a team to draw up a Code of Ethical
Standards for Australia's Catholic hospitals and aged care facilities.

The code, published in 2001, received international recognition and is the
ethical blueprint used by health professionals.

"It is a significant award for people in Catholic Health, there are 70,000
employees engaged in Catholic health sectors in Australia," Mrs O'Brien said.

Townsville diocesan administrator Father Mick Lowcock said Bishop Putney would
be remembered as much for the dignified way he had lived out his last days as
much as for his invaluable life's work.

"(The award) has also raised the profile of the Mater Hospital on a local level
and Catholic Health on a national level," Fr Lowcock said.Catholic Health
Australia's stewardship board chairwoman Rowena McNally said Bishop Putney
played a major role in shaping Catholic Health over the past two decades.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              479 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                            October 12, 2008 Sunday
                                  Mich Edition

BUSINESS PEOPLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 290 words


SOUTH BEND - Patrick Murphy, marketing professor at the University of Notre
Dame, has been recognized by the Emerald Literati Network with the 2008
Outstanding Paper Award for his article, "An Ethical Basis for Relationship
Marketing: A Virtue Ethics Perspective."

Murphy's paper investigates the role of ethics and trust in companies' building
long-term marketing relationships with customers. It was published in the
January 2007 edition of the European Journal of Marketing and was selected for
the award from among about 75 papers published in the Journal during 2007.

Murphy is the co-director of the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide and a
fellow with Notre Dame's Nanovic Institute for European Studies.

LAPORTE - The LaPorte Regional Physician Network welcomes Dr. John Taylor to the
organization.

Taylor specializes in obstetrics and gynecology.

Taylor received his doctor of medicine from the Indiana University School of
Medicine. He completed his internship and residency in obstetrics and gynecology
at the Methodist Hospital Graduate Medical Center at Methodist Hospital in
Indianapolis.

He has practiced in northwest Indiana for more than 23 years.

ST. JOSEPH - The Berrien Community Foundation Board elected its officers for
2008-2009 at its annual trustees meeting.

Greg Vaughn, of Benton Harbor, is the new chairman; Sharon Vargo, of Benton
Harbor, is the vice chairwoman; Tim Passaro, of St. Joseph, is the treasurer;
and Robert Gottlieb, of St. Joseph, is the secretary.

The Berrien Community Foundation was founded by William Vawter and other local
leaders in 1952 to build permanent endowments and other funds, provide donor
services and grants, and to serve as a facilitative community leader in Berrien
County.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              480 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           January 12, 1989 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

ETHICS A GROWTH INDUSTRY OFFERING GOOD PROSPECTS

BYLINE: By ALAN NICHOLS. * Alan Nichols is an Anglican priest and social
analyst. He is a member of the ethics committees of two public hospitals in
Melbourne.

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 825 words


THE study and practice of ethics has become a growth industry in Australia,
starting in the public hospital system. Could there be social advantages to
having ethics committees in industry?

Twenty years ago, there were hardly any ethics comittees in hospitals, or for
examining the ethics of medical research on humans or on animals.

Then the National Health and Medical Research Council began the process which
culminated in detailed guidelines on a range of issues such as medical research
on human embryos and human tissue.

The council's guidelines have no legislative force, but it will not fund
research projects unless they conform to them. Hospital ethics committees now
take them as their "bible" on research.

Around the same time as the in vitro fertilisation techniques were being
developed in Melbourne, Monash University started its Centre for Human
Bioethics, with Professor Peter Singer as director and Dr Helga Kuhse as
associate director.

This centre has had a profound effect. Many accuse it of having a basically
utilitarian philosophy, and certainly in its public seminars the Catholic
Church's stance has been ridiculed.

In response, St Vincent's Hospital in Melbourne, a public hospital run by an
order of nuns, started its own Bioethics Centre with Dr Nicholas
Tonti-Filipinni, one of Peter Singer's top students at Monash University in the
philosophy class, as director and resident philosopher.

Over the past 10 years, all public hospitals and many large private hospitals
have developed their own ethics committees, with detailed protocols for research
projects, patient information and medical accountability.

So great is the interest in "institutional ethics committees" that when Monash
University called a seminar last month, over 300 people turned up. The seminar
focused on the unfortunate experiment where women with cervical cancer became
patients of the National Women's Hospital of New Zealand but received no
treatment. Many died, untreated, and it became a television scandal earlier this
year.

Could it happen again?

The seminar concluded: not within projects approved by ethics committees, but
conceivably where doctors agreed not to disclose what they were doing.

One of the special safeguards of institutional ethics committees is to involve
"outsiders" in certain categories. Some are ministers of religion, some
philosophers, some "community workers" without medical training, some lawyers.

Here are some of the questions faced at a recent Melbourne hospital:

* Is it reasonable to test new pieces of medical equipment on patients without
their knowledge?

* Are the patient consent forms for surgery adequate and in sufficiently basic
language that the patient can give "informed consent"?

* When extra surgery or tests are involved in a research project, are patients
sufficiently informed?

* Is it an ethical use of resources to use very expensive drugs in research?

* Are explanations of possible side-effects of research programmes given to the
subjects?

* Do we need the consent of relatives to engage in research on post-mortem
tissue?

* Can research projects go on indefinitely, or should they be reviewed every 12
months (this would have made a huge difference to the unfortunate experiments in
New Zealand)?

* When patients are seriously ill, how do we inform them of invasive procedures
such as injections, and their possible effects, in research programmes?

* When tests involve radioactive material, how do we ensure the safety of
volunteers and staff?

If public hospitals are accountable for the ethics of detailed procedures and
programmes, why shouldn't public companies be subject to the same scrutiny?

Could the board of a public company appoint an ethics committee to examine
awkward ethical dilemmas affecting the programmes, policies and procedures of
the company?

Could such a committee consider employment practices such as positive
discrimination for disabled employees? And the social impact of change within
industry, including closures and retrenchments?

And what about the whole area of "ethical investment"?

There are some fascinating possibilities here. For there is a doctrine abroad in
industry in Australia that companies are only responsible to their shareholders,
to make the greatest profit, and that they have no wider responsibility to
society other than paying their due proportion of taxes.

I dispute this doctrine. I believe that a company with a plant in a country town
needs to think very carefully before it closes that plant down and throws a
large proportion of the local workforce onto the dole queue. I believe that
companies have social responsibilities in employing disabled people, and
providing child care for working mothers, and some help in learning English for
migrant workers.

The side benefit of these practices is that you finish up with a happier
workforce, and the company sits more comfortably within its community
environment.

There are always advantages in acting ethically.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1989 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              481 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday
                                 Early Edition

Assisted dying talks in early stages

BYLINE: Elizabeth Payne, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 484 words


Meetings are underway to make sure that everyone who is eligible and who
requests it has access to medically-assisted death in the Ottawa region,
according to the head of the Champlain LHIN.

"We will have to ensure there is a contingency plan for the region," said
Chantale LeClerc, CEO of the local health integration network which oversees
healthcare in the region.

That could take some time. LeClerc said it is still too soon to have a complete
picture of how assisted death will be delivered and assessed throughout the
region.

"It is still early days and I think we are all feeling our way through this."

The federal government passed legislation on medically-assisted dying in June.
Last week, the provincial coroner's office reported seven people in Ottawa had
received medical assistance to die since then. The province has yet to produce
regulations or legislation. The Champlain LHIN is involved in the issue because
it co-ordinates medical services among hospitals and health providers, among
other things.

In the Champlain region, the issue is complicated by the fact that two major
hospitals and a number of hospices and long-term care residences will not allow
medically-assisted death to be performed in their institutions for religious or
ethical reasons. Physicians and health providers can also opt out for ethical
reasons.

The Catholic Health Association of Ontario, which oversees Catholic hospitals
and whose members include Pembroke Regional Hospital and Bruyère Continuing Care
in Ottawa, suggests hospitals should not even allow conversations about assisted
death or patients to be assessed within their institutions.

The Ottawa Hospital says a small number of assisted deaths have taken place
there and that its physicians have gone to Bruyère to assess patients who have
requested medical assistance in death. Bruyère has said it would prefer
assessments to take place outside of the hospital but that it would be flexible,
depending on the patient's condition.

It is not clear how the issue will be handled in Pembroke. The hospital does not
yet have a policy and hasn't had any requests for medical assistance in death,
according to its chief executive Pierre Noel.

He said the hospital would, for now, deal with the issue on a case-by-case
basis. "The important part is that we are never going to abandon our patients."

The role of the LHIN is to make sure there are reasonable alternatives for
patients who cannot access assisted dying, although it remains unclear whether
that means some might have to be transferred long distances to receive it
elsewhere. LeClerc said some hospitals are still trying to figure out whether
there are physicians and nurses willing to perform assisted death if it is
requested there.

Meanwhile, the LHIN and health officials are trying to assess what demand will
be like.

epayne@postmedia.com !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Ottawa Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              482 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            December 31, 2010 Friday

Role of ethics committees

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 298 words


Madam,   The restatement by the Adelaide Hospital Society of its interpretation
of the charter of Tallaght Hospital (Letters, December 29th) is to be welcomed
in the spirit of free speech and collegiality, as long as it is not taken to
imply the assent or formal endorsement of this interpretation by the staff of
the hospital.

However, it is unhelpful for Dr Fergus O Ferrall to portray clinical ethics as
being viewed by me (or anyone in the hospital!) as a situation where  medical
consultants are viewed as the fount of all knowledge . Our clinical ethics
teaching programmes emphasise the importance of moral agency for all involved,
including medical students, and the clear need for ethical formation and
dialogue in, and among, all clinical disciplines at all levels. I am involved,
for example, in ethics teaching with disciplines such as speech and language
therapy and physiotherapy. Not only are we supportive of joint lay involvement
in areas such as the Medical Council, but also encourage the use of the medical
humanities   literature, film, music and theatre   to illuminate personal and
societal perspectives on ethical and practice issues.

Perhaps the largest challenge, as outlined in our papers in the Irish Medical
Journal, is to try to ensure that non-clinician ethicists work wherever possible
with interested clinicians, as otherwise they risk missing out on therapeutic
approaches and opportunities of advances and flexibilities of informed clinical
practice. Without this joint work, non-clinician ethicists may retreat to
artificial dichotomies that make for good debating material but can impoverish
the choices and opportunities for patients and their families.   Yours, etc,

Prof DESMOND O NEILL MA

MD FRCPI AGSF FRCP(Glasg),

Adelaide and Meath Hospital,

Dublin 24.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              483 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             March 10, 2006 Friday

University Hospital restarts PolyHeme study;
LDS holds off;
Synthetic blood: Further study is needed before LDS rejoins the research;
the U. hospital is satisfied with the manufacturer's assurances

BYLINE: Jason Bergreen , The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: UTAH;  Pg. B8

LENGTH: 445 words


Two weeks after stopping a clinical study involving the transfusion of synthetic
blood in trauma patients, one Salt Lake City hospital has decided to reinstate
the trial while another, citing "scientific and ethical considerations," has
refused to do so.

LDS Hospital's institutional review board voted unanimously Thursday to keep the
PolyHeme trial on administrative hold pending further review, hospital spokesman
Jess Gomez said.

Testing was placed on hold late last month at LDS Hospital and the University
Hospital after the Wall Street Journal reported that the maker of PolyHeme,
Northfield Laboratories, tried to hide crucial details about a 2000
blood-substitute study. The Journal reported that 10 heart surgery patients in
that experiment had heart attacks, while other patients given real blood did
not.

The LDS Hospital review board "believes blood substitute research should be
conducted and the PolyHeme trial to be an important study that should be
completed," read a statement released by Gomez. "However, the LDS Hospital IRB
believes there are scientific and ethical considerations consequent to the prior
[Northfield] trial that need to be explored further before allowing the study to
continue at LDS Hospital."

University Hospital restarted its PolyHeme study March 3. Stephen Morris, the
hospital's trauma director and principal investigator for the trial, said last
week that he is satisfied with Northfield's conclusion "that there are no
specific cardiovascular or other adverse outcomes that would jeopardize the
safety of the [current] study."

Some medical ethicists have argued the study should never have started in the
first place because patients who may receive the experimental substitute might
not be able to give their consent.

The LDS Hospital review board "believes there is clinical and scientific value
in the study and that there is potential benefit to trauma patients, but wants
to ensure that clinical investigators and the general public are well informed
about all known potential risks to patients in the study and are prepared to
manage those risks before the study is reinstated at LDS Hospital," the
institution's press release stated.

PolyHeme is a blood substitute, compatible with all blood types, that can be
given to trauma victims immediately. Thirty-one trauma centers in 18 states are
enrolled in the study. Of the 720 patients expected to participate, as many as
36 will be from Utah.

A meeting will be held at 11:30 a.m. today at the Utah Department of Health
Cannon building, where representatives from both hospitals will review the study
with valley emergency medical system personnel.

jbergreen@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              484 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 28, 1983, Monday, Late City Final Edition

PRESIDENTIAL PANEL SAYS SOCIETY HAS AN 'ETHICAL OBLIGATION' TO PROVIDE EQUITABLE
ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1075 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27


A Presidential commission said today that society had an ''ethical obligation to
insure equitable access to health care'' for all Americans, even at a time of
budget cutbacks and fiscal austerity.

The 11-member commission, headed by Morris B. Abram, former president of
Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., concluded that the Federal Government had
the ''ultimate responsibility'' for seeing that this obligation was met,
although the Government did not have to be involved in the health care of all
Americans.

In a 223-page report reflecting more than two years of work, the commission said
measures to control medical costs were unacceptable if they widened inequities
in the health care system.

8 Members Named by Reagan

Eight of the panel's members were appointed by President Reagan; Mr. Abram and
two other members were named by President Carter. The report did not explicitly
criticize Mr. Reagan, but there was some implied criticism of his policies.

Cutbacks in Medicaid, including new limits on eligibility, have reduced access
to health care for many poor people, it said.  Proposals to charge Medicaid
recipients a nominal fee, such as $1 for each day in the hospital or each visit
to a doctor's office, may impose a ''substantial burden,'' it said, and they
''appear undesirable from an ethical standpoint.'' Mr. Reagan made such
proposals last year and again this year.

The commission also suggested that the Government was not meeting its ''ethical
obligation'' to families removed from the rolls of the Social Security
disability program. ''The process of 'weeding out' ineligible enrollees appears
to have become one of terminating a substantial number of beneficiaries for the
purpose of budgetary savings,'' it said.

Tax on Health Payments

But the panel said Federal tax subsidies for health insurance could be reduced,
as the President proposed, without any violation of ethical principles. At
present, when an employer pays health insurance premiums for his employees, the
payments are not counted as income for the employees. Mr. Reagan wants to tax
such payments above $175 a month for a family plan and $70 for an individual.

Such a tax, if properly designed, would not ''compromise access to adequate
health care,'' the panel said, because the tax would ''primarily affect
middle-and upper-income families.''

The report was prepared by the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical
Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research. The panel was
established by statute in 1978 and held its first meeting in 1980. Last week it
issued a separate report saying patients should generally be allowed to halt
medical treatment that keeps them alive without any hope of curing or
ameliorating their condition.

Mr. Abram, the chairman, said the report made public today ''represents the
first attempt by a Presidential commission to state a society's ethical
obligation regarding access to health care, and to do so in a way that is
realistic and achievable, rather than through grandiose rhetoric about rights.''
The commission spoke in terms of ''ethical obligations'' rather than rights, and
it observed that ''neither the Supreme Court nor any appellate court has found a
constitutional right to health or to health care.''

'Adequate Level of Care'

''The commission concludes that society has an ethical obligation to insure
equitable access to health care for all,'' the report said. ''Equitable access
to health care requires that all citizens be able to secure an adequate level of
care without excessive burdens. The cost of achieving equitable access to health
care ought to be shared fairly.''

But, the commission said, ''equity does not require equal access.'' And it
added, ''Equal health status is not a feasible goal since levels of health will
vary among individuals, even if all receive adequate care.''

The report does not specify the medical procedures required to achieve
''adequate'' care. Mr. Abram said some ''advanced procedures,'' such as kidney
dialysis or the use of an artificial heart, were not necessarily required by the
ethical precepts in the report.

One member of the commission, Dr. H. Thomas Ballantine Jr., senior neurosurgeon
at the Massachusetts General Hospital, issued a dissenting statement, saying the
report had been ''politicized to an unacceptable degree.''

Dissenter Opposes Intrusion

He agreed that there was a ''moral imperative'' for society to insure access to
health care, but added, ''I do not agree that the failures of the market, of
charity and of activities at the local and state levels have been so severe as
to warrant at this time increased intrusion of the Federal Government into the
health care sector.''

The commission said it was not proposing any new health policy initiatives, and
it had no estimate of the cost of its recommendations. Mr. Abram said the report
provided an intellectual framework for assessing the ''fairness'' of various
proposals.

The commission estimated that 34 million people were without health insurance
for all or part of the year, and it said many of them were denied equitable
access to adequate care. On the average, it said, poor people now visit
physicians as often as other people, ''but since the poor are acknowledged to
have a greater incidence of ill health, poor individuals have a greater need for
health care and should use health services at higher rates if some measure of
equity is to be achieved.''

The other commission members are Dr. George R. Dunlop, a professor of surgery at
the University of Massachusetts medical school; Dr.  Bruce K. Jacobson, of the
Southwestern Medical School; John J. Moran, of Houston; Dr. Arno G. Motulsky,
professor of medicine at the University of Washington; Dr. Baher B. Rahi, of St.
Clair Shores, Mich.; Seymour Siegel, professor of ethics and theology at the
Jewish Theological Seminary of America; Lynda Smith, of Colorado Springs; Dr.
Kay Toma, of Bell, Calif., and Dr. Charles J. Walker, of Nashville.

Copies of the report, at a cost of $6 each, can be obtained from the Government
Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company


                              485 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                              May 2, 2015 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Nursing stays top of trusted jobs list

BYLINE: LISA WACHSMUTH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 317 words


WOLLONGONG Hospital registered nurse Daniel Graham is glad his chosen job has
topped a list of the nation's most trusted professions.

For the 21st year in a row, Australians surveyed rated nurses as the most
ethical and honest workers in the Roy Morgan Image of Professions survey.

Other professions that rated highly in the annual survey included doctors,
pharmacists, school teachers, engineers and dentists.

Car salesmen again ended up at the bottom of the heap - a position they have
held for 30 years - with real estate agents and advertising executives hot on
their heels.

Pollster Gary Morgan said of the 30 professions surveyed, many recorded ratings
slumps from 2014 with bank managers, accountants, lawyers and university
lecturers the big losers.

Ninety-two per cent of those who took part in the telephone poll, conducted on
April 8 to 10 this year, rated nurses highly for ethics and honesty - their
highest rating for over a decade.

NSW Nurses and Midwives Association general secretary Brett Holmes welcomed the
acknowledgement on behalf of the many thousands of nurses working in hospitals
and other health settings across the country.

"Nurses and midwives are often intertwined into some of the most intimate
moments in a patient's life and as a result take their ethical and professional
responsibilities very seriously," Mr Holmes said.

The results come just ahead of the International Day of the Midwife on Tuesday
and International Nurses Day on May 12.

Mr Graham, a nurse unit manager in the hospital's aged care ward, said it was
good to get some recognition.

"It's great to see that nurses are held in high esteem within the community," he
said.

"We're here 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and we see patients often at some
of the worst of times.

"Nurses are dedicated, they have a lot of empathy and understanding and are
excellent problem solvers - and that's reflected by these results."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dedicated: Wollongong Hospital registered nurse Daniel Graham says
results of a poll of professions recognises the hard work nurses put into their
line of work. Picture: ADAM McLEAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              486 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                       July 9, 1992, Thursday, 1* EDITION

Doctors defend ethics of billing cap protest

BYLINE: TOM BARRETT; VANSUN

SECTION:  Pg. B3

LENGTH: 415 words


Doctors' protests run counter to their ethical code, two medical ethicists said
Wednesday.

"The Hippocratic Oath, which every doctor takes, has as its leading principle
that the life and health of my patient will be my first consideration," said
Arthur Schafer, director of the University of Manitoba's centre for professional
and applied ethics.

"It's very difficult to avoid the conclusion that physicians have their own
financial health as their first consideration."

Eike Kluge, a University of Victoria lecturer in medical ethics, said in an
interview that the withdrawal of services by physicians for personal benefit
violates the doctors' ethical code.

Doctors closed their offices Wednesday in Burnaby and Vernon, leaving only
emergency services available. Doctors at St. Paul's and Mount Saint Joseph
Hospitals in Vancouver were also off the job.

Despite the walkouts, hospital officials reported no problems.

Today, doctors are scheduled to close their offices in Nanaimo and Duncan.

In Kamloops, doctors met to discuss a controversial plan to close their offices
indefinitely.

B.C. Medical Association president Steve Hardwicke said the 130 doctors in
Kamloops are "totally frustrated," partly because of a reorganization at Royal
Inland Hospital and the provincial government's decision to place a cancer
control clinic in Kelowna despite election promises to locate it in Kamloops.

As the protests against the New Democratic Party government's plans to cap
doctors' incomes continued, attention focused on the ethics of their actions.

"There is a very strong current of philosophical opinion that physicians do not
have the right to go on strike," said UVic's Kluge. He added that the current
protests might not technically qualify as a strike, but said the actions raise
"deep ethical questions."

Doctors have a monopoly on providing medical care and agree to live up to
certain conditions in return for that monopoly, he said.

"Society gives monopolies not for the benefit of a monopoly holder, but for the
benefit of society."

Both Kluge and Schafer said that society clearly cannot afford to allow doctors
unlimited billings.

Hardwicke denied that doctors were doing anything unethical.

"I don't think there's any problem as long as people don't suffer from it," he
said.

Hardwicke acknowledged the public may turn against the doctors and said if it
happens "we'll have to face that. We're forced into this position right now."


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              487 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                July 10, 2003 Thursday All-round Country Edition

Bijani twins united people everywhere

SOURCE: MATP

SECTION: FEATURES-TYPE- LEADER-COLUMN- LEADER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 344 words


IF the worldwide interest in the fate of the conjoined Bijani twins, Laleh and
Ladan, began its life as prurient curiosity, it became something very different
as soon as the personalities of the two girls shone through. And given their
pluck and their humour, that did not take long. Anyone could list the myriad
ways in which their condition must have limited their lives, but the vividly
simple way they chose to express it -- that while joined they could not even
look into each other's eyes -- touched so many people that it is likely to be
long remembered.

Once they'd put it like that, few observers held to the view that either ethical
considerations, or the huge expense involved, should stand between the twins and
their dream. The distinguished international team, led by Keith Goh, that
finally agreed to operate on them was not some sort of rogue outfit, and at the
renowned Raffles Hospital the doctors were answerable to the highest ethical
standards. Conjoined twins pose ethical problems in surgery. But so do all
patients, especially in neurosurgery, who are not dying, but need risky surgery
to improve their quality of life.

What makes conjoined twins special is that there is not enough case history to
make statistics meaningful in gauging likely success. And each case is unique.
With the Armstrong twins, Tay-Lah and Monique, born in Brisbane in 2000, there
could be no question of not intervening: the girls were joined at the head,
back-to-front and upside down, and could have had no quality of life at all.
(The twins survived the separation, but Tay-Lah died two years later of kidney
problems.) The Bijani twins did have quality of life, but they were grown women
who understood the risk that was carefully explained to them, and knew what they
wanted.

Laleh and Ladan were the opposite of freaks. There was something about them so
personable and human that an area of experience long regarded with fear and
distaste has been emptied of those qualities. They lost their lives but in a
small way they humanised the world.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              488 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 24, 1989 Thursday

Surgeons will use doomed babies   Hospital confronts ethical issues in
transplants

BYLINE: PAUL TAYLOR; GAM

LENGTH: 668 words

DATELINE: Ottawa ONT


BY  PAUL TAYLOR
 The Globe and Mail
  OTTAWA
    A Canadian hospital is planning to start an experimental transplant
program using the organs of doomed babies born without most of their
brains.
   'We are trying to do this completely above board,' said Timothy
Frewen , co-ordinator of the proposed program at the Children's Hospital
of Western Ontario in London, Ont.

Dr. Frewen made the announcement yesterday at an international
conference examining the ethical and legal issues raised by transplants.

The organs for the experimental transplant program will be removed from
the bodies of deceased anencephalics , with the parents' consent.

These are children born without most of their brains. The top of their
skull is also missing.

Most of them die within a week after they are born. Others linger a bit
longer. But the prognosis is always the same - they are doomed to a very
short life, which makes them a potential source of organs for children
needing heart, liver and other transplants.

In fact, doctors in North America and Europe have already used the
organs of anencephalic infants in a limited number of transplant
operations.

But North American hospitals have discontinued the practice because of
the controversy surrounding the tranplants.

For one thing, there has been some dispute about whether the
anencephalic infants were actually dead when their organs were removed.

As well, measures taken to keep the transplantable organs in good
condition may have artificially extended the lives of these severely
deformed children, rather than letting them die a quick and natural death.

At the Loma Linda Medical Centre in California, for instance,
anencephalic infants were placed on respirators as soon as they arrived.
These children appeared to last much longer than usual prior to being
declared brain dead. And in some European countries, the doctors do not
even wait until the children are technically brain dead.

'In Germany, they just take the organs,' Dr. Frewen said in an  interview.

About a year ago, both the Canadian and the American Pediactric
Societies called for a moratorium on the transplants amid growing
controversy about the ethics of using the organs of anence phalic
newborns.

Dr. Frewen, however, hopes that the experimental program at London's
Childrens Hospital can resolve at least some of the ethical issues.

'We are proposing that the babies be allowed to proceed to natural  death - that
is cardiac arrest," he said. Once the heart has stopped, the  baby would be put
on an artificial respirator so that the vital organs  keep receiving oxygen
until they are removed for transplant. He added that  the organs would be
removed only after it can be established that the  infant is indeed brain dead.
Brain death occurs when not only the thinking  functions, but the automatic ones
stop too. In particular, the brain stem,  which regulates breathing and other
basic reflexes, must no longer be  working.

If brain death does not take place within a week, the respirator will
be turned off and the newborn will allowed to die naturally, he said.

Calvin Stiller, head of the multi-organ tranplant program for the
London area, noted that the experiment adheres to all current criteria for
brain death.

The only moral dilemma he see is that the bady is being resusitated for
someone else's benefit.

That view is shared by Abbyann Lynch, director of the Westminster
Institute for Ethics and Human Values, which acts as a consultant to
London-area hospitals.

Putting the infant on the respirator may "kick on' the heart again.
'The baby is alive and you'll have to wait longer for it to die.'
   The added wait could create a lot of extra stress for the infant's
parents.

About 100 anencephalic children are born in Canada each year. Dr.
Frewen said he hopes the experiment, which will involve up to 10
anancephalic cases before stopping for a review, can begin this fall.

He added that it will only proceed if the teaching hospital recieves
the blessing of the research and ethics board of the University of Western
Ontario.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              489 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

Everyday ethics: Bag search a blow to worker dignity

BYLINE: Randy Cohen

SECTION: RELIGION; Features

LENGTH: 549 words


At the private hospital where I am a medical resident, security guards routinely
ask to check employees' bags when we leave. After working a 24-hour shift, I
just want to get home. Do employers have the right to search our bags without
any probable cause?

- Name Withheld, New York

The expert on workplace law whom I consulted confirms that your boss has the
legal right to search your bag. But ethics sets a higher standard, placing a
value on human dignity, something you need not relinquish on the job. Unless
there has been a rash of thefts of handbag-size items that less-intrusive
measures have failed to curtail, the hospital is acting badly.

To search someone is to treat him as if he were untrustworthy, if not dishonest.
That the hospital searches everyone mitigates this baleful effect slightly,
because no employee is being singled out for special scrutiny. But to mildly
humiliate many does not eradicate the sting to each.

The hospital has a legitimate interest in thwarting crime, but it must do so
appropriately. The heavy-handed tactic you describe should be introduced only if
gentler methods fail. Have small, stealable items been locked up? Has access to
them been limited? Has an effort been made to hire honest workers and treat them
with the respect that encourages honesty? Have technical experts been consulted
to suggest security measures that do not denigrate employees so cavalierly?

Because an employer holds so much power over employees, there is an ethical duty
to wield that power with restraint and to be mindful of the courtesy employees
rightfully expect - that is, not to be bullied. Or, as they put it on the big
plaque over the entrance to the Measure for Measure Hospital: ''It is excellent
to have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous to use it like a giant.''

I am booking a bus to take a group of friends to a political event. The bus
holds 47 people. I'm thinking of confirming, say, 55 people, on the almost
certain assumption that some won't show up at 5:30 on a Saturday morning as they
promised. Is that ethical?

- Name Withheld, Illinois

What you propose affronts both ethics and the English language - the latter
because by ''confirming'' you mean ''not confirming'' and the former because you
are not being truthful to those you promise a seat on the bus.

Reluctant as I am to praise the policy of airlines (seldom have so many been
made so uncomfortable by so few), that industry has devised a nice solution to
the overbooking problem: Offer a reward to any passenger who relinquishes a seat
and keep raising the value of that reward until there are seats for all who
reserved them. If you overbook, you should be prepared to try something similar.
Or to rent a car for the overflow. Another approach would be to confirm only 47
passengers but require a cash deposit from each that would be refunded once they
boarded the bus. Or perhaps some sort of hostage deal could be worked out: A
close relative is released when a passenger takes a seat. Can some stand? Ride
on the roof at a discount? Use Rollerblades and a sturdy towline? With a little
ingenuity you can solve this problem while still being honest with your
potential passengers.

Update: The organizer says he ended up with one extra person: ''I sucked it up
and stood for most of the ride.''

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              490 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Tribune (Ireland)

                                 June 24, 2007

Medical council to look at ethics rules after 'cult' suicide

BYLINE: Ali Bracken

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N08

LENGTH: 573 words


The Irish Medical Council has said it would welcome submissions from the family
of a man who committed suicide and who have called for an urgent overhaul of the
Council's ethical guidelines to prevent further loss of life.

Niall MacMahon (40), from Watling Street, Dublin 8, was killed instantly after
he stepped in front of the Dublin-Belfast train at Harmonstown Dart station on
the evening of 2 March, 2006. He had suffered from depression. His brother and
father told the Sunday Tribune that his involvement with the cult-like
International Church of Christ group, which they claimed had "undue influence"
over him, was a "contributory factor" in his death.

MacMahon had been released from St James' Hospital days before his death
following treatment for depression. He had attempted suicide a few weeks
previously in the Phoenix Park but his family were not informed about this.

Following his death, the hospital told the family that its hands were tied as it
was not allowed to give out such information for reasons of patient
confidentiality, an inquest into his death heard last Tuesday.

The Medical Council's ethical guidelines state that a doctor must not disclose
information to any person without the consent of the patient. "If we'd known, it
would have given us the opportunity to talk him through his problems," said
Niall's brother Declan MacMahon. "We're not saying it would have changed what
happened. The only reason we're speaking out about this is in the hope that
families may be able to avoid a tragedy like this. We can't change what happened
but we want to potentially change what happens to other families." MacMahon
described his brother as "a great brother" and said he had "led an exemplary
life."

Dr Deirdre Madden, chairperson of the ethics committee of the Medical Council,
said when contacted: "The ethical guidelines are about to be revised. The
council would take very seriously the concerns of a bereaved family. If there's
a call by a family, we would consider it. When a family makes a public
statement, the council will pay attention to it." A public consultation process
in relation to the forming of the council's new ethical guidelines will begin in
the next few weeks.

Mike Garde of Dialogue Ireland, which seeks to promote people's freedom to make
informed choices about religions, said he was aware of seven individuals who had
experienced "psychiatric destabilisation" following involvement with the
International Church of Christ. One young man attempted suicide by drinking
Domestos after he was ostracised by the group, he said. "This church had a very
heavy-duty command structure and in many ways it was cult-like in its
activities."

The group collapsed seven years ago due to the disintegration of its leadership,
leaving 100 or so of its members in Ireland lost, Garde continued. "There was a
loss of meaning for people who had been in the group. They had been taught that
if they left this group, they were going to hell." The group kept its members
"controlled" and "believed they were the only Christian church," he added. All
members were also required to hand over 10% of their salaries each year, he
said.

At his inquest, MacMahon's suicide note was read out: it referred to a
successful brain operation he had to cure his lifelong epilepsy. He wrote that
he had made a "hasty decision" to have the operation, and this had "put money
before my own brain. This was a blasphemous thing to do."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Sunday Tribune plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              491 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Tribune (Ireland)

                                 June 17, 2007

Medical council to look at ethics rules after 'cult' suicide

BYLINE: Ali Bracken

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N08

LENGTH: 573 words


The Irish Medical Council has said it would welcome submissions from the family
of a man who committed suicide and who have called for an urgent overhaul of the
Council's ethical guidelines to prevent further loss of life.

Niall MacMahon (40), from Watling Street, Dublin 8, was killed instantly after
he stepped in front of the Dublin-Belfast train at Harmonstown Dart station on
the evening of 2 March, 2006. He had suffered from depression. His brother and
father told the Sunday Tribune that his involvement with the cult-like
International Church of Christ group, which they claimed had "undue influence"
over him, was a "contributory factor" in his death.

MacMahon had been released from St James' Hospital days before his death
following treatment for depression. He had attempted suicide a few weeks
previously in the Phoenix Park but his family were not informed about this.

Following his death, the hospital told the family that its hands were tied as it
was not allowed to give out such information for reasons of patient
confidentiality, an inquest into his death heard last Tuesday.

The Medical Council's ethical guidelines state that a doctor must not disclose
information to any person without the consent of the patient. "If we'd known, it
would have given us the opportunity to talk him through his problems," said
Niall's brother Declan MacMahon. "We're not saying it would have changed what
happened. The only reason we're speaking out about this is in the hope that
families may be able to avoid a tragedy like this. We can't change what happened
but we want to potentially change what happens to other families." MacMahon
described his brother as "a great brother" and said he had "led an exemplary
life."

Dr Deirdre Madden, chairperson of the ethics committee of the Medical Council,
said when contacted: "The ethical guidelines are about to be revised. The
council would take very seriously the concerns of a bereaved family. If there's
a call by a family, we would consider it. When a family makes a public
statement, the council will pay attention to it." A public consultation process
in relation to the forming of the council's new ethical guidelines will begin in
the next few weeks.

Mike Garde of Dialogue Ireland, which seeks to promote people's freedom to make
informed choices about religions, said he was aware of seven individuals who had
experienced "psychiatric destabilisation" following involvement with the
International Church of Christ. One young man attempted suicide by drinking
Domestos after he was ostracised by the group, he said. "This church had a very
heavy-duty command structure and in many ways it was cult-like in its
activities."

The group collapsed seven years ago due to the disintegration of its leadership,
leaving 100 or so of its members in Ireland lost, Garde continued. "There was a
loss of meaning for people who had been in the group. They had been taught that
if they left this group, they were going to hell." The group kept its members
"controlled" and "believed they were the only Christian church," he added. All
members were also required to hand over 10% of their salaries each year, he
said.

At his inquest, MacMahon's suicide note was read out: it referred to a
successful brain operation he had to cure his lifelong epilepsy. He wrote that
he had made a "hasty decision" to have the operation, and this had "put money
before my own brain. This was a blasphemous thing to do."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Sunday Tribune plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              492 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                             March 18, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Quebec doctors let suicidal patients die, college says

BYLINE: Graeme Hamilton, National Post

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


Quebec's College of Physicians has issued an ethics bulletin to its members
after learning that some doctors were allowing suicide victims to die when
life-saving treatment was available. The bulletin says the college learned last
fall that, "in some Quebec hospitals, some people who had attempted to end their
lives through poisoning were not resuscitated when, in the opinion of certain
experts, a treatment spread out over a few days could have saved them with no,
or almost no, after-effects."

It goes on to spell out a physician's ethical and legal duty to provide care,
even to patients seeking to end their own lives.

Yves Robert, the college's secretary, said an unspecified number of doctors were
interpreting suicide attempts as an implicit refusal of treatment. They "refused
to provide the antidote that could have saved a life. This was the real ethical
issue," he said.

"If there is a life-threatening situation, you have to do whatever is possible
to save a life, then you treat the underlying cause."

In the bulletin posted on the college's website last week, the professional
order's working group on clinical ethics says obtaining patient consent for
treatment has to be set aside in such situations.

"From a moral point of view, this duty to act to save the patient's life, or to
prevent him from living with the effects of a too-late intervention, rests on
principles of doing good and not doing harm, as well as of solidarity," it
reads. "It would be negligent not to act."

It says treatment should be withheld only in cases where a physician has
"irrefutable proof" of a patient's wishes in the form of an advance medical
directive or a do-not-resuscitate order.

Robert said the Quebec Poison Control Centre, which provides emergency advice to
physicians treating patients who have ingested poisons or pills, alerted the
college to the issue.

"They were concerned by these cases," he said. "It was not a frequent situation,
but it was a situation that raised ethical questions on their part."

He said he didn't know how many cases occurred or in which hospitals. More than
1,000 people die by suicide every year in Quebec.

Maude St-Onge, medical director of the Poison Control Centre, said the centre
found emergency-room doctors weren't always sure how to proceed when treating
people who had attempted suicide.

"We saw doctors at the bedside confronted with problems like this," she said.
"There were treatments, antidotes that could have allowed a patient to recover
relatively easily, but the patient resists treatment, or the family says, 'He
wanted to die. Let him go.' " Robert said that even though withholding
life-saving treatment is an ethical breach, the college has no plan to
investigate the doctors involved.

"We are not in a situation where we can go fishing, trying to see where that
happened," he said.

Bernard Mathieu, president of the 500-member Association of Quebec Emergency
Physicians, was surprised to hear some colleagues were allowing suicidal
patients to die. He made a point of sending the college bulletin to all
association members.

"We didn't want any ambiguity about this necessity to intervene," he said.
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Vancouver Province
                              All Rights Reserved


                              493 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday

Israel to establish hospital to treat "terrorists"

LENGTH: 452 words


Text of report in English by website of Israeli mass-circulation, free-of-charge
daily Yisra'el Hayom on 22 September

[Report by Itzik Saban, entitled : "State Plans 'Terrorist Hospital' To Keep
Assailants From Victims"]

The Public Security Ministry and the Israel Prison Service announced a tentative
plan on Wednesday [21 September] to use part of the Ayalon Prison as a special
hospital for terrorists, days after an Israeli border policewoman was admitted
to the same trauma unit as the man who stabbed her.

The plan, which is still being finalised, was proposed by Public Security
Minister Gilad Erdan. Once implemented, the hospital facilities will include
some 70 beds spread over three floors.

Erdan told Israel Hayom that such a model exists in many countries and is
preferable, from a security standpoint, to having prisoners admitted to
hospitals outside of prison. He stressed that the care provided in the special
facility would not be inferior to that in regular hospitals.

"I was shocked that the Israel Prison Service has no means of treating an inmate
who goes on a hunger strike or a terrorist [who is detained after an attack],"
he said. "This creates a situation where a terrorist lies on a bed next to the
person he wounded; this immoral situation does not make sense and must be
addressed," Erdan lamented, noting that such facilities will help the
authorities counter prisoners' efforts to receive early parole due to pressure
imposed by "hunger strikers, the justice system and doctors who feel intimidated
by the Israel Medical Association [which sets ethical guidelines for doctors and
has voiced opposition to force-feeding prisoners]."

Erdan said the staff at the planned prison hospital will know how to strike a
balance between their ethical duties and the laws enacted by the Knesset, and
ensure that "we avoid the surreal situation in which terrorists are let back on
the street [on medical grounds] and become a threat to the public once again."

The Israel Prison Service told Israel Hayom that having the necessary medical
facilities to treat hunger-striking prisoners will help streamline operations.
Under the current system, a prisoner on hunger strike must be treated at a
hospital after 28 days, making it harder to watch over them since hospitals may
not have the necessary window bars, security cameras or other measures in place.

"This [system] poses a heavy burden because of the resources used to guard
prisoners outside of prison," Maj. Gen. Asher Vaknin, a senior IPS official,
told Israel Hayom. He said that treating inmates outside of prison often results
in other people trying to contact them and influence them.

Source: Yisra'el Hayom website in English 1146 gmt 22 Sep 16

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2016 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              494 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday

A world of competing sorrows;
There's a flu pandemic and health-care resources are scarce. How do we decide
who lives and who dies?

BYLINE: Margaret Somerville

SECTION: COMMENT; ETHICAL TREATMENT; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1271 words


Founding director of the Centre for Medicine, Ethics and Law at McGill
University

How do we decide who gets a chance to live and who dies, when those outcomes
depend on who gets access to or is denied scarce health-care resources? Who
should decide? On what basis? Using which processes? The H1N1 influenza pandemic
raises a large cluster of such ethical issues.

A letter in The Globe and Mail this week in response to an article on Ottawa's
pandemic preparations asks: "Why not use the criteria that already appear to be
in place for prioritizing access to critical medical resources: (1) physicians
and others of high status in the system, their families and close friends; (2)
politicians and others of means, influence and/or celebrity, with contacts to
category 1; (3) the rest of us." There is some truth to this criticism. What
might ethics tell us about how to address it?

First, everyone must be able to trust that the system is fair. That means we
need transparency in decision-making and its implementation, and we must be able
to trust the decision-makers. Then we need to consider the ethics of
decision-making at the physician-patient level, the institutional level (
hospitals, for example), the societal level and even the global level.

Physicians owe each patient a primary obligation of personal care - that is,
they must not put the interests of others before the "best interests" of the
patient. Physicians are constrained by the resources available in the
health-care system, but they must make reasonable efforts to obtain the
resources the patient needs, especially if the patient's life is on the line.
Patients must be able to trust physicians to be their primary advocates.

Hospitals have ethical obligations to all their patients, including ensuring the
just and efficient use of their limited resources. They need ethical principles
on which to base their policies to deal with an H1N1 pandemic and ethical
processes to implement these policies.

Such policies, for instance, can address decisions about preparedness - how many
and what kind of ventilators to buy (experts warn that patients with H1N1 flu
might need the $40,000 models, not the $10,000 ones) or, likewise, cardiac
bypass machines used as a last resort for patients too sick to be placed on a
ventilator. Or decisions about staffing the highly specialized intensive-care
units needed to use that equipment. Would it be ethical to allow trainees to
undertake tasks they're not usually permitted to carry out?

These policies can also deal with ethical issues in preventive measures, such as
priority of access to flu shots. And with criteria for allocation of and access
to treatment - that is, triaging H1N1 patients (deciding who gets treatment and,
for those who do, in what priority).

Almost everyone agrees health-care workers should be the first to receive flu
shots when a vaccine becomes available. That is not only fair to those workers,
but benefits the rest of us who need their care. As well, infected health-care
workers would spread the virus to vulnerable sick people. And because
health-care workers fear taking the virus home to their families and close
associates, those people also should have priority. Likewise, because
health-care workers put their lives on the line to care for others, they should
have priority in access to treatment.

But who should be next? Medical need will play a major role in that decision.
But what about situations in which that does not give a clear answer?

An ethical principle says we should act so as to implement a preference in
favour of the most vulnerable people. But who are they in relation to H1N1
infection?

Should we take only medical vulnerability into account or should factors, such
as being the parent of young vulnerable children, weigh in the decision? And
what about socioeconomic vulnerability, such as in first nations communities,
which increases the risks associated with the H1N1 virus? I believe ethics
requires they be given preference.

Should young people be "preferred" over elderly people? If young people are at
greater risk of serious complications from H1N1, they should have priority.
That's a medical reason. That contrasts with the argument that elderly people
have had a "fair innings" and young people have not, so giving priority to the
latter is just. That's discrimination on the basis of age, which is not usually
justifiable.

The companion question to "Who should be next?" is the one implied by the Globe
letter writer: "Who should not be next?" To take just one group, I would suggest
that politicians and their families should be subject to the same criteria as
all other Canadians. When we take a public role in deciding for others, we must
be prepared to live according to the rules we impose on them.

Our largest experience in making decisions on the allocation of scarce,
life-saving, health-care resources has been in relation to allocating organs for
transplant and some expensive medical technologies, such as cardiac assist
devices - people who are likely to have a sudden cardiac arrest are fitted with
a device that shocks their heart back to normal rhythm. More people could
potentially benefit from these than the health-care system is willing to pay
for.

It's been argued that, ethically, a lottery system to decide who gets access is
the most fair, because everyone has an equal chance of receiving or being denied
treatment. But most people find pulling a life-or-death ticket out of a hat
unacceptable. Although it makes logical sense, we probably have a moral
intuition or emotional response warning us this is not the best ethical
approach.

On the whole, we use a "first come, first served" allocation mechanism that
allows for exceptions. For instance, if the person at the top of the list would
live until another organ became available and one further down the list would
not, the latter could be given the organ. This system is not ethically perfect,
because, for instance, people of higher socioeconomic status tend to get on the
list before those of lower status and, therefore, get priority, and some
discretion is involved in allocation decisions, meaning that subjective factors
(often characterized as "medical considerations") can play a role. But, overall,
it works ethically well enough.

So what about the ethics of our societal decision-making? Should taxpayers have
a say in what the total bill for dealing with H1N1 should be? Might they want to
spend more than the government does? What services are needed for rural
Canadians if we're to act justly? Patients on ventilators need to be in critical
care units in tertiary level hospitals. Do we have the Medivac capacity to give
them timely access?

At the global level, the World Health Organization has asked developed countries
to consider sharing some of the health-care resources needed to deal with H1N1
flu, such as vaccine, with developing countries with almost no supplies.

And what about the ethical decision-making process? What's ethically required
will vary depending on the situation, from individual physicians to health-care
administrators, ethics committees and government bodies, but will always require
care to avoid conflict of interest.

H1N1 flu presents us with what we call in ethics "a world of competing sorrows"
- that is, one in which there is no response that does only good and not also
harm. And that's before we even touch on the enormous emotional toll on
individuals, institutions and society that will be involved in these situations
and decisions. We will all need to be as wise and courageous as possible.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              495 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                       May 4, 1996 Saturday Final Edition

Hospital's letters warn parents of tainted blood supply problem: 'The ethical
thing to do,' officials decide after debate

SOURCE: CANADIAN PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Hundreds of parents across Canada who've received letters from a Toronto
hospital are the latest in a long list of people warned about a lethal brain
virus in the country's blood supply.

Officials at Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children said yesterday letters were
sent to 525 families. They were told their children received blood products made
from blood donated by a man who died last year of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

Though the risk of getting the disease through transfusion is almost nil, chief
pediatrician Dr. Robert Haslam said the trust of the public is at stake.

"We debated the pros and cons of telling the parents," he said during a news
conference. "Let me tell you, there was a lot of debate."

The hospital decided to warn parents because "it was the ethical thing to do,"
Dr. Haslam said.

"The family advisory committee felt it was our responsibility to tell the
parents, despite the angst it would cause. It's an issue of truth."

The blood products were used at the hospital between 1989 and July 1995, the
same month the Red Cross learned of the donor who had CJD. That prompted the
largest blood recall in the agency's history.

There have been two more recalls since then and almost every hospital in Canada
has been affected.

The Red Cross has been deluged with calls about CJD while it struggles to cope
with the fallout from a federal investigation into how thousands of Canadians
were infected with the AIDS virus and hepatitis C in the 1980s.

Dr. Haslam said other Canadian hospitals have an ethical duty to tell patients
whether they received blood products that might carry CJD.

Many Canadians -- mostly hemophiliacs who must use blood products -- have
already received warning letters from their doctors.

In Alberta, for example, the Calgary Regional Health Authority sent letters last
year to about 1,000 people who received blood products.

A Calgary man who received one of those letters later died of CJD. But officials
stressed they could not link the death with tainted blood products.

Meanwhile, Toronto's Sick Kids hospital has set up a hotline for worried
parents. About 80 have already called.

"They're very angry and they are very anxious," Dr. Haslam said.

The symptoms of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease -- the human equivalent of mad cow
disease -- include loss of co-ordination and dementia. These signs can take up
to 30 years to develop.

The only way to tell whether someone has CJD is to examine their brian after
they die.

Hospital officials say there has never been a documented case of someone getting
the disease through a blood transfusion.

In March, the British government admitted that people may risk contracting the
disease if they eat beef from cattle infected with bovine spongiform
encephalopathy, or mad cow disease. Britain will slaughter thousands of cattle
as it tries to restore confidence in its beef.

QUICK FACTS

Facts about Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease:

CAUSE: Infectious protein or virus.

INCIDENCE: About one in a million.

TRANSMISSION: Contact with infected brain tissue, corneal transplants or
products produced from the human pituitary gland. Can be passed through
heredity, but very rare.

RISKS: No reported case of CJD caused by transfusion of blood or blood products.

SYMPTOMS: Loss of memory, inability to concentrate, lack of co-ordination.

TEST: CJD can only be diagnosed by examining the brain after death.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 1996 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              496 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             March 24, 2013 Sunday

REVEALED: THE NHS IMAM WHO OPPOSES ORGAN TRANSPLANTS

BYLINE: BY NO BYLINE AVAILABLE

LENGTH: 251 words


A HARDLINE imam who opposes organ transplants and abortions is being employed as
a Muslim chaplain by the NHS.

Sheikh Suliman Gani has been giving spiritual and ethical advice at St George's
Hospital in Tooting, South London, for the past three years. It is believed that
he may have received as much as £50,000 in salary in total.

But The Mail on Sunday has discovered he is a staunch opponent of organ
transplants, even when it is required to save lives, and has debated the point
on TV channels. Mr Gani also believes homosexuality is unnatural, and has
described women as subservient' to men. A Muslim leader who knows Mr Gani said
it is dangerous for him to be working as a hospital chaplain. He said: Suppose
someone comes to him for ethical advice on a heart or a liver transplant.

His advice could be "no", and they could act on it. This is dangerous,
irresponsible, and wrong, as Muslim scholars have said organ transplant is
perfectly permissible.'

But on a Channel 4 talk show in 2007, Mr Gani said that organ donation was
desecration' of a the body, which is sacred. He added that the organ does not
belong to the donor but is given in trust from God. Last night, Mr Gani defended
his views, but said: In my hospital work, I am trained to be impartial, to be
sensitive and to not impose my views on others. I support families and mention
both valid views on organ transplants and let them decide.'

St George's Hospital said that it had never received a formal complaint about Mr
Gani.

© Mail On Sunday

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              497 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

Archbishop denounces hospital trolleys 'scandal'

BYLINE: Patsy McGarry, Religious Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 546 words


That people were still lying on trolleys in hospital corridors "is a national
scandal in a country that boasts endlessly about its economic achievements," the
Church of Ireland Archbishop of Dublin, Most Rev John Neill, has said. The
situation "would be very serious in a Third World economy," he continued.

He also warned that Tallaght hospital, of which he is president and which offers
medical treatments that are "not subject to the ethical demands of any one
religious tradition", was "in danger of being downgraded".

He said "the present decision to establish a single children's hospital on the
Mater hospital site has revealed the undermining of the commitment made in the
charter to paediatric medicine in Tallaght. It has also highlighted a lack of
commitment to the hospital as a whole."

After a long history of involvement in the health services there was now a very
serious question mark hanging over the future of Protestant/Church of Ireland
participation.

Archbishop Neill was delivering his presidential address to the Dublin and
Glendalough diocesan synod in Dundrum, Co Dublin, last night.

Where patients on trolleys were concerned "the removal of the local health
boards has solved nothing and it is the responsibility of central Government to
realise that the structures put in place are not delivering," he said.

"The demands for hospital beds, supported by those in the front line, and above
all being pleaded for by those voices coming from the hospital trolleys, are
apparently not being clearly heard by Government. There is what seems to be a
blind assertion that beds are not required for these patients, that doctors and
nurses and hospital administrators are to blame."

Addressing delegates directly he said, "I invite you to listen out for a moment
to the weak cries of humiliation and pain and confusion of those lying on
trolleys in hospital corridors. These voices are not being heard by those who
could make a difference."

Other voices he invited delegates to listen to were those of children. "We have
all been alerted in these last few years to the deep suffering of children,
suffering often so unimaginable that it has scarred them for life. Certainly the
churches have had as much learning to do as society as a whole and in some cases
even more," he said.

He congratulated the Government "for bringing in a vetting procedure for all
those who have any contact with children. This will produce many difficulties
for parishes as it extends not only to employees but to all voluntary workers.

"I emphasise that we must never seek ways around this, we must not resent it,
but we must follow it to the letter. If you doubt me, just listen to the voice
of one child who has been abused."

As regards Tallaght hospital he said, "to put it very bluntly", the particular
ethos of a Protestant- managed hospital which set it apart from other hospitals
was "that the only other factor to be considered [in treatments] is what is
privately agreed between the medical practitioner and the patient."

What did not apply, but may be found elsewhere, was "the application of the
decision of a hospital ethical committee".

Where Tallaght was concerned, "it was the people of Ireland and not just the
Protestant community that should be making their case loud and clear."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              498 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 18, 2006 Monday

Banishing doctors' conflict of interest;
STANFORD WALLS OFF ITS HOSPITAL FROM DRUG INDUSTRY LURES

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 320 words


It's well documented that no one better understands the concept of buying in
bulk than the pharmaceutical industry. Last year it spent a whopping $20 billion
in marketing its products to doctors across the country.

Finally, a major medical institution in California has demonstrated the ethical
fortitude to say enough is enough. Stanford University's Medical Center, which
includes its medical school, Stanford Hospital and Lucile Packard Children's
Hospital, has announced that it will no longer allow staff and students to
receive gifts from drug suppliers.

Lavish spending on doctors and medical students is done in part to influence
physicians' thoughts on the use of certain drugs. It's essential that patients
know that their doctors are basing their decisions on treatment free of
conflicts of interest.

Pharmaceutical companies should still be allowed to maintain their connections
to medical schools, researchers and physicians through research and development.
But imposing potential conflicts of interests on patient care is another matter.

Stanford follows in the footsteps of Yale University and the University of
Pennsylvania in implementing such a policy. Other hospitals, clinics and
physicians in California should follow Stanford's lead.

The pharmaceutical industry argues that its marketing efforts -- including free
trips and a variety of gifts for doctors -- are the best means to keep
physicians informed on the latest products. But it doesn't take eight years of
medical school to determine that pharmaceutical companies have ulterior motives.
Drug companies don't spend billions of dollars without receiving a return on
investment.

Stanford, under the leadership of Medical School Dean Philip Pizzo, should be
applauded for its decision to reinforce the public's trust in health care. The
pharmaceutical industry should take note and limit its efforts to more ethical
means of communication about products.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              499 of 997 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 1997 Nat'l Legal Center for Medically
                           Dependent & Disabled, Inc.
                            Issues in Law & Medicine

                                  Winter, 1997

                            13 Issues L. & Med. 358

LENGTH: 157 words

NOVI LIBRI: Minogue, Brendan. Bioethics: A Committee Approach.

Boston: Jones & Bartlett Publishers, 1996.

NAME: [NO NAME IN ORIGINAL]

TEXT:
 [*358]

   This textbook employs the realistic setting of the hospital ethics committee
to develop understanding of philosophical and ethical concepts in the field of
bioethics. It is based on the premise that students and practitioners need to
reflect upon the ethical decisions that are being made by ethics committees in
hospitals and nursing homes. Clarification and comment is based on philosophical
theory. Use of dialogue among ethics committee members is designed to help the
reader appreciate the philosophical, conceptual, and practical aspects of
ethical decisions made by these institutions. The mixture of the ethics
committee approach with philosophical theory constitutes the core of the text.
Chapters include an introduction to ethics committees, foregoing treatment,
euthanasia, informed consent, reproductive rights and surrogacy, abortion,
rationing health care, AIDS, medical research, and pediatric ethics.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawTreatmentPatient ConsentInformed Consent
