                              14 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                    December 14, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

The Challenge of Ethical Issues Discussed at Paediatric Clinical Trials 2017

BYLINE: SMi Group

LENGTH: 489  words


London, United Kingdom, December 14, 2016 --(PR.com)-- The 2017 agenda will
bring together leading industry experts to explore current clinical trials,
implementation and paediatric drug development. Key discussion points include:
clinical recruitment, ethical issues, regulations, executing a paediatric
clinical trial, paediatric drug formulation and determining clinical endpoints.

Ethical issues are a huge factor which need to be considered when it comes to
clinical trials, even more so when children are involved. This November Bermuda
Hospitals Board participated in Ethics Awareness Week and discussed various
ethical matters.

"We spent the week exploring some of the ethical issues that can become more
complicated when we're dealing with minors. Not only are you taking the law,
professional best practices and the patient's wishes into account, you're also
considering the wishes of the parents or legal guardians and the child's ability
to understand and make their own decisions." *(Source)

Jane Lamprill, Paediatric Research Advisor and Specialist Medical Writer from
Paediatric Research Consultancy will be speaking at Paediatric Clinical Trials
2017 as she discusses overcoming ethical challenges for companies, parents and
children. She will provide a presentation which will focus on all parties
involved when executing a paediatric clinical trial. Her session will provide
key guidance updates and focus on revised European Commission ethics
considerations, child and family protocol issues and planning and performing
good ethical practice.

Joining her for the 2017 line-up includes: EMA, GSK, Roche, Genentech,
Birmingham Children's Hospital, Otsuka Europe. AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson
and many more.

There is currently an early bird offer available; book by 16th of December to
save 200 off the conference price. Register at www.paediatric-trials.co.uk/prcom

For sponsorship packages: Contact Alia Malick on +44 (0)20 7827 6168 or email
amalick@smi-online.co.uk

For delegate enquiries: Contact Ameenah Begum on +44 (0)20 7827 6166 or email
abegum@smi-online.co.uk

For media enquiries, contact Zoe Gale on +44 20 7827 6138 or
zgale@smi-online.co.uk

11th annual Paediatric Clinical Trials

20-21 March 2017

London, UK

www.paediatric-trials.co.uk/prcom

Contact e-mail: zgale@smi-online.co.uk

Contact tel: +44 (0) 207 827 6166

#paediatricsmi

*(Source) http://bit.ly/2gY8F7c

About SMi Group: Established since 1993, the SMi Group is a global
event-production company that specializes in Business-to-Business Conferences,
Workshops, Masterclasses and online Communities. We create and deliver events in
the Defence, Security, Energy, Utilities, Finance and Pharmaceutical industries.
We pride ourselves on having access to the world's most forward thinking opinion
leaders and visionaries, allowing us to bring our communities together to Learn,
Engage, Share and Network. More information can be found at
http://www.smi-online.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2016 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


