                              199 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday

'Private hospitals can do transplants'

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 485 words


KLANG: Private hospitals will be allowed to carry out organ transplants if they
meet the new criteria imposed by the Health Ministry.

Health Minister Datuk Seri Dr S. Subramaniam said he did not see why private
hospitals should be barred from performing organ transplants if they followed
ethical procedures, have the specialists and necessary equipment needed to
prevent complications during the operation.

"I think in principle, so long as they have specialists with adequate
qualifications and accreditation, the necessary facilities to prevent
complications, supporting team to help with the transplant, and follow ethical
procedures outlined by the ministry, there is no reason why they shouldn't (be
allowed)," he said when asked to comment on the possibility of private hospitals
carrying out transplants.

Several private hospitals were carrying out transplant surgeries until there was
a death that had caused the ministry to disallow such operations in private
hospitals.

"The current situation came about because a death occurred.

"I'm sure this death was investigated and there were probably some reasons to
give us concern whether private hospitals have adequate facilities to perform
transplants," he said after attending Chennai Silk Palace's 10th anniversary,
here, yesterday.

According to the 21st Report of The Malaysian Dialysis & Transplant Registry
2013, there were more than 5,000 new kidney patients annually with 31,637
dialysis patients in 2013 and a total of 19,541 were on the kidney transplant
waiting list.

Transplant surgeries in private hospitals started in 1999 at places such as
Subang Jaya Medical Centre and Gleneagles Hospital followed by Prince Court
Medical Centre in 2009.

Prior to the clampdown in 2012, private hospitals contributed up to 19 per cent
of kidney transplants in Malaysia.

Meanwhile, the country has seen a big jump in the number of potential organ
donors, from just 8,500 in 2004 to over 300,000 last year, said Organ Donation
Public Awareness Action Committee chairman Tan Sri Lee Lam Thye in Bedong,
Kedah.

He said the improvement was a result of the implementation of the Organ Donation
Awareness Strategic Plan by the Health Ministry.

"Among the steps taken was to give priority to the younger generation as the
target group of the campaign.

"Collaboration with other government agencies, private sector and influential
people were also given priority," he said at the state-level organ donation
roadshow held at the Semeling campus of AIMST University here yesterday.

Lee said based on the record of the National Transplant library, out of 310,391
organ pledgers between 1997 and this year, 175,111 or 56.4 per cent were women.

"Based on the breakdown on race, the Chinese recorded the highest number with
141,992 or 45.7 per cent, followed by the Malays with 80,561 or 26 per cent,
Indians with 74,330 or 24 per cent, and other races with 13,443 or 4.3 per cent.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


