                              218 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                            December 17, 2012 Monday

AKU symposium explores ethical challenges in health care organisations

SECTION: Vol. 12 No. 528

LENGTH: 347  words


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organised by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond
the scope of conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to
clinical service, research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics
Committee Symposium held at Aga Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Centre for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do",she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


