                              253 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 16, 2017 Friday

Hospital won't pull down hoarding on 'docs' cut'

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 364 words


MUMBAI: A city hospital has refused to remove a hoarding it put up about cut
practice despite the Indian Medical Association's (IMA) displeasure.The IMA had
written to the hospital, asking it to remove the hoarding near the airport that
said, `Honest Opinion. No Commission to Doctor'. Dr Ramakant Panda, vice
chairman of the Asian Heart Hospital that put up the hoarding, said he had
received calls from IMA members as well in this regard. "But we also got
positive feedback from many young doctors who are unable to set up their own
practice because of cut practice," he said.On Tuesday, the heart institute wrote
to the Maharashtra Medical Council with 38 doctors signing the letter.Dr Jayesh
Lele of the state IMA said his association is against cut practice but the
hoarding is nothing but an advertisement.

"The ethical ru les of advertising should be applied here. How can an ad blame
others and suggest that it is the only hospital being ethical?" asked Dr Lele.He
said the national IMA as well as several other medical associations will take up
the issue further.Meanwhile, Dr Sanjay Nagral, transplant surgeon and editorial
board member of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, said cut practice is
medicine's worst kept secret. "Cut practice is widely prevalent. It is a
public-interest issue because it affects the cost of care; doctors and hospitals
factor in the commission while making a patient's bill. Moreover, it also
affects the quality of care. It isn't the best specialist who is recom mended to
you, but the one who pays the biggest commission," he said.He said cut practice
has become a bigger problem than before. "It is not only widely prevalent, it
has changed from being a payment from one doctor to another doctor to assume an
industrial proportion. Now, hospitals are doing it," said Dr Nagral. "Cut
practice has now become the centre of healthcare."The Asian Heart Institute's
letter to the Maharashtra Medical Council said, "We appeal to you to
aggressively peruse and eliminate this unethical practice. All doctors should
unite to curb this menace and will be happy to extend our full support to MMC in
this endeavour."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


