                              280 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           September 19, 2014 Friday

Oklahoma business briefs, Sept. 19

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 515 words


Oklahoma briefsOKC inpatient facility soldAn Oklahoma City inpatient facility
leased to Mercy Rehabilitation Hospital was among five health facilities in four
states that have been acquired by a real estate investment trust for about
$131.1 million. CNL Healthcare Properties, which focuses on senior housing and
health care facilities, has acquired two specialty hospitals and three inpatient
rehabilitation hospitals. The Oklahoma City hospital contains 53,449 square
feet.

"This addition to our medical portfolio gives us the opportunity to invest in
two specialty hospitals and three inpatient rehabilitation hospitals that will
diversify and add to our growing number of healthcare assets," said Kevin
Maddron, senior vice president of CNL Healthcare Properties. "The properties
have highly qualified tenants in place that are focused on providing patients
with the best possible treatment and care." The other facilities are in Texas,
Nevada and Indiana.Tulsan has spot in Staples' raceA creation by a Tulsa
inventor and entrepreneur designed to make the Apple iPad a true handheld device
is among the leaders of a national contest. James Hill entered his nHand device,
which includes a detachable tablet handle and a three-way stand, in Staples'
Crowd2Shelf national contest on Sept. 1 and is in second place with nearly 5,000
votes. nHand is the only Oklahoma product entered in the contest. Votes may be
cast and more information found on Hill's nhand device at
www.fundable.com/get-n-hand. The products with the most votes, sales and judge
excitement will be featured on the shelves of Staples nationwide.OSU to honor
businessmanSTILLWATER - Oklahoma State University's Center for Ethical
Leadership will host Frank Morsani, former chairman of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, at a Student Leaders Luncheon set for Tuesday in Taylor's Dining Room
on campus. Morsani, who has owned more than 40 companies, will speak about his
experiences in leadership while at OSU and afterward, as chairman of the board
of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. He received his Bachelor of Science in Trade
and Industrial Engineering from OSU and went on to work for Ford Motor Co.
Recognized for his philanthropy at OSU, Morsani also received an honorary
doctorate from the university in 2010. "Frank Morsani is the epitome of the
classic cowboy way," said Stephen Haseley, Center for Ethical Leadership
manager. "He has an interesting career history to share that illustrates
integrity, honor and the courage to hope, even when he was the only one with
hope." Those interested in attending the Student Leaders Luncheon should RSVP to
Nichole Brown in the Center for Ethical Leadership office at (405) 744-5485 or
by email at ngbrown@okstate.edu.OK's senators are honoredBoth of Oklahoma's U.S.
senators were honored Thursday by the National Federation of Independent
Business. U.S. Sens. Jim Inhofe, R-Tulsa, and Tom Coburn, R-Muskogee, were named
as Guardian of Small Business for their voting records on behalf of
small-business owners. The group will present the award to 45 senators.From
staff reports


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


