                              329 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ethical dilemmas cloud health care: Startling findings: Treatment options prompt
emotional clashes, report says

BYLINE: MARK KENNEDY, CanWest News Service; Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 914  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical challenges"

stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who disagree with the
treatment being ordered by medical professions, says a major new report.

The report, published yesterday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the top 10 ethical issues faced by the Canadian public
and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated - whether it involves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment
to a dying patient.

The report states that while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and in a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think tank.

The authors of the report surveyed 12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto
hospitals to rank the most important ethical challenges facing the health
system.

The results - which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors - provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue - particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," Singer said.

According to the report, very few members of the public are aware of the extent
to which there are conflicts between patients or their families and health-care
professionals.

"These conflicts can be as serious as an emotionally charged fight over a
decision to withdraw aggressive treatment from a terminally ill patient in the
intensive care unit, or as mundane as a family physician refusing to acquiesce
to a patient's request for antibiotics for a viral infection."

The report says the "end-of-life critical care cases" tend to be the most
emotionally charged and intractable and often follow a pattern: A patient,
perhaps with cancer, is in the late stages of terminal illness and is hooked up
to a breathing ventilator in the ICU. The family is demanding that "everything"
be done to maintain the patient's life, while the health professionals feel such
"aggressive interventions would amount to torture."

"Emotions run high, conflict ensues and communication inevitably breaks down."

The health workers can't understand the families' position and label them
"irrational" or "unreasonable," the report states, while the families view the
medical staff as "insensitive" and "disrespectful."

"Sometimes, families will go so far as to accuse the health-care team of wanting
to withdraw treatment to save money or to give the resources to another
patient."

The report proposes several solutions, including: educating health-care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases and
creating policies for health-care facilities to provide guidance.

Top Challenges Faced by Patients and Medical Professionals:

Waiting lists:

The report observes that the wait lists which plague the system create ethical
questions because, in some cases, the lengthy waits can harm patients' health,
impede their ability to return to work and contribute to "psychological
distress."

Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill:

The system has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their
priority for treatment - a discriminatory practice which must be openly
acknowledged and ended.

Shortage of family physicians:

The shortage has become a "significant problem" for the Canadian medicare
system, especially since it is based on the premise that patients deserve
"universal and reasonable access" to medical services.

Medical error:

The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with experts saying the
system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug prescriptions to
performing surgery on the wrong patient. Ethical considerations include "under
what circumstances, and how medical errors should be disclosed to patients
and/or families."

Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

Informed consent:

Patients are supposed to provide their "informed consent" to a treatment before
it is done, but many do not - or cannot - read the forms they're asked to sign.

Research:

Issues include balancing the need for "fair compensation" to participants in
medical research without the payments becoming a "coercive influence."

Substitute decision-making:

When a patient is incapable of making a decision about his treatment,
professionals will turn to a substitute, many of whom find the responsibility to
be onerous. Also, there is sometimes a legal hierarchy that places the most
intimate relationships (such as a spouse) near the bottom of the list to qualify
as the substitute.

Surgical innovation and new technologies:

Doctors are faced with the question: Should innovative surgical techniques be
considered research and be required to go through ethics approval before being
used on patients?

ottawa citizen

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


