                              36 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Traditional healthcare ethics committees termed reactive

LENGTH: 460  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Karachi Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive
and addressing only the most visible ethical concerns. This was pointed out at a
symposium organised by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday. "They are
unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a health
care organisation functions and instead focusing on issues related primarily to
clinical ethics. Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with
other functions of the organisation which results in employees unable to handle
ethical issues effectively." It was pointed out that addressing these issues
often falls beyond the scope of conventional ethics committees because they may
not pertain to clinical service, research or academics, but to the way the
organisation runs.



Common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated and
enforced in every function of the institute

Dr Robyna Khan Assistant Professor AKU

Therefore, common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set,
communicated and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr
Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital
Ethics Committee Symposium held at the Aga Khan University. In her keynote
address, Dr Melissa M Bottrell of the National Centre for Ethics in Health Care
in the United States identified the major limitations of traditional ethics
committee models and offered an integrated ethics model as a paradigm shift that
remedies most of these defects. "By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical
concern in health care, integrated ethics empowers organisations to do the right
things because it is the right thing to do," she said. Professor Murad Khan,
Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU, described various components of
organisational ethics, saying, "As part of an organisational approach to ethics,
committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues, resource
allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other ethical
activities in their institution." The symposium provided an opportunity to
review challenges, examine ethical issues in organisations, and identify the
role of leaders, faculty, administration and staff in formulating and
implementing solutions. Summarising the discussion, Professor Camer Vellani
reviewed the impact of organisational culture, leadership, and ethics committees
as drivers of success in an integrated ethics approach. Other speakers at the
symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO Indus Hospital; Ameena Saiyid,
Managing Director Oxford University Press; Professor Arif Zaman, former dean,
Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS); and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant
Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


