                              358 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday

COUNCIL AWARDS $1,000 SCHOLARSHIPS

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1693 words


The Community Service Council of West Pasco presented five graduating high
school students and one adult college student each with a $1,000 scholarship to
be used toward academic pursuits. The awards were presented June 9 during the
group's regular membership luncheon.

Scholarship recipients were Derek Poling of Gulf High School; Crystal Golinski
of Hudson High School; Victoria Balestrieri of Mitchell High School; Joey
Geschke of Ridgewood High School; Lauren Mundy of River Ridge High School, and
Joseph Caldarelli of St. Petersburg College.

The council is an organization of business professionals who build friendships
that provide networking opportunities for their businesses. The group meets at
11:30 a.m. on the second Thursday of each month at the Spartan Manor in New Port
Richey. Lunch is $12 per person. For information, call (727) 863-7866.

* * *

Briefly

Hospital Corporation of American was recently recognized by the Ethisphere
Institute as one of the 2011 World's Most Ethical Companies. HCA is the parent
company of Community Hospital, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point and Oak
Hill Hospital.

Out of a record number of nominations, HCA secured a spot on the list by
implementing upright business practices and initiatives that are instrumental to
the company's success, benefit the community, and raise the bar for ethical
standards within the industry, Ethisphere found.

The Ethisphere Institute is an international think-tank dedicated to the
creation, advancement and sharing of best practices in business ethics,
corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and sustainability.

For more information, visit ethisphere.com/worlds-most-ethical
-companies-rankings/.

- - -

Gulf Coast Medical Center's Port Richey south location recently received
recognition from the National Committee for Quality Assurance for Physician
Practice Connections-Patient Centered Medical Home program for using
evidence-based, patient-centered processes that focus on highly coordinated care
and long-term participative relationships.

PCMH is a model of health care delivery that aims to improve the quality and
efficiency of care. The program identifies practices that promote partnerships
between individual patients and their personal clinicians.

For information, call (727) 868-2151.

- - -

Scottrade, a branch-supported online investing firm, outgrew its Port Richey
office and recently relocated to 3130 Little Road in the Mitchell Ranch Plaza,
Trinity.

The new office hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. After-hours
support is available from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. Monday through Friday, and from 9
a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturday.

For information, call Doug Anderson, office manager, at (727) 372-0563.

* * *

Who's news

Michele Forney, administrator at Southern Pines Healthcare Center, 6140 Congress
St., New Port Richey, recently received the Facility Leadership award from the
American College of Health Care Administrators.

The annual award recognizes nursing home administrators who've met superior
health care standards. Recipients must operate homes that meet stringent
patient-care and life-safety code standards, in addition to having an average
occupancy above 90 percent.

For information, call (502) 568-7746.

- - -

David A. Hook, a partner of the Hook Law Group, 4918 Floramar Ter., New Port
Richey, was recently awarded board certification in elder law from the Florida
Bar Association. The certification comes from the bar's Board of Legal
Specialization & Education, which identifies Hook as "a lawyer with special
knowledge skills and proficiency, as well as a reputation for professionalism
and ethics."

Hook Law Group is one of the country's first law firms to build its practice
around elder law. Its attorneys and staff develop a comprehensive life-care plan
to help elderly clients and their families navigate the legal aspects of aging,
healthcare, asset management and government aid program.

For information, call (727) 842-1001.

* * *

Events

A free summer seminar for small business owners, "Profit and Growth For You and
Your Business," will be from 6 to 7 p.m. Monday at CARES Hudson, 12417 Clock
Tower Parkway, Hudson.

Anna Preston, who has more than 30 years of work and small business operation
experience, will discuss balance for growth, ideas for making and saving more
money and the concept of a universal business model.

To register, call (727) 697-3951.

- - -

The Greater Zephyrhills Chamber of Commerce will have its June Chamber Breakfast
at 7 a.m. Thursday at Golden Corral, 6855 Gall Blvd., Zephyrhills. This month's
sponsor is East Pasco Family YMCA.

The cost is $7 per person. For information, call the chamber at (813) 782-1913.

- - -

West Pasco Legal Support Association will meet Monday at IHOP restaurant, 4736
U.S. 19, New Port Richey. Meet and greet will begin at 5:30 p.m. and the speaker
will begin at 6 p.m. Speaker Hugh C. Umsted will discuss notary law. Attendants
receive Florida Bar-approved Continuing Legal Education hours.

People interested in the legal field, attorneys, judicial assistants, paralegals
and legal office staff are invited. To RSVP, call Marcy Nolan, secretary, at
(727) 271-6777.

- - -

Wesley Chapel Chamber of Commerce Economic Development Committee will meet from
11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Thursday at American Consulting Engineers, 2818 Cypress
Ridge Blvd., Suite 200, Wesley Chapel. The group meets on the fourth Thursday of
each month. For information, call chamber chairman Jeff Miller at (813)
994-6795.

- - -

The West Pasco Chamber of Commerce will have its June Chamber Breakfast from
7:30 to 9 a.m. Friday at the Fox Hollow Golf Club, 10050 Robert Trent Jones
Parkway, Trinity. This month's sponsor is Career Central. Alan Mong will talk
about "Discovering your memory power and reading smart."

The cost is $10 for the breakfast buffet. To RSVP, call (727) 842-7651 by
Thursday.

- - -

West Pasco Chamber of Commerce will have the following ribbon cuttings next
week:

- Re/Max New Dimensions, in the chamber's office, 5443 Main St., New Port
Richey, 11:30 a.m. Tuesday. Donna Bagnell or Denise Denver, (727) 434-3871.

- Florida Blood Services, 5355 U.S. 19, New Port Richey, 11:30 a.m. Wednesday.
(727) 819-3102.

- A-Plus Air conditioning, 8645 Ridge Road, New Port Richey, 11:30 a.m.
Thursday. (727) 868-3436.

If you have business announcements you would like to share with our readers,
mail the details to Jean Hayes, Business Digest, Pasco Times, 11321 U.S. 19,
Port Richey, FL 34668. You may also e-mail items to jhayes@sptimes.com or fax
them to (727) 869-6233. Photos are published as space permits; they will not be
returned.

* * *

Networking

- Wesley Chapel Power Networking Lunch: 11:30 a.m. Monday at Santo's Pizza and
Pasta, 27431 Wesley Chapel Blvd., Wesley Chapel. The cost is $10. For
information or to RSVP, e-mail Tiffanie Kellog at tiffanie@threadartfl.com

- Trinity Positive Business Network: 8:30 a.m. Monday at Panera Bread, 3234
Little Road in the Mitchell Ranch Plaza, Trinity. Meets every Monday. Call Ashok
Visuvasam at (813) 333-1622.

- Power Networking: 11:45 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday at Pagelli's Italiano restaurant
in the Shops of Wiregrass, 2001 Piazza Ave., Wesley Chapel. Meets the third
Monday of each month. The cost is $10. To RSVP, call the Wesley Chapel Chamber
of Commerce at (813) 994-8534. Call Tiffanie Kellog of the Referral Institute at
(813) 948-7243.

- Wesley Chapel Networking Coffee: 8 a.m. Tuesday at Organic Life, 1900 Oak
Grove Blvd., Land O'Lakes. Join Rob Kellog for coffee and early morning
networking opportunities.

- Wesley Chapel Networking on the Nines: 3 p.m. Tuesday at Lexington Oaks Golf
Club, 26133 Lexington Blvd., Wesley Chapel. Bring a client or associate for a
unique networking opportunity. Play nine holes of "Best Ball" golf for $20 per
person (includes greens fees/cart). For information, contact Rob Kellog at (813)
817-5655 or rob@threadartfl.com

- Suncoast Women in Networking (WIN): Monthly breakfast meeting, 7:45 a.m.
Tuesday at IHOP restaurant, 4736 U.S. 19, New Port Richey. The breakfast will be
open menu. Tanya Simpson, a massage therapist with Total Harmony Massage, will
be the guest speaker. Free massage certificates will be given to attendees. Call
Linda McFarland, president, at (727) 863-6151.

- West Pasco Business Association: 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. Tuesday at 2150 Seven
Springs Blvd., Trinity. The association is a pool of professionals who work
together to promote each others' businesses. The group meets every Tuesday. For
more information, visit westpascobusinessassociation.com.

- Pasco Hernando NPI Networking Group: 11:45 a.m. Tuesday at Boulevard Beef &
Ale, 6236 Grand Blvd., New Port Richey. Call Rob Marlowe at (727) 847-2424.

- Trinity Business Association: 5:30 p.m. Tuesday at Fox Hollow Country Club,
10050 Robert Trent Jones Parkway, Trinity. Meetings are on the first and third
Tuesdays of each month. For more information, send an e-mail to
Info@TrinityBusinessAssociation.com

- West Pasco Business Network: 11:30 a.m. Tuesday at Atria Windsor Woods, 13707
Dallas Drive, Hudson. Meets the third Tuesday of every month. To reserve a seat,
call Abby Hamilton at (813) 817-1905.

- BNI Revenue Source: 7:30 to 9 a.m. Wednesday at Heritage Springs Country Club,
11345 Robert Trent Jones Parkway, Trinity. Visitors welcome. Cost, including
breakfast, is $10. Call David Randall at (727) 842-7744.

- Free Networking International: 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Wednesday at Cantina
Laredo restaurant, 2000 Piazza Ave., Building 4, Suite 170, Wesley Chapel (at
the Shops at Wiregrass). Individuals pay for their own lunch. Call group
director Martine Duncan, co-owner of the Theater Doctor, at (813) 929-6816.

- Neighborhood Networks: 11:45 a.m. Wednesday at Whiskey River Saltwater Grill,
5245 Limestone Drive, Port Richey. The group meets every Wednesday. Call Josh
Green at (727) 457-2393.

- BNI Eagles: 7:15 a.m. Thursday at Spartan Manor, 6121 Massachusetts Ave., New
Port Richey. Cost is $10 (includes breakfast). For information or to RSVP, call
Sheryl Ryan at (352) 556-7711.

- BNI Referral Connections: 7:15 to 9 a.m. Thursday at Los Vallarta Mexican
Restaurant, 22948 State Road 54, Lutz. Call Capt. Rob Hamilton at (813)
431-5887.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hook

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


