                              39 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Common norms & standards of ethical conduct need to be set

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 524

LENGTH: 427  words


Traditional ethics committees in health care organizations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organizational factors that influence how a
health care organization functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees were not well connected with other functions of
the organization which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organization runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics
Committee Symposium held at Aga Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organizations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do", she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organizational ethics. "As part of an organizational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organizations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions.

Summarizing the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of
organizational culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success
in an integrated ethics approach. Other notable speakers at the Symposium
included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing
Director, Oxford University Press, Professor Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore
University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon,
Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


