                              40 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           December 15, 2012 Saturday

AKU Symposium explores Ethical Challenges in Health Care Organisations

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday. They were unable to
highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a health care
organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily to clinical
ethics. Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other
functions of the organisation which results in employees unable to handle
ethical issues effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs. Thus common norms
and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated and enforced in
every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor,
AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held
at Aga Khan University. In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the
National Center for Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the
major limitations of traditional ethics committee models and offered an
Integrated Ethics model as a paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.
"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do",she said. Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of
Psychiatry, AKU described various components of organisational ethics. "As part
of an organisational approach to ethics, committees should address matters such
as conflict of interest issues, resource allocation, appointments and promotions
as well as support other ethical activities in their institution." The Symposium
provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical issues in
organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty, administration and
staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising the discussions
Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational culture,
leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an integrated ethics
approach. Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan,
CEO, Indus Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press,
Professor Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences
(LUMS) and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


