                              430 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

Virginia: Alumna returns to campus to talk medical ethics with new students

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Richmond: Virginia Commonwealth University has issued the following news
release:



 When students first arrive at medical school, they expect to dive right into
the hard science that will form the basis of their medical knowledge. This year,
Rebecca Bigoney, M.D., an alumna of the Virginia Commonwealth University School
of Medicine, got the chance to show incoming first-year students another side of
medicine that is equally important, yet often overlooked by students early in
their medical education. This fall she returned to the MCV Campus to talk about
medical ethics and the puzzling dilemmas the members of the Class of 2019 will
assuredly encounter.





 Bigoney has confronted a wide variety of situations involving medical ethics
over the course of her career, which includes 18 years in private practice and a
term as vice president of medical affairs at Mary Washington Hospital in
Fredericksburg, where she now works as chief medical officer.



 She shared some of her experiences with students as a guest speaker for the
&ldquo;Patient, Physician, and Society&rdquo; curriculum in the School of
Medicine. Her talk illustrated the complex situations that doctors can encounter
at what Bigoney called &ldquo;the intersection of ethics, liability, policy and
reality.&rdquo;



 The told the story of a patient who declined kidney surgery because a traveling
preacher told her she had been cured, of factory workers exposed to dangerous
heavy metals with no protections from their company, and of a wife who tried to
interfere with her husband's treatment because of the race of his doctor.



 &ldquo;The ethical problems you face most likely will not be catastrophic or
dramatic like the ones I've described, but you'll encounter ethical challenges
every day.&rdquo;



 These types of situations, Bigoney explained, require doctors to weigh medical,
ethical and procedural decisions to arrive at acceptable, though often
imperfect, conclusions.



 For many of the assembled students, these were new situations and questions
they had not previously considered. Students asked frequent questions throughout
Bigoney's presentation, wanting to clarify the decisions she had made to resolve
certain situations. At a student's prompting, she walked the class through her
logic in a hypothetical mass casualty situation -- which patients would receive
priority, how limited hospital resources might be divided up and how legal
liability factors into such decisions.



 Bigoney made sure to remind students that, &ldquo;The ethical problems you face
most likely will not be catastrophic or dramatic like the ones I've described,
but you'll encounter ethical challenges every day.&rdquo;



 Mark Ryan, M.D., a School of Medicine alumnus and an assistant professor in the
Department of Family Medicine, was also on hand to help facilitate the
presentation. He praised Bigoney for showing students that &ldquo;being a good
doctor is more than knowing biochemistry or physiology -- it is about learning
to work with people, and the often complicated and difficult situations in which
they find themselves.&rdquo;



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


