                              57 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                      July 29, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM GMT

Iconic Keelmen's Hospital in Newcastle could be revived as 'ethical' hotel;
The Heritage Lottery Fund has awarded a £10,000 grant to help find a new use for
the at-risk site, which was built in 1701

BYLINE: By Tony Henderson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 582 words


An at-risk heritage building linked to a colourful part of Tyneside's past may
become one of a new network of "ethical" hotels.

The Keelmen's Hospital, with its domed tower, overlooking the River Tyne on City
Road in Newcastle, is Grade II-star listed, putting it in the top 5% of historic
buildings in the country.

It was built in 1701, when there were 1,600 keelmen in Newcastle, who played a
vital role in the commerce of the river by ferrying loads between ship and
shore.

They paid a levy to build the hospital which offered care for their orphans,
widows and infirm beneficiaries.

But the city council-owned building, last used as student accommodation, has
been empty for several years and has been placed on Historic England's At Risk
register.

The keelmen had strong links with Methodism with founder John Wesley's brother
Charles being their chaplain.

And now, a partnership between the Methodists and the North of England Civic
Trust have been given £10,000 by the Heritage Lottery Fund to explore options
for the re-use of the building.

One of the proposals to be explored is to develop the hospitality and caring
history of the building by turning it into an ethical hotel.

It would follow The Wesley Hotel in London, which has Methodist roots and is the
first social enterprise hotel in the UK.

It is hoped to develop a network of such hotels, of which Newcastle - once a
Methodist stronghold - could be part.

It is envisaged that the City Road building could celebrate the role played in
the city's past by Methodism and the keelmen, who are the subject of one of
Tyneside's best known folk songs.

Partners in the venture are the North of England Civic Trust, the Wesley Hotel
and the Wesley Orphan House Trustees, which has its origins in an orphanage
built by John Wesley in Northumberland Street in Newcastle in 1743. The site
remains in Methodist ownership.

Trust director Graham Bell said: "This project is a story of revival. It aims to
revive the fortunes of a building that is hugely symbolic but vulnerable, raise
the historical profile of the keelmen as a mainstay of the economy, society and
culture of Newcastle and revive the significance of the Wesleys to the keelmen,
Newcastle and Britain, reminding people of its important story of the ethical
principles and relationships in society, from almshouses to the Wesleys to a
modern-day approach to hospitality."

A pink and grey obelisk drinking fountain on Newcastle Quayside, unveiled in
1891, celebrates John Wesley preaching in Newcastle. He made around 50 visits
over his lifetime.

Mr Bell said: "The Keelmen's Hospital is one of the few buildings with a direct
link to the times of the keelmen, who have been immortalised in song.

"When times were good the keelmen paid to build the hospital to look after their
own in the days when there was no Welfare State.

"The hospital was built for hospitality in the traditional sense of ethical
care. The hospitality link could be developed in a building which is a landmark
in the townscape of Newcastle, in the welfare care of the traveller."

Eden Fletcher, Minister at Brunswick Methodist Church off Northumberland Street,
was the first to see how the connections could make something special for the
city.

He said: "The Wesleys had a huge and lasting impact on this city.

"To revive those stories and the values they represent is as relevant as ever.
Both John and Charles were regularly to be found on the streets of Newcastle and
in the thick of society where need was most acute."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


