                              81 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

System wrestles with ethical dilemmas

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 689  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical
challenges" stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who
disagree with the treatment being ordered by medical professionals, says a major
new report.

The report, published Sunday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is a growing number of conflicts over how a
patient should be treated -- from something as simple as whether to prescribe an
antibiotic, to whether to provide life-sustaining treatment to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors -- provide a look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Singer.

The report proposes several solutions, including educating health-care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases, and
creating policies for health-care facilities to provide guidance.

The other ethical challenges, ranked by priority, are:

2. Waiting lists: The report observes that the wait lists that now plague the
system create ethical questions because, in some cases, lengthy waits can harm
patients' health, impede their ability to return to work and contribute to
"psychological distress."

3. Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system
has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment -- a discriminatory practice that must be openly acknowledged and
ended.

4. Shortage of family physicians: The shortage has become a "significant
problem" for the Canadian medicare system, especially since it is based on the
premise that patients deserve "universal and reasonable access" to medical
services.

5. Medical error: The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with
experts saying the system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug
prescriptions to performing surgery on the wrong patient. Ethical considerations
include "under what circumstances, and how medical errors should be disclosed to
patients and/or families."

6. Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

7. Informed consent: Patients are supposed to provide their "informed consent"
to a treatment before it is done, but many do not -- or cannot -- read the forms
they're asked to sign.

8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for fair compensation to
participants in medical research with ensuring the payments don't become a
"coercive influence."

9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable of making a decision
about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute, many of whom find
the responsibility onerous. Also, there is sometimes a legal hierarchy that
places the most intimate relationships (such as a spouse) near the bottom of the
list to qualify as the substitute.

10. Surgical innovation and new technologies: Doctors are faced with the
question: Should innovative surgical techniques be considered research and be
required to go through ethics approval before being used on patients?

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

