
                               1 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              July 13, 2015 Monday
                            British Columbia Edition

HEALTH CARE;
Doctors to stop billing procedural fees;
Cardiologists have been charging two hospitals for transesophageal echo tests
they don't physically perform

BYLINE: WENDY STUECK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Some cardiologists at two Lower Mainland hospitals have been ordered to stop
billing procedural fees that have cost the provincial health system hundreds of
thousands of dollars in the past two years alone.

The doctors have been charging Vancouver General and St. Paul's Hospital
procedural fees for a test that, in many cases, they do not physically perform.

Over the past two decades, the once-specialized test - known as a
transesophageal echo, or TEE - has become more routine and is now conducted
mostly by anesthesiologists, who bear the risk and liability for the procedure.

But a small group of doctors at Vancouver General and St. Paul's have continued
billing procedural fees for the tests, even though such fees are not charged by
doctors in at least two of the three other cardiac centres in the province.

The change in billing procedures came after management received correspondence
containing complaints about the fees and after The Globe and Mail wrote about
the concerns in a story last month.

"Vancouver Coastal Health ordered this billing practice stopped in early June,"
spokeswoman Anna Marie D'Angelo said in a recent e-mail.

Vancouver Coastal Health is the regional health authority that oversees
Vancouver General Hospital. Providence Health, which oversees St. Paul's, has
also ordered a stop to the billing of procedural fees for the tests, Ms.
D'Angelo said.

Vancouver Coastal Health has also launched an investigation of billing practices
related to the tests. Asked whether there would be any disciplinary measures
taken in relation to the billing practices or whether the health authorities
would try to recoup any of the money involved, Ms.

D'Angelo said any such decisions would be determined through the investigation
and that it would be "premature to suggest there was wrongdoing or inappropriate
behaviour."

The procedural fee involved - $142.76 per test - is small change when viewed in
the context of B.C.'s overall health spending, which is forecast to hit
$17.4-billion this year. But transesophageal echocardiograms are part of nearly
every heart operation, which number in the hundreds every year.

St. Paul's, for example, spent about $120,000 in procedural fees in each of the
past two fiscal years, according to information provided by Vancouver Coastal
Health. Vancouver General Hospital, meanwhile, spent about $70,000 last year and
$80,000 the year before.

The billing practice has been in place since at least 2012, when it caught the
attention of two program directors who had been asked to find potential savings
to make up for the loss of revenue resulting from some heart surgeries shifting
from the Lower Mainland to Kelowna General, which began providing cardiac
surgeries in 2012.

That 2012 review concluded echocardiographers at both St.

Paul's and Vancouver General were billing an "unanticipated" procedural fee per
case, even though the tests were actually being done by anesthesiologists.

That review, a copy of which was provided to The Globe and Mail, featured
several recommendations, including that "when cardiac echocardiographers do not
perform the TEE procedure, they should not be paid the TEE procedure fee."

Victoria's Royal Jubilee Hospital does not pay a procedural fee for the tests.
(Royal Jubilee, along with St. Paul's, Vancouver General, Kelowna General and
Royal Columbian in New Westminster, is one of five cardiac centres in B.C.)
Neither does Royal Columbian.

"Fraser Health's echocardiographers do not bill for procedures they do not
perform," Gerald Simkus, program medical director for Fraser Health, which
oversees Royal Columbian, said in an e-mail.

"In the [operating room] setting and in the Cardiac Surgery Intensive Care Unit,
it is typically the anesthesiologist, who has been trained in the procedure, who
may perform a TEE as an informal real-time guide to care without additional
billing."

Representatives for Interior Health, which oversees Kelowna General Hospital,
were not able to provide billing information immediately.

More than 4,000 heart surgeries were performed in B.C. last year, according to
Cardiac Services B.C. St. Paul's is one of the busiest heart centres in the
province and does more than 1,000 cardiac surgeries per year.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2015 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                Bowen Independent (North Queensland, Australia)

                            April 6, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Bowen Edition

A second doctor unlikely

BYLINE: Nadine O'Neill

SECTION: CLASSIFIEDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 420 words


IT'S doubtful Collinsville Hospital will get a second doctor despite best
efforts from the Mackay Health and Hospital Service and Member for Burdekin Dale
Last.

Queensland Health Minister Cameron Dick has also weighed in after Mr Last asked
the Minister to get involved, but he cast doubt that a second doctor would be
employed. But he assured in the interim, locum doctors would continue to be
employed to the second position as required.

"Tele-health continues to support the provision of health services and the
application of this technology has seen a 70 per cent increase in usage at
Collinsville over the past year," Mr Dick said.

"Collinsville is a non-procedural hospital and potentially not attractive for
rural generalists with advanced procedural skills.

"I am advised this is despite multiple advertisements and an attractive salary
package, including location, professional development, accommodation and motor
vehicle incentives.

"The rural generalist pathway is now producing doctors with advanced skills, but
that pathway originally focused on procedural skills like obstetrics.

"The pathway is now training doctors with advanced skills in non-procedural
medicine, for example mental health, and those doctors may have an interest in
sites like Collinsville in the future.

"This program will ultimately provide a significant number of these doctors, but
most are still in the pipeline of training," he said.

Collinsville Hospital has been struggling to find a second doctor for more than
a year. Mackay Hospital and Health Service has confirmed it had advertised the
position several times and had been unable to find an appropriate rural
clinician.

"Due to the difficulty of recruiting to the position we are looking at a range
of medical workforce models. That includes working collaboratively with the
North Queensland Primary Health Care Network to ensure future workforce
sustainability," Mackay HHS chief executive Clare Douglas said.

Mr Last said although a second doctor could be employed at the hospital in the
future, Collinsville residents were keen to secure one immediately or in the
near future.

"It has been an issue the community has been raising with me since I was
elected, everyone wants to ensure adequate medical services are provided to the
Collinsville community," Mr Last said.

"I understand their concerns and their wanting to shore up long term security
with regard to health services."It's an issue I will continue to follow and push
for Collinsville and Scottville communities," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Bowen Independent


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           August 31, 2016 Wednesday

Outcomes of Patients With Atrial Fibrillation Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary
Intervention

LENGTH: 433  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 Background  Atrial fibrillation (AF) is increasing in prevalence, and patients
with a history of AF commonly undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
There is a paucity of contemporary data on the association between AF and
clinical outcomes after PCI.





 Objectives  The study sought to evaluate the association between AF and in-
hospital adverse outcomes using a large, prospective multicenter registry.



 Methods  Data for consecutive PCI cases from 47 hospitals performed between
April 2011 and December 2014 were utilized for the analysis. Propensity-matched
multivariate analysis was used to adjust for differences in baseline
characteristics between patients with and without a history of AF.



 Results  Of 113,283 PCI cases during the study period, a history of AF was
present in 13,912 patients (12%), which varied by institution (range 2.5% to
18.4%). At baseline, patients with a history of AF were older and were more
likely to have comorbid congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy,
cerebrovascular disease, and chronic lung disease. Patients with a history of AF
were more likely to have in-hospital complications, including in-hospital
mortality (3% vs. 1%). In propensity-matched analysis, patients with a history
of AF were more likely to be treated with a bare-metal stent (27% vs. 18%). In
the propensity-matched model, AF remained independently associated with an
increased risk of developing post-procedural bleeding (odds ratio [OR]: 1.32;
95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.15 to 1.52), heart failure (OR: 1.33; 95% CI:
1.17 to 1.52), cardiogenic shock (OR: 1.26; 95% CI: 1.08 to 1.48), and in-
hospital mortality (OR: 1.41; 95% CI: 1.18 to 1.68).



 Conclusions  AF is common among patients undergoing PCI. AF is associated with
older age, the presence of other comorbidities, and independently associated
with in-hospital post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock, and
mortality.

 Perspectives



 COMPETENCY IN PATIENT CARE AND PROCEDURAL SKILLS: A history of AF in patients
undergoing PCI is associated with an increased risk of in-hospital adverse
outcomes, including bleeding, post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock,
and mortality.



 TRANSLATIONAL OUTLOOK: Prospective clinical studies are needed to evaluate the
impact of prophylactic therapies on post-procedural morbidity and mortality in
patients with a history of AF undergoing PCI.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Outcomes of Patients With Atrial Fibrillation Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary
Intervention

LENGTH: 433  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 Background  Atrial fibrillation (AF) is increasing in prevalence, and patients
with a history of AF commonly undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
There is a paucity of contemporary data on the association between AF and
clinical outcomes after PCI.





 Objectives  The study sought to evaluate the association between AF and in-
hospital adverse outcomes using a large, prospective multicenter registry.



 Methods  Data for consecutive PCI cases from 47 hospitals performed between
April 2011 and December 2014 were utilized for the analysis. Propensity-matched
multivariate analysis was used to adjust for differences in baseline
characteristics between patients with and without a history of AF.



 Results  Of 113,283 PCI cases during the study period, a history of AF was
present in 13,912 patients (12%), which varied by institution (range 2.5% to
18.4%). At baseline, patients with a history of AF were older and were more
likely to have comorbid congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy,
cerebrovascular disease, and chronic lung disease. Patients with a history of AF
were more likely to have in-hospital complications, including in-hospital
mortality (3% vs. 1%). In propensity-matched analysis, patients with a history
of AF were more likely to be treated with a bare-metal stent (27% vs. 18%). In
the propensity-matched model, AF remained independently associated with an
increased risk of developing post-procedural bleeding (odds ratio [OR]: 1.32;
95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.15 to 1.52), heart failure (OR: 1.33; 95% CI:
1.17 to 1.52), cardiogenic shock (OR: 1.26; 95% CI: 1.08 to 1.48), and in-
hospital mortality (OR: 1.41; 95% CI: 1.18 to 1.68).



 Conclusions  AF is common among patients undergoing PCI. AF is associated with
older age, the presence of other comorbidities, and independently associated
with in-hospital post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock, and
mortality.

 Perspectives



 COMPETENCY IN PATIENT CARE AND PROCEDURAL SKILLS: A history of AF in patients
undergoing PCI is associated with an increased risk of in-hospital adverse
outcomes, including bleeding, post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock,
and mortality.



 TRANSLATIONAL OUTLOOK: Prospective clinical studies are needed to evaluate the
impact of prophylactic therapies on post-procedural morbidity and mortality in
patients with a history of AF undergoing PCI.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 25, 2016 Thursday

Outcomes of Patients With Atrial Fibrillation Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary
Intervention

LENGTH: 433  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 Background  Atrial fibrillation (AF) is increasing in prevalence, and patients
with a history of AF commonly undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
There is a paucity of contemporary data on the association between AF and
clinical outcomes after PCI.





 Objectives  The study sought to evaluate the association between AF and in-
hospital adverse outcomes using a large, prospective multicenter registry.



 Methods  Data for consecutive PCI cases from 47 hospitals performed between
April 2011 and December 2014 were utilized for the analysis. Propensity-matched
multivariate analysis was used to adjust for differences in baseline
characteristics between patients with and without a history of AF.



 Results  Of 113,283 PCI cases during the study period, a history of AF was
present in 13,912 patients (12%), which varied by institution (range 2.5% to
18.4%). At baseline, patients with a history of AF were older and were more
likely to have comorbid congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy,
cerebrovascular disease, and chronic lung disease. Patients with a history of AF
were more likely to have in-hospital complications, including in-hospital
mortality (3% vs. 1%). In propensity-matched analysis, patients with a history
of AF were more likely to be treated with a bare-metal stent (27% vs. 18%). In
the propensity-matched model, AF remained independently associated with an
increased risk of developing post-procedural bleeding (odds ratio [OR]: 1.32;
95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.15 to 1.52), heart failure (OR: 1.33; 95% CI:
1.17 to 1.52), cardiogenic shock (OR: 1.26; 95% CI: 1.08 to 1.48), and in-
hospital mortality (OR: 1.41; 95% CI: 1.18 to 1.68).



 Conclusions  AF is common among patients undergoing PCI. AF is associated with
older age, the presence of other comorbidities, and independently associated
with in-hospital post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock, and
mortality.

 Perspectives



 COMPETENCY IN PATIENT CARE AND PROCEDURAL SKILLS: A history of AF in patients
undergoing PCI is associated with an increased risk of in-hospital adverse
outcomes, including bleeding, post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock,
and mortality.



 TRANSLATIONAL OUTLOOK: Prospective clinical studies are needed to evaluate the
impact of prophylactic therapies on post-procedural morbidity and mortality in
patients with a history of AF undergoing PCI.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 23, 2016 Tuesday

Outcomes of Patients With Atrial Fibrillation Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary
Intervention

LENGTH: 434  words

DATELINE: New York



 Santa Fe: Air Conditioning Contractors of America Association, Inc has issued
the following news release:



 Background  Atrial fibrillation (AF) is increasing in prevalence, and patients
with a history of AF commonly undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
There is a paucity of contemporary data on the association between AF and
clinical outcomes after PCI.





 Objectives  The study sought to evaluate the association between AF and in-
hospital adverse outcomes using a large, prospective multicenter registry.



 Methods  Data for consecutive PCI cases from 47 hospitals performed between
April 2011 and December 2014 were utilized for the analysis. Propensity-matched
multivariate analysis was used to adjust for differences in baseline
characteristics between patients with and without a history of AF.



 Results  Of 113,283 PCI cases during the study period, a history of AF was
present in 13,912 patients (12%), which varied by institution (range 2.5% to
18.4%). At baseline, patients with a history of AF were older and were more
likely to have comorbid congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy,
cerebrovascular disease, and chronic lung disease. Patients with a history of AF
were more likely to have in-hospital complications, including in-hospital
mortality (3% vs. 1%). In propensity-matched analysis, patients with a history
of AF were more likely to be treated with a bare-metal stent (27% vs. 18%). In
the propensity-matched model, AF remained independently associated with an
increased risk of developing post-procedural bleeding (odds ratio [OR]: 1.32;
95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.15 to 1.52), heart failure (OR: 1.33; 95% CI:
1.17 to 1.52), cardiogenic shock (OR: 1.26; 95% CI: 1.08 to 1.48), and in-
hospital mortality (OR: 1.41; 95% CI: 1.18 to 1.68).



 Conclusions  AF is common among patients undergoing PCI. AF is associated with
older age, the presence of other comorbidities, and independently associated
with in-hospital post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock, and
mortality.

 Perspectives



 COMPETENCY IN PATIENT CARE AND PROCEDURAL SKILLS: A history of AF in patients
undergoing PCI is associated with an increased risk of in-hospital adverse
outcomes, including bleeding, post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock,
and mortality.



 TRANSLATIONAL OUTLOOK: Prospective clinical studies are needed to evaluate the
impact of prophylactic therapies on post-procedural morbidity and mortality in
patients with a history of AF undergoing PCI.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                              April 8, 2013 Monday

Texas Children hospital uses ditto lite device for paediatric patients

SECTION: FOOD AND DRINKS SPECIALISTS; Management and Care

LENGTH: 234 words



HIGHLIGHT: Shriners Hospitals for Children in Galveston, Texas, US, is using
Diversionary Therapy Technologies' (DTT) ditto lite device for paediatric
patients.


Shriners Hospitals for Children in Galveston, Texas, US, is using Diversionary
Therapy Technologies' (DTT) ditto lite device for paediatric patients.

The ditto lite is a multi-cultural tool that uses pre-procedural preparation and
diversionary therapy and is clinically proven to reduce anxiety, minimise
treatment time and improve patient outcomes.

Certified child life specialist Heather Domenick said that ditto lite has become
a crucial tool for the child life department.

"Because all of the Hospital Procedural Preparation stories we use come in
Spanish as well as English, we can provide better procedural and surgical
preparation and understanding across the language barrier," Domenick added.

"I think it's a great asset for any CLS (Child Life Specialist) working in a
burn centre because it can be utilised just about anywhere, is easily cleaned to
meet infection control standards, and it meets the need for distraction,
developmental stimulation, and education."

DTT's ditto device is designed to lower stress and anxiety prior to or during a
procedure using distraction and educational techniques.

The device features an interactive touch-screen and an automatic response to
physical movement, to engage patients and avert attention from a possibly
negative experience.

The handheld device includes numerous interactive games, stories and procedural
preparation tools, available in English and Spanish.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   TELEGRAPH

                            February 22, 1985 Friday

NSW HOSPITALS NEAR COLLAPSE

SOURCE: QNP

LENGTH: 497 words


Peace ploy not likely to succeed NSW HOSPITALS NEAR COLLAPSE SYDNEY: The NSW
public hospital system today stood on the brink of collapse.

With deep division in the doctors' ranks there appeared little chance that an
11th hour peace call by the Australian Medical Association would be heeded.

From tomorrow, most of the big public hospitals in the state will be without the
services of procedural surgeons.Death fears The result is expected to be growing
delays in the treatment of injured people and a growing backlog of surgery.

There have been warnings that the collapse of the hospital system would lead to
many patient deaths.

Police, meanwhile, are guarding the home and surgery of Dr Bruce Shepherd, the
head of the Council of Procedural Specialists.

Dr Shepherd and Dr Michael Aroney share leadership of the militant specialists
who are, this weekend, resigning en masse from the public hospital system.

The AMA has called for a four-week moratorium and asked NSW doctors to return to
their normal duties while final talks between the president of the AMA, Dr
Lindsay Thompson and the Prime Minister, Mr Hawke, take place.Offer services
State president of the AMA, Dr Tony Buhagiar, said he was confident doctors
would agree to the moratorium.

""I am quite sure they (doctors) will offer their services to hospitals because
even prior to this 11th hour attempt they were doing so."

However, head of the Council of Procedural Specialists, Dr Michael Aroney was
adamant doctors would go ahead with their resignations.

The Premier, Mr Wran, said today the leader of the militant specialists simply
didn't know ""when to put the brakes on.

""The specialists haven't been sold out by the AMA. The AMA is taking a
commonsense attitude to the issue."

Mr Wran said the government would hold off its recruitment advertising campaign
until next week to see how many doctors responded to the AMA call to return.

""The AMA is asking doctors to make personal contact with hospitals. In good
faith, we will wait to see what the response is," he said.

""If there is still a significant gap in numbers next week then we will seek
local recruitment before going overseas for doctors."

State president of the AMA, Dr Tony Buhagiar, said he was confident doctors
would agree to the moratorium.

""I am quite sure they (doctors) will offer their services to hospitals because
even prior to this 11th hour attempt they were doing so."

However, head of the Council of Procedural Specialists, Dr Michael Aroney was
adamant doctors would go ahead with their resignations.

The Premier, Mr Wran, said today the leader of the militant specialists simply
didn't know ""when to put the brakes on.Overseas bid ""The specialists haven't
been sold out by the AMA. The AMA is taking a commonsense attitude to the
issue."

Mr Wran said the government would hold off its recruitment advertising campaign
until next week to see how many doctors responded to the AMA call to return.

""

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: TEL

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                               9 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           November 26, 2015 Thursday

US concludes that human error led to Kunduz hospital attack in Afghanistan

SECTION: HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT; Government and Public Interest

LENGTH: 457 words



HIGHLIGHT: US Army general John Campbell, who leads international forces in
Afghanistan, said that human error, procedural missteps and technical failures
have contributed to the hospital attack in Afghanistan.


US Army general John Campbell, who leads international forces in Afghanistan,
said that human error, procedural missteps and technical failures have
contributed to the hospital attack in Afghanistan.

The hospital was run by Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF), also known as Doctors
Without Borders.

The US carried out an investigation into the incident that killed 30 people and
wounded 37 in Kunduz. It showed the attack on the trauma centre was a direct
result of human error, compounded by systems and procedural failures.

Campbell said: "This was a tragic but avoidable accident caused primarily by
human error.

"The US forces directly involved in this incident did not know the targeted
compound was the [Doctors Without Borders] trauma centre.

"The medical facility was misidentified as a target by US personnel who believed
they were striking a different building several hundred metres away where there
were reports of combatants."

He further noted Afghan troops in Kunduz, which were supported by US special
operations forces, were under heavy Taliban attack for five days and nights.

The report also showed personnel who requested the strike and those who executed
it from the air did not undertake the appropriate measures to verify the
facility was a legitimate military target.

The general noted on 2 October, Afghan special operations forces advised their
US support they intended to conduct a clearing operation that night and one of
the mission objectives was to clear the National Directorate of Security
headquarters building, which was believed to be occupied by insurgents.

Campbell said: "The Afghans requested US close-air support as they conducted
their clearing operation.

"The AC-130 aircraft designated to provide close-air support launched 69 minutes
early in response to a 'troops-in contact situation', an emergency that requires
an immediate response.

"This precluded the crew from receiving their normal mission brief or securing
crucial mission-essential related materials, including the no-strike
designations, which would have identified the location of the trauma center."

It was reported that during the flight, electronic systems onboard the aircraft
malfunctioned, preventing the operation of an essential command and control
capability. It also eliminated the ability of the aircraft to transmit video,
send and receive e-mail or send and receive electronic messages.

The report found the US SOF commander relied primarily on information provided
by Afghan partners and was unable to adequately distinguish between the NDS
headquarters building and the trauma centre.

The investigation showed the approximate cause of this tragedy was a direct
result of avoidable human error compounded by process and equipment failures.

LOAD-DATE: December 08, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 1, 2017 Saturday

Private hospitals mull variable procedural charges

BYLINE: Prithvijit Mitra

SECTION: KOLKATA

LENGTH: 414 words


KOLKATA: Several private hospitals in Kolkata are planning to chalk out a
response to the state's proposal of uniform procedural rate. They plan to
suggest variable rates based on the grade, facilities and infrastructure offered
by them. A uniform charge across hospitals could be unfair and not feasible
since the rates prescribed under the government's Swasthya Sathi scheme were
unreasonably low, the hospitals pointed out.

The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India plans to hold a meeting to discuss
the issue next week.Ever since the West Bengal Health Regulatory Commission
declared that the rates fixed under the Swasthya Sathi scheme - designed to keep
procedural charges within a limit - would be the guideline for 'reasonable
charges', private hospitals have been worried. Most have sought time from the
government to respond. Leading hospitals, which have been looking into the
practicality of the prescribed rates, agreed that they were "too low"."Every
private hospital is not the same. From the doctors and nursing staff to the
facilities on offer, the standard and quality of care is different. So is the
amount of investment which makes it necessary to distinguish between hospitals.
While the rates can be discussed and reviewed, it is imperative to realize that
they can't be the same for all. From the fees of doctors to the quality of
disposables used and the efficiency of the medical staff, everything varies. So
the rates ought to reflect that. Our response will reflect this," said P L
Mehta, president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India.The prescribed
rates were too meagre, felt the director of a hospital off EM Bypass. "We have
been calculating the feasibility of the rates, but they seem impractical. Our
finance department, which does a cost analysis on a regular basis, have been
analyzing the Swasthya Sathi rates. Barring a couple of procedures, none of the
others can be done at such a low cost. But the state has only sought our
suggestions. These are negotiable and we hope to be able to arrive at a mutually
acceptable rate."The CEO of another private hospital said: "While this is a good
opportunity to review the price structure and make it more affordable, our
financial compulsions should also be taken into account. It will be a good idea
to have variable rates instead of a single one across the board. We are looking
ahead to the association meeting to work out a basic joint strategy."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                               May 8, 2017 Monday

New York: State University of New York (SUNY) Issues Solicitation for "Cellex
Procedural Kits, Methoxsalen(Uvadex) and related items"

LENGTH: 174  words

DATELINE: New York



Albany: State University of New York (SUNY) has issued requirement for "Cellex
Procedural Kits, Methoxsalen(Uvadex) and related items"
Reference No.: Q16-127
Solicitation Type: General
Description: Stony Brook University Hospital proposes to purchase Cellex
Procedural Kits, Methoxsalen (Uvadex) and related items manufactured by Therakos
Inc. or equal. Any Vendor who believes they can provide these products or an
equivalent is invited to contact the Officer listed below for a copy of the
16/17-098 specifications/solicitation or to discuss this opportunity prior to
the due date stated in the advertisement.


Deadline for All responses: 05/08/2017
Contact Information:
State University of New York (SUNY)
 SUNY Stony Brook University Hospital
 Hospital Purchasing
 Robert Meyn
 Sr Procurement Officer
 2000 Ocean Avenue
 Suite 1
 Ronkonkoma, NY 11779
 United States
 Ph: 631-444-4068
 Fax: 631-706-4211
 Robert.Meyn@stonybrook.edu
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           October 18, 2003 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

We must stem the crisis in rural health services;
Letters & Opinion

BYLINE: Dr David Campbell

SECTION: INSIGHT; Letters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 353 words


Recently I attended the Sixth International Rural Health Conference in Santiago,
Spain. A senior health administrator from rural Victoria presented a paper on
research and development of a change management tool, which would provide
administrators with a means to manage a reduction in acute and procedural
services provided by rural hospitals, and sell this change to the community.

Do we want further loss of obstetric, anaesthetic and emergency services to
rural Victoria, on top of the progressive closure of small hospitals over the
past 30 years? Surveys in Australia and overseas have consistently shown that
rural people want a doctor in their town, and a hospital and pharmacy service at
least to support the doctor. Current data demonstrates that the health of rural
Victorians is worse than that of metropolitan people, and this can be linked to
poorer access to services.

Closure of acute services is attractive to government because it removes
expensive and difficult-to-maintain services, such as obstetrics, anaesthetics
and emergency care. The trade-off is an increase in aged-care and community
health services. However, when acute and procedural services are closed, doctors
either leave towns or cease maintaining skills in these aspects of care.

Are mothers-to-be receiving optimal care if they have to travel to regional
hospitals or Melbourne to gain access to obstetric services? Is it appropriate
that emergency care in the bush is often provided by ambulance services alone,
with sometimes unnecessary and difficult transport of patients to regional or
tertiary hospitals?

A keynote speaker at the Santiago conference emphasised the power of rural
doctors and rural communities working together. Rural Victoria is faced with a
policy crisis with regard to support for doctors continuing procedural services.
I urge communities that are concerned about access to acute and procedural
services to work with their local doctors, nurses and other health professionals
to reverse this dangerous trend.

-- Dr David Campbell, Victorian director, Australian College of Rural and Remote
Medicine, Lakes Entrance

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2003 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Central Western Daily

                            July 12, 2017 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

GPs on course to alleviate pediatric shortage in regional areas

BYLINE: CENTRAL WESTERN DAILY

LENGTH: 387 words


Orange hospital is the first in the state to offer the latest training course to
address a shortage of paediatricians in the Central West and regional NSW.

Orange Health Service and training provider GP Synergy have formed a partnership
for doctors to learn the necessary skills.

The city's hospital will offer specialised training in child and adolescent
health to registrars training as general practitioners.

In the NSW Health system, registrars are doctors with a minimum of three years
of experience working in public hospitals, they supervise junior doctors and are
training to become a specialist.

The first registrar to start the year-long training course in Orange - which has
been hailed as a "unique opportunity" for GP registrars - is Erica Watson.

Dr Watson feels the time spent in hospital pediatrics will offer valuable skills
and experience as her career progresses.

"Pediatrics is an area that as a GP I'll see a lot of," Dr Watson said.

"Undertaking the post has provided experience that I can apply in general
practice, particularly in more rural areas.

"Smaller district hospitals have opportunities for upskilled GPs and that's the
sort of general practice I want to be involved in."

Orange Health Service's medical services director Peter Thomas said the hospital
had a long tradition of supporting regional GP training.

"Training procedural GPs is another way for Orange Health Service to support
equitable access to health care in regional and rural areas," Dr Thomas said.

"Away from the base hospitals, procedural GPs play an important role in regional
district hospitals given their specialised skills in a particular area of
medicine."

Orange Health Service is the first regional hospital in the state to receive the
accreditation and to offer the training course to prospective general
practitioners.

Another four regional hospitals are set to join Orange in offering the training.

GP Synergy's Western NSW head of education Anna Windsor said the benefits of the
program would be felt in small communities in the Central West and beyond.

"Training GPs with additional procedural skills in child and adolescent health,
will reduce some of the burden that rural families with unwell children often
face in having to travel to seek treatment," Dr Windsor said.

Accreditation for the course comes from GP Synergy.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Central Western Daily

                            July 12, 2017 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

GPs on course to alleviate pediatric shortage in regional areas

BYLINE: CENTRAL WESTERN DAILY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words


Orange hospital is the first in the state to offer the latest training course to
address a shortage of paediatricians in the Central West and regional NSW.

Orange Health Service and training provider GP Synergy have formed a partnership
for doctors to learn the necessary skills.

The city's hospital will offer specialised training in child and adolescent
health to registrars training as general practitioners.

In the NSW Health system, registrars are doctors with a minimum of three years
of experience working in public hospitals, they supervise junior doctors and are
training to become a specialist.

The first registrar to start the year-long training course in Orange - which has
been hailed as a "unique opportunity" for GP registrars - is Erica Watson.

Dr Watson feels the time spent in hospital pediatrics will offer valuable skills
and experience as her career progresses.

"Pediatrics is an area that as a GP I'll see a lot of," Dr Watson said.

"Undertaking the post has provided experience that I can apply in general
practice, particularly in more rural areas.

"Smaller district hospitals have opportunities for upskilled GPs and that's the
sort of general practice I want to be involved in."

Orange Health Service's medical services director Peter Thomas said the hospital
had a long tradition of supporting regional GP training.

"Training procedural GPs is another way for Orange Health Service to support
equitable access to health care in regional and rural areas," Dr Thomas said.

"Away from the base hospitals, procedural GPs play an important role in regional
district hospitals given their specialised skills in a particular area of
medicine."

Orange Health Service is the first regional hospital in the state to receive the
accreditation and to offer the training course to prospective general
practitioners.

Another four regional hospitals are set to join Orange in offering the training.

GP Synergy's Western NSW head of education Anna Windsor said the benefits of the
program would be felt in small communities in the Central West and beyond.

"Training GPs with additional procedural skills in child and adolescent health,
will reduce some of the burden that rural families with unwell children often
face in having to travel to seek treatment," Dr Windsor said.

Accreditation for the course comes from GP Synergy.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Central Western Daily

                            July 12, 2017 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

GPs on course to alleviate pediatric shortage in regional areas

BYLINE: CENTRAL WESTERN DAILY

LENGTH: 387 words


Orange hospital is the first in the state to offer the latest training course to
address a shortage of paediatricians in the Central West and regional NSW.

Orange Health Service and training provider GP Synergy have formed a partnership
for doctors to learn the necessary skills.

The city's hospital will offer specialised training in child and adolescent
health to registrars training as general practitioners.

In the NSW Health system, registrars are doctors with a minimum of three years
of experience working in public hospitals, they supervise junior doctors and are
training to become a specialist.

The first registrar to start the year-long training course in Orange - which has
been hailed as a "unique opportunity" for GP registrars - is Erica Watson.

Dr Watson feels the time spent in hospital pediatrics will offer valuable skills
and experience as her career progresses.

"Pediatrics is an area that as a GP I'll see a lot of," Dr Watson said.

"Undertaking the post has provided experience that I can apply in general
practice, particularly in more rural areas.

"Smaller district hospitals have opportunities for upskilled GPs and that's the
sort of general practice I want to be involved in."

Orange Health Service's medical services director Peter Thomas said the hospital
had a long tradition of supporting regional GP training.

"Training procedural GPs is another way for Orange Health Service to support
equitable access to health care in regional and rural areas," Dr Thomas said.

"Away from the base hospitals, procedural GPs play an important role in regional
district hospitals given their specialised skills in a particular area of
medicine."

Orange Health Service is the first regional hospital in the state to receive the
accreditation and to offer the training course to prospective general
practitioners.

Another four regional hospitals are set to join Orange in offering the training.

GP Synergy's Western NSW head of education Anna Windsor said the benefits of the
program would be felt in small communities in the Central West and beyond.

"Training GPs with additional procedural skills in child and adolescent health,
will reduce some of the burden that rural families with unwell children often
face in having to travel to seek treatment," Dr Windsor said.

Accreditation for the course comes from GP Synergy.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Central Western Daily

                            July 12, 2017 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

GPs on course to alleviate pediatric shortage in regional areas

BYLINE: CENTRAL WESTERN DAILY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words


Orange hospital is the first in the state to offer the latest training course to
address a shortage of paediatricians in the Central West and regional NSW.

Orange Health Service and training provider GP Synergy have formed a partnership
for doctors to learn the necessary skills.

The city's hospital will offer specialised training in child and adolescent
health to registrars training as general practitioners.

In the NSW Health system, registrars are doctors with a minimum of three years
of experience working in public hospitals, they supervise junior doctors and are
training to become a specialist.

The first registrar to start the year-long training course in Orange - which has
been hailed as a "unique opportunity" for GP registrars - is Erica Watson.

Dr Watson feels the time spent in hospital pediatrics will offer valuable skills
and experience as her career progresses.

"Pediatrics is an area that as a GP I'll see a lot of," Dr Watson said.

"Undertaking the post has provided experience that I can apply in general
practice, particularly in more rural areas.

"Smaller district hospitals have opportunities for upskilled GPs and that's the
sort of general practice I want to be involved in."

Orange Health Service's medical services director Peter Thomas said the hospital
had a long tradition of supporting regional GP training.

"Training procedural GPs is another way for Orange Health Service to support
equitable access to health care in regional and rural areas," Dr Thomas said.

"Away from the base hospitals, procedural GPs play an important role in regional
district hospitals given their specialised skills in a particular area of
medicine."

Orange Health Service is the first regional hospital in the state to receive the
accreditation and to offer the training course to prospective general
practitioners.

Another four regional hospitals are set to join Orange in offering the training.

GP Synergy's Western NSW head of education Anna Windsor said the benefits of the
program would be felt in small communities in the Central West and beyond.

"Training GPs with additional procedural skills in child and adolescent health,
will reduce some of the burden that rural families with unwell children often
face in having to travel to seek treatment," Dr Windsor said.

Accreditation for the course comes from GP Synergy.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Queensland Times (Ipswich)

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 290  words

More to include in hospital upgrades

SOUTH-EAST:President of the Rural Doctors Association of Queensland, Dr Sheilagh
Cronin, has called on Queensland Health to include procedural facilities when
rural hospitals were upgraded or rebuilt.

Dr Cronin explained that well-equipped procedural rooms which allowed doctors to
deliver a general anaesthetic and perform procedures provided safe, sustainable
and effective delivery of health services to rural and remote Queenslanders.

She said they also contributed to the overall efficiency of the statewide system
by freeing-up busy city emergency departments.

"RDAQ supports refurbishment and renewal of rural hospitals. However, it appears
that facilities such as procedural rooms may be stripped from some communities,"
Dr Cronin said.

"This will discourage doctors and compromise care in affected areas. Country
patients deserve access to certain procedures locally."

Don't buy pets on an impulse for Christmas

SOUTH-EAST:Families have been urged to avoid impulse buying of pets as Christmas
gifts to reduce the number of animals which end up in shelters.

Dr Mark Perissinotto, head vet at online retailer VetShopAustralia, said many
pets that were bought as Christmas presents ended up unwanted in refuges.

"Cute and cuddly puppies or kittens can be hard to resist buying when you see
them in a pet store, but they quickly grow and lose their innocent charm," Dr
Perissinotto said.

"During the first few weeks of the New Year animal shelters are inundated with
cats, dogs and other animals that were given as Christmas presents.

"Pets should be given only to people who can look after them for the lifetime of
that animal, not just on Christmas Day, and taking on a pet shouldn't be an
impulse decision."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IQT


                    Copyright 2009 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

NCDR Study Identifies Wide Variation in Rates of Hospital PCI-Related Bleeding
in the US

LENGTH: 474  words

DATELINE: Washington


American College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the following news release:

Seeking to characterize site-level variation in post-percutaneous coronary
intervention (PCI) bleeding and understand the influence of patient and
procedural factors on hospital bleeding performance, a study published Nov. 25
in Circulation: Cardiovascular Quality and Outcomes found that despite
adjustments for patient case-mix, there is wide variation in rates of hospital
PCI-related bleeding in the U.S., and the use of PCI-related bleeding as a site
performance measure should be supported in PCI registries.

Each year over 600,000 PCI procedures are performed in the U.S. Recently,
post-PCI bleeding, an important procedural complication associated with poor
prognosis, has slowly been adopted as a quality of care metric, despite not
being characterized among the majority of hospitals across the country. The
study was spearheaded by principal investigator Connie Hess, MD, Duke Clinical
Research Institute, Durham, NC, and looked at hospital-level bleeding
performance pre- and post-adjustment using ACC's CathPCI Registry.

The investigators examined almost two million PCI procedures performed at 1,292
U.S. hospitals, and results showed that hospital bleeding rates varied from 2.1
percent to 10.3 percent (fifth and 95th percentiles, respectively). Center-level
bleeding variation was shown to persist after a case-mix adjustment (2.8 percent
to 9.5 percent; fifth, 95th percentiles). Although hospitals' observed and
risk-adjusted bleeding ranks were correlated, individual rankings shifted after
risk-adjustment and outlier classification changed post-adjustment for 29.3
percent, 16.1 percent, and 26.5 percent of low-, non-, and high-outlier sites,
respectively.

"From a policy perspective, we found that adjustment for patient clinical
characteristics changed hospital outlier classification for >25 percent of sites
and is necessary for appropriate provider comparisons," the authors note.
"However, wide variation in hospital bleeding rates persisted after
risk-adjustment. Procedural approaches, such as hospital use of bleeding
avoidance strategies, were associated with reduced rates of bleeding, thereby
indicating the potential for provider interventions to mitigate PCI bleeding
complications."

Associated with increased morbidity, mortality and cost, post-PCI bleedings
represents an appropriate hospital performance indicator, according to Hess and
her colleagues. They note that moving forward, quality improvement initiatives
designed to reduce post-PCI bleeding, perhaps through wide implementation of
bleeding avoidance strategies and sharing of practices from best-performing
sites, might result in improved PCI outcomes.


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

NCDR Study Identifies Wide Variation in Rates of Hospital PCI-Related Bleeding
in the US

LENGTH: 474  words

DATELINE: Washington


American College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the following news release:

Seeking to characterize site-level variation in post-percutaneous coronary
intervention (PCI) bleeding and understand the influence of patient and
procedural factors on hospital bleeding performance, a study published Nov. 25
in Circulation: Cardiovascular Quality and Outcomes found that despite
adjustments for patient case-mix, there is wide variation in rates of hospital
PCI-related bleeding in the U.S., and the use of PCI-related bleeding as a site
performance measure should be supported in PCI registries.

Each year over 600,000 PCI procedures are performed in the U.S. Recently,
post-PCI bleeding, an important procedural complication associated with poor
prognosis, has slowly been adopted as a quality of care metric, despite not
being characterized among the majority of hospitals across the country. The
study was spearheaded by principal investigator Connie Hess, MD, Duke Clinical
Research Institute, Durham, NC, and looked at hospital-level bleeding
performance pre- and post-adjustment using ACC's CathPCI Registry.

The investigators examined almost two million PCI procedures performed at 1,292
U.S. hospitals, and results showed that hospital bleeding rates varied from 2.1
percent to 10.3 percent (fifth and 95th percentiles, respectively). Center-level
bleeding variation was shown to persist after a case-mix adjustment (2.8 percent
to 9.5 percent; fifth, 95th percentiles). Although hospitals' observed and
risk-adjusted bleeding ranks were correlated, individual rankings shifted after
risk-adjustment and outlier classification changed post-adjustment for 29.3
percent, 16.1 percent, and 26.5 percent of low-, non-, and high-outlier sites,
respectively.

"From a policy perspective, we found that adjustment for patient clinical
characteristics changed hospital outlier classification for >25 percent of sites
and is necessary for appropriate provider comparisons," the authors note.
"However, wide variation in hospital bleeding rates persisted after
risk-adjustment. Procedural approaches, such as hospital use of bleeding
avoidance strategies, were associated with reduced rates of bleeding, thereby
indicating the potential for provider interventions to mitigate PCI bleeding
complications."

Associated with increased morbidity, mortality and cost, post-PCI bleedings
represents an appropriate hospital performance indicator, according to Hess and
her colleagues. They note that moving forward, quality improvement initiatives
designed to reduce post-PCI bleeding, perhaps through wide implementation of
bleeding avoidance strategies and sharing of practices from best-performing
sites, might result in improved PCI outcomes.


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday

SMS hospital 'red tape' kills 16-yr-old;
ICU bed not released to pneumonia patient due to &apos;procedural&apos;
confusion

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 578  words


In a glaring incident of "procedural" negligence, a 16-year-old girl died at
Jaipur&apos;s Sawai Man Singh Hospital on Saturday, while waiting for an ICU
bed.

Diksha Sharma, a patient diagnosed with pneumonia, was allegedly kept waiting
for an ICU bed for three hours as the hospital administration could not complete
procedural formalities in time.

Infuriated by the callous attitude of hospital staff, the patient&apos;s
relatives fought with officials on duty and attempted to ransack the medical
superintendent&apos;s office. Dr LC Sharma, the superintendent, later admitted
to the "unfortunate" incident and blamed it on "procedural lapses" even as his
claims were refuted by subordinate doctors attending on the victim.

Diksha, a resident of Ramganj, was brought to the hospital on Sunday after
doctors diagnosed her with pneumonia. Her condition deteriorated on Monday,
following which the attending doctor recommended an ICU bed for her. As the
final call on allotment of ICU bed in SMS Hospital is taken by the
superintendent, the patient&apos;s attendant, Gayatri Agrawal - who is a clerk
with the hospital - requested Dr Sharma to sanction an ICU bed. Dr Sharma
reportedly told them that he would sanction a bed only after receiving a word
from the attending doctor.

When DNA spoke to Gayatri Sharma, she said Dr Sandip Jain, who was attending on
Diksha, was informed about the protocol. "When Dr Jain called Dr Sharma, the
latter told him that there was no bed available in the ICU. But, since I know
the staff and checked the ICU, there were four vacant beds," she said.

Gayatri returned to Sharma&apos;s office to clarify that there was a confusion
about beds, but he had apparently left by then. Relatives alleged they tried to
reach him on phone, but couldn&apos;t. The family members said they went to the
additional medical superintendent and deputy superintendent, but were told that
they were not empowered to sanction an ICU bed.

During this surreal drama, which continued for three hours, Diksha passed away.
When the news of her demise reached her relatives, they went berserk and clashed
with officials. The relatives also tried to break into the medical
superintendent&apos;s office.

As the situation deteriorated, police was called on the spot. Dr Sharma too
returned to the hospital, under police protection. He was confronted by angry
relatives and hospital staff.

When contacted Dr Sharma agreed that ICU beds were vacant,

but claimed he didn&apos;t know the attending doctor, Sandip Jain, who called
him. "Gayatri Sharma (the hospital clerk) came to me for an ICU bed for her
relative. As there&apos;s a huge demand for ICU bed, I can sanction a bed only
on call from the faculty. Dr G Devpura did not inform me and I didn&apos;t know
the doctor who had called me. The girl couldn&apos;t get ICU bed due to this
confusion," said the hospital superintendent.

He blamed the confusion and miscommunication for Diksha&apos;s demise and
shrugged off the responsibility by calling the incident "unfortunate".

His claims, though, were rejected by fellow doctors. "The girl was suffering
from pneumonia, so we decided to shift her to ICU. Dr Sandip Jain called Dr LC
Sharma in my presence. We were told that no ICU bed was vacant," said Dr G
Devpura, professor, medicine department. Dr Sandip Jain too testified that Dr LC
Sharma knew him. "I&apos;ve called Dr Sharma many times in past for an ICU bed.
He informed me that no ICU bed was vacant," he told DNA.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Caloundra City News (Queensland)

                                  May 14, 2010

WHAT WILL HAPPEN ACROSS THE COAST?

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 191  words


It will continue to operate as an acute hospital when the new Kawana one opens
in 2016

From late 2011 a new cardiac catheterisation laboratory, plus:

- Vascular surgery procedural suite

- Dedicated endoscopy procedural unit

- Outpatient neurosurgery service.

- Implementation of a sustainable radiation oncology service for public
patients.

- The 96 additional beds already being built at Nambour hospital will be
completed four months ahead of schedule. On track to open this year.

KAWANA

 A new $1.97 billion tertiary level medical teaching precinct

The new Sunshine Coast University Hospital will open in 2016 with 450 inpatient
beds increasing to 738 by 2021

The co-located private hospital is expected to open in 2013

Queensland Health plans to purchase 70 public bed equivalents of health services
from the private hospital in 2013, growing to 110 by the end of 2014

CALOUNDRA

 The Caloundra Hospital emergency department will be expanded to build up its
capacity in providing services until the Sunshine Coast University Hospital
opens in 2016

The Caloundra emergency department will close in 2016 - when the Sunshine Coast
University Hospital opens

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCC


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Caloundra City News (Queensland)

                                  May 14, 2010

WHAT WILL HAPPEN ACROSS THE COAST?

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 191  words


It will continue to operate as an acute hospital when the new Kawana one opens
in 2016

From late 2011 a new cardiac catheterisation laboratory, plus:

- Vascular surgery procedural suite

- Dedicated endoscopy procedural unit

- Outpatient neurosurgery service.

- Implementation of a sustainable radiation oncology service for public
patients.

- The 96 additional beds already being built at Nambour hospital will be
completed four months ahead of schedule. On track to open this year.

KAWANA

 A new $1.97 billion tertiary level medical teaching precinct

The new Sunshine Coast University Hospital will open in 2016 with 450 inpatient
beds increasing to 738 by 2021

The co-located private hospital is expected to open in 2013

Queensland Health plans to purchase 70 public bed equivalents of health services
from the private hospital in 2013, growing to 110 by the end of 2014

CALOUNDRA

 The Caloundra Hospital emergency department will be expanded to build up its
capacity in providing services until the Sunshine Coast University Hospital
opens in 2016

The Caloundra emergency department will close in 2016 - when the Sunshine Coast
University Hospital opens

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCC


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Caloundra City News (Queensland)

                                  May 14, 2010

WHAT WILL HAPPEN ACROSS THE COAST?

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 191  words


It will continue to operate as an acute hospital when the new Kawana one opens
in 2016

From late 2011 a new cardiac catheterisation laboratory, plus:

- Vascular surgery procedural suite

- Dedicated endoscopy procedural unit

- Outpatient neurosurgery service.

- Implementation of a sustainable radiation oncology service for public
patients.

- The 96 additional beds already being built at Nambour hospital will be
completed four months ahead of schedule. On track to open this year.

KAWANA

 A new $1.97 billion tertiary level medical teaching precinct

The new Sunshine Coast University Hospital will open in 2016 with 450 inpatient
beds increasing to 738 by 2021

The co-located private hospital is expected to open in 2013

Queensland Health plans to purchase 70 public bed equivalents of health services
from the private hospital in 2013, growing to 110 by the end of 2014

CALOUNDRA

 The Caloundra Hospital emergency department will be expanded to build up its
capacity in providing services until the Sunshine Coast University Hospital
opens in 2016

The Caloundra emergency department will close in 2016 - when the Sunshine Coast
University Hospital opens

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCC


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 14, 2015 Saturday

Washington: Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74

LENGTH: 581  words

DATELINE: Olympia


The State of Washington has issued the following Job Vacancy:

Job Title:  Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74
Opening Date/Time:  Thu. 12/19/13 12:00 AM Pacific Time
Closing Date/Time:  Continuous
Salary:  $56,532.00 - $75,372.00 Annually
Job Type:  Full Time - Permanent
Location:  Thurston County - Olympia, Washington
Department:  Health Care Authority

Description Benefits Supplemental Questions

Hospital Finance Unit Manager


The Health Care Authority (HCA) is Washington's largest health care purchaser,
responsible for providing comprehensive health coverage to more than 1.5 million
residents through the Public Employees Benefits and Medicaid programs. The
agency provides health purchasing leadership, benefitting both public and
private sectors with a focus on moving the health delivery system away from
volume toward higher value and better outcomes.

The HCA is currently implementing the Medicaid Expansion component of the
Affordable Care Act and anticipates more than 300,000 new clients over the next
two years.

Position Objective:

This position manages the DSH, CPE, NH Proshare, CAH, Major Trauma, Air and
Ground Ambulance, and Out-of-State Medical Services contracting programs within
the Hospital Finance section. With four professional positions reporting to this
position, this group is responsible for:

Fiscal and procedural management of the DSH, CPE, Nursing Home Proshare
programs, and special projects as they arise. These programs account for
million's annually, and they receive a great deal of stakeholder and federal
scrutiny.

Fiscal and procedural management of the thirty-eight hospitals participating in
our CAH program.

Fiscal and procedural management of the Major Trauma Program, Air and Ground
Ambulance transportation, and out-of-state medical services contracting.

Oversight of the DSH application process and the complex calculations to
determine hospital DSH payments; oversight of the Inpatient Hospital and Nursing
Home Proshare CPE programs involving complex calculations and federal
settlements.

Representation of HCA to external entities, hospitals, the Washington State
Hospital Association (WSHA), and stakeholders within state government, in
coordination with the Section Manager.


This position requires expert knowledge of federal rules governing these
programs; expert knowledge of state laws and regulations; advanced level skills
for data mining and analysis; and knowledge of hospital payment methodologies.
It also requires advanced project management, supervisory, communication and
analytical skills to meet the challenges of this position.

The position is authorized to work with various stakeholders on program and
policy issues in representing HCA as the subject matter expert.

This position is has full decision making authority to authorize payment within
budget limits for the programs it manages.

This position reports to the Section Manager for the Hospital Finance Section
and may have delegated authority to act on behalf of the Section Manager.

This position performs legislative bill analysis and may be assigned to draft
legislation.

This position takes a leadership role or actively participates in agency-wide
quality improvement projects.

This position is responsible for overseeing the annual federally-required DSH
audit, and works with the independent auditors for ensuring accuracy and
regulatory compliance with the DSH rules.

For Further information please visit:
http://agency.governmentjobs.com/washington

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunday Tasmanian

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 719  words


Cardiologists' heavy workload

Retired cardiologist Robert Cutforth's comments (''Easy Money'', Sunday
Tasmanian, March 5) reminded me of one of Bradman's Invincibles commenting on
modern-day cricketers.

I'm sure the point Robert was quite correctly trying to make was that medical
procedures and diagnostic tests are reimbursed at a disproportionately high rate
compared to patient consultations. As a procedural cardiologist I would agree
with this.

The examples quoted, though, were wildly exaggerated and misleading. The concept
that a procedural specialist can work half a day a week for exorbitant rates is
simply not real life.

He/she is more likely working 60 hours per week. Much, if not most of that work
will be non-procedural, that is, consulting, post-operative care, teaching,
paperwork, administration and so on.

Modern technology does not replace the need for high-level training, and the
skills necessary cannot be passed on to the untrained in a few hours, at least
not at a level our society would accept.

Procedural specialists are well paid and this is a factor in the difficulties
recruiting public hospital staff, but so are the generally repressive conditions
of the public system.

Luke Galligan, Procedural Cardiologist, Hobart

American-style greed

The word ''greed'' comes to mind after reading last Sunday Tasmanian's
front-page article about ''Easy money'' for some of our physicians.

An international comparison provided by Economic Research Associates puts US
hospital doctors at the top at $A365,000 pa, Australia $277,000, Netherlands
$238,000, UK $173,000, France $158,000, Italy $110,000, Denmark $99,000, Spain
$91,000 and Germany $76,000.

What on earth has happened to the concept of ''a fair day's pay for a fair day's
work'' in Australia, or are we just blindly copying whatever the Americans do?

I wonder if those visiting doctors working half a day a week for that colossal
money are just saving up to join the Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without
Borders) organisation, to treat the poor in Africa and other countries, for just
their keep? A friend of ours is doing that for no reward.

The medical profession is not alone in this. The remunerations of company
executives come in the same bracket of greed, with salaries well over the
million mark besides the perks of millions in bonuses.

Bert van Ommen, Cambridge

Cross-party endorsements

We shouldn't hear so much as a grunt from Paul Lennon over Harry Quick's ringing
endorsement of the Greens member for Franklin Nick McKim (''Quick jab nicks
Lennon'', Sunday Tasmanian, March 5).

Lennon knows only too well that he hasn't got a leg to stand on while the memory
lingers of his own ringing endorsement of John Howard's pro-woodchipping
policies prior to the last Federal poll.

Many believe Paul Lennon and the state branch of the Construction, Forestry,
Mining and Energy Union virtually delivered Howard's election victory on a
platter.

Now we have a Coalition Senate majority and the Prime Minister's draconian
industrial relation laws that will sting working people so hard.

What goes around comes around, Mr Lennon, and the consequences of State Labor's
shameless and ongoing betrayal of its constituency means no thinking voter
should reach for the tissues on your behalf.

Neil Cremasco, Judbury

God save the Queen

Can the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra really spare all that time for eight whole
bars of God Save the Queen at the opening of the Commonwealth Games?

If they have a problem, I am happy to lend them my CD of a glorious version of
God Save the Queen arranged by Benjamin Britten, with the London Symphony
Orchestra and Chorus. It takes a whole 2.42 minutes.

Had it not been for the British, there would be no British Empire Games, now
called the Commonwealth Games.

These Games are, in my humble opinion, of more value than excessively expensive
Opening and Closing Nights and all the rest of the hoo-ha of the Olympics.

It is those athletes from so many parts of the world entering the arena that's
marvellous; each nation is ''one of us'', there's nothing like it in the world
and when the Games are over, linking arms not with strangers, but brothers and
sisters, members of a huge family . . . the Commonwealth of Nations.

God bless them all and keep them safe and God save the Queen!

Joy McEldowney, Peirsons Point, Tinderbox

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 23, 2016 Tuesday

Atrial Fibrillation and Post-PCI Clinical Outcomes

LENGTH: 413  words

DATELINE: New York



 Santa Fe: Air Conditioning Contractors of America Association, Inc has issued
the following news release:



 Study Questions:



 What is the association between atrial fibrillation (AF) and in-hospital
adverse outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) using a large
prospective multicenter registry?



 Methods:



 Data for consecutive PCI cases from 47 hospitals performed between April 2011
and December 2014 were utilized for the analysis. Propensity-matched
multivariate analysis was used to adjust for differences in baseline
characteristics between patients with and without a history of AF.

 Results:



 Of 113,283 PCI cases during the study period, a history of AF was present in
13,912 patients (12%), which varied by institution (range, 2.5-18.4%). At
baseline, patients with a history of AF were older and were more likely to have
comorbid congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy, cerebrovascular disease, and
chronic lung disease. Patients with a history of AF were more likely to have in-
hospital complications, including in-hospital mortality (3% vs. 1%). In
propensity-matched analysis, patients with a history of AF were more likely to
be treated with a bare-metal stent (27% vs. 18%). In the propensity-matched
model, AF remained independently associated with an increased risk of developing
post-procedural bleeding (odds ratio [OR], 1.32; 95% confidence interval [CI],
1.15-1.52), heart failure (OR, 1.33; 95% CI, 1.17-1.52), cardiogenic shock (OR,
1.26; 95% CI, 1.08-1.48), and in-hospital mortality (OR, 1.41; 95% CI,
1.18-1.68).

 Conclusions:



 The authors concluded that AF is common among patients undergoing PCI and
independently associated with in-hospital post-procedural heart failure,
cardiogenic shock, and mortality.

 Perspective:



 This study reports that AF is strongly associated with in-hospital adverse
outcomes after PCI, even after extensive adjustment for other relevant factors.
Those with a history of AF were found to have a higher rate of post-procedural
bleeding, need for transfusion, heart failure, cardiogenic shock, and mortality.
Overall, these findings indicate that a history of AF is a marker of patients
who are vulnerable to serious in-hospital complications after PCI. Additional
studies are indicated to better understand the mechanism of the adverse
consequences of AF among patients undergoing PCI.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

WHAT THE PLANS MEAN TO YOU

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 197  words


What will happen across the Coast

NAMBOUR

It will

continue to operate as an acute hospital when the new Kawana one opens in 2016

From late 2011 a new cardiac catheterisation laboratory, plus:

Vascular surgery procedural suite

Dedicated endoscopy

procedural unit

Outpatient neurosurgery

service.

Implementation of a

sustainable radiation oncology service for public patients.

The 96 additional beds already being built at Nambour hospital will be completed
four months ahead of schedule. On track to open this year.

KAWANA

A new $1.97 billion tertiary level medical teaching precinct

The new Sunshine Coast

University Hospital will open in 2016 with 450 inpatient beds increasing to 738
by 2021

The co-located private hospital is expected to open in 2013

Queensland Health plans to purchase 70 public bed equivalents of health services
from the private hospital in 2013, growing to 110 by the end of 2014

CALOUNDRA

The Caloundra Hospital emergency department will be expanded to build up its
capacity in providing services until the Sunshine Coast University Hospital
opens in 2016

The Caloundra emergency department will close in 2016 - when the Sunshine Coast

University Hospital opens

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1985, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                   June, 1985

                          Vol. 18, No. 6, HOSPLW Pg. 5

LENGTH: 312 words

TITLE: Hospital's belated offering of procedural due process does not remove
earlier tortious conduct.

TEXT:

     The Kentucky appellate court has reversed the summary judgment of a lower
court dismissing a lawsuit brought by a neurosurgeon against a hospital for
wrongful termination of his hospital privileges, stating that the hospital had
violated the neurosurgeon's contractual and administrative due process rights
and that the hospital's belated offering of procedural due process did not
remove its earlier tortious conduct.

     When a neurosurgeon requested a change from courtesy staff status to active
full-time staff status at a hospital, the hospital terminated the physician
without extending procedural due process rights.  An appointed committee
recommended reinstatement and he was reinstated retroactive to the date of his
original unilateral termination.  Thereafter, the hospital instituted corrective
action against the neurosurgeon and he resigned.  The physician brought suit
seeking compensatory and punitive damages against the hospital.  The
neurosurgeon alleged that his termination of privileges at the hospital,
communicated to a county medical society, prevented his acceptance on the active
staff of another hospital.  The trial court granted summary judgment against the
physician, reasoning that, while the hospital bypassed all due process
protections afforded to member physicians when it originally terminated the
physician, the neurosurgeon failed to exhaust his contractual and administrative
remedies prior to filing suit when he resigned from the hospital's staff.

     The appellate court said that the neurosurgeon did exhaust his
administrative remedies by seeking reinstatement of his privileges via hospital
procedures and reversed the summary judgment dismissing the physician's lawsuit.
Smiley v Humana of Kentucky, Inc, d/b/a Audobon Hospital, Kentucky Court of
Appeals, No 84-CA-1708-MR, May 17, 1985.

REFERENCE: Smiley v Humana of Kentucky, Inc, d/b/a Audobon Hospital, Kentucky
Court of Appeals, No 84-CA-1708-MR, May 17, 1985.


                              29 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

Cash for Caloundra, Nambour and uni hospitals

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 190  words


THE State Budget will see $46.3 million locked away towards the funding of the
$2 billion Sunshine Coast University Hospital.

Part of this funding will allow the start of roadworks to improve ambulance and
patient access to the public and private hospitals in the Kawana precinct.

Expressions of interest from the private sector to design, build, finance and
maintain the hospital are being evaluated.

Premier Anna Bligh said the budget also would contain almost $9 million to
improve the emergency department of Caloundra Hospital, which would mean a total
investment of $11.5 million.

"At Nambour Hospital we're spending more than $11 million for a new cardiac and
vascular surgery procedural suite, a new dedicated endoscopy procedural unit and
improvements to neurosurgery service, at a total cost of $14.6 million," she
said.

"We're also providing extra inpatient and specialist services at both Caloundra
and Nambour hospitals with an investment of $23.4 million in 2011-12, at a total
cost of $191 million."

Construction on the university hospital is expected to start late next year,
with a 2016 opening date.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               SUNDAY MAIL (QLD)

                            February 24, 1985 Sunday

LIBERALS SUPPORT DOCTORS WHO QUIT

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 437 words


Use this version Liberals support doctors who quit SYDNEY._ Federal and State
Liberal leaders yesterday backed doctors who had resigned from public hospitals.

They pledged to support the breakaway Council of Procedural Specialists in their
fight against the Federal Government over Medicare.

The Federal Opposition Deputy Leader, Mr Howard, praised those who had tendered
their resignations from the NSW public hospital system.

Later, Liberal Party state council voted to support the Council of Procedural
Specialists fully in its aim to ""restore and maintain the previous high quality
of medical care in the public hospital system".

Six hundred procedural specialists voted last weekend to resign later this month
over their dissatisfaction with Medicare arrangements for private practice in
public hospitals.

Mr Howard said the Australian Medical Association's decision to reopen
negotiations with the New South Wales Government was a ""matter of regret".

""If the surgeons are defeated in their battle, I believe the face of medical
private practice will be permanently changed in New South Wales," he said.

""The dispute is a matter not just of New South Wales significance but also of
very great national significance."New round of talks The Australian Medical
Association met Federal and State Health Department officials yesterday morning
to clarify procedures for a new round of talks on the dispute, scheduled for
Tuesday.

The AMA federal president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, said yesterday the atmosphere
was positive. The talks were expected to last for a month.

However, there has been a call by New South Wales district medical associations
for Dr Thompson to stand aside and to leave all negotiations to the Council of
Procedural Specialists led by Dr Bruce Shepherd.

Dr Robert Stocken, of Kuring-gai, said the doctors' dispute could bring about
the end of the AMA as a representative group. The dispute had raised doubts
about the AMA's effectiveness.

""Many doctors are considering setting up their own association," he said.

The Australian Society Anaesthetists yesterday said it would not attend the
negotiations between the AMA and the Government.

A meeting of the Federal Executive of the ASA held in Sydney felt lack of
consultation between the AMA the anaesthetists had forced them to take this
stand.

But the AMA Queensland branch has endorsed its federal president's call for a
return to duty by doctors in New South Wales.

A Queensland branch council meeting on Friday voted unanimously in favor of
authorising Dr Thompson to represent all doctors in the NSW hospitals dispute.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              31 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                               December 31, 2007

Texas Court of Appeals rules blogger's identity protected in defamation case

BYLINE: Lawyers USA Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 269  words


A hospital allegedly defamed by an anonymous blogger may not force his Internet
service provider to disclose his identity under the Cable Communications Policy
Act, the Texas Court of Appeals has ruled.

The hospital sued several anonymous bloggers for defamation, claiming they
unfairly disparaged the hospital and its employees and disclosed private patient
information. A trial judge ordered one of the blogger's Internet service
providers to provide his identity to the hospital pursuant to the Act.

The blogger argued the hospital hadn't met the minimal evidentiary threshold in
pleading its case, and that disclosing his identity would violate his
constitutional rights.

The court agreed, finding the trial court abused its discretion.

"[The Act] is not a procedural vehicle for obtaining such a court order. That
must be accomplished through some procedural device, either state or federal,
depending on the forum of the case. In Texas state courts, the rules of
discovery provide ample methods for obtaining information from third parties,"
the court said.

"[T]he question [then] becomes the degree of actual proof that must be provided
before the balance tips in favor of piercing the constitutional shield and
disclosing the identity of the anonymous blogger. [We hold that] before a
defamation plaintiff can obtain the identity of an anonymous defendant through
the compulsory discovery process he must support his defamation claim with facts
sufficient to defeat a summary judgment motion," the court concluded.

In re Does 1 - 10 (Lawyers USA No. 9938921) Texas Court of Appeals No.
06-0700123-CV. Dec. 12, 2007.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         Caloundra Weekly (Queensland)

                                  May 5, 2010

One step closer

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 632  words



HIGHLIGHT: Activists can see light at end of the tunnel

New services

The services announced include:

New cardiac catheterisation laboratory - this will be the only public cardiac
catheter lab between Brisbane and Townsville. Up to 1800 Sunshine Coast patients
currently travel to Brisbane each year for cardiac care and the new services
will help to reverse the majority of this flow.

New vascular surgery procedural suite at Nambour - ensuring that vascular
diagnostic and interventional procedures can occur at a built-for-purpose suite,
without patients having to travel to Brisbane.

New dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour - patients will receive their
treatment in a new state-of-the-art facility, providing better care for local
patients and freeing up time in theatres for other procedures.

New outpatient neurosurgery service at Nambour - allowing patients to attend
follow-up appointments locally at Nambour General Hospital.

Implementing a sustainable radiation oncology service for public patients -
meaning more patients can receive their treatment closer to home.

Jean Gleed is a firm believer that good things come to those who wait.

The Kawana resident has been campaigning for eight years to see the hospital at
Kawana become a reality and the news of additional health services for the Coast
in the interim has brought a smile to her face.

Health Minister Paul Lucas arrived at Nambour General Hospital last week with a
folder full of announcements that will boost the region's medical services prior
to the construction of a new $1.97 billion tertiary health precinct at Kawana.

The services, including a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, vascular surgery
procedural suite and a dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour, will cost
$600 million.

Construction of these new facilities will begin next year, with services to
commence from late 2011.

Ms Gleed, who was the former president of the Sunshine Coast University Hospital
Action Group, said she believed the government would follow through with their
latest offerings.

"I don't think this promise is going to be broken the way the last one was," she
said.

"When (the hospital) was first promised it was to be open in 2012, then 2014 and
then 2016.

"There was even talk of it to be 2020. We didn't have anything then, now we've
got a block of land and I think we will have a building on it in the future.

"What else can we do? Once they build the private (hospital) we will have an
extra 70 to 110 beds. It's not very much, but it's better than nothing and at
the present moment, nothing is what we've got."

Ms Gleed said the majority of the SCUHAG members resigned from their volunteer
posts after false criticism the apolitical group was strongly aligned with the
LNP.

"I feel we've achieved what we set out to do eight years ago. We can lobby
ourselves now, under our own names and do what we want to do," she said.

Sunshine Coast Local Medical Association president Andrew Southee welcomed the
much-needed services.

Dr Southee said having these services would fast forward the region's health
services by five to 10 years.

Sunshine Coast Private Hospital CEO Terence Seymour said he looked forward to
the services complementing those already operating privately on the Coast.

Mr Lucas said these services would also help to retain and recruit top-level
specialists to help build up the clinical capacity in the lead-up to the opening
of the SCUH.

"We want to make sure we can create a critical staff base so that the emergency
department at Sunshine Coast University Hospital will be fully functional from
day one," Mr Lucas said.

"This is a win for the Sunshine Coast community, building up the skills and
services that will make the SCUH a reality."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SLW


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              June 8, 1979 Friday

Hospital abortion policy fight   has left wounds to heal: doctor

BYLINE: SPCL

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: St. Thomas ON


Special to The Globe and Mail
  ST. THOMAS - The board of governors of the St. Thomas-Elgin General
 Hospital faces the task of healing the wounds left in this community by a
 year-long dispute over abortion policy at the hospital, according to
 medical staff president Dr. A. J. Borre.

There's a tremendous amount of animosity in Elgin County as a result
 of the dispute, particularly among religious groups, Dr. Borre said
 following the annual meeting of the hospital on Wednesday at which
 anti-abortion forces suffered a setback.

The meeting was the culmination of the dispute, which began at the
 annual meeting in June of 1978 when Right-to-Life (St. Thomas), an
 anti-abortion group, elected four of its supporters to the 16-member
 board. The anti-abortion governors made an unsuccessful attempt to
 tighten abortion policy at the hospital and fears that further attempts
 would be made led to the threat in April of a mass resignation of the
 medical staff.

Another four seats were up for election at the meeting on Wednesday,
 which led to a public campaign in April by a group called The Citizens
 League to prevent Right-to-Life from winning the seats.

Approximately 5,500 hospital memberships, which allow the holder to
 vote at the annual meeting, were purchased as a result of the campaign by
 the two groups. Last year, just under 1,100 memberships were purchased
 and in previous year fewer than 50 were usually purchased.

Wednesday's meeting had to be held in the city's largest arena, which
 has a seating capacity of about 4,000 and a huge circus tent was set up
 behind the arena to handle the overflow.

Closed-circuit television was used to broadcast the meeting to members
 in the tent.

In the weeks leading up to the meeting, the focus of the dispute
 shifted from the hospital's abortion policy to a new procedural bylaw
 adopted by the board in March and approved by the Ministry of Health in
 April. Right-to-Life vehemently opposed a section of the bylaw which
 established a five-member nominating committee, consisting of the
 president of the hospital board, the mayor of St. Thomas, the warden of
 Elgin County and two members of the medical staff, to screen candidates
 for the board.

The committee received 21 applications from individuals who wanted to
 run for the board and selected 12, which led to the threat of legal
 action against the committee by one of the rejected candidates.

Right-to-Life referred to the screening committee as an insult to the
 democractic process in advertisements in local media and urged hospital
 members to vote against the procedural bylaw. The Citizens League threw
 its support behind the bylaw and argued that it should be supported by
 hospital members.

The meeting resulted in a resounding defeat for the Right-to-Life
 position. The 4,086 members attending the meeting voted 3,246 to 668 in
 favor of the procedural bylaw and elected the four candidates endorsed by
 The Citizens League.

Dr. Borre said the results of the voting demonstrated public support
 for the hospital medical staff and added: I think we can get things (at
 the hospital) back to normal.

He said Right-to-Life was trying to interfere with our right to
 practice medicine and the people didn't fall for it.

One Right-to-Life member, Marjorie Pouli, said the only thing that
 happened at this meeting was that we were denied any chance to have any
 part in the meeting. They (the nominating committee) obviously excluded
 anyone who said they had a deep respect for life. She added: I'm not
 allowed in this community to vote for someone who cares about the number
 of abortions performed at the hospital.

She said she has not discussed the results with other members of the
 group and was uncertain whether Right-to-Life will continue to try to
 influence the hospital's abortions policy.

The meeting itself was almost anti-climactic after the bitter
 campaigning that had occurred in the community during the past two
 months. Many had expected the debate might continue on the floor of the
 annual meeting, but there was little debate except over procedural
 matters.

The hospital established a therapeutic abortion committee in 1970 and
 about 70 abortions are perfomred at the hospital each year.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1979 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                           October 18, 2012 Thursday

Blood Bank at Mapusa District Hospital hits road block

LENGTH: 322 words

DATELINE: PORVORIM


PORVORIM, Oct. 18 -- It may be a life- saving facility, but the Blood Bank at
the District Hospital in Mapusa is yet to be fully functional, simply because of
procedural issues between government departments.

Despite commencing operations over a year ago, the district hospital at Mapusa
has encountered hurdles in setting up a Blood Bank service and canteen
facilities in the hospital.

" There was a Blood Bank in the Asilo Hospital and a license to operate the
Blood Bank service was issued to the Asilo Hospital. But when the health
department decided to shift medical facilities and Blood Bank from the Asilo
Hospital to the new District Hospital, the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA)
refused to grant permission to transfer this license in the name of the District
Hospital," said an official at the District Hospital.

" The FDA has inspected the facilities at the District Hospital and has advised
hospital authorities to apply for a Blood Bank service afresh, by changing of
the name of the hospital and ownership documents of the Hospital," the official
added.

Despite these procedural issues, the official assured that they have sufficient
stocks of blood in the District Hospital.

" Whenever we require blood of any particular group, we procure these stocks
from the Blood Bank at the Goa Medical college Hospital in Bambolim," said the
official.

Commenting on the poor canteen facilities at the District Hospital, the official
said only tea and some snacks are being sold at a small counter, located at the
right side of the entrance lobby.

" Family members attending to patients are forced to go out of the hospital in
search of food and refreshments.

Meals for patients are being supplied from the Asilo Hospital," the official
said. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Herald Goa. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Missouri Lawyers Media

                                 June 11, 2009

Missouri Court of Appeals Eastern District: Egan v. St. Anthony's Medical Center

BYLINE: Stephanie Maniscalco

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 330  words


Administrative: Hospital Bylaws - 'Substantial Compliance' - Judicial Review

Egan v. St. Anthony's Medical Center (MLW No. 59205/Case No. ED92207 - 22 pages)
(Missouri Court of Appeals, Eastern District, Cohen, J.)

Where a doctor sought an order requiring a hospital to hold a new hearing on the
revocation of his staff privileges and to recall reports submitted by the
hospital to the state medical board, the trial court properly found that the
hospital substantially complied with its own bylaws, so the court did not err in
denying the doctor's request for injunctive relief.

Judgment is affirmed.

Limited judicial review

"We agree that the test for substantial compliance focuses on the hospital's
adherence to those bylaws that set forth basic procedural protections, such as
notice, hearing, and appeal procedures. Conversely, a hospital's 'technical'
violations or minor irregularities in procedural compliance will generally not
constitute a failure of substantial compliance....

"We reemphasize the Supreme Court's declaration in Egan I that it would 'not
impose judicial review on the merits of a hospital's staffing decisions . . . .
' This limited form of judicial review is in harmony with courts from other
jurisdictions that have expressed a reluctance to substitute their judgment for
the superior professional judgment of hospital officials in evaluating hospital
staff decisions...Consistent with this rationale, we agree that if a hospital
substantially complies with its bylaws, the adversely affected medical staff
member is not entitled to equitable relief and a reviewing court may not reweigh
the evidence or interfere with the hospital's decision on the merits. "

Judgment is affirmed.

Egan v. St. Anthony's Medical Center (MLW No. 59205/Case No. ED92207 - 22 pages)
(Missouri Court of Appeals, Eastern District, Cohen, J.) Appealed from circuit
court, St. Louis County, Sherry, J. (Alan Kimbrell for appellant) (Neal F.
Perryman and Evan Z. Reid for respondent).

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 14, 2015 Saturday

Washington: Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74

LENGTH: 581  words

DATELINE: Olympia


The State of Washington has issued the following Job Vacancy:

Job Title:  Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74
Opening Date/Time:  Thu. 12/19/13 12:00 AM Pacific Time
Closing Date/Time:  Continuous
Salary:  $56,532.00 - $75,372.00 Annually
Job Type:  Full Time - Permanent
Location:  Thurston County - Olympia, Washington
Department:  Health Care Authority

Description Benefits Supplemental Questions

Hospital Finance Unit Manager


The Health Care Authority (HCA) is Washington's largest health care purchaser,
responsible for providing comprehensive health coverage to more than 1.5 million
residents through the Public Employees Benefits and Medicaid programs. The
agency provides health purchasing leadership, benefitting both public and
private sectors with a focus on moving the health delivery system away from
volume toward higher value and better outcomes.

The HCA is currently implementing the Medicaid Expansion component of the
Affordable Care Act and anticipates more than 300,000 new clients over the next
two years.

Position Objective:

This position manages the DSH, CPE, NH Proshare, CAH, Major Trauma, Air and
Ground Ambulance, and Out-of-State Medical Services contracting programs within
the Hospital Finance section. With four professional positions reporting to this
position, this group is responsible for:

Fiscal and procedural management of the DSH, CPE, Nursing Home Proshare
programs, and special projects as they arise. These programs account for
million's annually, and they receive a great deal of stakeholder and federal
scrutiny.

Fiscal and procedural management of the thirty-eight hospitals participating in
our CAH program.

Fiscal and procedural management of the Major Trauma Program, Air and Ground
Ambulance transportation, and out-of-state medical services contracting.

Oversight of the DSH application process and the complex calculations to
determine hospital DSH payments; oversight of the Inpatient Hospital and Nursing
Home Proshare CPE programs involving complex calculations and federal
settlements.

Representation of HCA to external entities, hospitals, the Washington State
Hospital Association (WSHA), and stakeholders within state government, in
coordination with the Section Manager.


This position requires expert knowledge of federal rules governing these
programs; expert knowledge of state laws and regulations; advanced level skills
for data mining and analysis; and knowledge of hospital payment methodologies.
It also requires advanced project management, supervisory, communication and
analytical skills to meet the challenges of this position.

The position is authorized to work with various stakeholders on program and
policy issues in representing HCA as the subject matter expert.

This position is has full decision making authority to authorize payment within
budget limits for the programs it manages.

This position reports to the Section Manager for the Hospital Finance Section
and may have delegated authority to act on behalf of the Section Manager.

This position performs legislative bill analysis and may be assigned to draft
legislation.

This position takes a leadership role or actively participates in agency-wide
quality improvement projects.

This position is responsible for overseeing the annual federally-required DSH
audit, and works with the independent auditors for ensuring accuracy and
regulatory compliance with the DSH rules.

For Further information please visit:
http://agency.governmentjobs.com/washington

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                              July 1, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Reducing pain is key;
IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 127 words


EMERGENCY ultrasounds and heart readings are being offered by a new consultant
at a county hospital.

A&E consultant Dr Ravindranath Sant is working at Boston Pilgrim Hospital, where
he specialises in procedural sedation, emergency ultrasound and basic
echocardiography - readings of the heart.

He has already introduced procedural sedation in A&E and plans to train all
middle-grade doctors in the department to carry out the same role.

The aim of the procedure is to reduce pain and avoid unnecessary hospital
admissions for patients with fractures and dislocations and for stitching of
facial wounds in children.

As well as his responsibilities at the Pilgrim Hospital, Dr Sant will be
involved in running a soft tissue injury clinic at Skegness and District
Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LIE


                        Copyright 2011 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 24, 2017 Friday

Quality of Care at Outlier Hospitals and Outcomes for PCI

LENGTH: 523  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American College of Cardiology has issued the following news
release:



 Study Questions:



 What are the procedural management and in-hospital outcomes of patients treated
for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) before and after a hospital was publicly
identified as a negative outlier?



 Methods:



 The investigators used state reports to identify hospitals that were recognized
as negative PCI outliers in two states (Massachusetts and New York) from
2002-2012. State hospitalization files were used to identify all patients with
an AMI within these states. Procedural management and in-hospital outcomes were
compared among patients treated at outlier hospitals before and after public
report of outlier status. Patients at nonoutlier institutions were used to
control for temporal trends. The authors used multivariable modified Poisson
regression to examine the association of the pre- and post-report time periods
with procedural management (coronary angiography/percutaneous coronary
intervention (PCI)/coronary artery bypass grafting) and mortality at both
outlier and nonoutlier hospitals.

 Results:



 Among 86 hospitals, 31 were reported as outliers for excess mortality. Outlier
facilities were larger, treating more AMI patients and performing more PCIs than
nonoutlier hospitals (p < 0.05 for each). Among 507,672 AMI patients
hospitalized at these institutions, 108,428 (21%) were treated at an outlier
hospital after public report. The likelihood of PCI at outlier (relative risk
[RR], 1.13; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.12-1.15) and nonoutlier institutions
(RR, 1.13; 95% CI, 1.11-1.14) increased in a similar fashion (interaction
p-value, 0.50) after public report of outlier status. The likelihood of in-
hospital mortality decreased at outlier institutions (RR, 0.83; 95% CI,
0.81-0.85) after public report, and to a lesser degree at nonoutlier
institutions (RR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.87-0.92; interaction p-value < 0.001). Among
patients who underwent PCI, in-hospital mortality decreased at outlier
institutions after public recognition of outlier status compared with prior (RR,
0.72; 95% CI, 0.66-0.79), a decline that exceeded the reduction at nonoutlier
institutions (RR, 0.87; 95% CI, 0.80-0.96; interaction p-value < 0.001).

 Conclusions:



 The authors reported that after outlier designation, in-hospital mortality
declined at outlier institutions to a greater extent than was observed at
nonoutlier facilities.

 Perspective:



 This study reports that in-hospital mortality among patients undergoing
percutaneous revascularization was substantially lower at outlier institutions
after public report of outlier status. Furthermore, the reduction in in-hospital
mortality was in excess of that observed for patients treated in the same state
and same time period at nonoutlier institutions. The improved clinical outcomes
in the absence of enhanced risk aversion highlight the benefits of public
reporting and overall transparency in the healthcare system. Additional studies
are indicated to optimize patient care and improve in-hospital mortality among
patients with AMI with a focus on continued quality improvement.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

Now, rules to protect those who help road accident victims;
Central guidelines will safeguard rights of good Samaritans from legal and
procedural problems

BYLINE: Ateeq Shaikh

LENGTH: 742  words


Central guidelines will safeguard rights of good Samaritans from legal and
procedural problems

Finally, there will be recognition for individuals who assist an accident victim
by either taking them to the nearest hospital or calling for medical help. The
Ministry of Road Transport and Highways notified guidelines on Monday,
protecting the rights of such good Samaritans from legal and procedural
problems.

Founder of petitioner SaveLife Foundation Piyush Tewari, who had moved the
Supreme Court on the subject, welcomed the notification. "Although this is an
interim measure, these guidelines will help create a supportive environment for
bystanders to come forward and help the injured without fear of intimidation or
harassment by the police and hospitals. The onus is now on the state governments
to ensure implementation of these guidelines."

The guidelines are a result of a Supreme Court judgment, wherein the court had
set a deadline of May 15. The guidelines were finalised on May 13 but formally
notified only on Monday.

In the last decade, in India, 46 lakh people were seriously injured or disabled
in road accidents. Annually, around 1.37 road-related deaths occur; 12.02 lakh
people got killed in the last decade due to road accidents. The number could be
half, if timely medical help is provided to them. But three out of four people
are reluctant to help person/s injured in road accidents, thereby resulting in
higher deaths.

The deterrent is fear of getting trapped in legal and procedural issues, besides
the fear of harassment by the police. Moreover, there are private hospitals who
are hesitant in giving medical aid in such cases unless some money is deposited.

Result of SC judgment

The guidelines are a result of a Supreme Court judgment, wherein the court had
set a deadline of May 15. They were finalised on May 13 but formally notified
only on Monday.  The deterrent is fear of getting trapped in legal and
procedural issues, besides the fear of harassment by the police.

Know your rights

Bystander or good Samaritan should be allowed to leave immediately except after
furnishing address of the eyewitness only, and no question shall be asked to
such bystander or good Samaritan.

There should be a suitable reward or compensation to encourage citizens to come
forward to help accident victims.

Bystander or good Samaritan shall not be liable for any civil or criminal
liability.

Bystander or good Samaritan, who makes a phone call to inform about the victim
lying on the road, shall not be compelled to reveal his/her name and personal
details.

Disclosure of personal information shall be voluntary in medico-legal case form
of hospitals.

Disciplinary/departmental action shall be initiated against public officials who
coerce or intimidate a bystander or good Samaritan to reveal name and personal
details.

In case of voluntary disclosure of being a witness to an accident and required
to be examined for investigation by the police or during the trial, such a
person shall be examined only once and the state government shall develop a
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for non-harassment.

SOP shall be developed within 30 days from notification. Examination methods
shall be as per section 284 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, or on
affidavit.

Video-conferencing may be used extensively during examination of bystander or
good Samaritan to prevent harassment and inconvenience.

The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare shall issue guidelines for all
registered public and private hospitals not to detain bystander or good
Samaritan or demand payment for registration and admission costs, unless s/he is
a family member or relative of the injured.

Lack of response by a doctor in an emergency situation pertaining to road
accidents shall constitute 'Professional Misconduct' and disciplinary action
shall be taken against the doctor.

All hospitals shall publish a charter in Hindi, English and vernacular language
of the state and union territory at their entrance, declaring that a bystander
or good Samaritan won't be detained or asked for money for treatment.

In case a bystander or good Samaritan demands, an acknowledgment should be
provided, confirming s/he getting an injured person to the hospital and the time
and place of the incident.

All public and private hospitals shall implement the guidelines immediately.
Non-compliance or violation will attract action by authorities.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            March 23, 2016 Wednesday

AGP FINDS RS 908.15M IRREGULARITIES IN PUNJAB PATIENT-CHARGES RECEIPTS

SECTION: Vol. 27 No. 83

LENGTH: 224  words


Auditor General of Pakistan (AGP) found irregularities of Rs 908.15 million in
account of public teaching hospitals working under the Government of Punjab in
its audit year 2012-13 and 2014 in respect of user charges from patients.

Teaching hospitals of Punjab has charged user charges and fees for admission,
clinical and procedural services and facilities from patients at higher rates
prescribed by only their Board of Management (BOM) without getting prior
approval of the provincial government.

According to AGP audit report on the accounts of government of the Punjab year
2014-15, available with Pakistan Observer says that according to rule 3(1) (e)
of Punjab Medical and Health Institution Rules 2003, Board of Management (BOM)
of autonomous hospitals shall determine user charges and fees for admission,
clinical and procedural services and facilitates with the prior approval of
government.

Audit report reveals that some public teaching hospital has found that user
charges were received from patients at the rates prescribed only by the BOM but
did not get prior approval from the government.

An official of health department said that there is a formula for distribution
of hospital receipt where government earned 45 % while doctors and paramedical
receiving 35 % and 20 % share respectively from total hospital earning on
monthly basis.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             HERBERT RIVER EXPRESS

                           January 12, 2006 Thursday

Support for rural doctors 'timely'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 537  words


THE Rural Doctors Association of Australia has welcomed the increased support
for rural doctors and the other health care professionals announced by the
Commonwealth on Monday but is seeking commitment from the states.

''The Commonwealth Government has put steady and concerted efforts into ensuring
rural communities have access to high quality procedural services,'' RDAA
vice-president Peter Rischbieth said.

''But there is not much point in producing and maintaining a highly skilled
procedural workforce if the rural maternity units or hospitals where they work
are closed because saving money is put ahead of saving lives.

''We look for real commitments from our state and territory governments to
maintain our small rural hospitals and communities.

''The near collapse of rural procedural services at the height of the indemnity
crisis highlighted the need for an integrated approach to retain those who
provide them.

''Since that time we have seen the Commonwealth put significant effort into
responding to RDAA recommendations to support the dwindling procedural
workforce: there are less than a thousand of us left now.''

Dr Rischbieth said many rural doctors were available to their communities on a
24 hour basis and have numerous on-call responsibilities.

He said the extra support announced this week by Minister Tony Abbott was a
timely and practical recognition of their value and commitment to rural
communities and the high level skills they have to maintain.

''The overhaul of the medical indemnity industry, supporting training for rural
proceduralists and initiating the service subsidies for rural obstetrics,
surgery and anaesthetics which the Minister has just announced will be doubled,
have provided crucial help, but these measures alone are not enough to ensure
the ongoing viability of rural procedural services,'' Dr Rischbieth said.

''A team based approach to care - with rural doctors, nurses, midwives and
Aboriginal Health Workers works together - is best for our communities. RDAA has
lobbied vigorously for greater recognition of team care and has been proactive
in gaining recognition for practice nurses and supporting the creation of
several MBS items for practice nurses and allied health professionals last year.

''We applaud the expansion of MBS funding for antenatal checks by nurses,
midwives and Aboriginal Health Workers working on behalf of a GP or specialist
in rural and remote Australia.

''Women in rural and remote communities have the right to receive these
essential services close to where they live. In places where services cannot be
delivered by doctors, a team based approach using the expertise of nurses,
midwives and Aboriginal Health Workers is a welcome initiative which will extend
access to antenatal care.

''Australia's health services are amongst the best in the world, and, as a
recent study based on nationwide data has shown, the outcomes of our rural
birthing services are amongst the best in Australia.

''So now the ball is in the State Government court: the communities need the
services, the services are proven to be high quality, the Commonwealth
government is supporting the workforce so where is the commitment to keep rural
maternity units and hospitals open?''

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: HRE


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Missouri Lawyers Media

                                  June 9, 2009

Missouri Court of Appeals Eastern District: Egan v. St. Anthony's Medical Center

BYLINE: Stephanie Maniscalco

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 325  words


Administrative

Egan v. St. Anthony's Medical Center (Case No. ED92207 - 22 pages) (Missouri
Court of Appeals, Eastern District, Cohen, J.)

Hospital Bylaws - 'Substantial Compliance' - Judicial Review

Where a doctor sought an order requiring a hospital to hold a new hearing on the
revocation of his staff privileges and to recall reports submitted by the
hospital to the state medical board, the trial court properly found that the
hospital substantially complied with its own bylaws, so the court did not err in
denying the doctor's request for injunctive relief.

Judgment is affirmed.

Limited judicial review

"We agree that the test for substantial compliance focuses on the hospital's
adherence to those bylaws that set forth basic procedural protections, such as
notice, hearing, and appeal procedures. Conversely, a hospital's 'technical'
violations or minor irregularities in procedural compliance will generally not
constitute a failure of substantial compliance....

"We reemphasize the Supreme Court's declaration in Egan I that it would 'not
impose judicial review on the merits of a hospital's staffing decisions . . . .
' This limited form of judicial review is in harmony with courts from other
jurisdictions that have expressed a reluctance to substitute their judgment for
the superior professional judgment of hospital officials in evaluating hospital
staff decisions...Consistent with this rationale, we agree that if a hospital
substantially complies with its bylaws, the adversely affected medical staff
member is not entitled to equitable relief and a reviewing court may not reweigh
the evidence or interfere with the hospital's decision on the merits. "

Judgment is affirmed.

Egan v. St. Anthony's Medical Center (Case No. ED92207 - 22 pages) (Missouri
Court of Appeals, Eastern District, Cohen, J.) Appealed from circuit court, St.
Louis County, Sherry, J. (Alan Kimbrell for appellant) (Neal F. Perryman and
Evan Z. Reid for respondent).

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                              July 19, 2010 Monday

Chiniot's Javeria loses life after eyesight

LENGTH: 206  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, July 19 -- The procedural complications and delay in releasing of cash
money, announced by the government, took the life of Chiniot's Javeria (8) who
had earlier lost her eyesight due to the alleged negligence of doctors in a
Lahore hospital the other night.

Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani had announced Rs five Lac support for
treatment of the girl but due to procedural complications the amount could not
be released in time for the help of the suffering child. Allah Yar, father of
Javeria, had borrowed Rs 250,000 from a landlord for her treatment. Javeria,
resident of a village in Chiniot was initially treated at Chiniot for pain in
her eyes. Getting no relief, she was taken to the Allied Hospital in Faisalabad
and then Fazal Umar Hospital in Chanab Nagar. Later, she was transferred to a
children's hospital in Lahore, where she remained under treatment for seven
days.

According to the girl's father, the doctors in the hospital prescribed eye drops
for her which exacerbated her pain and made her lost her eyesight Published by
HT Syndication with permission from Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday

Georgia Supreme Court says HIPAA allows ex parte interviews of doctors

BYLINE: Pat Murphy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 269  words


Federal health care privacy law does not prohibit defense counsel from
conducting ex parte interviews of a medical malpractice plaintiff's doctors, the
Georgia Supreme Court has ruled.

The plaintiff sued a hospital for malpractice.

To aid in its discovery, the hospital obtained a qualified protective order
under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), allowing
its attorneys to conduct ex parte interviews with the plaintiff's health care
providers.

The plaintiff argued that HIPAA prohibits such ex parte interviews.

But the court disagreed.

"Based upon the policies underlying HIPAA and fairness in litigation, we
conclude that ex parte interviews may be conducted under HIPAA, if the
procedural requirements for protecting information disclosed during these
interviews have been satisfied," the court said.

In this case, the court concluded that the hospital's qualified protective order
satisfied procedural safeguards mandated by HIPAA.

However, the court decided that the order was overbroad because it allowed the
defense counsel to probe into matters outside the scope of the plaintiff's
limited waiver under state law of the physician-patient privilege with respect
to his med-mal claim.

"[T]he qualified protective order should have limited [the plaintiff's] inquiry
to matters relevant to [the plaintiff's] medical condition which is at issue in
this proceeding. Without this substantive language, the qualified protective
order must be considered deficient," the court said.

Georgia Supreme Court. Baker v. Wellstar Health Systems, No. S10A0994. June 1,
2010. Lawyers USA No. 993-1983.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1989, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1989

                         Vol. 22, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 136

LENGTH: 341 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: PEER REVIEW: Where state elects to comply with federal act,
physician waiver of peer review provisions held ineffective

AUTHOR: Case submitted by: Frederick Wm. LaCava, Indianapolis, Indiana

TEXT:

   An Indiana trial court issued a declaratory judgment in favor of a hospital
which sought to alter its procedure for peer review of a suspended physician to
comply with the federal Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C.
11101 et seq. (Act).  The hospital filed the lawsuit after the suspended
physician refused to permit the hospital to substitute mandated procedural
provisions for conflicting peer review guidelines contained in the hospital's
bylaws.  The focus of the dispute centered on the grant of immunity to those
physicians sitting on the hearing panel under the bylaws.

   When the peer review matter arose, Indiana had already adopted provisions of
the Act, but the hospital had not revised its medical staff bylaws to conform
with the Act's procedural guarantees.  The bylaws required a hearing before a
hospital committee which was comprised of physicians who were in economic
competition with the suspended physician.

   To secure federal and state immunity, the hospital petitioned the court to
approve its compliance with the federal statute regarding the composition of a
hearing committee.  The hospital proposed to appoint a committee of physicians
who did not economically compete with the suspended physician.  The suspended
physician sought to compel the hospital to adhere to its bylaws.  Alternatively,
the physician attempted to waive his rights under the Act, but would neither
issue an indemnity nor release the medical staff members who would have heard
the matter under the hospital bylaws.

   The court found the physician's attempted waiver ineffectual and issued a
declaratory judgment approving the hospital's plan.  VanKirk v. Board of
Trustees of White County Memorial Hospital, No. 91C01-8809-CP-128 (Ind. Cir. Ct.
filed Nov. 9, 1988).S.W./P.R.

   [Ed. note: Mr. LaCava, counsel for the hospital, suggests that this case is
one of first impression involving the question of compliance with the federal
procedural rules as an alternative to compliance with existing medical staff
bylaws.]


                              46 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Kalgoorlie Miner (Western Australia)

                            April 21, 2007 Saturday
                                    GENERAL

GP funds for Perth training

BYLINE: SAMANTHA CAIRNS

SECTION: MINER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 289  words


GOLDFIELDS GPs will now be better positioned to hone their skills in Perth each
year, thanks to extra Federal Government support announced this week.

The changes mean GPs will be supported for three days' training each year, which
equates to $6000 in funding, rather than two days or $4500.

Goldfields-Esperance GP Network chairman Mal Hodsdon said it was great news for
local GPs, who often faced high out-of-pocket expenses when travelling to Perth
hospitals for necessary training.

"Before the increase in funding there was a pretty good uptake in the training;
we saw a lot of GPs come back to the community and provide a better level of
care," he said.

"With additional support being provided, more doctors will be able to update
their procedural skills in Perth as treatments and techniques change.

"Host hospitals are charging for teaching these days and accommodation also
needs to be covered, so we welcome more money becoming available."

Federal Minister for Health and Ageing Tony Abbott said many communities outside
metropolitan areas relied on well-trained, experienced GPs to provide surgical,
anaesthetic, obstetric and emergency services.

He said by supporting rural GPs who provided these kinds of procedural and
emergency medicine services, the Commonwealth was giving rural families access
to high-quality health care.

The funding is available under the $75 million Training for Rural and Remote
Procedural GPs Program, which supports rural and remote GPs doing procedural
work that specialists carry out in urban areas.

The Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine and the Royal Australian
College of General Practitioners will continue to assess GPs and training
eligibility funding will be administered by Medicare.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             January 4, 2016 Monday
                            British Columbia Edition

HEALTH CARE;
Doctors paid for work not performed;
An anonymous letter prompted an audit into payments made to a small group of
cardiologists at two Lower Mainland hospitals

BYLINE: WENDY STUECK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


A small group of cardiologists at two Lower Mainland hospitals were compensated
over the past six years for procedures they did not perform, according to an
internal investigation.

But those payments amounted to about $1-million, not the $4-million alleged by
an anonymous complainant last year, and may have been offset by the doctors
performing more complex, time-consuming procedures for which they were not
adequately compensated, the investigation concluded.

It is not clear whether either of the two health authorities involved suffered
an overall financial loss as a result of the fees, the investigation found.

The investigation was triggered by an anonymous letter in June, 2015, that
alleged a small group of cardiologists at St. Paul's and Vancouver General
hospitals had charged the two facilities almost $4-million for procedures they
did not actually perform. Its report, dated Aug. 17, 2015, was obtained by The
Globe and Mail through a Freedom of Information request.

The anonymous complaint did not say over what time period those payments had
been made.

But it cited a 2012 report that flagged the issue of "unanticipated procedural
fees" being paid for some procedures and recommended those fees be eliminated.

The letter - which was also sent to The Globe - concerns a widely used procedure
known as a transesophageal echocardiogram, or TEE, which involves inserting a
probe into the esophagus to monitor a patient during heart surgery. TEEs used to
be done primarily by echocardiographers.

But over about the past decade, more cardiac anesthetists have been trained in
the procedure According to the complaint, anesthetists now routinely perform the
procedure as part of overall patient care.

However, the complainant alleged, "a few cardiologists who may or may not even
be in the hospital at the time of the procedures have been charging the
hospitals for years a procedural fee ... for performing as many as 10 per day of
the above procedures without actually performing or even being present for any
of them as required by the billing code."

That practice had resulted in the small group of doctors charging the hospitals
almost $4-million for performing procedures they never did, the complainant
alleged.

The anonymous complaint set off an investigation that found administrators had
been aware of TEE payment concerns even before the 2012 review, but that efforts
to tackle the issue had stalled - in part because specialists considered TEE
procedural fees as compensation for other "offset procedures" they might perform
during heart surgery.

"While there are no formal agreements or clear communication to support current
practice, it appears that there was implied agreement that the incorrect payment
for TEEs would continue as offset in recognition that the echocardiographers
perform other procedures that they are not adequately funded for," the
investigation found. It was carried out by Internal Audit Services, the audit
division for four of B.C.'s health authorities.

Investigators found that cardiographers do not submit invoices for the
procedures but that "fee codes" are automatically applied as part of a broader
billing system. As part of that system, expenses are reviewed, but the
documentation provided in that process "lacks sufficient information to be able
to provide meaningful oversight," the investigation found.

A tangle of billing and information management systems made it difficult for
investigators to sort out how many TEEs had been performed and by whom.

But after reviewing available records, IAS found TEE fees over the past six
years amounted to about $630,000 at St. Paul's and $441,000 at Vancouver General
Hospital, or about $1-million - far less than the $4-million mentioned in the
anonymous letter.

Since the complaint was received last year, both hospitals have stopped paying
the procedural fees.

In its report, IAS made four "improvement observations," including that
management at Providence Health Care, which runs St. Paul's, and Vancouver
Coastal Health, which operates Vancouver General, meet with echocardiography
groups at both sites to negotiate appropriate rates, "while ensuring that they
are not compensated for procedures they do not perform."

Investigators did not recommend disciplinary action against any of the doctors
involved in the probe.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2016 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                              May 13, 1985 Monday

DOCTOR FORECASTS MEDI-PEACE SOON

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 561 words


Doctor forecasts Medi-peace soon CANBERRA._ The Australian Medical Association
president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, says he expects legislation for the Government's
Medicare peace package to be implemented next week. However, the militant
Council of Procedural Specialists said yesterday only a ""dismal group" was
going to accept the package and that many rebel surgeons would stay out until
they received a better deal from the Government. More than 600 of the 1363
doctors who resigned earlier this year are expected to go back to work under the
$166 million peace package negotiated by Dr Thompson with the Federal
Government. The Government's offer includes repeal of parts of the controversial
Section 17 which covers private practice in public hospitals. But the amending
legislation must be introduced soon if it is to be passed before Parliament
rises. The Council of Procedural Specialists said many of the 600 doctors
expected to return to work today would do so only because of financial pressure
or through frustration with the Australian Medical Association's negotiations
with the Government. ""They're a very dismal group going back," a spokesman, Dr
Peter Catts, said. ""Some doctors might be drifting back but the public hospital
system won't have the specialists it had before and it will end up being a
pretty lousy system." Dr Catts said many rebel surgeons were prepared to stay
out until doctors got a better deal from the Government. ""Of course, some
doctors will never go back," Dr Thompson said. ""But I think it is generally
conceded that the majority of doctors are going back to work." A vote of
no-confidence in Dr Thompson was defeated at a special meeting on Saturday,
clearing the way for a continuation of a return to work by doctors in New South
Wales. ""It was an excellent vote for me personally and it went better than many
people would perhaps have predicted," Dr Thompson said. He said the vote went
7232 to 1196 in his favor. Dr Thompson said nearly half the AMA's 19,000 voting
membership had voted at the meeting in person or by proxy. He said the vote
preserved the ""honor, stability and credibility of the organisation" and showed
the AMA continued to be the only representative body in the medical profession.
""I hope as a result of the meeting the Council of Procedural Specialists will
now work with and through the AMA. Under the AMA's constitution, Dr Thompson is
required to stand down as president when his three-year term expires on May 31.
In the light of this, the no-confidence motion appears to be an expression of
the hostility of militant NSW surgeons unwilling to accept the peace package or
the return to work. There were 116 doctors at the Canberra meeting, including
members of the Council of Procedural Specialists and Liberal Senator Peter
Baume, who spoke against the no-confidence motion. The motion of no-confidence
was organised by the Australian Orthopaedic Association secretary, Dr David
MacNicol. A recorded message on a ""Dial-a-Surgeons" telephone line in Sydney
reportedly has been urging procedural specialists not to offer their services to
NSW public hospitals under any circumstances. It claims restrictive contracts
have been drawn up by the NSW Health Department for doctors who returned to
work, including essential service and transfer clauses and billing by hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              49 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                            November 22, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

DÁIL CAN'T QUIZ TOP-UP RECIPIENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 211 words


THE Dáil's spending watchdog won't be able to grill the recipients of top-up
payments because of a procedural clash. TDs want hospital executives, including
Dr Rhona O'Mahony, Master of Holles Street, and Dr Sam Coulter-Smith, Master of
the Rotunda, to be questioned by the Public Accounts Committee over their salary
boosts.

Politicians yesterday told committee chair John McGuinness that they want the
recipients of the payments - the chairs of the boards of voluntary hospitals and
health agencies - hauled before them.

However, it is understood that committee procedures will not allow the
recipients themselves to appear. Only accounting officers are answerable to the
committee. Despite the procedural clash, Mr McGuinness said he will hold a
special sitting of the PAC next week to quiz HSE bosses.

'We will ask for clarification in relation to the voluntary hospitals and the
chairs of the boards and see if they can be brought before us and seek advice on
how we are going to handle this,' he said.

'That will be a matter of procedure. But we should start with the HSE and the
Department of Health and we should insist on an early hearing.' Mr McGuinness
also said he wants to know whether other senior public sector staff are in
receipt of non-exchequer allowances.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2013 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            November 22, 2015 Sunday

Hurdles Delay Opening of SCB Hospital

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: <img src="http://media.newindianexpress.com/SCB-Hospital.
jpg/2015/11/22/article3140740.ece/alternates/w620/SCB%20Hospital.jpg" />
HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, Nov. 22 -- The delay in opening the new 30-bedded super specialty
hospital in Bollaram is causing hardship to the poor patients in Secunderabad
Cantonment area as they are forced to depend on private hospitals.

Though the construction of building has been completed long ago, the opening of
hospital is being delayed due to procedural hurdles.

The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) took up the construction of the new
super speciality hospital three years ago, after demolishing the old Bollaram
Hospital, which was established eight decades ago. Though it was proposed to
construct a hundred-bed hospital initially, after much dilly dallying and
discussions the board decided to establish a 30-bedded hospital.

After sitting on the proposal for two years, SCB officials announced six months
ago that the hospital will be opened within a month after acquiring the required
equipment.

But the procurement of the equipment is facing procedural hurdles. Even the
required staff have not been recruited. It is the marginalised sections of the
society, who are most affected by the delay.

"The old hospital had the facility to accommodate 50 to 100 in-patients as it
was a major hospital in the locality. Now we are forced to depend on private
hospitals and clinics.

Officials are saying that they will soon open the hospital but it is always
being delayed. This is the only major government hospital in Cantonment area and
mostly poor people depend on it. Officials should make efforts to open the
hospital immediately," said J Pandurangam, a resident of Bollaram.

Being the only major hospital in Cantonment area, people from neighbouring
villages also depend on Bollaram hospital for health problems and accident cases
on Hyderabad -Karimnagar Highway are also referred to this hospital.

When contacted, SCB vice president S Keshava Reddy said that they have already
invited tenders and orders have been placed for the equipment. All efforts are
being made to open the hospital as soon as possible.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Commercial-News (Danville, Illinois)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

Provena's surgery suites limited for the week

BYLINE: Brian Huchel, Commercial-News, Danville, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


Aug. 17--DANVILLE -- The Surgical Department at Provena United Samaritans
Medical Center is rescheduling appointments for the remainder of the week.

Although not closed, the department will be handling only emergency cases for
the next three days.

Gretchen Wesner, director of public relations at Provena USMC, said the
rescheduling of elective surgeries is intended to allow the hospital to conduct
some reconfiguration of the department rooms.

In addition, the hospital will use the surgical suites to conduct procedural
reviews with the hospital staff, she said.

The reschedulings and procedural reviews are in connection with an incident that
took place at the hospital, Wesner confirmed.

The incident -- the details of which have not been released -- happened recently
and prompted the Illinois Department of Public Health to conduct a survey of the
hospital.

As a result of the survey, the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services
printed a legal notice last week saying the Danville hospital was not in
compliance with Medicare conditions of participation for patients' rights.

The legal notice contended "the deficiencies are so serious they constitute an
immediate jeopardy to patient health and safety" and indicated the federal
intent to terminate Medicare services as of Aug. 26.

Hospital representatives have said it is aggressively pursing a re-survey by the
state health department so that it may continue to offer the Medicare services
past Aug. 26.

In a statement last week, Provena President and CEO Mike Brown said changes were
being implemented to address the concerns raised by the incident.

Wesner said Tuesday the reschedulings will allow the hospital to "review these
procedures with staff and demonstrate back in their normal clinical setting."

She reiterated that patient safety is of the "utmost importance" to the
hospital.

To see more of the Commercial-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://commercial-news.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Commercial-News, Danville, Ill.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110817-DQ-Provena-s-surgery-suites-limited-for-the-week-0817-20110817

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DQ


                         Copyright 2011 Commercial News


                              52 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Gympie Times (Queensland)

                             June 4, 2014 Wednesday

Local health service given $55.6m boost

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 260  words


A $55.6 million budget increase has been welcomed by the Sunshine Coast Hospital
and Health Service, under which Gympie hospital operates.

Sunshine Coast Hospital and Health Service Board Chair Professor Paul Thomas
said the $695.5 million operating budget for 2014-15 would expand services for
the region.

"Our ever-growing and ageing population means we need to use our budget
allocation to expand both the range of services and capacity within the Sunshine
Coast HHS," Professor Thomas said.

"As we work towards the opening of the Sunshine Coast Public University Hospital
in 2016 we will further increase the range and capacity of services as part of
the transition.

"For example, over the last three years there has been a significant increase in
the cardiology service provided to public patients within the Sunshine Coast
HHS.

"Public patients requiring intervention for cardiac conditions are now able to
access the service locally, rather than having to be admitted to a Brisbane
hospital.

"A dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour General Hospital has also
significantly improved waiting times, with 3000 more endoscopic procedures per
year since the opening of new procedural suites."

Professor Thomas welcomed the increase in access to local services.

"~"~More than 4700 staff work around the clock to deliver high-quality
healthcare to the Sunshine Coast and Gympie communities,'' he said. "~"~Every
day staff from Sunshine Coast facilities treat 320 people who present to
emergency departments and more than 2000 pathology tests are performed."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GGT


                    Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                           November 14, 2015 Saturday
                               Townsville Edition

Private cover's taken ill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 489  words


THE general public who choose to carry private hospital health -insurance are
being horribly misled by the insurers. Think about it.

The Federal Government sets a basic fee structure for hospital procedures
treatments.

The private health insurers will only reimburse to the level set by the
Government for those -procedural costs. These costs are not changed with any
regularity.

Any procedural expense -beyond the set levels is borne by the patient, often
costing those using private health insurance many thousands of dollars extra.

Levels of hospital cover are chosen by any individual or family who bear the
risk of needing that insurance in that year. If it's not required, then the
premium is a monetary loss to the person/s -insured.

That's the consumer's own risk of monetary loss.

Annual premiums could -ultimately accumulate to significant amounts over time,
and if so, are effective losses to the persons taking out the insurance.

There are no avenues for -recovery of these amounts and the personal losses
stand.

If the Government does not -increase the basic fee structure, there should be no
reason for the private health insurers to have to increase their premiums and as
with the public, they should suffer any losses due to obviously incorrectly
determined level of risk in each category.

From historical records and reasonable projections, competent insurers must be
able to -determine financial requirements in any given year.

It is not age that causes insurers issues, it is the number of each procedure
that arise during the year, and the errors in assessment or projection of those
numbers by the insurers. Premiums should be set for each procedure not based on
age, but on usage.

If insurers incorrectly derive a loss situation they should carry the loss.
Today, the insurers, being only mindful of the profit motive, -increase premiums
to cover their internal operational inefficiencies.

They are not prepared to carry losses as any equitable contract arrangement
should. If their costs continually exceed their revenue, then they should look
carefully at their operational manuals and make internal adjustments.

They should not cry wolf and pass the costs on to policy holders. Excepting
annual review adjustments due to movements in the economy, properly determined
levels of premiums should not need the ongoing adjustments that are so prevalent
today.

Senior executives should have the intestinal fortitude to tell their
shareholders that losses occur and provide truthful explanations as to why.

Continually passing the buck to consumers will ultimately cause loss of faith in
the system of -insurance and significant financial difficulties to the insurers.

The health industry, and -particularly governments' public health systems, will
become even more overloaded as a result and the general public will suffer.

I hope this is taken as a wake-up call to action and not as a cry in the
wilderness.

KEITH BAGLEY,Townsville.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday

Cabin or ward? Rates differ for same treatment

BYLINE: Prithvijit Mitra & Udit Prasanna Mukherji

SECTION: KOLKATA

LENGTH: 612 words


KOLKATA: Even as the new health law puts pressure on private clinical
establishments to rationalize their charges, a city hospital has set the cat
among pigeons by introducing uniform doctors' fees, investigation and procedural
charges for patients admitted across their rooms and cabins. An overwhelming
majority of hospitals in Kolkata continue to have differential rates for
patients admitted in their suites, private cabins and general wards. Doctors'
fees, investigation charges and other service costs vary as much as 10%-15%
depending on the kind of room you choose. The difference in charges for a
week-long stay in a six-bedded cabin and a suite could be as wide as 50%-60%.But
now, Belle Vue Clinic has done away with the differential rates.

Other than the bed charge, patients are being charged uniformly for everything
else, irrespective of whether they are being treated in a cabin or a ward. Every
bill is accompanied by a notice which declares that the 'charges for doctors'
fees, operation theatre and investigation have no link with the bed charges'.
"We believe the system of fixing charge as per the room category was not fair.
So, we have made it uniform," said P Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue.While it's not
illegal to have different rates, many believe it's unfair to differentiate
between patients on the basis of the beds they opt for. "While a doctor might be
paid more for attending to a patient individually in a private cabin, there's no
logic behind fixing a higher rate for an investigation or a procedure for which
no extra effort is being put in. Nor is the hospital incurring any extra cost,"
said a hospital official.A top official of a leading TPA said most city
hospitals stick to differential pricing for patients. "The doctors' fee,
investigation charges, service charges generally differ with the room. In a
cabin, all the charges will be higher than a bed in the ward," he said. The
official added that hospitals generally argue that through differential pricing
they cross-subsidize patients in the wards. But the difference is often much
higher than the subsidy offered. "Ward patients are supposed to be subsidized
with the extra amount generated from patients in cabins or in semi-private rooms
who pay a higher rate. But it's not always done very honestly. Some hospitals
are contemplating a move from the system," he said.Patients in luxury suites and
semi-private cabins have to be attended by extra staff which raises the cost,
according to Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals. "Unless we charge a little more
for the services, it will be difficult to serve ward patients at a reasonable
rate. We are looking into our charges, though," said Barua.At Fortis Hospital,
too, investigation charges, doctors' fees and procedural charges vary according
to the kind of room a patient has been admitted into. "Those admitted in a suite
obviously pay the highest for services, followed by those in semi-private rooms
and then wards," said a doctor at Fortis. Woodlands Hospital follows a similar
system.Eminent cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar defended the private hospitals'
decision to have differential rates. "If you look at it from the point of view
of morals and principles of healthcare, it's unfair. But you can't deny the
private healthcare sector the right to generate a decent profit," said Sarkar.A
prominent cardiac hospital in south Kolkata has two rate categories, one for its
private cabins and the other for twin-sharing rooms. "But our procedural and
investigation charges are uniform for all. Some extra charges are levied for
providing personal care, though," said a hospital representative.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         Blackwater Herald (Queensland)

                                  May 10, 2011

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 233  words



HIGHLIGHT: Rural doc debate heats up


RURAL Doctors Association of Queensland president Dr Dan Halliday has thanked
the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners for its contribution to
community discussion about training doctors for rural communities.

The RACGP's Position Statement on Rural General Practice, released last week,
raised concerns with Queensland Health's Rural Generalist Training Program. The
RGTP has been widely praised by country doctors nationwide for teaching
much-needed procedural skills and providing a well-paid training and career path
in Queensland's country hospitals, and the model may be adopted by other states.

"RDAQ members agree with RACGP that doctors becoming qualified for general
practice cannot be trained solely in hospitals," Dr Halliday said. "RDAQ
acknowledges RACGP's concerns that a two-tiered remuneration structure might
develop. Procedural hospital doctors that have advanced skills and work for
Queensland Health could be better rewarded than their office-based general
practitioner colleagues who are funded through Medicare and often self-employed.

"Our members see this challenge as a call to seek better remuneration through
Medicare rebates for rural doctors in the private sector. RDAQ invites the RACGP
to join us, and the Rural Doctors Association of Australia, in lobbying the
Federal Government to level that particular playing field."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RBH


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 16, 2014 Wednesday

Lee Supervisors Rescind Hospital Funds to Avoid Legal Trouble

BYLINE: Sarah Tomkinson, The Hawk Eye, Burlington, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


April 16--MONTROSE -- At a meeting Tuesday, Lee County supervisors took back
their vote to give funds to Keokuk Area Hospital due to legal concerns.

Last week, the board approved $103,000 for Keokuk Area Hospital so it could
qualify for state matching funds. The board amended its agenda to approve the
funds, but it did not meet the 24-hour notification rule mandated by the state.

That being the case, Lee County Attorney Mike Short said supervisors needed to
rescind their previous vote approving the funds.

"The idea is we are removing any controversy with any procedural issues," Short
told the board. "Whatever the board decides to do then, procedural, we did
right."

Supervisor Gary Folluo hoped to have the funds approved quickly since the
hospital is in financial trouble.

"When you look at urgency and you have a hospital administrator with only three
days of actual cash at hand, that's a pretty urgent situation. This is just
cleaning up," he said

Chairman Ernie Schiller said approving money transfers such as this one requires
a resolution since it's not considered an annual contribution.

The supervisors set a special meeting at 9 a.m. Thursday at the Lee County jail
complex in Montrose to approve a resolution for the funding,

Last week, Duane Fitch, president of Fitch Healthcare, the consulting company
that manages the Keokuk Hospital, addressed the board and encouraged them to
contribute to the hospital for the second year.

"We are an underfunded agency of the government," he said.

Keokuk also agreed to give similar funds to the hospital.

More than 70 percent of the hospital's patients are on Medicare or Medicaid.

This will be the second year time the board has contributed to the hospital.

Last year, Keokuk Area Hospital received contributions from the county board and
the city of Keokuk to put the funds towards a match program through the Iowa
Department of Human Services and Iowa Medicaid Enterprise.

The hospital will receive more than $490,000 once all the funds are matched.

Financial trouble became persistent in 2011 when hospital officials announced
they were in danger of closing the hospital's doors.

___ (c)2014 The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa) Visit The Hawk Eye (Burlington,
Iowa) at www.thehawkeye.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140416-QW-Lee-Supervisors-Rescind-Hospital
-Funds-to-Avoid-Legal-Trouble-0416-20140416

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QW


                          Copyright 2014 The Hawk Eye


                              57 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             HERBERT RIVER EXPRESS

                            January 10, 2006 Tuesday

Boost for rural procedural GPs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 145  words


THE Commonwealth Government has decided to double the incentive payments to
rural procedural GPs in further recognition of their additional skills and
responsibilities.

From February 2006, rural procedural GPs will be entitled to claim up to $15,000
per year under the government's Practice Incentives Program.

''This boost will provide further support to GPs who provide surgical,
anaesthetic and obstetric services to rural and remote communities throughout
Australia,'' Health Minister Tony Abbott said.

''This is an important measure for rural communities relying on experienced
general practitioners to keep local hospitals running.''

At present, almost 800 GPs participate in this incentive program.

''The increased payments are designed to encourage these GPs to continue to
provide procedural services and will cost an additional $5.2 million a year,''
Mr Abbott said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: HRE


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Dubbo Daily Liberal

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday

THE NSW Government plans to implement a

BYLINE: Simon Chamberlain

SECTION: EARLY GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 196 words


THE NSW Government plans to implement a dedicated procedural pathway to help
attract doctors to rural areas. The Minister for Health, Jillian Skinner,
announced the NSW Rural Generalist Training program at the Rural Doctors'
Network annual general meeting on Saturday. Mrs Skinner said the training
program will provide the incentive for the next generation of medical
professionals to move to Western NSW to work. "By creating a procedural pathway
between training and employment opportunities, this program will be instrumental
in attracting young doctors to regional NSW," she said. The Member for Barwon
Kevin Humphries said the provision of a generalist training program would be
extremely beneficial and will allow for doctors to provide primary care as well
as hospital care for those in the community. "One of the great challenges many
communities face is in attracting generalist doctors with particular procedural
skills," Mr Humphries said. "This program will create a structured rural
training pathway that will see young doctors acquire the skills to undertake
procedures in rural hospitals in the fields of obstetrics, emergency, general
surgery and anaesthetics.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                            November 22, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Ireland

DÁIL CAN'T QUIZ TOP-UP RECIPIENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 211 words


THE Dáil's spending watchdog won't be able to grill the recipients of top-up
payments because of a procedural clash.

TDs want hospital executives, including Dr Rhona O'Mahony, Master of Holles
Street, and Dr Sam Coulter-Smith, Master of the Rotunda, to be questioned by the
Public Accounts Committee over their salary boosts.

Politicians yesterday told committee chair John McGuinness that they want the
recipients of the payments - the chairs of the boards of voluntary hospitals and
health agencies - hauled before them.

However, it is understood that committee procedures will not allow the
recipients themselves to appear. Only accounting officers are answerable to the
committee. Despite the procedural clash, Mr McGuinness said he will hold a
special sitting of the PAC next week to quiz HSE bosses.

'We will ask for clarification in relation to the voluntary hospitals and the
chairs of the boards and see if they can be brought before us and seek advice on
how we are going to handle this,' he said.

'That will be a matter of procedure. But we should start with the HSE and the
Department of Health and we should insist on an early hearing.'

Mr McGuinness also said he wants to know whether other senior public sector
staff are in receipt of non-exchequer allowances.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2013 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                              June 22, 2014 Sunday

'Paralysed' man gets Dh300,000 compensation for faulty treatment

LENGTH: 339 words


He went for a procedural medical examination to obtain a disability permit and
was told that he was not suffering from paralysis.

He thought he had become paralysed and tried to adjust to his wheelchair-bound
state and start life afresh.

However, fate had another shock in store. He went for a procedural medical
examination to obtain a disability permit and was told that he was not suffering
from paralysis but a condition caused by faulty medical treatment.

The chain of incidents started when the young man returned from a trip abroad.
He developed a severe breathing problem and the attending physician advised him
to get admitted in a hospital. He spent three days in a hospital but still his
condition did not improve. Then he went into a coma briefly and the doctors
decided to refer him to another hospital with better facilities.

When he was discharged, he was unable to walk. The young man thought he had
paralysis and tried to adapt to his new condition.Subsequently, he approached
the traffic department for a permit that would allow him to use the car parking
lots meant for the disabled. The department referred him to a medical committee
which examined him  and told him, to his shock, that he was not suffering from
paralysis.

His ailment, the committee told him, was due to wrong medication which had
resulted in avascular necrosis - the death of bone tissue due to lack of blood
supply - and made him wheelchair-bound.

The aggrieved young man then sued the two hospitals, asking for Dh3 million in
damages. However, the Abu Dhabi Court of First instance ordered the second
hospital to pay him Dh300,000 as compensation.

Unhappy with the ruling, the patient said he should be paid Dh3 million as the
two hospitals had caused him to become wheelchair-bound and needing long-term
medication and surgery. However, the Court of Appeals said the second hospital
had diagnosed his ailment correctly and his condition had improved.

(This report was filed in collaboration with the Abu Dhabi Judicial Department)

news@khaleejtimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         North Carolina Lawyers Weekly

                                 April 25, 2005

N.C. Court of Appeals Case Summaries: April 25, 2005

BYLINE: North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 7723  words


Administrative

Hospitals - Certificate of Need - Settlement - Final Agency Decision

Where the Department of Health and Human Services considered new evidence after
the administrative law judge's recommended decision, DHHS violated G.S.
150B-51(a).

DHHS's final decision upholding settlements with Presbyterian Hospital is
affirmed in part, reversed in part.

DHHS denied Presbyterian's application for a certificate of need (CON) to build
a new hospital. The decision was upheld upon judicial review. Thereafter, the
parties settled, and DHHS granted the CON.

Based on prohibited new evidence, DHHS, in effect, rendered a second "final
agency decision" regarding Presbyterian's 1999 certificate of need application
through settlement, countermanding its original final agency decision. We
reverse DHHS's final decision upholding the settlement, which granted
Presbyterian a CON.

DHHS's ability to settle and, through settlement, to exercise powers granted it
by the legislature in the CON Act may not supersede other express requirements
and limitations placed upon its exercise of those powers. The legislature
granted DHHS the authority to issue CONs only after a procedural process
consisting, in relevant part, of application, agency review, administrative
appeal, final agency decision, and judicial appeal.

G.S. 131A-188(a) refers to approval of a settlement as "a decision" by DHHS "to
issue a certificate of need pursuant to a settlement agreement.... " Therefore,
we construe such an approval to occupy the same procedural position as an
initial decision to approve or approve with conditions an application under G.S.
131E-186(a). This also compels construing the settlement agreement itself as
being equivalent to a new application. Therefore, all procedural safeguards
applying to application approval and initial decisions apply equally to approval
of settlements.

New evidence was submitted. DHHS officials were not satisfied that all statutory
criteria were met by the hospital project, as referenced in the settlement, at
the time of approval. Nevertheless, DHHS issued the CON in violation of G.S.
131E-183(a).

Furthermore, DHHS issued the CON immediately after approval of the hospital
settlement in violation of G.S. 131E-188(a) and its own agency rule. Affected
parties were not permitted the required 30-day time period to petition for a
contested case hearing for the purpose of substantively challenging the
settlement prior to issuance of the CON.

Moreover, affected parties adverse to Presbyterian's position were excluded from
presenting any argument as to non-compliance prior to issuance of the CON.

Neither the statutes nor case law cited by the dissent have allowed an agency in
North Carolina to effectively countermand its original final agency decision
with a different final agency decision.

DHHS must adhere to the procedural safeguards for application approval and
initial decisions when issuing CONs pursuant to settlements.

Presbyterian's relocation of its operating rooms met the requirements of the
"grandfather clause" applicable to G.S. 131A-176(16)u. DHHS did not err in its
final decision by affirming the settlement allowing the OR relocation.

To the extent the positron emission tomography (PET) settlement forms the basis
of Presbyterian and Forsyth Medical Center's acquisition of PET scanners or
implies permission to acquire a PET scanner irrespective of whether that
acquisition is consistent with the CON act, DHHS exceeded its statutory
authority.

Nevertheless, Presbyterian and Forsyth may obtain PET scanners separate from the
PET settlement by submitting new applications in accordance with normal CON
procedure. We take judicial notice that Presbyterian and Forsyth have, in fact,
submitted new CON applications for the acquisition of PET scanners.

Presbyterian Hospital North became fully operational during the pendency of this
appeal. It would be imprudent to close the hospital due to procedural
irregularities in light of the hardship to the community. It appears that DHHS
and Presbyterian proceeded in good faith, albeit erroneously, in attempting to
settle this matter after the original final agency decision concerning the 1999
application. Presbyterian Hospital North may continue to operate (1) until the
hospital settlement has upon remand been considered anew by DHHS and (2) in the
event a contested case hearing should occur following DHHS' initial decision,
until DHHS enters a final agency decision.

Affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded.

Concurrence & Dissent

(Steelman, J.) Pursuant to G.S. 131E-188(a) and G.S. 150B-22, DHHS was permitted
to enter into settlement agreements with Presbyterian and Forsyth. Following
these settlements, the petitioner had a full and complete opportunity to
litigate and challenge the settlement agreements.

I would hold that the specific reasons cited in the final decision of DHHS for
rejecting the ALJ's findings of fact were sufficient.

Finally, the majority authorizes Presbyterian Hospital North to continue in
operation without a CON pending DHHS' reconsideration of this matter. The
majority cites no authority for this directive, and I know of none.

I would affirm the final agency decision.

Mooresville Hospital Management Associates, Inc. v. North Carolina Department of
Health & Human Services. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0482, 25 pp.) (Ann Marie
Calabria, J.) (Sanford L. Steelman Jr., J., concurring in part & dissenting in
part) Appealed from the N.C. Department of Health & Human Services. N.C. App.

Civil Practice

Constitutional - Due Process - Personal Jurisdiction - Minimum Contacts -
Corporate - Contract

Where the plaintiff offered evidence that the defendants solicited the plaintiff
in North Carolina to perform services for them, the plaintiff agreed to do so in
North Carolina, and the contracts were substantially performed in North
Carolina, our courts can exercise personal jurisdiction over the defendants.

We affirm the trial court's denial of the defendants' motion to dismiss for lack
of personal jurisdiction.

Which party initiates the contact is taken to be a critical factor in assessing
whether a nonresident defendant has made purposeful availment of the privilege
of conducting activities within the forum state. The trial court could properly
conclude that the defendants purposefully acted in a manner so as to avail
themselves of the privilege of conducting activities within North Carolina and
thus invoked the benefits and protections of N.C. laws.

Even though this state has an interest in providing a forum for resolution of
conflicts arising in North Carolina, the parties provided that New York law
would apply to any dispute. Choice of law clauses are not determinative of
personal jurisdiction, but they express the intention of the parties and are a
factor in determining whether minimum contacts exist and due process was met.
This factor does not favor one party over the other.

With respect to the convenience of the parties, the evidence is also
conflicting. Of course, engaging in litigation in North Carolina would not be
convenient for the defendants' employees located in Oregon, yet by the same
token, litigation in another state would not be convenient for the plaintiff's
witnesses. The record does not indicate that any one state would be more
convenient to all of the parties and witnesses than another.

Since each defendant was a party to at least one contract made and/or carried
out in North Carolina, the N.C. judicial's system's exercise of specific
personal jurisdiction over each defendant is appropriate.

Affirmed.

Banc of America Securities LLC v. Evergreen International Aviation, Inc.
(Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0486, 20 pp.) (Martha A. Geer, J.) Appealed from
Mecklenburg County Superior Court. (Yvonne M. Evans, J.) N.C. App.

Contract

Construction - Little Miller Act - Second- Tier Subcontractor - Mitigation -
Timely Filing - Settlement - Accord & Satisfaction

Where the plaintiff-supplier furnished materials to the defendant-subcontractor,
and where the defendant-subcontractor fits within the statutory definition of a
second-tier subcontractor, the supplier had a right under G.S. 44A-27 to seek
payment from the remaining defendants (first-tier subcontractor, general
contractor and surety).

Summary judgment for the supplier affirmed.

G.S. 44A-25 through -35 control payment and performance bonds for state
construction contracts. This "Little Miller Act" defines the term
"subcontractor" in Sec. 44A-25(6) as "any person who has contracted to furnish
labor or materials to, or who has performed labor for, a contractor or another
subcontractor in connection with a construction contract. "

The legislature has specifically defined "subcontractor" to include both
individuals who have contracted to provide materials directly to the contractor,
as well as those who have contracted with subcontractors, sometimes referred to
as first- and second-tier subcontractors, under the construction contract.
Further, the language of Sec. 44A-27 specifically provides that a claimant who
has a direct contractual relationship with any subcontractor may bring an action
on the payment bond. By its plain language, therefore, the statutory definition
includes first- and second-tier subcontractors to the construction contract.

Here, the plaintiff contracted to furnish materials to the second-tier
subcontractor, who had subcontracted with a first-tier subcontractor to install
the fire protection system under the first-tier sub's contract with the prime
contractor. Under Sec. 4A-25(6), the first-tier sub qualifies as a
subcontractor, that is a party who had contracted to perform labor for a prime
contractor in connection with a construction contract. Likewise, the defendant
second-tier sub also qualifies as a subcontractor, that is a party who had
contracted to perform labor for a subcontractor, in connection with a
construction contract. Therefore, under the plain language of the statute, the
plaintiff-supplier is a claimant with a direct contractual relationship with a
subcontractor, but with no contractual relationship, express or implied, with
the contractor. Thus, under Sec. 44A-27(b), the supplier is entitled to bring an
action on the payment bond if notice to the contractor was given within the
requisite 120 days.

The defendants contend that as our courts have not previously interpreted this
provision of the Little Miller Act, federal precedent must control. Such is not
the case. Unlike the federal Miller Act, which provides no definition of
"subcontractor", our statute specifically defines "subcontractor" in the context
of the statute.

Where the supplier has a statutory right to seek payment from the defendants
under G.S. 44A-27, the trial court did not err in denying the defendant's
summary judgment motion.

Our courts have not yet addressed the issue of whether a claimant under a
performance bond has a duty to mitigate damages through notification prior to
the statutory requirements of Sec. 44A-27.

Our legislature has instituted specific time limitations for notification to
provide certainty for all parties as to claims for payments upon a performance
bond. To require other, less definite requirements for notification would create
uncertainty and undermine our statutory scheme. As the supplier's notice was
timely given according to the statutory requirements, the trial court properly
found no estoppel for failure to mitigate in the supplier's lack of earlier
notification.

The supplier executed a settlement agreement which settled all claims between
itself and the second-tier sub, with the exception that the supplier would
continue to pursue its claim against the prime contractor and its surety for the
project account, and that if such suit were unsuccessful, the second-tier sub
would remain liable for the remainder of the debt.

As the supplier had a statutory right to pursue a claim against the defendants
under Sec. 44A-27, and as the supplier specifically did not extinguish the
underlying debt as to the project in its settlement agreement, we find the trial
court properly rejected the defense of accord and satisfaction.

Affirmed.

HSI North Carolina, LLC v. Diversified Fire Protection of Wilmington, Inc.
(Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0489, 11 pp.) (Robert Hunter, J.) Appealed from New
Hanover County Superior Court. (Jay D. Hockenbury, J.) N.C. App.

Mediation - Settlement Agreement - Unsigned - Summary Judgment

Where the plaintiff never signed the handwritten agreement from the mediated
settlement conference, the defendants' motion for summary judgment was not
mooted by the settlement agreement.

Summary judgment for the defendants affirmed.

The only alleged agreement between the parties is a handwritten documents from
the mediated settlement conference, which the plaintiff never signed. A written
settlement agreement arising out of a mediated settlement conference will not ve
enforced unless it has been reduced to writing and signed by the parties.
Indeed, the terms of the handwritten document state that it is a "binding
contract between signatories in lieu of [a] forman agreement" and that
"signatories otherwise release any and all claims against each other arising out
of [the] transactions alleged in the complaint. " The plaintiff, who now urges
that the settlement was valid and should have barred summary judgment, was not a
signatory to the agreement. The plaintiff's argument that the defendants'
summary judgment motion was mooted by the settlement agreement is without merit.

The trial court did not err in not enforcing the purported settlement agreement
where the plaintiff neither signed the document nor asked the court to enforce
it.

Cohen Schatz Associates, Inc. v. Perry. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0492, 6 pp.)
(Robin E. Hudson, J.) Appealed from Wake County Superior Court. (Donald W.
Stephens, J.) N.C. App.

Criminal Practice

Search & Seizure - Motor Vehicle Stop - Public Vehicular Area - Reasonable
Suspicion

Where the defendant gave an officer permission to move the defendant's van out
of traffic in a store parking area, and where the officer detected the smell of
cocaine while he was in the van, the officer had probable cause to search the
van and did not need a warrant.

We affirm the trial court's denial of the defendant's motion to suppress.

An investigatory stop must be based on a reasonable articulable suspicion that a
person is, was, or will be involved in criminal activity.

Here, officers had a reasonable articulable suspicion that the defendant was
involved in illegal activity at the time they made the investigatory vehicle
stop. The uncontested findings of fact show (1) a confidential informant told
police that the defendant would be transporting cocaine that day, (2) the
defendant was driving a vehicle that matched the description given by the
informant, (3) the tag numbers on the vehicle matched that of the vehicle
registered to the defendant, (4) the defendant was driving on the suspected
route for drug transportation, and (5) the defendant crossed into Dare County at
the approximate time indicated by the informant. Therefore, the vehicle stop did
not violate Defendant's federal or state constitutional rights.

An officer does not need to obtain a warrant or have probable cause to enter a
vehicle if the owner of the vehicle gives consent. The findings of fact
explicitly state that the defendant "gave Sgt. Johnson permission to move the
van.... " As the defendant did not assign error to this finding of fact, it is
presumed correct. As consent was given, the defendant's federal and state
constitutional rights were not violated when Sergeant Johnson entered and moved
the vehicle.

A search warrant is not required before a lawful search based on probable cause
of a motor vehicle in a public roadway or in a public vehicular area may take
place.

Upon lawfully entering and moving the vehicle, Sergeant Johnson "smelled a
strong odor of what smelled like cocaine. " Plain smell of drugs by an officer
is evidence to conclude there is probable cause for a search.

The totality of the circumstances of the defendant's vehicle and identity match
to the informant's tip along with the odor of cocaine gave the officers probable
cause that an offense was being committed. Therefore, the officers did not
violate the defendant's federal or state constitutional rights when searching
the vehicle.

Affirmed.

State v. Downing. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0596, 10 pp.) (James A. Wynn Jr.,
J.) Appealed from Dare County Superior Court. (Cy Anthony Grant Sr., J.) N.C.
App.

Murder - Attempted Robbery - Evidence - Deposition - Constitutional

Even though Dr. Likonicci's deposition was testimonial in nature, and even
though the defendant availed himself of an opportunity to cross-examine Dr.
Lidonicci during the deposition, since the trial court failed to receive
evidence on or make a finding of unavailability, the trial court erred in
admitting Dr. Lidonicci's deposition.

However, the state presented other overwhelming evidence from which the jury
could find that the victim died from injuries caused by a shotgun wound to the
chest and that the defendant fired the shotgun inflicting the wound. Thus, any
error in admitting Dr. Lidonicci's deposition testimony was harmless beyond a
reasonable doubt.

No prejudicial error in the defendant's convictions of first-degree murder and
conspiracy to commit robbery with a dangerous weapon.

Even though, after being advised of his Miranda rights, the defendant asked for
his lawyer, when he was advised that the lawyer who was representing him on a
pending but unrelated charge had nothing to do with what the police wished to
talk to the defendant about, the defendant responded, "Oh, okay," and signed the
waiver of rights form. The defendant did not unequivocally assert his right to
counsel.

State v. Ash. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0495, 19 pp.) (John M. Tyson, J.)
Appealed from Cumberland County Superior Court. (James Floyd Ammons Jr., J.)
N.C. App.

Murder - Evidence - Lay Testimony - Mental Retardation

Where witness Lowery had ample opportunity to observe the defendant and to form
an opinion as to his mental condition, her shorthand comment that he "wasn't
mentally retarded" was admissible to describe the defendant's ability to
function on a daily basis.

No error in the defendant's conviction of first-degree murder.

The witness had lived with the defendant, saw him on a daily basis, and had the
opportunity to observe him in various situations. This testimony was relevant as
to whether the defendant had the necessary mens rea for first-degree murder and
helpful to a clear understanding of a fact in issue. Even though Lowery
testified that the defendant was not mentally retarded, when read in context, it
is apparent that she was not giving an expert opinion. Furthermore, it is clear
the state was not attempting to elicit expert testimony from Lowery regarding
the defendant's mental retardation. Thus, the trial court did not err in
permitting Lowery to give her opinion as to the defendant's mental capabilities.

Concurrence

(Wynn, J.) Lowery testified as to her observations of how the defendant
functioned on a daily basis and how he acted in certain situations. Such
testimony was clearly admissible under N.C. R. Evid. 701. However, Lowery also
stated that the defendant "wasn't mentally retarded," i.e., that the defendant
did not have a significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning. I do
not believe that Lowery's statement that the defendant was not mentally retarded
could rationally be based on the perception of the witness and therefore believe
the statement constituted improper lay opinion testimony.

While I believe the admission of such testimony was error, the error was
harmless. The record reflects that it was clear that Lowery was not an expert on
mental retardation, and the state proffered expert testimony that the defendant
was not mentally retarded and was capable of forming a plan and specific intent.

State v. McClain. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0500, 24 pp.) (Sanford L. Steelman
Jr., J.) (James A. Wynn Jr., concurring) Appealed from Mecklenburg County
Superior Court. (Ronald K. Payne, J.) N.C. App.

Breaking & Entering - Evidence - Out-of- Court Statement - Purported Accomplice

Where the defendant's pretrial statement to police implicated Curtis Dixon as an
accomplice, police Captain Peele's testimony regarding his impression of Dixon's
denial of involvement was admissible not as to Dixon's general credibility and
character, but rather as an explanation for why Dixon was not arrested.

No error in the defendant's convictions of felonious breaking and/or entering,
robbery with a dangerous weapon, and misdemeanor assault inflicting serious
injury.

State v. Carmon. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0498, 12 pp.) (Rick Elmore, J.)
Appealed from Greene County Superior Court. (Cy Grant, J.) N.C. App.

Bail - Bond Forfeiture - Notice - Mailing Certificate - Presumption of
Regularity

Even though the surety put on evidence that it did not receive notice of the
bond forfeiture, given the presumption of regularity accorded official actions
by public officers, the clerk of court's certificate of service was sufficient
evidence to support the trial court's order denying the surety's motion to
vacate the forfeiture.

Affirmed.

State v. Lopez. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0494, 8 pp.) (Robin E. Hudson, J.)
Appealed from Alamance County Superior Court. (Kenneth C. Titus, J.) N.C. App.

Heroin Trafficking - Conspiracy - Evidence - Drug Paraphernalia

Where the record reveals evidence of only one agreement between the defendant
and any other person (witness Batten), which encompassed both the transportation
of heroin from New York to Greensboro and their possession and sale of the
heroin once it arrived, the defendant may be convicted of only one conspiracy.

No error in the defendants' convictions of trafficking heroin by possession,
trafficking heroin by transportation, conspiracy to traffic heroin by
transportation, and possession with intent to sell or deliver heroin. Judgment
is arrested on the defendant's conviction of conspiracy to traffic heroin by
possession.

Since the second conspiracy offense was consolidated for judgment with other
offenses of the same class for sentencing purposes, and since the trial court
imposed the statutory sentence for trafficking in more than 14 grams but less
than 28 grams of heroin, the defendant's sentence is not affected.

Where, in her statement to the police, the defendant admitted that she brought
heroin from New York to sell and that she stayed at Ms. Batten's house on these
bimonthly trips, drug paraphernalia seized from Ms. Batten's house was
admissible.

State v. Howell. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0499, 13 pp.) (John C. Martin, Ch.J.)
Appealed from Guilford County Superior Court. (Henry E. Frye Jr., J.) N.C. App.

Cocaine Possession - Evidence - Prior Incidents - Common Plan or Scheme

Where two prior incidents were notably similar to the one which resulted in the
defendant's arrest in this case, the trial court properly admitted evidence of
the prior incidents pursuant to N.C. R. Evid. 404(b).

No error in the defendant's conviction of possession of cocaine with intent to
sell.

First, all three incidents occurred on premises of the Winston-Salem Housing
Authority, from which the defendant was banned. Second, the incidents all
involved crack cocaine. Third, in each instance, Officer Anthony approached the
defendant. Fourth, in each instance, the defendant attempted to flee when
approached by the police. These similarities allowed the jury to make a
reasonable inference that the defendant committed both the prior and present
acts.

The 1996 and 1997 incidents took place six and five years, respectively, prior
to the offense charged here. The defendant spent part of the time between the
1996 and 1997 incidents and the 2002 incident in prison. The 1996 and 1997
incidents were not too remote to be admissible.

State v. Stevenson. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0497, 9 pp.) (James A. Wynn Jr.,
J.) Appealed from Forsyth County Superior Court. (Lindsay R. Davis Jr., J.) N.C.
App.

Domestic Relations

Parent & Child - Parental Rights - Termination - 30- Day Limit - Indian Child
Welfare Act.

Where the hearing concluded on Aug. 22, 2002 and the order terminating parental
rights was not filed until Oct. 7, 2002, the district court's delay violated the
30-day provision of G.S. 7B-1109(e) and -1110(a); however, a reversal would
simply add further delay, and the respondent has failed to show any prejudice to
her as a result of the late filing of the order.

We affirm the order terminating the respondent's parental rights.

Even though the respondent's children are registered members of the Lumbee
Tribe, a state-recognized Indian Tribe, since the Indian Child Welfare Act only
applies to Indian children of federally recognized tribes, and since the Lumbees
are not a federally recognized tribe, the ICWA does not apply.

Concurrence

(Tyson, J.) I agree with the majority's holding that a 16-day delay, standing
alone, is insufficient to warrant a reversal where the respondent failed to
argue or show prejudice. However, our decision does not condone the delay in
entering the adjudication and disposition order beyond the time limits in the
statutes.

In re A.D.L. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0484, 20 pp.) (Wanda G. Bryant, J.)
Appealed from Guilford County District Court. (Wendy M. Enochs, J.) N.C. App.

Municipal

Housing Standards - Demolition Costs - Personal Property - Sale Proceeds

Where the parties dispute whether there were valuable personal property and
appurtenances on the defendants' property when the plaintiff-town demolished the
mobile homes thereon, summary judgment was improper.

Summary judgment for the town reversed. Remanded.

Under G.S. 160A-443(6)(c), the town was required to salvage any personal
property or appurtenances on the property, sell them, and apply the proceeds to
the cost of removal or demolition. The defendants alleged that the removed
mobile homes and their contents had a value of $5000, compared to the town's
demolition costs of $3284. The town contended that there was no salvageable
material on the property when the mobile homes were removed.

Because the existence and value of any personal property and appurtenances on
the defendants' property are genuine issues of material fact, summary judgment
for the town was not proper.

Town of Hertford v. Harris. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0490, 5 pp.) (Robin E.
Hudson, J.) Appealed from Perquimans County District Court. (Grafton G. Beaman,
J.) N.C. App.

Real Property

Easements - Railroad - Scope - Servient Estate Use - Injunction

Where a railroad bisects the defendant's land, the defendant may not construct a
mobile home park on his land in a way that interferes with the railroad's right
of way of 100 feet to either side of the tracks.

We affirm the injunction in favor of the plaintiff-railroad.

Where there is no record of state condemnation of the defendant's land or
ownership of the land by the Western North Carolina Railroad Co. (WNC), but
where WNC did build a railroad across the land, there is a statutory presumption
that the railroad has a right of way of 100 feet to either side of the tracks as
long as it continues to be used for a railroad.

Even though WNC's corporate existence lapsed, this did not eliminate the
easement gained by statutory presumption. Easements run with the land and are
not personal to the landowner. The plaintiff, as WNC's successor in interest,
succeeded to all the rights that WNC had in the right of way on the defendant's
land.

Areas of a right of way not required for railroad purposes may be used by the
servient owner in manners not inconsistent with the right of way. However,
further appropriation and use by the railroad of the right of way for necessary
railroad business may not be destroyed or impaired by reason of the occupation
of it by the owner or any other person.

"Use" by the railroad includes managing safety risks on its right of way. A
railroad is held accountable for the condition of the right of way; therefore, a
servient landowner may not unilaterally create risks that interfere with the
railroad's maintenance of the right of way.

It would be unreasonable to permit a railroad company to acquire a right of way
for the purpose of constructing its track and necessary buildings and, when it
is invaded or its enjoyment interfered with, confine the company to an action
for damages. In this way the operation of railroads might be so much hindered
that they would not be able to discharge their public duties, the primary object
for which they are chartered. Therefore, injunctive relief is an appropriate
means for preventing servient landowners from creating risks or other
interferences on a railroad's right of way.

The trial court's permanent injunction preventing the defendant from
construction or grading work within 25 feet of the center line is reasonable.
The close proximity of buildings or grading work to the tracks might obstruct
the view of the automobile crossing, making it unsafe and interfering with the
railroad's duty to maintain safe crossings.

Similarly, the trial court properly enjoined excavation near the tracks and use
of the water pipe beneath the tracks. Excavation and unapproved pipe
installation might damage the track bed and create risks to railroad operation.
Therefore, the injunction addresses legitimate risks related to the safe
maintenance of the roadbed, and the management of such risks is within the sound
business judgment of the railroad.

The trial court ordered the defendant to construct a safety fence to separate
the mobile home community from the plaintiff's track and to cap the water lines
running underneath the railroad bed. Because the defendant's actions created
foreseeable risks to the plaintiff's safe operation of the railroad, these
mandatory injunctions were proper to protect the enjoyment of the plaintiff's
easement.

Affirmed.

Norfolk Southern Railway Co. v. Smith. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0485, 11 pp.)
(John C. Martin, Ch.J.) Appealed from Jackson County Superior Court. (James U.
Downs, J.) N.C. App.

Condominium Complex - Declaration Amendment - Timeshare Prohibition - Civil
Practice - Standing - Potential Purchaser

Where the plaintiff withdrew its offer to purchase a condominium unit after the
defendant-homeowners' association amended the condo declaration to prohibit the
sale of timeshares, the plaintiff lacks standing to challenge the amendment.

We affirm the trial court's order granting the defendant's motion to dismiss.

The plaintiff has no legally protected interest, or "injury in fact," and
therefore lacks standing to bring this declaratory action. At the filing of the
complaint, the plaintiff was neither a party to a contract to purchase a
condominium, nor a property owner. Absent an enforceable contract right, an
action for declaratory relief to construe or apply a contract will not lie.

Although the plaintiff had entered into an offer to purchase contract for a
condominium, intending to convert the unit into a timeshare, the contract was
terminated. Thereafter, the plaintiff commenced this action. Perhaps the
sellers, who at all times owned the condominium, had standing to bring a
declaratory action against the defendant. However, the plaintiff, as a potential
purchaser, did not have standing.

Without a legally protected interest in the property, the plaintiff cannot
achieve the relief it now seeks. Consequently, the plaintiff has failed to
satisfy its burden of showing it had standing to bring an action against the
defendant for the amendment prohibiting timeshare units on the property.

Affirmed.

Beachcomber Properties, L.L.C. v. Station One, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No.
05-07-0488, 8 pp.) (Wanda G. Bryant, J.) Appealed from New Hanover County
Superior Court. (Russell J. Lanier, J.) N.C. App.

Municipal - Nuisance - Abatement Action - Insufficient Incidents

Even though police made many trips to the defendant's property, since only three
incidents over the course of 30 months constituted breaches of the peace, and
since confirmed drug activity only occurred on the property three times, the
plaintiff-city failed to establish a nuisance.

Judgment for the defendant affirmed.

Pursuant to G.S. 19-1, a public nuisance includes the "use, ownership or leasing
of any building or place for the purpose of ... illegal possession or sale of
controlled substances.... " G.S. 19-1.2, entitled "Types of Nuisances," provides
that where conduct prohibited in Sec. 19-1(a) is involved, a nuisance may be
declared at "every place which, as a regular course of business, is used for the
purposes of ... the illegal possession or sale of controlled substances ... and
every such place in or upon which ... the illegal possession or sale of
controlled substances ... [is] held or occur[s]. "

The requirement of "regular course of business" in Sec. 19-1.2(6), although not
set forth in Sec. 19-1(a), is to be given effect and interpreted as consistent
with the requirement of the owner's purpose.

In order to establish a nuisance, the city must show that the defendant leased
or used his property for the purpose of the illegal possession and sale of
drugs. As a means of showing the defendant's purpose in leasing or operating the
building, the city may present evidence that the sale of controlled substances
occurred regularly.

Confirmed drug activity occurred on the property three times since the year
2000. Although these events establish that some drug activity occurred at or
near the defendant's property, they are not sufficient to establish that drug
possession and sales occurred as a regular course of business. The city points
to no other evidence tending to show that the purpose of the defendant's leasing
the property was to conduct illegal drug sales. Therefore, the city has not
established a nuisance under G.S. 19-1(a) and 19-1.2.

G.S. 19-1(b) provides, "The ... use, ownership or leasing of any building or
place wherein or whereon are carried on, conducted, or permitted repeated acts
which create and constitute a breach of the peace shall constitute a nuisance. "
Accordingly, the city must establish that repeated breaches of the peace
occurred on the defendant's property.

Out of 24 trips to the property by police officers, seven involved service of
misdemeanor warrants and one involved a search warrant. There is no evidence
that these events involved any threats to other citizens or disturbed the public
order.

Six of the police officers' trips were in response to phone calls reporting
domestic disturbances. The nature of a domestic disturbance call is ambiguous,
and the evidence does not establish that these disturbances involved an assault
or any other unlawful activity that might be considered a breach of the peace.

Of the remaining trips, two involved assaults and one involved a disturbance
with shots fired.

These unlawful acts constitute breaches of the peace. However, these three
instances occurred over the course of approximately two and a half years. The
most recent of these instances happened nearly a year and a half before this
action was filed.

Pursuant to G.S. 19-1(b), only repeated acts that disturb the public order
constitute a nuisance. We do not believe that three incidents over the course of
two and a half years meets the standard of "repeated acts" set forth in G.S.
19-1(b). As such, the city has not established that the defendant's property
constitutes a nuisance under G.S. 19-1(b).

Affirmed.

State ex rel. City of Salisbury v. Campbell. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0491, 7
pp.) (Rick Elmore, J.) Appealed from Rowan County Superior Court. (Christopher
M. Collier, J.) N.C. App.

Tort/Negligence

Damages - Pain & Suffering - 'Severe Emotional Distress' - Defamation - Slander
- Oral Statements - Statute of Limitations

Even though the plaintiff offered no proof of "physical pain and suffering," she
may recover for emotional suffering.

The trial court erred by granting partial summary judgment for the defendants on
the issue of compensatory damages. The trial court correctly dismissed the
defendant-doctor's counterclaims. The trial court erred by failing to dismiss
the doctor's claim for punitive damages.

The plaintiff was the defendant-doctor's patient, and they entered into a
personal relationship. The plaintiff alleged claims of professional negligence,
breach of fiduciary duty, and intentional and negligent infliction of emotional
distress. The doctor asserted counterclaims, including one for slander per se.

The trial court granted summary judgment for the defendants as to the
plaintiff's claim for compensatory damages. The trial court dismissed the
doctor's counterclaims.

Compensatory Damages

The plaintiff did not allege "special damages" such as medical expenses, lost
wages, or other direct financial injury.

"Pain and suffering" may be a discrete basis for recovery. Moreover, physical
injury is only one aspect of "pain and suffering", which also may include
emotional suffering.

The doctor cites no cases in support of the proposition that the psychological
component of damages for "pain and suffering" must meet the same standard as the
element of "severe emotional distress" that is part of claims for infliction of
emotional distress, and we find none.

Counterclaims

The doctor's counterclaim sought damages for slander per se and did not assert a
claim for damages based on libel.

Under G.S. 1-54(3), the statute of limitations for a claim of slander or libel
is one year. Because the doctor's counterclaim was filed on Mar. 10, 2003, any
slanderous statements made before Mar. 10, 2002 are barred by the statute of
limitations. Review of the counterclaim reveals no allegations of any oral
defamation occurring after Mar. 10, 2002.

Indeed, the counterclaim includes only one allegation of behavior that is
arguably within the statute of limitations: "32. In the fall of 2002, Dr.
Harper's partner began receiving unsigned letters advising him that he had made
a mistake entering into a partnership with Dr. Harper and should reconsider that
partnership. "

Paragraph 32 refers only to "unsigned letters" and not to any spoken or oral
communication. Regardless of their content, "unsigned letters" cannot constitute
slander because they are written rather than spoken. The trial court properly
dismissed the doctor's complaint for slander per se as barred by the statute of
limitations.

Where the trial court properly dismissed the doctor's counterclaims, the doctor
has no basis on which to claim punitive damages. The trial court should have
dismissed the doctor's counterclaim for punitive damages.

Affirmed in part; reversed and remanded in part.

Iadanza v. Harper. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0493, 12 pp.) (Eric L. Levinson,
J.) Appealed from Wake County Superior Court. (Evelyn W. Hill, J.) N.C. App.

(See accompanying story on page one.)

Civil Practice - Statute of Limitations - Fraud - Attorneys

Where the plaintiff learned of the acts about which he complains more than six
years before he sued the defendant-attorney, the plaintiff's claims against the
attorney are barred by the statute of limitations.

We affirm the trial court's order granting the attorney's motion to dismiss.

The plaintiff sued the attorney "as attorney for [Hatteras Island Plaza
Partnership and] its partners, one of whom was [the plaintiff]. " A breach of
fiduciary duty is a species of negligence or professional malpractice.

The plaintiff has alleged that the attorney's "last act" giving rise to damages
sustained by the plaintiff in connection with the partnership's sale of a the
Hatteras Island shopping center occurred in February 1997-more than six years
before the attorney was sued on Apr. 22, 2003. Moreover, the Forrestbrook
Subdivision transaction is alleged to have occurred two years earlier, or some
eight years before the attorney was added to the plaintiff's lawsuit. Whether
the three- year statute of limitations or the four-year statute of repose
applies is immaterial as both had long passed by the time the plaintiff sued the
attorney.

The statute of limitations for actions for fraud is three years pursuant to G.S.
1-52(9). A cause of action alleging fraud is deemed to accrue upon discovery by
the plaintiff of facts constituting the fraud.

The core of the plaintiff's claim is that he has suffered damages by agreeing to
sell his partnership interest to defendant Keith, which he would have refused to
do had he known of Keith's ownership interest in the buyer. However, the
plaintiff received actual notice of Keith's ownership as of February 1998. Any
fraud claim predicated on the attorney's alleged failure to reveal or
misrepresentation concerning Keith's interest accrued then and had to have been
brought within three years or by February 2001. The plaintiff waited until Apr.
22, 2003 to bring his action against the attorney.

The plaintiff's claim that he is not required to adhere to the discovery
provisions of the statute of limitations because he has sued a lawyer with whom
he had an attorney-client relationship simply cannot be sustained. In Sharp v.
Gailor, 132 N.C. App. 213, 510 S.E.2d 702 (1999), this court refused to extend
the "continuing course of treatment doctrine" to legal malpractice claims.

Thus, the plaintiff's assertion here that "it is not alleged in the Complaint
when [the attorney] stopped acting as counsel for Carlisle or Stonehaven," is of
no relevance. The issues are when the last act of the attorney occurred and when
the plaintiff learned of Keith's ownership in the buyer of the property. A
review of the plaintiff's allegations establishes that date to be February 1998
(at the latest)-more than three years preceding the institution of this action
against the attorney.

The statute of limitations for negligent misrepresentation is three years
pursuant to G.S. 1- 52. A claim for negligent misrepresentation accrues and the
statute of limitations begins to run as soon as the right to institute and
maintain a suit arises.

Inasmuch as the plaintiff knew of Keith's ownership interest not later than
February 1998, he experienced "damage" which was "apparent or reasonably ought
to have become apparent to the claimant" no later than that time. Since this
action was not instituted until more than five years later, the trial court
properly concluded that the claim for negligent misrepresentation was barred by
the applicable statute of limitations.

This court has applied the three-year limitations period of G.S. 1-52(5) to a
civil conspiracy claim. Because the plaintiff brought his conspiracy claim more
than six years after the date of the shopping center transaction and eight years
after the subdivision transaction, this claim was time barred.

The statute of limitations in actions for constructive fraud is three years
pursuant to G.S. 1-52, which accrues upon discovery of the facts constituting
the fraud.

The plaintiff learned that Keith was involved in the ownership of the shopping
center purchaser in February 1998. His cause of action for constructive fraud
accrued then, and any claim predicated on the attorney's alleged failure to
reveal information about or misrepresentation concerning Keith's interest in the
purchaser had to have been brought by February 2001-two years before the
plaintiff added the attorney to this lawsuit.

The plaintiff now argues that the attorney failed to affirmatively plead the
statute of limitations defense in his written motion. However, the defense was
argued in the attorney's brief, and the plaintiff's brief responded to the
defense.

A trial court may consider a statute of limitations defense, though not raised
in a motion to dismiss, when the non-movant has not been surprised and has full
opportunity to argue and present evidence on the affirmative defense.

The plaintiff received the attorney's briefing on his statute of limitations
defense prior to the hearing on the motions, presented argument on that issue
before the trial court, and did not object that the attorney had identified the
defense in his memorandum rather than in his motion. The trial court properly
considered the attorney's statute of limitations defense as to the plaintiff's
claims for fraud, negligent misrepresentation and civil conspiracy.

The parties' memoranda did not present any factual evidence or allegations which
the trial court only properly address pursuant to a hearing for summary
judgment. Rather, the memoranda reiterated the current status of the law and
only presented the legal issue of whether the plaintiff's claims against the
attorney were barred by the statute of limitations. The trial court was not
required to convert the hearing to one for summary judgment.

Affirmed.

Carlisle v. Keith. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0487, 23 pp.) (Wanda G. Bryant, J.)
Appealed from Mecklenburg County Superior Court. (W. Erwin Spainhour, J.) N.C.
App.

Zoning

Municipal - Billboards - Neighborhood Compatibility - EMC Regulations

Where billboards were included as a conditional use in the relevant zoning
district, there was a presumption that billboards were in harmony with the
general zoning plan, and speculative assertions and mere opinion evidence were
insufficient to rebut the presumption.

The Town of Franklinton is directed to issue the permits, and the ruling of the
trial court is reversed.

Testimony that a billboard could be seen from a particular location is simply
irrelevant as to whether or not the billboard is incompatible with the
neighborhood. Anyone who could see the billboards could also see the commercial
businesses, which had signage as well. The permit should have been issued as the
record does not contain substantial evidence that the proposed billboards were
incompatible with the surrounding areas.

One proposed billboard would have been too close to a stream, thus violating the
rules of the N.C. Environmental Management Commission. During the hearing, the
petitioner agreed to relocate the billboard in order to comply with the EMC
rules. Instead of denying the permit, the Town should have issued the permit
subject to a condition that the billboard comply with EMC rules and its location
be approved by that agency.

Reversed.

MCC Outdoor, LLC v. Franklinton Board of Commissioners. (Lawyers Weekly No.
05-07-0483, 9 pp.) (Douglas McCullough, J.) Appealed from Franklin County
Superior Court. (Robert H. Hobgood, J.) N.C. App.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Kirkus Reviews (Print)

                           October 15, 2013, Tuesday

HOW TO SURVIVE WITHIN OUR HEALTHCARE SYSTEM

SECTION: NONFICTION; Health Care

LENGTH: 427  words


This short booklet of 12 chapters serves a clear purpose: to raise awareness
about individual accountability in the fields of health care and medicine.
Physician PhilipScheinberg and his wife, Linda, a nurse, succinctly illuminate
the dangers of a health care system in which patients are too trusting of their
practitioners and too oblivious to rapid changes that can impact daily medicine.
For example, in one revealing chapter, the authors warn of hospital-acquired
infections resulting from improper sanitation methods and procedural mistakes.

The authors warn readers to head to the hospital equipped with sanitary wipes
and disinfectant, since hospital beds and equipment are often not sanitized
between patients, causing bacterial infections to spread and impacting a
multitude of patients each year. Perhaps these candid suggestions wouldn't be so
powerful were they not informed by the authors' several combined decades of
hospital experience. Aside from these types of invisible dangers, the book also
discusses procedural mistakes made in physicians' offices and surgery rooms. As
the authors explain, these mistakes, which are generally due to patient overload
and understaffing, can range from medication mix-ups to surgery on the wrong
limb or wrong side of the body. In short, the book reveals much in a small
number of pages. Rather than overwhelming the lay reader with medical facts and
statistics, the authors instead seem intent on raising awareness among patients
about the need for more self-accountability. The book also suggests a few
remedies: For example, researching your physician and boldly asking necessary
questions about training and expertise can aid in receiving the appropriate
treatment. The book points out that in modern health care, no family physician
or general practitioner can be expected to have specialized knowledge about all
diseases and conditions. Furthermore, the book suggests that readers learn as
much as they can about health care policy and insurance plans, since each
individual necessitates a different approach to care, depending upon conditions
and finances. All in all, this book serves an important role in showing the
flaws in a system that is perceived, by many, to be sterile and infallible.
Readers will likely be grateful for a breath of candid reality spoken from the
doctors themselves. A blunt, useful guide to approaching health care with more
knowledge and less blind trust

Publication Date: 2013-04-12

Publisher: CreateSpace

Stage: Indie

ISBN: 978-1480118959

Price: $9.95

Author: Scheinberg, Philip A.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                        Copyright 2013 Kirkus Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Northern Daily Leader

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Doctors call on pollies to 'think rural'

SECTION: EARLY GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 288 words


THE peak lobbying body for rural doctors has called on the major parties to
commit to better support of NSW rural hospitals if elected on March 28.

Rural Doctors Association of NSW (RDANSW) president Christopher Gittoes said in
the past two election campaigns, the association had continually called for more
support for rural hospitals, only to have those pleas ignored.

"People living in smaller rural towns don't expect that they will have their
coronary bypass surgery in their town, but they deserve and warrant access to
solid primary and initial hospital care, and to have day surgery and simple
procedures performed as closely to home as possible," Dr Gittoes said. "Women
should be able to safely give birth as close as possible to home without having
to travel hours for weeks on end to a distant maternity unit.

"Time and again it has been shown that district hospitals are both a safe and
cost-effective setting in which to provide hospital and basic procedural and
obstetric care.

"And furthermore, without strong local foundations of primary care, both patient
care and health budgets explode."

He said the development of the NSW rural generalist program which provides GPs
with training in obstetrics, anaesthetics and emergency medicine was a step in
the right direction, but that the incoming state government would "need to put
its money where its mouth is" to ensure there were viable rural hospital in
which these doctors could work.

"They are the future, the pipeline, of rural medicine," Dr Gittoes said.

"This will require an investment in rural hospitals to ensure that current
services are maintained and not reduced as has happened and even be expanded to
enable more procedural work to be undertaken at them."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              May 23, 2008 Friday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

EDITORIAL;
NOT ANOTHER `KILLER KING';
COUNTY OFFICIALS MUST NOT ALLOW OLIVE VIEW TO HAVE SAME LACK OF OVERSIGHT AS
KING-DREW

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 310 words


DESPITE two unfortunate and apparently avoidable patient deaths last year that
caused the state to levy $50,000 in fines, many patients have received excellent
care at Olive View-UCLA Medical Center in Sylmar.

And county officials should do everything they can to make sure the care stays
excellent.

Indeed, it's not clear that the deaths signal anything more than a couple of
tragic but normal mistakes. Even the most skilled health-care workers are human,
and thus prone to error from time to time. These are the first fines for Olive
View since 2006 legislation that allowed the state Department of Health to start
issuing $25,000 fines to hospitals for procedural and other violations. Other
hospitals have also been cited.

Still, after recent events at King-Drew Medical Center (which has since changed
its name to Martin Luther King-Harbor Hospital), even the suspicion that there's
mismanagement brewing should send county officials scrambling to ensure that
proper oversight is firmly in place at Olive View.

The county can't afford to let the kind of mismanagement that nearly took down
the South Los Angeles hospital gain even the slightest foothold at Olive View.

The wake-up call to pay attention does not let the county off the hook. The two
deaths were avoidable: One patient died from delay in getting an antidote for
oleander poisoning; the second death was the result of lack of communication
among hospital staffers.

Regardless, it behooves county health officials and the Board of Supervisors to
closely monitor procedural changes at Olive View. Lack of

accountability and oversight in county administration allowed the former
King-Drew hospital to fall into such a state that it was reviled by patients and
will forever be known as ``Killer King.''

County officials cannot allow the same to happen at Olive View. Whatever it
takes, they cannot allow it.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                           February 2, 2012 Thursday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Errors slashed

BYLINE: Marianne Betts, health reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 150  words


HOSPITAL errors in Australia could be drastically reduced by electronic
prescriptions, new research suggests.

It comes as the Federal Government plans to introduce electronic health records
for patients from July 1, and electronic prescribing is also expected to be
implemented further down the track.

The New South Wales University study found medication prescribing errors could
be slashed by up to 66 per cent with the introduction of electronic prescribing
technology in hospitals.

The study reviewed more than 3200 patient records, looking at procedural errors,
which included incomplete or unclear medication orders, as well as clinical
mistakes, such as incorrect doses or drugs.

The study, led by Professor Johanna Westbrook, found procedural prescribing
error rates fell by more than 90 per cent, and the most serious mistakes dropped
by 44 per cent.

The study is published in journal PLoS Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Cardiac clinic to be part of hospital

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 347  words


A SPECIALISED clinic to diagnose and treat patients with heart disease will open
on the Sunshine Coast within six months.

The establishment of a cardiac catheter laboratory at Nambour General Hospital
is part of the region's health services ramp-up ahead of the opening of Sunshine
Coast University Hospital in 2016.

Health Minister Geoff Wilson officially opened Nambour's new 96-bed Block 3 ward
yesterday.

The new block, which will improve patient flow over the next five years,
contains a specialist outpatients department, ante-natal and paediatric clinics,
a special care nursery, a paediatric ward, and respiratory and general wards.

Mr Wilson said the new block had been specifically designed to improve the flow
of patients through the hospital.

"By focusing on things like design and layout we can make the hospital run more
efficiently and improve patient outcomes," he said.

"The new outpatients department has been designed in four colour coded pods,
with consulting, interviewing and treatment rooms.

"The department also has its own satellite x-ray facilities.

"This will allow patients to have their x-rays within the outpatient department
rather than having to walk or be transferred to the existing medical imaging
located in another area of the hospital."

The cardiac laboratory, plus a vascular surgery procedural suite and a dedicated
endoscopy procedural unit, are already under construction.

Those services will transfer to the university hospital come 2016.

The State Government has allocated a budget of $96 million every year for four
years to attract the equivalent of 240 full-time new staff needed for the new
450-bed hospital.

Sunshine Coast Health District CEO Kevin Hegarty said Nambour hospital would
continue to provide a range of acute services post 2016, including emergency.

HOW IT GREW

 Demolition of the old Block 3 started in January, 2009

Construction of new Block 3 building started in April, 2009

At the peak of construction more than 200 people were employed on site

Construction used 8500 mÂ³ concrete, 1033 tonne reinforcing bar, 3860 mÂ²mesh

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly

                                January 21, 2002

U.S. Court of Appeals 1st Circuit Case Summaries: January 21, 2002

BYLINE: Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 4641  words


Administrative

Hospital - Medicare Reclassification

Where a hospital filed a complaint in U.S. District Court seeking judicial
review of an administrative decision which dismissed as untimely its request for
Medicare reclassification, the District Court acted properly in dismissing the
complaint based on a statutory provision precluding judicial review.

Dismissal order affirmed

Bar To Review

"Plaintiff-Appellant, Jordan Hospital, Inc., filed this lawsuit challenging the
dismissal of its request for reclassification into a neighboring geographic
region. Success in obtaining reclassification would have entitled Jordan to an
additional $1.8 million in Medicare reimbursements for the fiscal year in
question. The district court dismissed Jordan's complaint for lack of subject
matter jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. Sect. 1331, and Jordan now appeals.

"First, Jordan disputes the district court's conclusion that judicial review of
this administrative decision is precluded by law. Second, Jordan challenges the
validity of the implementing regulations underlying the reclassification process
... as inconsistent with the statutory scheme set forth in 42 U.S.C. Sect.
1395ww, and alleges that its procedural due process rights have been violated.
Finally, Jordan posits that the district court erred because the statutory
deadline for filing a reclassification application is subject to the doctrine of
equitable tolling. Finding all of Jordan's arguments meritless, we affirm. ...

"Defendants argued, and the district court agreed, that Jordan's claim was
barred by the 'no review' provision of the Medicare Act, 42 U.S.C. Sect.
1395wW(d)(10)(C)(iii)(II), which specifically states that '[t]he decision of the
[Administrator] shall be final and shall not be subject to judicial review. '
...

"In the face of this clear congressional mandate against review, Jordan lodges a
constitutional challenge, arguing that its procedural due process rights were
violated because it was denied an opportunity to be heard on the merits of its
reclassification application. More specifically, Jordan alleges that [Health
Care Financing Administration]'s publication of erroneous information gave it
inadequate notice of its eligibility, thus causing Jordan to file late. ...

"To prevail on its procedural due process claim, Jordan must show both that it
had a recognized liberty or property interest, and was deprived of that interest
without adequate notice or a meaningful opportunity to be heard. ... Assuming,
without deciding, that Jordan has a legitimate property interest in receiving
reimbursement payments, we must then determine whether Jordan raises a colorable
constitutional claim. We find that it has not.

"HCFA's regulatory scheme provides hospitals with a meaningful opportunity to be
heard on reclassification, and accords them sufficient procedural protections.
HCFA's publication of erroneous data, while unfortunate, did not deprive Jordan
of its rights. HCFA takes significant steps to insure that the wage data
obtained from hospitals subject to [the prospective payment system] are
reasonably accurate. ... Jordan could not realistically have assumed that the
wage index information would always be accurate, and that if an error were
found, it would be remedied in time to permit a reclassification request. ... "

Jordan Hospital, Inc. v. Shalala (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-011-02) (16 pages)
(Stahl, Sr. Cir. J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a decision by Zobel, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Bruce A. Singal, with
Paul M. Barrett and William C. Athanas on brief, for the plaintiff-appellant;
Anita Johnson, with James B. Farmer on brief, for the defendants-appellees
(Docket No. 01-1614).

Civil Practice

Dismissal - Res Judicata

Where (1) in 1999, the plaintiffs filed suit in district court claiming that the
defendants had defrauded them by submitting false documents to the Superior
Court of Puerto Rico in a previous lawsuit, (2) the court granted the defendants
summary judgment on the ground that the plaintiffs had failed to raise a genuine
issue of material fact by not satisfying the heightened pleading requirements of
Fed. R. Civ. 9(b), (3) the plaintiffs did not appeal but instead filed the
present suit in Puerto Rico Superior Court and (4) after the suit was removed to
federal court, the defendants moved to dismiss, we hold that a judge correctly
allowed the defendants' dismissal motion on the basis of res judicata.

Affirmed.

Analysis

"The doctrine of res judicata promotes the goals of fairness and efficiency by
preventing vexatious or repetitive litigation. ... A claim will be precluded by
res judicata if the following elements are demonstrated: '(1) a final judgment
on the merits in an earlier suit, (2) sufficient identicality between the causes
of action asserted in the earlier and later suits, and (3) sufficient
identicality between the parties in the two suits. ' ...

"In the instant case, all three factors are so clearly present that only a brief
discussion of them is necessary. First, the summary judgment ruling that
disposed of plaintiffs' earlier claim constitutes 'a final judgment on the
merits. ' ... Second, by plaintiffs' own admission, the instant case is
identical to the previous suit. Third, there is no question that the two suits
contain the same parties.

"Because we find no error in the district court's application of res judicata,
we affirm. "

Caballero-Rivera, et al. v. The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., et al. (Lawyers
Weekly No. 01-013-02) (4 pages) (Per Curiam) (1st Circuit) Appealed from the
U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico (Docket No. 01-1985).

Civil Rights

Fair Housing Act - Town's Rescission Of Support For Housing Project

Where plaintiff landowners brought suit alleging that the defendant town, by
rescinding its support of the plaintiffs' affordable-housing project, violated
the Federal Fair Housing Act, we hold that the failure of the plaintiffs' to
show either discriminatory intent or discriminatory impact requires that a
summary judgment for the town be affirmed.

In addition, finding no violation of the plaintiffs' rights to due process and
equal protection, we go on to affirm a judgment for the town on a 42 U.S.C.
Sect. 1983 count.

Macone, et al. v. Town of Wakefield (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-009-02) (19 pages)
(Torruella, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a judgment by Keeton, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. David J. Gallagher for
the plaintiffs-appellants; Patrick J. Costello for the defendant-appellee
(Docket No. 01-1414).

Criminal

Conspiracy - Distribution Of Crack Cocaine - Presence Of Alternate Juror

Where a defendant has appealed his convictions for distributing crack cocaine
and conspiring to distribute crack cocaine, the appeal must be rejected, as the
defendant's claims - that the presence of an alternate juror tainted the jury's
deliberations and that the evidence presented at trial was insufficient to
support the verdict - have been forfeited and, in addition, are without merit.

Analysis

"The jury that heard [defendant Felix C.] Reynoso's case consisted of twelve
jurors and two alternates. The alternates were dismissed after the jury was
charged, but one of them stayed with the jury during its deliberations, contrary
to the court's instructions. When the alternate's presence was brought to the
court's attention, the district judge interviewed all twelve jurors and
determined that the alternate had taken no part in the deliberations. He
nevertheless offered to grant Reynoso a mistrial, but Reynoso declined after
consulting with his lawyer. The jury later convicted Reynoso on all four counts.

"Whether or not the presence of the alternate during deliberations was a
violation of the current Fed. R. Crim. P. 24(c), which was amended in 1999 to
permit alternates to be retained in certain circumstances, it creates no grounds
for reversal. Arguably, Reynoso's decision to forego a mistrial constitutes
waiver of any claim of error. ... However, there is some authority under the old
version of the rule suggesting that - in order to preserve the integrity of the
jury system - errors of this kind should not be excused by agreement of the
parties. ...

"Whether or not the claim is deemed waived, it was certainly forfeited by
Reynoso's failure to object and is reviewable only for plain error - requiring
far more than just that the error be clear. Among other requirements, Reynoso
must show that the alternate's presence created actual prejudice. ... But after
due investigation the district court supportably found that the alternate had
not affected the deliberations, and Reynoso offers no evidence or arguments to
the contrary.

"Reynoso's sufficiency claim is also forfeit because he failed to renew his Rule
29 motion after the presentation of his defense. ... The evidence implicating
Reynoso included testimony of an undercover police officer who bought crack from
Reynoso on three occasions, and of two co-conspirators who helped Reynoso sell
crack. This was more than sufficient to support the verdict; there was thus no
error at all, let alone the gross injustice needed to avoid the forfeiture. ...

"Affirmed. "

United States v. Reynoso (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-018-02) (3 pages) (Per Curiam)
(1st Circuit) (Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District of New
Hampshire (Docket No. 01-1339).

Convictions Under RICO And VICAR

Where two defendants have appealed their convictions under the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and the Violent Crimes in Aid of
Racketeering statute, the convictions must be affirmed despite the "multitude"
of issues raised by the defendants.

"Defendants have been very ably represented but their arguments do not prevail.
We outline some of the significant rulings of law in this opinion.

"1) We hold on the facts of this case that statements made by defendants' fellow
members of a larger conspiracy in furtherance of that larger conspiracy are
admissible as coconspirator statements under Rule 801(d)(2)(E), even when the
declarants are members of an opposing faction fighting over control of the
larger conspiracy.

"2) We interpret the 'through a pattern of racketeering activity' requirement
under RICO, and hold that a sufficient nexus for the purposes of a substantive
RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. Sect. 1962(c) exists between the racketeering
acts and the enterprise when the defendant was able to commit the predicate acts
by means of, by consequence of, by reason of, by the agency of, or by the
instrumentality of his membership in the enterprise.

"3) We hold that the jurisdictional requirement of both RICO and VICAR require
only that the crime have some effect on interstate commerce.

"4) We hold that a substantive RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. Sect. 1962(c) and
a RICO conspiracy under 18 U.S.C. Sect. 1962(d) are not the same offense for the
purposes of double jeopardy analysis, and can therefore be punished separately.
"

United States v. Marino, et al. (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-017-02) (49 pages)
(Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a judgment entered by Gorton, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Robert L. Sheketoff for
defendant-appellant Vincent Marino; Terrance J. McCarthy for defendant-appellant
John J. Patti III; Cynthia A. Young, with James B. Farmer on brief, for the
United States (Docket Nos. 00-1739 and 00-1813).

Narcotics Conspiracy - 'Ineffective Assistance' Claims

Where a defendant, who has been convicted of conspiracy to possess heroin with
intent to distribute, has filed an appeal, we reject that appeal because we find
no merit in any of the defendant's several allegations of ineffective assistance
by trial counsel.

Reyes-Vejerano v. United States (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-016-02) (12 pages)
(Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District
of Puerto Rico (Docket No. 01-1187).

Possession of Explosives

Where a defendant has appealed his conviction for being a felon in possession of
explosives, we hold that the appeal must fail.

We so decide because: (1) the evidence presented at trial was sufficient to
demonstrate the defendant's knowing possession of explosives in violation of 18
U.S.C. Sect. 842(i)(1); and (2) the trial judge acted permissibly in admitting
evidence of the defendant's prior uncharged misconduct relating to his
involvement in a burglary of an explosives depot in 1993, as such evidence was
relevant to show the defendant's predisposition to commit the crime alleged in
the present case and was not unduly inflammatory.

Affirmed.

United States v. Van Horn (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-015-02) (21 pages) (Lipez, J.)
(1st Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District of New
Hampshire (Docket No. 00-2275).

Employment

Discrimination - National Origin - Pretext

Where a plaintiff filed suit under Title VII alleging that the defendant
employer committed national origin discrimination by not promoting him and by
subsequently firing him, a summary judgment for the defendant should be affirmed
because of the plaintiff's insufficient evidence that the defendant's stated
reasons for its actions were a pretext for discrimination.

Insufficient Showing

"[Plaintiff] Ramon Zapata-Matos was terminated in 1993 from his position with
L&F Products as General Manager for all operations in Puerto Rico, Mexico, and
the Caribbean. He had been with the company since 1983 and had received a number
of promotions, although in 1992 the company declined to create and promote him
to a Regional Director's position as he had requested. Zapata's employment was
terminated on September 28, 1993. He sued under Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. Sect. 2000e-2 (1994), saying he had been discriminated
against on the basis of his national origin as a Puerto Rican.

"In a thoughtful opinion and order, the magistrate judge granted summary
judgment for defendant L&F. The court concluded that Zapata had 'presented
insufficient evidence from which a rational fact finder could conclude that in
failing to promote, and subsequently terminating Zapata, L&F Products
discriminated against him on the basis of his Puerto Rican heritage. ' We agree,
and affirm. In so doing we clarify what is meant by evidence of pretext and the
ultimate issue of discrimination. ...

"Reeves [v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc., 530 U.S. 133, 147 (2000)]
reinforced the prior law in this circuit that even if the trier of fact
disbelieves the nondiscriminatory explanation given by the employer, the trier
is not compelled to find that the real reason was discrimination. ... That is
because the ultimate question is not whether the explanation was false, but
whether discrimination was the cause of the termination. We have adhered to a
case by case weighing. ... Nonetheless, disbelief of the reason may, along with
the prima facie case, on appropriate facts, permit the trier of fact to conclude
that the employer had discriminated. ... Ultimately, the question is one of the
sufficiency of plaintiff's evidence. ...

"In this case, ... no reasons were given at termination and no contemporaneous
documents stating a reason at the time of termination have been introduced. No
reasons are given in the answer to the complaint, save for a pleading that
plaintiff was terminated for just cause. We thus turn to the explanations that
the managers involved gave at their depositions for terminating Zapata. Those
explanations ... are themselves consistent and not contradicted by either
contemporaneous documents or statements made at termination, or statements made
later. Further, the explanations are quite credible in light of the preceding
events.

"Zapata argues that the four L&F employees who resigned right before his
termination did not make negative comments about his management style to the
decisionmakers, because neither the four employees nor the management voiced
these complaints to him. That is not a serious argument. It is human nature for
a person not to tell someone to his face about complaints he has just made about
him. And management did not give him any reasons, he says.

"More serious is the argument that nothing in the prior work history suggests
that Zapata was a poor manager. A trier of fact could reasonably think that this
raises questions about the sudden emergence, albeit in a time of extreme
pressure, of a managerial style problem on Zapata's part. On the other hand, a
trier of fact could much more readily conclude that the employer's explanation
was not a pretext, was quite true, and was reinforced by two facts: four top
employees had just resigned rather than work with Zapata in a difficult period,
and the company well knew Zapata had been balking at the directives from the
parent company.

"The question on summary judgment is whether the slight suggestion of pretext
present here, absent other evidence from which discrimination can be inferred,
meets plaintiff's ultimate burden. We hold it cannot. This case fits into the
category Reeves described of plaintiff creating (at best) a weak issue of fact
as to pretext on the face of strong independent evidence that no discrimination
occurred. ... Considering, as Reeves, 530 U.S. at 158, mandates, the strength of
plaintiff's prima facie case, the probative value of the proof that the
employer's explanation is false, and other evidence supporting the employer's
case, the employer is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. "

Zapata-Matos v. Reckitt & Colman, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-014-02) (15 pages)
(Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District
of Puerto Rico (Docket No. 00-2546).

Habeas Corpus

Time Limit - Equitable Tolling

Where a petitioner convicted of gross sexual assault in Maine filed a request
for federal habeas corpus relief, the application for relief was properly
dismissed as time-barred under the controlling one-year limitation period.

Untimely Request

"This appeal is the latest in an ever-lengthening line of cases trailing in the
wake of Congress's enactment of a limitation period for the filing of federal
habeas petitions. ... The limitation period is part of the Antiterrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA), Pub. L. No. 104-132, 110 Stat. 214 (1996).
The statute of limitations for federal review of state prisoners' habeas
applications is codified at 28 U.S.C. Sect. 2244(d)(1). ...

"Any discussion of timeliness must start with the Law Court's rejection of the
petitioner's direct appeal on August 8, 1997. Giving the petitioner the benefit
of the ninety-day grace period for seeking certiorari review by the United
States Supreme Court, 28 U.S.C. Sect. 2101(c), the district court ruled that the
one-year statute of limitations began to accrue on the day after this grace
period ended: November 7, 1997. The court counted forward 101 days and then
stopped the accrual process as of February 17, 1998 - the date on which the
petitioner filed for state post-conviction relief. ...

"Noting that the Law Court denied a [certificate of probable cause] (and, thus,
ended the petitioner's quest for state post-conviction relief) on December 22,
1999, the court resumed the count as of December 23. At that point, there were
264 days left within which to seek federal habeas review. The court determined
that this 264-day window closed on September 11, 2000 The petitioner's federal
habeas application is deemed filed, under the prisoner mailbox rule, on
September 23, 2000. ... The petitioner did not act until after that date. Thus,
the court considered his federal habeas action time-barred (twelve days late)
absent a showing of some sufficiently excusatory set of circumstances.
Discerning none, the court dismissed the application. ...

"The petitioner premises his claim of equitable tolling on a delay in obtaining
the transcript of the evidentiary hearing held in the state superior court in
connection with his state petition for post-conviction review. ...

"To sum up, the district court found that the petitioner had no compelling need
for the hearing transcript in order to prepare his federal habeas application;
and that, in all events, the petitioner dawdled for nearly two months after
receiving it before he filed his application. In view of these supportable
findings, we discern no abuse of discretion in the court's ultimate conclusion
that the petitioner did not establish the kind of extraordinary circumstances
that are necessary to justify equitable tolling. After all, 'equitable tolling
is strong medicine, not profligately to be dispensed,' ... and the trial court's
judgment about so factbound a matter is entitled to considerable respect. ...

"We need go no further. As the district court found, the habeas petition was
time-barred and equitable tolling was not available to salvage it. The court,
therefore, properly terminated the proceeding. "

Donovan v. State (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-010-02) (15 pages) (Selya, J.) (1st
Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine (Docket
No. 01-1367).

Negligence

Injury Aboard Rescue Boat - Jury Instructions

Where (1) a plaintiff cruise ship captain sued the defendant ship operator for
negligence after he fell out of a small rescue boat and was struck in the leg by
the boat's outboard motor, (2) a jury returned a verdict for the defendant and
(3) the plaintiff now appeals, claiming errors in the trial judge's jury
instructions, we decide that the verdict for the defendant must be upheld
because the jury instructions given, taken as a whole, correctly stated the law.

Jury Instructions Examined

"[Plaintiff Robert F.] Gifford contends that the judge's final comment - that
the jury should focus on the time 'when he was being hurt' - was an incorrect
statement of the law because it gave the jury the erroneous impression that it
had to find the [rescue boat] Zodiac unseaworthy at the precise moment of
Gifford's injury (when the propeller hit his leg) to hold [defendant American
Canadian Caribbean Line, Inc.] liable. He points out that although the Zodiac
was unseaworthy when it allegedly hesitated and surged forward, tossing him
overboard, the engine was running smoothly at the precise moment the propeller
hit his leg, and the jury could therefore have found that the Zodiac was
seaworthy.

"'Our review of jury instructions is de novo to ascertain whether the challenged
instruction has "a tendency to confuse or mislead the jury with respect to the
applicable principles of law. "' ... However, 'it is axiomatic that "a single
instruction to a jury may not be judged in artificial isolation, but must be
viewed in the context of the overall charge. "' ...

"We agree with Gifford that it would have been an error of law for the district
court to require that the Zodiac be unseaworthy at the precise moment of his
injury, rather than at the time he fell out of the boat. Unseaworthiness at the
time Gifford fell out of the Zodiac could obviously have been a direct and
substantial cause of his subsequent injury. We conclude, however, that the
district court's instructions, taken as a whole, did not suggest that the jury
should focus on the precise moment of Gifford's injury.

"In her initial charge to the jury, the judge explained that Gifford had to show
that the boat's unseaworthiness was 'a substantial direct cause of his injuries.
' In response to the jury's question - 'At what point are we determining the
seaworthiness of the Zodiac?' - the judge explained three times that the jury
should focus on the condition of the Zodiac 'at any time surrounding the
accident and leading up to the plaintiff's being hurt. ' She also suggested,
consistent with that instruction, that the jury focus on the time 'when he fell
out of the boat. ' In the specific context of this case, these explanations are
consistent with the general requirement that the Zodiac's unseaworthiness be a
direct and substantial cause of Gifford's injury. Based on the evidence at
trial, Gifford would not have been injured if he had not fallen out of the boat.
The critical question on the unseaworthiness claim was whether the
unseaworthiness of the Zodiac was a direct and substantial cause of that fall.
The district court was therefore correct to direct the jury's attention to the
'time surrounding the accident and leading up to the plaintiff's being hurt,' or
'when he fell out of the boat. ' The parties agree with this focus.

"Only after these explanations did the court say that the jury should focus on
'when he was being hurt. ' In this context, the jury would have understood the
phrase 'when he was being hurt' to be simply another reference to the 'time
surrounding the accident' or 'when he fell out of the boat. ' While a more
precise formulation would have been preferable, we are unpersuaded that this one
remark, taken in the context of the instructions as a whole, had a tendency to
confuse or mislead the jury. ...

"The alternatives the jury set out in its question to the judge buttress our
conclusion that the jury was not misled by the judge's final comment. The jury
asked if unseaworthiness should be determined 'from the time the Zodiac was
dropped into the water' (at which time the engine was indisputably not working),
or 'at the point of the accident,' defined by one juror during the colloquy with
the judge as 'when the boat was moving and he fell out of the boat' (at which
time the engine's condition was disputed). In other words, the jury appears to
have been uncertain what to do if - as some of the evidence suggested - the
Zodiac was unseaworthy when it was dropped into the water, but seaworthy when
Gifford fell out of it. The jury's question does not evidence any concern about
the distinction between the point at which Gifford fell out of the boat and the
point at which the propeller hit Gifford's leg, a distinction upon which Gifford
claims the verdict turned.

"Nor do we believe that the judge's final words precipitated a sudden shift in
the jury's focus. Gifford argues that the jury must have taken her final comment
to mean it should focus on the precise moment of his injury, because 'the
members of this jury had proven themselves to be unafraid of questioning the
Court, asking five follow up questions during the brief time in which they had
returned to the courtroom for the response to their original written question. '
Gifford reasons that 'there can be no doubt that they would have asked more
questions if they felt that they did not understand what the District Court was
saying. ' We believe that the opposite inference is more compelling: if the jury
thought that the judge's final comment required it to disregard the instruction
she had just repeated three times, it would have requested clarification. We
deem it most improbable that the jury would have engaged in a fundamental
reorientation of its deliberations, with no further questions, based on the
judge's ambiguous final remark. Therefore, the absence of such questions
supports our determination that the jurors interpreted the judge's final comment
as a reiteration of her previous explanation. They would have understood 'when
he was being hurt' as a shorthand for the 'time surrounding the accident and
leading up to the plaintiff's being hurt. ' Reading the instructions in their
entirety and in the context of the question the jury posed, as we must, we
conclude that the instructions did not have a tendency to confuse or mislead the
jury. ...

"Affirmed. "

Gifford v. American Canadian Caribbean Line, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-012-02)
(10 pages) (Lipez, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a judgment entered by Zobel,
J., in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. David F.
Anderson, with whom David J. Berg was on brief, for the plaintiff-appellant;
Brian B. Kydd for the defendant-appellee (Docket No. 00-1688).

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2002 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly

                                January 21, 2002

U.S. Court of Appeals 1st Circuit Case Summaries: January 21, 2002

BYLINE: Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 4641  words


Administrative

Hospital - Medicare Reclassification

Where a hospital filed a complaint in U.S. District Court seeking judicial
review of an administrative decision which dismissed as untimely its request for
Medicare reclassification, the District Court acted properly in dismissing the
complaint based on a statutory provision precluding judicial review.

Dismissal order affirmed

Bar To Review

"Plaintiff-Appellant, Jordan Hospital, Inc., filed this lawsuit challenging the
dismissal of its request for reclassification into a neighboring geographic
region. Success in obtaining reclassification would have entitled Jordan to an
additional $1.8 million in Medicare reimbursements for the fiscal year in
question. The district court dismissed Jordan's complaint for lack of subject
matter jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. Sect. 1331, and Jordan now appeals.

"First, Jordan disputes the district court's conclusion that judicial review of
this administrative decision is precluded by law. Second, Jordan challenges the
validity of the implementing regulations underlying the reclassification process
... as inconsistent with the statutory scheme set forth in 42 U.S.C. Sect.
1395ww, and alleges that its procedural due process rights have been violated.
Finally, Jordan posits that the district court erred because the statutory
deadline for filing a reclassification application is subject to the doctrine of
equitable tolling. Finding all of Jordan's arguments meritless, we affirm. ...

"Defendants argued, and the district court agreed, that Jordan's claim was
barred by the 'no review' provision of the Medicare Act, 42 U.S.C. Sect.
1395wW(d)(10)(C)(iii)(II), which specifically states that '[t]he decision of the
[Administrator] shall be final and shall not be subject to judicial review. '
...

"In the face of this clear congressional mandate against review, Jordan lodges a
constitutional challenge, arguing that its procedural due process rights were
violated because it was denied an opportunity to be heard on the merits of its
reclassification application. More specifically, Jordan alleges that [Health
Care Financing Administration]'s publication of erroneous information gave it
inadequate notice of its eligibility, thus causing Jordan to file late. ...

"To prevail on its procedural due process claim, Jordan must show both that it
had a recognized liberty or property interest, and was deprived of that interest
without adequate notice or a meaningful opportunity to be heard. ... Assuming,
without deciding, that Jordan has a legitimate property interest in receiving
reimbursement payments, we must then determine whether Jordan raises a colorable
constitutional claim. We find that it has not.

"HCFA's regulatory scheme provides hospitals with a meaningful opportunity to be
heard on reclassification, and accords them sufficient procedural protections.
HCFA's publication of erroneous data, while unfortunate, did not deprive Jordan
of its rights. HCFA takes significant steps to insure that the wage data
obtained from hospitals subject to [the prospective payment system] are
reasonably accurate. ... Jordan could not realistically have assumed that the
wage index information would always be accurate, and that if an error were
found, it would be remedied in time to permit a reclassification request. ... "

Jordan Hospital, Inc. v. Shalala (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-011-02) (16 pages)
(Stahl, Sr. Cir. J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a decision by Zobel, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Bruce A. Singal, with
Paul M. Barrett and William C. Athanas on brief, for the plaintiff-appellant;
Anita Johnson, with James B. Farmer on brief, for the defendants-appellees
(Docket No. 01-1614).

Civil Practice

Dismissal - Res Judicata

Where (1) in 1999, the plaintiffs filed suit in district court claiming that the
defendants had defrauded them by submitting false documents to the Superior
Court of Puerto Rico in a previous lawsuit, (2) the court granted the defendants
summary judgment on the ground that the plaintiffs had failed to raise a genuine
issue of material fact by not satisfying the heightened pleading requirements of
Fed. R. Civ. 9(b), (3) the plaintiffs did not appeal but instead filed the
present suit in Puerto Rico Superior Court and (4) after the suit was removed to
federal court, the defendants moved to dismiss, we hold that a judge correctly
allowed the defendants' dismissal motion on the basis of res judicata.

Affirmed.

Analysis

"The doctrine of res judicata promotes the goals of fairness and efficiency by
preventing vexatious or repetitive litigation. ... A claim will be precluded by
res judicata if the following elements are demonstrated: '(1) a final judgment
on the merits in an earlier suit, (2) sufficient identicality between the causes
of action asserted in the earlier and later suits, and (3) sufficient
identicality between the parties in the two suits. ' ...

"In the instant case, all three factors are so clearly present that only a brief
discussion of them is necessary. First, the summary judgment ruling that
disposed of plaintiffs' earlier claim constitutes 'a final judgment on the
merits. ' ... Second, by plaintiffs' own admission, the instant case is
identical to the previous suit. Third, there is no question that the two suits
contain the same parties.

"Because we find no error in the district court's application of res judicata,
we affirm. "

Caballero-Rivera, et al. v. The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., et al. (Lawyers
Weekly No. 01-013-02) (4 pages) (Per Curiam) (1st Circuit) Appealed from the
U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico (Docket No. 01-1985).

Civil Rights

Fair Housing Act - Town's Rescission Of Support For Housing Project

Where plaintiff landowners brought suit alleging that the defendant town, by
rescinding its support of the plaintiffs' affordable-housing project, violated
the Federal Fair Housing Act, we hold that the failure of the plaintiffs' to
show either discriminatory intent or discriminatory impact requires that a
summary judgment for the town be affirmed.

In addition, finding no violation of the plaintiffs' rights to due process and
equal protection, we go on to affirm a judgment for the town on a 42 U.S.C.
Sect. 1983 count.

Macone, et al. v. Town of Wakefield (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-009-02) (19 pages)
(Torruella, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a judgment by Keeton, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. David J. Gallagher for
the plaintiffs-appellants; Patrick J. Costello for the defendant-appellee
(Docket No. 01-1414).

Criminal

Conspiracy - Distribution Of Crack Cocaine - Presence Of Alternate Juror

Where a defendant has appealed his convictions for distributing crack cocaine
and conspiring to distribute crack cocaine, the appeal must be rejected, as the
defendant's claims - that the presence of an alternate juror tainted the jury's
deliberations and that the evidence presented at trial was insufficient to
support the verdict - have been forfeited and, in addition, are without merit.

Analysis

"The jury that heard [defendant Felix C.] Reynoso's case consisted of twelve
jurors and two alternates. The alternates were dismissed after the jury was
charged, but one of them stayed with the jury during its deliberations, contrary
to the court's instructions. When the alternate's presence was brought to the
court's attention, the district judge interviewed all twelve jurors and
determined that the alternate had taken no part in the deliberations. He
nevertheless offered to grant Reynoso a mistrial, but Reynoso declined after
consulting with his lawyer. The jury later convicted Reynoso on all four counts.

"Whether or not the presence of the alternate during deliberations was a
violation of the current Fed. R. Crim. P. 24(c), which was amended in 1999 to
permit alternates to be retained in certain circumstances, it creates no grounds
for reversal. Arguably, Reynoso's decision to forego a mistrial constitutes
waiver of any claim of error. ... However, there is some authority under the old
version of the rule suggesting that - in order to preserve the integrity of the
jury system - errors of this kind should not be excused by agreement of the
parties. ...

"Whether or not the claim is deemed waived, it was certainly forfeited by
Reynoso's failure to object and is reviewable only for plain error - requiring
far more than just that the error be clear. Among other requirements, Reynoso
must show that the alternate's presence created actual prejudice. ... But after
due investigation the district court supportably found that the alternate had
not affected the deliberations, and Reynoso offers no evidence or arguments to
the contrary.

"Reynoso's sufficiency claim is also forfeit because he failed to renew his Rule
29 motion after the presentation of his defense. ... The evidence implicating
Reynoso included testimony of an undercover police officer who bought crack from
Reynoso on three occasions, and of two co-conspirators who helped Reynoso sell
crack. This was more than sufficient to support the verdict; there was thus no
error at all, let alone the gross injustice needed to avoid the forfeiture. ...

"Affirmed. "

United States v. Reynoso (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-018-02) (3 pages) (Per Curiam)
(1st Circuit) (Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District of New
Hampshire (Docket No. 01-1339).

Convictions Under RICO And VICAR

Where two defendants have appealed their convictions under the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and the Violent Crimes in Aid of
Racketeering statute, the convictions must be affirmed despite the "multitude"
of issues raised by the defendants.

"Defendants have been very ably represented but their arguments do not prevail.
We outline some of the significant rulings of law in this opinion.

"1) We hold on the facts of this case that statements made by defendants' fellow
members of a larger conspiracy in furtherance of that larger conspiracy are
admissible as coconspirator statements under Rule 801(d)(2)(E), even when the
declarants are members of an opposing faction fighting over control of the
larger conspiracy.

"2) We interpret the 'through a pattern of racketeering activity' requirement
under RICO, and hold that a sufficient nexus for the purposes of a substantive
RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. Sect. 1962(c) exists between the racketeering
acts and the enterprise when the defendant was able to commit the predicate acts
by means of, by consequence of, by reason of, by the agency of, or by the
instrumentality of his membership in the enterprise.

"3) We hold that the jurisdictional requirement of both RICO and VICAR require
only that the crime have some effect on interstate commerce.

"4) We hold that a substantive RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. Sect. 1962(c) and
a RICO conspiracy under 18 U.S.C. Sect. 1962(d) are not the same offense for the
purposes of double jeopardy analysis, and can therefore be punished separately.
"

United States v. Marino, et al. (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-017-02) (49 pages)
(Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a judgment entered by Gorton, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Robert L. Sheketoff for
defendant-appellant Vincent Marino; Terrance J. McCarthy for defendant-appellant
John J. Patti III; Cynthia A. Young, with James B. Farmer on brief, for the
United States (Docket Nos. 00-1739 and 00-1813).

Narcotics Conspiracy - 'Ineffective Assistance' Claims

Where a defendant, who has been convicted of conspiracy to possess heroin with
intent to distribute, has filed an appeal, we reject that appeal because we find
no merit in any of the defendant's several allegations of ineffective assistance
by trial counsel.

Reyes-Vejerano v. United States (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-016-02) (12 pages)
(Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District
of Puerto Rico (Docket No. 01-1187).

Possession Of Explosives

Where a defendant has appealed his conviction for being a felon in possession of
explosives, we hold that the appeal must fail.

We so decide because: (1) the evidence presented at trial was sufficient to
demonstrate the defendant's knowing possession of explosives in violation of 18
U.S.C. Sect. 842(i)(1); and (2) the trial judge acted permissibly in admitting
evidence of the defendant's prior uncharged misconduct relating to his
involvement in a burglary of an explosives depot in 1993, as such evidence was
relevant to show the defendant's predisposition to commit the crime alleged in
the present case and was not unduly inflammatory.

Affirmed.

United States v. Van Horn (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-015-02) (21 pages) (Lipez, J.)
(1st Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District of New
Hampshire (Docket No. 00-2275).

Employment

Discrimination - National Origin - Pretext

Where a plaintiff filed suit under Title VII alleging that the defendant
employer committed national origin discrimination by not promoting him and by
subsequently firing him, a summary judgment for the defendant should be affirmed
because of the plaintiff's insufficient evidence that the defendant's stated
reasons for its actions were a pretext for discrimination.

Insufficient Showing

"[Plaintiff] Ramon Zapata-Matos was terminated in 1993 from his position with
L&F Products as General Manager for all operations in Puerto Rico, Mexico, and
the Caribbean. He had been with the company since 1983 and had received a number
of promotions, although in 1992 the company declined to create and promote him
to a Regional Director's position as he had requested. Zapata's employment was
terminated on September 28, 1993. He sued under Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. Sect. 2000e-2 (1994), saying he had been discriminated
against on the basis of his national origin as a Puerto Rican.

"In a thoughtful opinion and order, the magistrate judge granted summary
judgment for defendant L&F. The court concluded that Zapata had 'presented
insufficient evidence from which a rational fact finder could conclude that in
failing to promote, and subsequently terminating Zapata, L&F Products
discriminated against him on the basis of his Puerto Rican heritage. ' We agree,
and affirm. In so doing we clarify what is meant by evidence of pretext and the
ultimate issue of discrimination. ...

"Reeves [v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc., 530 U.S. 133, 147 (2000)]
reinforced the prior law in this circuit that even if the trier of fact
disbelieves the nondiscriminatory explanation given by the employer, the trier
is not compelled to find that the real reason was discrimination. ... That is
because the ultimate question is not whether the explanation was false, but
whether discrimination was the cause of the termination. We have adhered to a
case by case weighing. ... Nonetheless, disbelief of the reason may, along with
the prima facie case, on appropriate facts, permit the trier of fact to conclude
that the employer had discriminated. ... Ultimately, the question is one of the
sufficiency of plaintiff's evidence. ...

"In this case, ... no reasons were given at termination and no contemporaneous
documents stating a reason at the time of termination have been introduced. No
reasons are given in the answer to the complaint, save for a pleading that
plaintiff was terminated for just cause. We thus turn to the explanations that
the managers involved gave at their depositions for terminating Zapata. Those
explanations ... are themselves consistent and not contradicted by either
contemporaneous documents or statements made at termination, or statements made
later. Further, the explanations are quite credible in light of the preceding
events.

"Zapata argues that the four L&F employees who resigned right before his
termination did not make negative comments about his management style to the
decisionmakers, because neither the four employees nor the management voiced
these complaints to him. That is not a serious argument. It is human nature for
a person not to tell someone to his face about complaints he has just made about
him. And management did not give him any reasons, he says.

"More serious is the argument that nothing in the prior work history suggests
that Zapata was a poor manager. A trier of fact could reasonably think that this
raises questions about the sudden emergence, albeit in a time of extreme
pressure, of a managerial style problem on Zapata's part. On the other hand, a
trier of fact could much more readily conclude that the employer's explanation
was not a pretext, was quite true, and was reinforced by two facts: four top
employees had just resigned rather than work with Zapata in a difficult period,
and the company well knew Zapata had been balking at the directives from the
parent company.

"The question on summary judgment is whether the slight suggestion of pretext
present here, absent other evidence from which discrimination can be inferred,
meets plaintiff's ultimate burden. We hold it cannot. This case fits into the
category Reeves described of plaintiff creating (at best) a weak issue of fact
as to pretext on the face of strong independent evidence that no discrimination
occurred. ... Considering, as Reeves, 530 U.S. at 158, mandates, the strength of
plaintiff's prima facie case, the probative value of the proof that the
employer's explanation is false, and other evidence supporting the employer's
case, the employer is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. "

Zapata-Matos v. Reckitt & Colman, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-014-02) (15 pages)
(Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District
of Puerto Rico (Docket No. 00-2546).

Habeas Corpus

Time Limit - Equitable Tolling

Where a petitioner convicted of gross sexual assault in Maine filed a request
for federal habeas corpus relief, the application for relief was properly
dismissed as time-barred under the controlling one-year limitation period.

Untimely Request

"This appeal is the latest in an ever-lengthening line of cases trailing in the
wake of Congress's enactment of a limitation period for the filing of federal
habeas petitions. ... The limitation period is part of the Antiterrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA), Pub. L. No. 104-132, 110 Stat. 214 (1996).
The statute of limitations for federal review of state prisoners' habeas
applications is codified at 28 U.S.C. Sect. 2244(d)(1). ...

"Any discussion of timeliness must start with the Law Court's rejection of the
petitioner's direct appeal on August 8, 1997. Giving the petitioner the benefit
of the ninety-day grace period for seeking certiorari review by the United
States Supreme Court, 28 U.S.C. Sect. 2101(c), the district court ruled that the
one-year statute of limitations began to accrue on the day after this grace
period ended: November 7, 1997. The court counted forward 101 days and then
stopped the accrual process as of February 17, 1998 - the date on which the
petitioner filed for state post-conviction relief. ...

"Noting that the Law Court denied a [certificate of probable cause] (and, thus,
ended the petitioner's quest for state post-conviction relief) on December 22,
1999, the court resumed the count as of December 23. At that point, there were
264 days left within which to seek federal habeas review. The court determined
that this 264-day window closed on September 11, 2000 The petitioner's federal
habeas application is deemed filed, under the prisoner mailbox rule, on
September 23, 2000. ... The petitioner did not act until after that date. Thus,
the court considered his federal habeas action time-barred (twelve days late)
absent a showing of some sufficiently excusatory set of circumstances.
Discerning none, the court dismissed the application. ...

"The petitioner premises his claim of equitable tolling on a delay in obtaining
the transcript of the evidentiary hearing held in the state superior court in
connection with his state petition for post-conviction review. ...

"To sum up, the district court found that the petitioner had no compelling need
for the hearing transcript in order to prepare his federal habeas application;
and that, in all events, the petitioner dawdled for nearly two months after
receiving it before he filed his application. In view of these supportable
findings, we discern no abuse of discretion in the court's ultimate conclusion
that the petitioner did not establish the kind of extraordinary circumstances
that are necessary to justify equitable tolling. After all, 'equitable tolling
is strong medicine, not profligately to be dispensed,' ... and the trial court's
judgment about so factbound a matter is entitled to considerable respect. ...

"We need go no further. As the district court found, the habeas petition was
time-barred and equitable tolling was not available to salvage it. The court,
therefore, properly terminated the proceeding. "

Donovan v. State (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-010-02) (15 pages) (Selya, J.) (1st
Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine (Docket
No. 01-1367).

Negligence

Injury Aboard Rescue Boat - Jury Instructions

Where (1) a plaintiff cruise ship captain sued the defendant ship operator for
negligence after he fell out of a small rescue boat and was struck in the leg by
the boat's outboard motor, (2) a jury returned a verdict for the defendant and
(3) the plaintiff now appeals, claiming errors in the trial judge's jury
instructions, we decide that the verdict for the defendant must be upheld
because the jury instructions given, taken as a whole, correctly stated the law.

Jury Instructions Examined

"[Plaintiff Robert F.] Gifford contends that the judge's final comment - that
the jury should focus on the time 'when he was being hurt' - was an incorrect
statement of the law because it gave the jury the erroneous impression that it
had to find the [rescue boat] Zodiac unseaworthy at the precise moment of
Gifford's injury (when the propeller hit his leg) to hold [defendant American
Canadian Caribbean Line, Inc.] liable. He points out that although the Zodiac
was unseaworthy when it allegedly hesitated and surged forward, tossing him
overboard, the engine was running smoothly at the precise moment the propeller
hit his leg, and the jury could therefore have found that the Zodiac was
seaworthy.

"'Our review of jury instructions is de novo to ascertain whether the challenged
instruction has "a tendency to confuse or mislead the jury with respect to the
applicable principles of law. "' ... However, 'it is axiomatic that "a single
instruction to a jury may not be judged in artificial isolation, but must be
viewed in the context of the overall charge. "' ...

"We agree with Gifford that it would have been an error of law for the district
court to require that the Zodiac be unseaworthy at the precise moment of his
injury, rather than at the time he fell out of the boat. Unseaworthiness at the
time Gifford fell out of the Zodiac could obviously have been a direct and
substantial cause of his subsequent injury. We conclude, however, that the
district court's instructions, taken as a whole, did not suggest that the jury
should focus on the precise moment of Gifford's injury.

"In her initial charge to the jury, the judge explained that Gifford had to show
that the boat's unseaworthiness was 'a substantial direct cause of his injuries.
' In response to the jury's question - 'At what point are we determining the
seaworthiness of the Zodiac?' - the judge explained three times that the jury
should focus on the condition of the Zodiac 'at any time surrounding the
accident and leading up to the plaintiff's being hurt. ' She also suggested,
consistent with that instruction, that the jury focus on the time 'when he fell
out of the boat. ' In the specific context of this case, these explanations are
consistent with the general requirement that the Zodiac's unseaworthiness be a
direct and substantial cause of Gifford's injury. Based on the evidence at
trial, Gifford would not have been injured if he had not fallen out of the boat.
The critical question on the unseaworthiness claim was whether the
unseaworthiness of the Zodiac was a direct and substantial cause of that fall.
The district court was therefore correct to direct the jury's attention to the
'time surrounding the accident and leading up to the plaintiff's being hurt,' or
'when he fell out of the boat. ' The parties agree with this focus.

"Only after these explanations did the court say that the jury should focus on
'when he was being hurt. ' In this context, the jury would have understood the
phrase 'when he was being hurt' to be simply another reference to the 'time
surrounding the accident' or 'when he fell out of the boat. ' While a more
precise formulation would have been preferable, we are unpersuaded that this one
remark, taken in the context of the instructions as a whole, had a tendency to
confuse or mislead the jury. ...

"The alternatives the jury set out in its question to the judge buttress our
conclusion that the jury was not misled by the judge's final comment. The jury
asked if unseaworthiness should be determined 'from the time the Zodiac was
dropped into the water' (at which time the engine was indisputably not working),
or 'at the point of the accident,' defined by one juror during the colloquy with
the judge as 'when the boat was moving and he fell out of the boat' (at which
time the engine's condition was disputed). In other words, the jury appears to
have been uncertain what to do if - as some of the evidence suggested - the
Zodiac was unseaworthy when it was dropped into the water, but seaworthy when
Gifford fell out of it. The jury's question does not evidence any concern about
the distinction between the point at which Gifford fell out of the boat and the
point at which the propeller hit Gifford's leg, a distinction upon which Gifford
claims the verdict turned.

"Nor do we believe that the judge's final words precipitated a sudden shift in
the jury's focus. Gifford argues that the jury must have taken her final comment
to mean it should focus on the precise moment of his injury, because 'the
members of this jury had proven themselves to be unafraid of questioning the
Court, asking five follow up questions during the brief time in which they had
returned to the courtroom for the response to their original written question. '
Gifford reasons that 'there can be no doubt that they would have asked more
questions if they felt that they did not understand what the District Court was
saying. ' We believe that the opposite inference is more compelling: if the jury
thought that the judge's final comment required it to disregard the instruction
she had just repeated three times, it would have requested clarification. We
deem it most improbable that the jury would have engaged in a fundamental
reorientation of its deliberations, with no further questions, based on the
judge's ambiguous final remark. Therefore, the absence of such questions
supports our determination that the jurors interpreted the judge's final comment
as a reiteration of her previous explanation. They would have understood 'when
he was being hurt' as a shorthand for the 'time surrounding the accident and
leading up to the plaintiff's being hurt. ' Reading the instructions in their
entirety and in the context of the question the jury posed, as we must, we
conclude that the instructions did not have a tendency to confuse or mislead the
jury. ...

"Affirmed. "

Gifford v. American Canadian Caribbean Line, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-012-02)
(10 pages) (Lipez, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a judgment entered by Zobel,
J., in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. David F.
Anderson, with whom David J. Berg was on brief, for the plaintiff-appellant;
Brian B. Kydd for the defendant-appellee (Docket No. 00-1688).

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2002 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday
                                Kolkata Edition

Cabin or ward? Rates differ for same treatment

BYLINE: Prithvijit Mitra & Udit Prasanna Mukherji

SECTION: THE TIMES OF INDIA

LENGTH: 612 words


Even as the new health law puts pressure on private clinical establishments to
rationalize their charges, a city hospital has set the cat among pigeons by
introducing uniform doctors' fees, investigation and procedural charges for
patients admitted across their rooms and cabins.

An overwhelming majority of hospitals in Kolkata continue to have differential
rates for patients admitted in their suites, private cabins and general wards.
Doctors' fees, investigation charges and other service costs vary as much as
10%-15%

depending on the kind of room you choose. The difference in charges for a
week-long stay in a six-bedded cabin and a suite could be as wide as 50%-60%.

But now, Belle Vue Clinic has done away with the differential rates. Other than
the bed charge, patients are being charged uniformly for everything else,
irrespective of whether they are being treated in a cabin or a ward. Every bill
is accompanied by a notice which declares that the 'charges for doctors' fees,
operation theatre and investigation have no link with the bed charges'. \x93We
believe the system of fixing charge as per the room category was not fair. So,
we have made it uniform,\x93 said

P Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue.

While it's not illegal to have different rates, many believe it's

unfair to differentiate between patients on the basis of the beds they opt for.
\x93While a doctor

might be paid more for attending to a patient individually in a private cabin,
there's no logic behind fixing a higher rate for an investigation or a procedure
for which no extra effort is being put in. Nor is the hospital incurring any
extra cost,\x93 said a hospital official.

A top official of a leading TPA said most city hospitals stick to differential
pricing for patients. \x93The doctors' fee, investigation charges, service
charges generally differ with the room. In a cabin, all the charges will be
higher than a bed in the ward,\x93 he said. The official added that hospitals
generally argue that through differential pricing they cross-subsidize patients
in the wards. But the difference is often much higher than the subsidy offered.

ATPA official said, \x93Ward patients are supposed to be subsidized with the
extra amount generated from patients in cabins or in semiprivate rooms who pay a
higher rate. But it's not always done very honestly . Some hospitals are
contemplating a move from the system.\x93

Patients in luxury suites and semi-private cabins have to be attended by extra
staff which raises the cost, according to Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals.
\x93Unless we charge a little more for the services, it will be difficult to
serve ward patients at a reasonable rate. We are looking into our charges,
though,\x93 said Barua.

At Fortis Hospital, too, investigation charges, doctors' fees and procedural
charges vary according to the kind of room a patient has been admitted into.
\x93Those admitted in a suite obviously pay the highest for services, followed
by those

in semi-private rooms and then wards,\x93 said a doctor at Fortis.Woodlands
Hospital follows a similar system.

Eminent cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar defended the pri

vate hospitals' decision to have differential rates. \x93If you look at it from
the point of view of morals and principles of healthcare, it's unfair. But you
can't deny the private healthcare sector the right to generate a decent
profit,\x93 said Sarkar.

A prominent cardiac hospital in south Kolkata has two rate categories, one for
its private cabins and the other for twinsharing rooms. \x93But our procedural
and investigation charges are uniform for all. Some extra charges are levied for
providing personal care, though,\x93 said a hospital representative.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Busy nurses bungle

BYLINE: Danny Rose

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 301  words


A MAJOR study of how medicines are administered in Australian hospitals has
found a high rate of ``procedural failure and clinical error'' by nurses.

Nurses made at least one error or oversight in 80.2 per cent of cases in which
they gave a drug or other treatment to a patient.

The mistakes ranged from forgetting to wash their hands or not reconfirming a
patient's identity through to administering the wrong drug dose, and in some
cases the oversight was life-threatening.

Prof Johanna Westbrook said nurses faced a multitude of competing demands while
in a hospital ward, and the more they were interrupted the more mistakes they
made.

``In 80 per cent of administrations of medication there was at least one
procedural failure or one clinical error,'' said Prof Westbrook, from the
University of Sydney's Health Informatics Research and Evaluation Unit.

``What we showed is that if you were interrupted you were more likely to make
one of those errors.''

Prof Westbrook and her colleagues tracked almost 100 nurses based at two unnamed
Australian hospitals over about two years.

The nurses administered almost 4300 medications to patients amid usually hectic
work environments.

Prof Westbrook said their typical interruptions included ``someone came to ask
them a question and so they stopped what they were doing, or a patient asked
them something or an alarm went off in the room and so they stopped
administering a drug''.

The nurses' most common error was giving a drug at the wrong time and in a
fraction (4.1 per cent) of these cases the risk this posed to a patient was
``severe''.

Setting intravenous drips at the wrong dosage rate was the second most common
error and 35.7 per cent of these cases fell into the severe category.

The research is published today in the journal Archives of Internal Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                            October 17, 2016 Monday

Clinical Trial: Using Virtual Reality to Reduce Procedural Pain in Children With
Cancer

LENGTH: 225 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., Oct. 17 -- ClinicalTrials.gov registry received information related to the
study (NCT02929771) titled 'Using Virtual Reality to Reduce Procedural Pain in
Children With Cancer' on Oct. 7.

Brief Summary: This study will assess the impact of virtual reality (VR) in
decreasing procedural pain related to subcutaneous port (SCP) access in children
with cancer. The study is a pilot-randomized controlled trial (RCT) using a
cross-over design that will provide us with detailed information on the
feasibility of implementing our trial protocol in a future multi-center RCT as
well as preliminary estimate of VR treatment effect on children with cancer
undergoing SCP access, including child and parent factors potentially associated
with VR distraction treatment efficacy.

Study Start Date: June 2017

Study Type: Interventional

Condition: Cancer

Intervention: Device: Samsung GearVR

VR with head mounted display (HMD) and headphones. Treatment

Device: iPad

iPad with headphones. Control

Recruitment Status: Not yet recruiting

Sponsor: The Hospital for Sick Children

Information provided by (Responsible Party): Jennifer Stinson, The Hospital for
Sick Children

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday

Rule change for foreign hospital investors

BYLINE: Xin Zhiming

LENGTH: 395  words


Now foreign investors will be able to take a share of the big cake. To make
their entry smooth, however, China still needs to clear some systematic and
procedural obstacles.

China is to allow foreign investors to wholly own hospitals in seven provinces
and major cities in a move aimed at providing better medical services.

They will be allowed to establish hospitals in Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai and
the provinces of Jiangsu, Fujian, Guangdong and Hainan in a pilot program.

Previously, foreign investors have eyed the lucrative section of the vast China
market, but have failed to enter it. There have been large numbers of domestic
privately-owned hospitals and foreign capital-owned clinics, but wholly-owned
foreign hospitals are yet to be established on the Chinese mainland.

For foreign hospital operators, it will provide a good profit-making
opportunity, as domestic hospitals have been unable to satisfy demand from the
public.

As a sign of increasing demand for high-quality medical services, more private
hospitals have opened in China. There were 11,300 last year, a massive rise from
just 3,200 in 2005, according to Reuters, citing a Deutsche Bank report in June.
The report said 8,000 more public hospitals will likely be privatized over the
next 5 to 10 years.

China's healthcare spending is set to hit $1 trillion by 2020, according to
Reuters, citing McKinsey & Co.

Now foreign investors will be able to take a share of the big cake. To make
their entry smooth, however, China still needs to clear some systematic and
procedural obstacles.

If foreign-owned hospitals are to hire overseas medical practitioners, they
would only be allowed to stay in China for one year, according to existing rules
on management of foreign physicians in China. There should be new rules
governing renewal of licences and other related matters to make possible the
operation of foreign hospitals.

The purchase of high-end medical equipment from abroad, meanwhile, will also be
subject to the approval of relevant government agencies, making it a challenge
for the normal operation of foreign hospitals.

The decision to allow foreign investors to enter the medical service sector is a
good start for China to open the market and provide better medical services for
its people. Relevant rules, meanwhile, must be revamped accordingly to smooth
the entry of foreign medical investors.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 29, 2016 Saturday

The Hybrid Algorithm for Treating Chronic Total Occlusions in Europe

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 Background  The hybrid algorithm for chronic total occlusion (CTO) percutaneous
coronary intervention (PCI) was developed to improve procedural outcomes. Large,
prospective studies validating the algorithm in a broad multicenter setting with
operators of different experience levels are lacking.





 Objectives  The RECHARGE (REgistry of Crossboss and Hybrid procedures in
FrAnce, the NetheRlands, BelGium and UnitEd Kingdom) registry aims to report
achievable results using the hybrid algorithm.



 Methods  Between January 2014 and October 2015, consecutive patients undergoing
hybrid CTO-PCI were prospectively enrolled in 17 centers. Procedural techniques,
outcomes, and in-hospital complications were analyzed.



 Results  A total of 1,253 CTO-PCIs were performed in 1,177 patients, of which
86% were men. Mean age was 66 ± 11 years. The average Japanese CTO score was 2.0
± 1.0, and was higher in the failure group (2.6 ± 0.6 vs. 1.9 ± 1.0; p < 0.001).
Overall procedure success was 86% and major in-hospital complications occurred
in 2.6%. Antegrade wire escalation was the preferred primary strategy in 77%,
followed by retrograde (17%) and antegrade dissection re-entry strategies (7%).
Primary strategies were successful in 60%. Consecutive strategies were applied
in 34% and were successful in 74%. Antegrade dissection re-entry and retrograde
strategies were the most common bailout strategies and were successful in 67%
and 62%, respectively. Median procedure and fluoroscopy time were 90
(interquartile range [IQR]: 60 to 120) min and 35 (IQR: 21 to 55) min, contrast
volume was 250 (IQR: 180 to 340) ml, and radiation doses (air kerma and dose
area product) were 1.6 (IQR: 1.0 to 2.7) Gy and 98 (IQR: 57 to 168) Gy·cm2,
respectively.



 Conclusions  High procedure and patient success rates, combined with a low
event rate and improved procedural characteristics, support further use of the
hybrid algorithm for a broad community of appropriately trained CTO operators.

 Perspectives



 COMPETENCY IN PATIENT CARE AND PROCEDURAL SKILLS: A hybrid algorithm based on
angiographic characteristics and specifying the procedure for percutaneous
revascularization of chronically occluded coronary arteries has been developed
and validated. Application of the hybrid algorithm by experienced operators at
several clinical centers in Europe improved procedural outcomes.



 TRANSLATIONAL OUTLOOK: Additional research is needed to identify specific
clinical predictors of angiographic success of the hybrid algorithm and
techniques in patients with CTOs undergoing coronary intervention, as well as
methods to select patients most likely to gain long-term benefit from this
interventional strategy.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 29, 2016 Saturday

The Hybrid Algorithm for Treating Chronic Total Occlusions in Europe

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 Background  The hybrid algorithm for chronic total occlusion (CTO) percutaneous
coronary intervention (PCI) was developed to improve procedural outcomes. Large,
prospective studies validating the algorithm in a broad multicenter setting with
operators of different experience levels are lacking.





 Objectives  The RECHARGE (REgistry of Crossboss and Hybrid procedures in
FrAnce, the NetheRlands, BelGium and UnitEd Kingdom) registry aims to report
achievable results using the hybrid algorithm.



 Methods  Between January 2014 and October 2015, consecutive patients undergoing
hybrid CTO-PCI were prospectively enrolled in 17 centers. Procedural techniques,
outcomes, and in-hospital complications were analyzed.



 Results  A total of 1,253 CTO-PCIs were performed in 1,177 patients, of which
86% were men. Mean age was 66 ± 11 years. The average Japanese CTO score was 2.0
± 1.0, and was higher in the failure group (2.6 ± 0.6 vs. 1.9 ± 1.0; p < 0.001).
Overall procedure success was 86% and major in-hospital complications occurred
in 2.6%. Antegrade wire escalation was the preferred primary strategy in 77%,
followed by retrograde (17%) and antegrade dissection re-entry strategies (7%).
Primary strategies were successful in 60%. Consecutive strategies were applied
in 34% and were successful in 74%. Antegrade dissection re-entry and retrograde
strategies were the most common bailout strategies and were successful in 67%
and 62%, respectively. Median procedure and fluoroscopy time were 90
(interquartile range [IQR]: 60 to 120) min and 35 (IQR: 21 to 55) min, contrast
volume was 250 (IQR: 180 to 340) ml, and radiation doses (air kerma and dose
area product) were 1.6 (IQR: 1.0 to 2.7) Gy and 98 (IQR: 57 to 168) Gy·cm2,
respectively.



 Conclusions  High procedure and patient success rates, combined with a low
event rate and improved procedural characteristics, support further use of the
hybrid algorithm for a broad community of appropriately trained CTO operators.

 Perspectives



 COMPETENCY IN PATIENT CARE AND PROCEDURAL SKILLS: A hybrid algorithm based on
angiographic characteristics and specifying the procedure for percutaneous
revascularization of chronically occluded coronary arteries has been developed
and validated. Application of the hybrid algorithm by experienced operators at
several clinical centers in Europe improved procedural outcomes.



 TRANSLATIONAL OUTLOOK: Additional research is needed to identify specific
clinical predictors of angiographic success of the hybrid algorithm and
techniques in patients with CTOs undergoing coronary intervention, as well as
methods to select patients most likely to gain long-term benefit from this
interventional strategy.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Carleton Place

                           November 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Are hospital workers too busy to look at my chart?

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 367  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


(Nov 4, 2009)

Q: I was recently a patient in the hospital having a minor procedure and became
very concerned as different health-care providers kept asking me the same
questions: What is your name? When is your birthday? What procedure are you
having? Do you have any allergies? I was worried. Why don't they take the time
to look at my chart?

A: Being asked the same questions over and over can be confusing. But there is a
reasonable explanation.

Incorrectly identifying a patient can lead to serious errors. These errors can
lead to injury or death, so it is important that health-care professionals
properly identify their patients.

For example, if you are ordered to have a blood transfusion, the nurse needs to
be sure that you are the right patient who receives the right unit of blood.

To make sure that this happens, hospitals have recently started a way to ensure
we match the correct patient with the correct service or treatment. This is
called "patient verification."

This means that your health-care provider will ask you for two pieces of
information. These can include your first and last name, date of birth or
hospital identification number.

A patient's room number or examination room number are not acceptable ways to
identify a patient as these can change on a daily basis.

You should expect that patient verification will happen every time medications
are given, tests or procedures are done or blood work is taken.

The health-care team may also do a "surgical/procedural pause." This is when the
surgical team takes a "time-out" before they start the procedure. This will make
sure that everyone on the team knows what procedure is being done, all the
equipment needed is gathered and that they have the correct patient. Hospitals
across the world are doing this.

Although double checking these things may seem obvious, hospitals are a busy
place. And patient verification and the surgical procedural pause will help keep
you safe as a patient.

You should feel comforted in knowing that being asked to confirm who you are,
why you are at the hospital and what procedure is taking place mean that we care
about your safety.

Carole Caron is a patient safety specialist at Hamilton Health Sciences.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 26, 2017 Wednesday

Adverse Events After Catheter-Based Procedures in Congenital Heart Disease

LENGTH: 465  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: American College of Cardiology has issued the following news
release:
What are the factors associated with major adverse events (MAEs) after cardiac
catheterization in adolescents and adults with congenital heart disease (CHD)?


 Methods:
Hospitals that perform catheterizations on children or adults with CHD were
invited to participate in the Improving Pediatric and Adult Congenital Treatment
(IMPACT) database, a National Cardiovascular Data Registry. The registry
contains congenital catheterization data from over 87 hospitals in the United
States. Demographics, pre-procedure, and procedural variables were collected for
patients over age 10. Multivariable logistic regression was used to identify
significant predictors of MAEs, a composite of death, urgent surgery, or
procedure due to a catheterization complication, transfusion, embolic stroke,
tamponade, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation or ventricular assist device
placement, and device embolization, malposition, or thrombosis requiring
surgical intervention. A risk score was built based on the effect sizes of each
predictor and validated in a split sample.
 Results:
A MAE occurred in 686 (2.5%) of the 27,293 index procedures meeting inclusion
criteria. The independent multivariate predictors of MAEs were older age, pre-
procedural anticoagulation use, renal disease, lower hemoglobin, lower oxygen
saturation, nonelective procedure, higher index procedure risk, and having had
no prior cardiac procedures. Being underweight or overweight had borderline
significance and was added to the model. The C-statistic for the model was
robust at 0.787 in the derivation and 0.773 in the validation cohort.
 Conclusions:
The authors concluded that factors predicting adverse events after cardiac
catheterization in adolescents and adults with CHD are different than in the
general population.
 Perspective:
This study reports a set of new risk factors that are strong predictors of MAEs
after cardiac catheterizations in adolescents and adults with CHD. Of note,
independent risk factors for MAEs were different than those described in either
pediatric population or adults with acquired heart disease. Procedural
variables, nonelective and more complex procedure, no history of prior
catheterizations or cardiac surgery had the strongest predictive effect,
followed by factors related to patient medical complexity (i.e., history of
renal disease, pre-procedural anticoagulant use, lower hemoglobin, older age,
being underweight, and increased severity of congenital disease). It appears
that this model can be useful to individualize the risk/benefit discussion in
this population prior to a catheterization, while additional studies are
conducted to validate this risk score in prospective multicenter databases.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                          December 23, 2006, Saturday
                                 Final Edition

'Errors' led to tragedy

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words


An investigation into the death of a drug addict in Cleveland Police custody has
found police officers were guilty of "procedural failures".

The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) investigated the death of
Darren Bennett, 25, from Stockton, who died in December 2004.

The report found police could not have prevented the death but "a mixture of
complacency and ignorance led to a number of procedural errors."

As a result a custody sergeant was reprimanded and a police constable and
civilian detention officer received words of advice for breaching codes of
practice and force policy.

Mr Bennett, also known as Darren French, died at the University Hospital of
North Tees after collapsing in custody at Stockton Police Office.

The habitual drug-user had been released from Holme House Prison days earlier.
He started taking drugs again and collapsed and stopped breathing at a friend's
house.

He was rushed to hospital at 3pm on December 6. He was resuscitated, but
discharged himself against medical advice.

At 6.30pm Cleveland Police were called to the Stockton Riverside where they
found Mr Bennett lying conscious on the footpath, but with slurred speech.

Police left when a friend of Mr Bennett's offered to take him home but shortly
afterwards an ambulance was called to attend him at the same place.

He refused treatment but, when he threatened to jump in the river, police
returned and arrested him under the Mental Health Act at 7.10pm.

He was transferred to Stockton Police Office and was found collapsed in his cell
at 9pm.

Resuscitation was attempted by officers and he was transferred to hospital where
he died at 10pm.

The IPCC said that certain staff should be commended for their attempts to
resuscitate Mr Bennett but some procedural failures were uncovered.

These included:

* No prisoner risk assessment was undertaken;

* There was a failure to ensure Mr Bennett was visited and roused every 30
minutes as is standard procedure for detainees suspected of being intoxicated;

* There was failure to complete accurate records of detention.

The report recommended that Cleveland Police reviewed its procedures regarding
the use of CCTV in cells, that all custody officers have a clear understanding
of their responsibilities and a new protocol be created regarding prisoners
arrested under the Mental Health Act.

Gary Garland, IPCC Commissioner for the North-east, said: "The investigation was
extremely thorough and identified that although nothing could have been done by
staff to prevent Mr Bennett's death, a mixture of complacency and ignorance led
to a number of procedural errors.

"These failings needed to be addressed and Cleveland Police did review their
procedures to ensure as far as is possible these failings do not repeat
themselves in the future."

A Cleveland Police spokeswoman said: "The IPCC investigation showed that staff
were not responsible for the death of Darren Bennett.

"However it did highlight some areas of concern.

"Those areas have been fully reviewed and action has been taken to ensure that
points raised have been addressed."

An inquest into Mr Bennett's death returned a verdict of death by natural
causes.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Tweed Daily News (New South Wales)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

Finding tonic for GP issue

BYLINE:  Rebecca Masters

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 230  words



HIGHLIGHT: CHALLENGE: Attracting medical graduates to work in rural areas


RETAINING medical graduates in rural communities is the focus of a discussion
paper released at Tweed Hospital by NSW Health Minister Jillian Skinner
yesterday.

The paper is designed to support rural training programs with a package
structure to make it easier for medical trainees to find work in rural
communities.

Ms Skinner said although there were initiatives aimed at training a rural
workforce, it was largely left to the trainee to plot their own course.

She said a training program that matched training with employment opportunities
would hopefully stop the large majority of rural trainees moving back to major
cities to find permanent employment.

Parliamentary Secretary for Regional Health, Melinda Pavey, said the program was
necessary as rural communities were heavily reliant on their local GPs. "We
encourage increased numbers of medical graduates to choose rural and procedural
general practice as their preferred training and career choice," Mrs Pavey said.

"A structured and supported training experience is fundamental to trainees
choosing rural and procedural general practice and going on to provide health
services in rural communities and hospitals upon the completion of their
training program."

Tweed MP Geoff Provest said although the Tweed Hospital was technically classed
as a rural hospital, we wouldn't see as much benefit as other more remote
communities.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DDN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 9, 2015 Monday

Washington: Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74

LENGTH: 862  words

DATELINE: Olympia


The State of Washington has issued the following Job Vacancy:

Job Title:  Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74
Opening Date/Time:  Thu. 12/19/13 12:00 AM Pacific Time
Closing Date/Time:  Continuous
Salary:  $56,532.00 - $75,372.00 Annually
Job Type:  Full Time - Permanent
Location:  Thurston County - Olympia, Washington
Department:  Health Care Authority

Description Benefits Supplemental Questions


Hospital Finance Unit Manager


The Health Care Authority (HCA) is Washington's largest health care purchaser,
responsible for providing comprehensive health coverage to more than 1.5 million
residents through the Public Employees Benefits and Medicaid programs. The
agency provides health purchasing leadership, benefitting both public and
private sectors with a focus on moving the health delivery system away from
volume toward higher value and better outcomes.

The HCA is currently implementing the Medicaid Expansion component of the
Affordable Care Act and anticipates more than 300,000 new clients over the next
two years.

Position Objective:

This position manages the DSH, CPE, NH Proshare, CAH, Major Trauma, Air and
Ground Ambulance, and Out-of-State Medical Services contracting programs within
the Hospital Finance section. With four professional positions reporting to this
position, this group is responsible for:

Fiscal and procedural management of the DSH, CPE, Nursing Home Proshare
programs, and special projects as they arise. These programs account for
million's annually, and they receive a great deal of stakeholder and federal
scrutiny.

Fiscal and procedural management of the thirty-eight hospitals participating in
our CAH program.

Fiscal and procedural management of the Major Trauma Program, Air and Ground
Ambulance transportation, and out-of-state medical services contracting.

Oversight of the DSH application process and the complex calculations to
determine hospital DSH payments; oversight of the Inpatient Hospital and Nursing
Home Proshare CPE programs involving complex calculations and federal
settlements.

Representation of HCA to external entities, hospitals, the Washington State
Hospital Association (WSHA), and stakeholders within state government, in
coordination with the Section Manager.


This position requires expert knowledge of federal rules governing these
programs; expert knowledge of state laws and regulations; advanced level skills
for data mining and analysis; and knowledge of hospital payment methodologies.
It also requires advanced project management, supervisory, communication and
analytical skills to meet the challenges of this position.

The position is authorized to work with various stakeholders on program and
policy issues in representing HCA as the subject matter expert.

This position is has full decision making authority to authorize payment within
budget limits for the programs it manages.

This position reports to the Section Manager for the Hospital Finance Section
and may have delegated authority to act on behalf of the Section Manager.

This position performs legislative bill analysis and may be assigned to draft
legislation.

This position takes a leadership role or actively participates in agency-wide
quality improvement projects.

This position is responsible for overseeing the annual federally-required DSH
audit, and works with the independent auditors for ensuring accuracy and
regulatory compliance with the DSH rules.

 Duties:
Supervises four professional staff within the Hospital Finance section that are
responsible for programs worth over $516 million annually.

Manage the annual DSH process including the DSH application process, calculation
of DSH payments, DSH Data Reporting File (DRDF), budget impacts, and changes to
processes, Washington Administrative Codes (WAC) and State Plan Amendments
(SPA). Data mining and analysis, review and analysis of hospital payment
methodologies and hospital financial reports; review of federal regulations and
understanding of changes to these regulations. Develops strategies for
implementation of new and existing regulations. Manages, coaches and mentors
staff responsible for carrying out the objectives of the DSH program.

Manage the annual CPE processes including the calculations of the Inpatient and
Nursing Home Proshare programs, the hold harmless grants, budget impacts, and
changes to processes, WAC and SPA. Data mining and analysis; review and analysis
of hospital payment methodologies and hospital financial reports; review of
federal regulations and understanding of changes to these regulations. Develops
strategies for implementation of new and existing regulations. Manages, coaches
and mentors staff responsible for carrying out the objectives of the CPE
program.

Manage the CAH processes including calculations of interim and final settlements
based on review and analysis of the hospital's Medicare cost reports, budget
impacts, changes to processes, and updates to WAC.

Manage the Major Trauma, Air and Ground Ambulance, and out-of-state medical
services contracting programs, budget impacts, and changes to processes, WAC and
SPA.

For Further information please visit:
http://agency.governmentjobs.com/washington

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 1, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

New Study Finds Pediatric ACL Reconstruction More Efficient in Outpatient
Setting

LENGTH: 125  words


Aug. 1 -- In a study published in the journal Orthopedics, researchers compared
ACL reconstructions performed on pediatric patients in hospital and outpatient
surgery center settings. The study analyzed procedural efficiency by looking at
total OR time, total staff and support staff changes. Minimizing potential
variation, the same institution owned and operated both facilities and the
surgeries were performed by the same surgeon.

Of the 49 total procedures involved in the study, the researchers concluded, "
Procedural efficiency was greater at the [outpatient surgery center] compared
with the hospital. The provision of consistent and experienced
orthopedic-specific teams allows for improvement in OR efficiency, cost, and
value."

Source: AMSURG

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1992, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1992

                         Vol. 25, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 127

LENGTH: 600 words

TITLE: CASE NOTES: STAFF PRIVILEGES: Suspension prior to formal proceedings
proper under public safety exception

TEXT:

   The United States District Court for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district
court's dismissal of plaintiff anesthesiologist's 42 U.S.C. § 1983 (1988)
complaint, holding defendant public hospital officers and employees afforded
plaintiff sufficient procedural due process in suspending his clinical
privileges prior to a formal hearing.  The court also affirmed the district
court's denial of plaintiff's motion for leave to amend his First Amendment
claim, finding the speech unprotected.

   In accordance with hospital bylaws, the hospital's chief of anesthesiology
met with plaintiff to discuss his treatment of a patient who had died while
under his care.  Plaintiff then met twice with an ad hoc investigating committee
which found plaintiff's care was significantly deficient.  Those findings were
reported to the executive committee which suspended plaintiff's staff privileges
with an offer for reapplication at a later date.  Plaintiff requested a formal
hearing, twice sought continuances, and ultimately declined to participate in
any of the post-suspension procedures.

   Plaintiff sued defendants, alleging his suspension was tainted by bias and
motivated by his opposition to a proposal by certain ad hoc committee members to
obtain an exclusive anesthesiology contract.  Further, he unsuccessfully
campaigned for chief of anesthesiology against defendant, who initially
approached him with charges of improper treatment.  Moreover, plaintiff insisted
procedural due process required a formal pre-suspension hearing.  Finally,
plaintiff asserted he was disciplined in violation of his First Amendment right
to speak freely on matters of public concern.  The district court granted
defendant's motion to dismiss and denied plaintiff's request for permission to
amend his pleadings to include his First Amendment claim, finding the speech in
question was not constitutionally protected.  Plaintiff appealed.

   In concluding the level of procedural due process afforded plaintiff was
constitutionally acceptable, the court stated a brief pre-termination hearing
must generally be followed by a more formal hearing.  However, a deprivation
undertaken to protect public safety does not require informal pre-termination
procedures.  Because plaintiff was sanctioned under the hospital bylaw
authorizing quick action to protect lives of patients, the court concluded
defendants' informal pre-suspension actions did not deprive plaintiff of
procedural due process.

   Next, plaintiff asserted, under recent United States Supreme Court precedent,
the deliberate misuse of preand post-suspension procedures represented a denial
of due process.  The court emphasized plaintiff's concession that the hospital's
bylaws authorized quick action to protect patients' lives, and also stressed the
state could not be held to guarantee faultless decision making.  Further,
because detailed hospital regulations were followed, the alleged deprivation
was, at most, a random and unauthorized event.  The court, noting the risk of
erroneous deprivation through the use and misuse of detailed bylaws was
tolerable, affirmed the district court's dismissal of plaintiff's claim.

   Addressing the First Amendment issue, the court held plaintiff's speech was
not a matter of public concern and his comments were related only to internal
hospital management.  Although the court acknowledged the public's potential
interest in the exclusive anesthesiology contract, it held this reasoning, taken
to its extreme, would deem any activity occurring in a government office a
matter of public record.

   V.S./H.N.

REFERENCE: Caine v. Hardy, 943 F.2d 1406 (5th Cir. 1991). #LS930223SP#
#LS930225LEufishmx#


                              82 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                 The Morning Bulletin (Rockhampton, Queensland)

                             March 10, 2017 Friday

Team's sights set on future

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 423  words



HIGHLIGHT: Specialist eye service celebrates first year


MORE than 700 eye procedures have been completed at Rockhampton Hospital in the
first year having a full-time specialist ophthalmologist.

Dr Devaraj Supramaniam started work at the hospital in March last year, marking
the return of full-time ophthalmology services for the first time since 2009.

"It's been an interesting and enjoyable challenge for me coming from a tertiary
setting where in any one day there were more than 15 ophthalmologists working,
to a sole specialist role where we have had to build the service from the ground
up," he said.

Rockhampton Hospital has offered public ophthalmology services since 2014 using
visiting specialists, but the full-time service has grown in the past 12 months
to include:

a full-time junior doctor for ophthalmology

a full-time orthoptist

emergency outpatient and procedural support.

CQ Hospital and Health Services has also invested in the latest diagnostic
equipment to support the ophthalmology services at Rockhampton Hospital to
enable patients to be diagnosed and followed up locally. These include:

integrated slit lamp and anterior segment imaging system (for diagnosis and
minor eye treatments)

corneal topography machine (to assist in diagnosis of corneal conditions and
surgery preparation)

visual field machine (to assist in the diagnosis of eye disease such as glaucoma
and neurological conditions)

A/B scanner for ultrasound images and diagnosis of other eye diseases and dense
cataract measurements.

These are just some of the many capital expenditure investments to the service
since 2014.

"CQ Hospital and Health Service has done a fantastic job to recruit a highly
professional eye team and purchase cutting-edge diagnostic and procedural
equipment, which is showing tremendous results for the people of Central
Queensland," Dr Supramaniam said.

"I would particularly like to acknowledge the clinical and administrative team
which has supported the development of the eye service to date.

"Starting up a new service is not without its challenges and it has only been a
success as a result of the tremendous effort and commitment of the whole team."

In the past year, the Rockhampton ophthalmology team has done more than 700
elective and emergency procedures including complex retinal surgeries, screened
nearly 50 premature infants and held more than 3500 outpatient consultations.

"We are very focused on continuing to develop and expand the eye service to
ensure we are able to sustainably meet the eye health needs of Central
Queenslanders now and into the future," Dr Supramaniam said.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RMB


                    Copyright 2017 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Newcastle Star

                               November 17, 2014

John Hunter Children's Hospital prescribes play

BYLINE: MARK CONNORS

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 260  words


THE Camp Quality team at the John Hunter Children's Hospital has received a
massive boost, adding resources to its play specialist kit.

Last week a Sony PlayStation 4, games, an additional controller and charging
station were donated through a local business.

Camp Quality play therapists will use the resources to help children with cancer
who are in the hospital.

Hospital play specialist Cara Dahl said the Camp Quality team had a three-prong
approach when children were in the ward.

"Firstly, we make sure the children have an opportunity to play. Some of them
are here for long periods of time," she said.

"We also give procedural education - we play and have other tools to help the
kids understand any medical treatments they will go through - such as an MRI
[magnetic resonance imaging scan] or an X-ray."

The third revolves around procedural distractions and coping skills. The
children often need blood tests or a dressing change.

Two-year-old Aiden Jelenic and his mother Sharon Jelenic, from Edgeworth, were
in the ward when the donations from Greater Building Society were presented.

Aiden was diagnosed with leukaemia last month and is undergoing chemotherapy and
blood transfusions.

Ms Jelenic said play therapy helped brighten his day.

The Greater managed to raise another $1190 for the program through a staff
auction, and also donated the cheque to the play specialist unit last week.

The financial institution has a long-standing relationship with the unit, and
this year the Greater Charitable Foundation funded a play therapist to work at
the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                              June 1, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

He's there in spirit on 'Saving Hope'

BYLINE: Brian Gorman, Special to The Citizen

SECTION: A & E; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 307 words


Medical procedurals usually deal with the hospital staff, the patients and their
friends, enemies and relatives.

The one group that has always been left out is the dead and dying -until now.

In "Saving Hope," debuting Thursday, June 7, on CTV and NBC, one of the main
characters is a doctor in a coma. The series is the latest Canadian network show
to be sold to a U.S. broadcaster.

Dr. Charlie Harris is doomed to lurk around the hospital where he used to work,
talking to other coma patients and the recently dead.

The situation is almost as creepy and lonely for the actor playing the role as
it is for the character, says Michael Shanks, who plays Harris, chief of surgery
at the fictional Toronto Hope-Zion hospital.

"You do feel like you're off in your own little world," he says. "You start to
find yourself as an actor feeling the same kinds of things the character feels:
isolation and frustration and things like that.

"You watch all the consultation and surgery, and you start to think, 'I want to
do that, too.' It's a very strange thing."

A native Vancouverite, Shanks has carved out a place for himself as a regular in
the subgenre of science-fiction series made in his hometown, including "Stargate
Atlantis" and "Smallville" (in which he was Hawkman/Carter Hall).

Now he's playing a doctor in a medical procedural -with one catch. His character
fell victim to blunt-force trauma after a car accident on his wedding day.

So he hangs around the hospital in a tuxedo, occasionally talking to other
disembodied spirits. Mostly, though, he delivers monologues on his situation,
like a morose comic playing for an audience who can't hear him.

The one person he wants to reach, though, is his fiancee, fellow surgeon Alex
Reid (Erica Durance), who struggles, with the help of new star surgeon Joel
Goran (Daniel Gillies), to save Charlie's life.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Erica Durance;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                  1 - Edition

Distracted nurses make mistakes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 180  words


A MAJOR study of how medicines are administered in Australian hospitals has
found a high rate of ``procedural failure and clinical error'' by nurses.

Nurses made at least one error or oversight in 80.2 per cent of cases in which
they gave a drug or other treatment to a patient.

The mistakes ranged from forgetting to wash their hands or not reconfirming a
patient's identity through to administering the wrong drug dose, and in some
cases the oversight was life-threatening.

Professor Johanna Westbrook said nurses faced a multitude of competing demands
while in a hospital ward, and the more they were interrupted the more mistakes
they made.

``In 80 per cent of administrations of medication there was at least one
procedural failure or one clinical error,'' said Prof Westbrook, from the
University of Sydney's Health Informatics Research and Evaluation Unit.

``What we showed is that if you were interrupted you we more likely to make one
of those errors.''

Prof Westbrook and her colleagues tracked almost 100 nurses based at two unnamed
Australian hospitals over about two years.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Minnesota Lawyer (Minneapolis, MN)

                              April 5, 2013 Friday

8th Circuit says county not liable in CHIPS case

BYLINE: Barbara L. Jones

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1022  words


A Plymouth couple who believed their civil rights were abused by the Hennepin
County child protection process has lost their bid for redress from the federal
courts.

The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the dismissal by U.S. District
Court Judge Ann Montgomery of an action under 42 U.S.C. sec. 1983 for violations
of the plaintiffs' procedural due process rights.

"Hennepin County lacks any policymaking authority regarding the handling and
scheduling of the [emergency protective custody] hearing and formal hearing. The
[plaintiffs'] complaint essentially alleges that Minnesota law, and the state
court judge's application of that law--not an independent Hennepin County
policy--caused the procedural due process violations. Hennepin County cannot be
liable to the [plaintiffs] under sec. 1983 for the violation of their procedural
due process rights based on the allegations contained in this complaint," the
court said. (Emphasis in original.)

The underlying child protection case began in 2009 when plaintiff Julie Slaven
was carrying her son, C.S., then 2 months old, in his car seat up the steps into
the family home when the infant accidentally fell out of the seat. Slaven called
911, and the baby was taken to the hospital as a precautionary measure.

At the hospital, C.S. had two CT scans that revealed blood in his bilateral
frontal lobes, an injury not consistent with a fall from a car seat. The
hospital then filed a report of suspected child abuse with Hennepin County. A
child abuse pediatrician reviewed the scans and said that the baby's ongoing
safety was a concern but that there was "no single finding here diagnostic of a
nonaccidental injury. "

Hennepin County opened a child protection investigation. The pediatrician said
that C.S. 's injuries could have been caused by shaking and that the parents had
refused a bone scan for fear of excessive radiation. The police placed C.S. on a
72-hour emergency hold, preventing the Slavens from seeing him except for
feeding times with supervision. The next day, a Friday, C.S. had a bone scan.

An emergency protective custody hearing was scheduled for the following Tuesday,
Aug. 25. At that time, the Slavens were served with a summons and petition
stating that there was no finding of a nonaccidental injury but also said that
they would not allow a bone scan, even though they had consented after initially
refusing.

The assistant Hennepin County attorney asked the court to find that there had
been a prima facie showing and that not only C.S. but the Slavens' other
children were in danger.   The judge ordered that Julie Slaven move out of the
home and the grandparents move in and supervise the Slavens' visitation.

A trial date was scheduled for Oct. 26, slightly more than the 60 days after the
EPC as required by the rules.   While it was pending, the Slavens' supervision
was phased out.   Eventually, the county told the court that it appeared the
fall was an accident. The case was dismissed in December.

In a civil suit against Hennepin County officials, the Slavens alleged that they
were denied adequate notice of the EPC hearing and also that they were deprived
of a meaningful hearing because they could not present evidence or
cross-examine. They also alleged that the investigation and other procedures
after the EPC deprived them of an opportunity to be heard at a meaningful time
or a meaningful manner.

Montgomery concluded that Hennepin County was not liable under sec. 1983 for
implementing or enforcing Minnesota law because it was required to do so.

The 8th Circuit, in an opinion written by Judge Lavenski Smith, agreed. A party
seeking to impose liability on a municipality (which includes a county) must
identify a policy or custom that caused the plaintiffs injury. The complaint is
devoid of any allegations of an unconstitutional policy that is separate and
distinct from Minnesota law, the 8th Circuit said.

Parents may submit evidence

But Montgomery criticized Hennepin County's practices and said the proceeding
may have been unjust. She also was "troubled" by parents' inability to produce
evidence at an EPC hearing.

"[A]ny attempt by parents to admit ... evidence [at an EPC] is entirely futile
because those same rules instruct courts to continue with protective care if it
finds 'endangerment' exists, which is determined by considering whether the
petition makes a prima facie showing of endangerment. (Cite omitted.) The court
is not reassured by the fact that the juvenile court's determination is a
two-step process. Under the rules, both steps are evaluated on a prima facie
basis," the judge wrote.

However, she declined to rule on the question of whether the use of a prima
facie case is unconstitutional.

Assistant Hennepin County Attorney Dan Rogan said that Montgomery's comments did
not reflect the Hennepin's practices. "Parents can put in evidence at the [EPC}
hearing if the evidence relates to whether there should be continued protective
care or the child should be returned to the home.   That often will involve not
only evidence of how the family would deal with the child [but also] at the
circumstances leading to the removal of the child from the home," he said.

Looking at the case with hindsight, it's unfortunate that Hennepin County had to
take the actions that it did, but everyone was acting in the best interests of
the child, he said.

But everyone knows that the EPC hearing is only about the prima facie case and
is not due process to the parents, said the Slaven's attorney, Erick Kaardal.
He said he is looking for more innocent parents who got caught up in the child
protection system. "The parents need to have a shot" at presenting their case
early on, he said.

What happened to the family was really wrong, said plaintiff Julie Slaven.
"Our biggest hope was that truth and justice would prevail.   We sort of thought
it was our responsibility to do something, since we were in a position to, and a
lot of people that this happens to couldn't. "

<a href="http://www.minnlawyer.com/be-the-first-to-know/">Click here for more
from this resource. </a>

© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 7, 2016 Tuesday 6:34 PM GMT

North East hospital blunders which should never have happened revealed in
report;
The so-called 'never events' recorded in the region included wrong site surgery
and foreign objects left in patients' bodies

BYLINE: By Katie Dickinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612 words


They're called 'never events' - incidents in hospital that are so serious they
should not happen.

However in the 12 months to April, there were nine such incidents in the
region's NHS Trusts, including four of medics operating on the wrong part of the
body.

The figures were released in a report by NHS England Patient Safety.

Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (NUHT) and City Hospital
Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust recorded three 'never events' each.

Incidents at NUHT included a nerve block being administered to the wrong eye
before cataract operation surgery, and an incision for spinal surgery being
extended to the next disc, leaving the patient with a longer scar.

An NUHT spokesperson said the figures needed to be viewed in the context "of the
many hundreds of thousands of care/procedural actions taken in a hospital
setting".

The spokesperson added that: "Each involved an error by the attending clinical
practitioner and documented accordingly to ensure consistent adherence to
procedural routine reinforced with lessons learnt."

At Sunderland, two 'foreign objects' were accidentally left inside patients'
bodies after procedures, while in another incident a feeding tube was placed
down the patient's windpipe rather than their oesophagus.

A Trust spokesperson said: "All never events are reported via our serious
incident reporting process and are subject to detailed investigation so we can
determine what went wrong and how we can ensure this does not happen again.

"The Trust actively encourages staff to report all incidents and has an open and
honest approach to such incidents."

Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust and South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust
each recorded one case of surgery on the wrong site, while one patient at
Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust had a foreign object left in their
body after a procedure.

A spokesperson for Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Gateshead said: "These types of
incidents are incredibly rare in Gateshead but it's important to highlight that
in this case no harm came to the patient and the procedure was completed
normally.

"We carried out a review of the case, in which the anaesthetic was initially
applied to the wrong area, and have put in place new measures to ensure it won't
happen again."

Birju Bartoli, deputy chief executive and executive director of performance and
governance at Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, said: "We take any
level of harm to our patients extremely seriously and any never event is one too
many. Our positive patient safety culture means we have created a supportive
learning environment where our staff feel able to openly report any incidents,
no matter how big or small, so that we can learn from them and, as far as
possible prevent them from recurring in the future."

South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust's Medical Director Dr Shaz Wahid said:
"Fortunately, never events are rare but just one is one too many and our target,
clearly, is to have no such events. Including this latest one, we have had only
two never events in the last decade.

"When one does occur, we want to make sure that we learn from it to prevent it
ever happening again. Our staff are dedicated to providing safe, high-quality
care and we encourage openness and transparency as part of our commitment to
reporting of all patient safety incidences."

Across England, 316 never events were recorded over the same period.

Surgery on the wrong site was the most common never event, happening 132 times.
Meanwhile 79 foreign objects, including part of a chisel and a surgical clamp,
were left inside patients, while 39 incorrect implants or prosthetic limbs or
devices were inserted.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        The Reporter (Logan, Queensland)

                                  June 5, 2013

Services restored ahead of schedule

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 368  words


PROCEDURAL services at Beaudesert Hospital have been reopened, more than a year
ahead of the Queensland Government deadline of July 2014.

Health Minister Lawrence Springborg made the announcement last week, as the
first three patients were seen for surgical procedures at the 22-bed hospital.

The hospital now provides minor surgeries, such as the removal of minor lesions,
minor orthopaedic surgery and some investigative procedures.

Mr Springborg said the early re-establishment of this important rural health
service was a credit to the Metro South Health board, executive and clinical
staff at Beaudesert Hospital.

"This rural hospital is offering high quality health care for the whole family,
with services including child health, palliative care, an emergency department -
and now also surgical procedures," he said.

"Post-natal inpatient services were also re-established in November last year,
giving local mums access to midwifery care throughout their pregnancy, and by
July 2014 local women with low-risk pregnancies will be able to give birth at
Beaudesert Hospital, closer to home and their families.

"The local Beaudesert and Scenic Rim community now have the benefit of access to
an outstanding team of midwives, nurses and doctors, led by new nursing and
facility director Hazel Brittain, who has recently achieved national recognition
for her work in the field of midwifery.

"Beaudesert Hospital is an important pilot for the State Government rejuvenation
of rural health services in Queensland and I congratulate Metro South Health for
this early re-establishment of another important rural health service."

Metro South Health Board chair Terry White said the early recommencement of
procedural services was a demonstration of the commitment of the board and
executive to deliver the best possible health care.

"As well as the re-establishment of surgical procedures, I can confirm that
Metro South Health is on schedule to re-open birthing services at Beaudesert
Hospital in July 2014," Mr White said.

"We have invested more than $1.6 million in equipment and facility upgrades and
are currently searching for the best nurses, midwives and allied health
professionals to grow our experienced team."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IRN


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      October 31, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

BioTrace Medical Announces Positive Data from Clinical Study of Innovative
Temporary Pacing Technology for Transcatheter Aortic Valve Procedures, Other
Cardiovascular Applications

LENGTH: 700  words


Oct. 31 -- BioTrace Medical Inc., an innovator in the development of temporary
pacing technology, today announced positive clinical results from a study of the
company's Tempo Lead designed for use in procedures in which temporary pacing is
indicated.

Safety and efficacy results from 25 patients requiring temporary pacing during
procedures for transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), balloon aortic
valvuloplasty (BAV), or electrophysiology (EP) procedures were presented at the
Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT) meeting in Washington D.C. by
co-principal investigator Mark Webster, M.D., cardiologist at Auckland City
Hospital in Auckland, New Zealand.

Results from the multi-center study clearly demonstrated the safety of the Tempo
Lead, with no device related adverse events, dislodgements, sustained
ventricular arrhythmia, or cardiac perforations. The device was successfully
positioned in 23 (92%) patients, with two patients having unsuitable anatomy.
Pacing with the Tempo Lead was successful in all treated patients with no loss
of pace capture or lead dislodgement of the device from within the heart.
Average procedural pace capture threshold was 0.70.5mA. Rapid pacing was
successful in all cases with no loss of capture.

"The results of this first-in-human study of the technology demonstrate that the
Tempo Lead is safe and effective for temporary cardiac pacing, and provides
stable peri- and post-procedural pacing support," said Dr. Webster. "Durable and
stable procedural and post-procedural pacing is critical to the success of TAVR,
and other clinical scenarios requiring temporary pacing."

"The Tempo Lead represents an important advance that could help reduce serious
complications associated with temporary pacing," said Sanjeevan Pasupati, M.D.,
cardiologist at Waikato Hospital in Hamilton, New Zealand and study co-principal
investigator. "The technology is easy to use and offers secure placement. The
secure placement of the Tempo Lead alleviates the need for patients to return to
the cath lab for repositioning and aids early mobilization of patients with
confidence."

The Tempo Lead received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 510(k) clearance
last week and the company plans an immediate U.S. commercial release.

"This clinical data is a significant validation of the Tempo Lead, and a
gratifying milestone for our company, which was founded with the mission to
improve patient outcomes and minimize risks from life-threatening complications
during and after cardiac procedures," said BioTrace CEO Laura Dietch. "As the
need for temporary pacing continues to grow, especially in TAVR procedures, we
are pleased that with our recent FDA clearance more patients now have a
revolutionary option that may allow them to ambulate sooner, which could reduce
length of stay in intensive care and decrease hospital costs."

Temporary leads are used in more than 350,000 procedures each year, a number
that is growing rapidly as the population ages and TAVR becomes increasingly
common. The temporary pacing lead, a small catheter with two electrodes, is
placed in the right ventricle of the heart through a vein in the groin or neck.
The lead is then connected to an external pacemaker allowing a physician to
monitor and control a patient's heart rate for several days.

The design of conventional temporary pacing leads can cause serious
complications. Current temporary leads can be easily dislodged from the heart,
which may result in loss of pacing, with serious consequences for the patient.
As a result, patients are often limited to bed rest for the duration of
temporary pacing lead placement, delaying ambulation and thereby increasing
length of stay in costly hospital units such as intensive care. In addition,
current leads risk perforation of the heart wall which may lead to potentially
life-threatening compression of the heart.

BioTrace Medical's Tempo Lead incorporates innovations designed for secure and
stable cardiac pacing with the goal of reducing complications and allowing
patients to ambulate sooner after procedures. The Tempo Lead features a novel
active fixation mechanism, bipolar electrodes and a soft tip.

Source: BioTrace Medical

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Caloundra City News (Queensland)

                                  May 14, 2010

Hospital activist insists on funds locked in Patients suffering because of
delays

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 489  words


JAN de Vries has a message for Paul Lucas and the Bligh Government.

"Don't dare let Sunshine Coast residents down again."

Ms de Vries, the chairwoman of the Sunshine Coast University Hospital Action
Group, was commenting on the announcement of a $600 million boost to medical
services before the construction of the new $1.97 billion tertiary health
precinct at Kawana.

The new Sunshine Coast University Hospital will open in 2016 with 450 inpatient
beds, increasing to 738 by 2021.

Queensland Health plans to purchase 70 public bed equivalents of health services
from the proposed co-located private hospital in 2013, growing to 110 by the end
of the following year.

Ms de Vries said promises had been too easily broken in the past.

"The new public hospital at Kawana was originally slated to open in 2014," she
said.

"The government, citing the economic downturn, announced last year that the
hospital would not receive its first patients until 2016.

"Patients have suffered as a result.

"We welcome the new services announced but we will not be quiet until the
promised and much needed new hospital for the Sunshine Coast is built."

The SCUHAG group gathered at the site of the tertiary health precinct earlier
this month to attract attention to their cause.

MEMBERS waved placards to passing traffic and received solid support.

Health Minister Paul Lucas arrived at the Nambour General Hospital with a folder
full of announcements that will boost the local region's medical services prior
to the construction of the hospital.

The services, including a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, vascular surgery
procedural suite and a dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour, will cost
$600 million.

Construction of these new facilities will begin next year, with services to
commence from late 2011.

Mr Lucas said these services would also help to retain and recruit top-level
specialists to help build up the clinical capacity in the lead-up to the opening
of the SCUH.

"We want to make sure that we can create a critical staff base so that the
emergency department at Sunshine Coast University Hospital will be fully
functional from the first day," Mr Lucas said.

"This is a win for the Sunshine Coast community, building up the skills and
services that will help make the SCUH a reality."

Member for Caloundra and shadow health minister Mark McArdle welcomed the news
the private sector has been asked to bid on the construction of a private
hospital at Kawana.

"I'm very glad to hear the private sector will be involved in developing this
portion of the hospital complex as we can be guaranteed it will be delivered on
time and also on budget," Mr McArdle said.

"The private sector in Queensland has a proven track record in the construction
of health infrastructure and providing excellent service in many parts of this
state."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCC


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Caloundra City News (Queensland)

                                  May 14, 2010

Hospital activist insists on funds locked in Patients suffering because of
delays

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 489  words


JAN de Vries has a message for Paul Lucas and the Bligh Government.

"Don't dare let Sunshine Coast residents down again."

Ms de Vries, the chairwoman of the Sunshine Coast University Hospital Action
Group, was commenting on the announcement of a $600 million boost to medical
services before the construction of the new $1.97 billion tertiary health
precinct at Kawana.

The new Sunshine Coast University Hospital will open in 2016 with 450 inpatient
beds, increasing to 738 by 2021.

Queensland Health plans to purchase 70 public bed equivalents of health services
from the proposed co-located private hospital in 2013, growing to 110 by the end
of the following year.

Ms de Vries said promises had been too easily broken in the past.

"The new public hospital at Kawana was originally slated to open in 2014," she
said.

"The government, citing the economic downturn, announced last year that the
hospital would not receive its first patients until 2016.

"Patients have suffered as a result.

"We welcome the new services announced but we will not be quiet until the
promised and much needed new hospital for the Sunshine Coast is built."

The SCUHAG group gathered at the site of the tertiary health precinct earlier
this month to attract attention to their cause.

MEMBERS waved placards to passing traffic and received solid support.

Health Minister Paul Lucas arrived at the Nambour General Hospital with a folder
full of announcements that will boost the local region's medical services prior
to the construction of the hospital.

The services, including a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, vascular surgery
procedural suite and a dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour, will cost
$600 million.

Construction of these new facilities will begin next year, with services to
commence from late 2011.

Mr Lucas said these services would also help to retain and recruit top-level
specialists to help build up the clinical capacity in the lead-up to the opening
of the SCUH.

"We want to make sure that we can create a critical staff base so that the
emergency department at Sunshine Coast University Hospital will be fully
functional from the first day," Mr Lucas said.

"This is a win for the Sunshine Coast community, building up the skills and
services that will help make the SCUH a reality."

Member for Caloundra and shadow health minister Mark McArdle welcomed the news
the private sector has been asked to bid on the construction of a private
hospital at Kawana.

"I'm very glad to hear the private sector will be involved in developing this
portion of the hospital complex as we can be guaranteed it will be delivered on
time and also on budget," Mr McArdle said.

"The private sector in Queensland has a proven track record in the construction
of health infrastructure and providing excellent service in many parts of this
state."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCC


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Caloundra City News (Queensland)

                                  May 14, 2010

Hospital activist insists on funds locked in Patients suffering because of
delays

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 489  words


JAN de Vries has a message for Paul Lucas and the Bligh Government.

"Don't dare let Sunshine Coast residents down again."

Ms de Vries, the chairwoman of the Sunshine Coast University Hospital Action
Group, was commenting on the announcement of a $600 million boost to medical
services before the construction of the new $1.97 billion tertiary health
precinct at Kawana.

The new Sunshine Coast University Hospital will open in 2016 with 450 inpatient
beds, increasing to 738 by 2021.

Queensland Health plans to purchase 70 public bed equivalents of health services
from the proposed co-located private hospital in 2013, growing to 110 by the end
of the following year.

Ms de Vries said promises had been too easily broken in the past.

"The new public hospital at Kawana was originally slated to open in 2014," she
said.

"The government, citing the economic downturn, announced last year that the
hospital would not receive its first patients until 2016.

"Patients have suffered as a result.

"We welcome the new services announced but we will not be quiet until the
promised and much needed new hospital for the Sunshine Coast is built."

The SCUHAG group gathered at the site of the tertiary health precinct earlier
this month to attract attention to their cause.

MEMBERS waved placards to passing traffic and received solid support.

Health Minister Paul Lucas arrived at the Nambour General Hospital with a folder
full of announcements that will boost the local region's medical services prior
to the construction of the hospital.

The services, including a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, vascular surgery
procedural suite and a dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour, will cost
$600 million.

Construction of these new facilities will begin next year, with services to
commence from late 2011.

Mr Lucas said these services would also help to retain and recruit top-level
specialists to help build up the clinical capacity in the lead-up to the opening
of the SCUH.

"We want to make sure that we can create a critical staff base so that the
emergency department at Sunshine Coast University Hospital will be fully
functional from the first day," Mr Lucas said.

"This is a win for the Sunshine Coast community, building up the skills and
services that will help make the SCUH a reality."

Member for Caloundra and shadow health minister Mark McArdle welcomed the news
the private sector has been asked to bid on the construction of a private
hospital at Kawana.

"I'm very glad to hear the private sector will be involved in developing this
portion of the hospital complex as we can be guaranteed it will be delivered on
time and also on budget," Mr McArdle said.

"The private sector in Queensland has a proven track record in the construction
of health infrastructure and providing excellent service in many parts of this
state."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCC


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                              June 13, 2016 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Medical 'events' that should never happen;
FOUR CASES OF MEDICS OPERATING ON WRONG PARTS

BYLINE: Katie Dickinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 531 words


THEY'RE called '"never events" - incidents in hospital that are so serious they
should not happen.

However in the 12 months to April, there were nine such incidents in the
region's NHS Trusts, including four of medics operating on the wrong part of the
body.

The figures were released in a report by NHS England Patient Safety. Newcastle
Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (NUHT) and City Hospital Sunderland NHS
Foundation Trust recorded three such events each.

Incidents at NUHT included a nerve block being administered to the wrong eye
before cataract operation surgery, and an incision for spinal surgery being
extended to the next disc, leaving the patient with a longer scar.

An NUHT spokesperson said the figures needed to be viewed in the context "of the
many hundreds of thousands of care/procedural actions taken in a hospital
setting".

The spokesperson added: "Each involved an error by the attending clinical
practitioner and documented accordingly to ensure consistent adherence to
procedural routine reinforced with lessons learnt."

At Sunderland, two "foreign objects" were left inside patients' bodies after
procedures, while in another incident a feeding tube was put down the patient's
windpipe rather than oesophagus. A Trust spokesperson said: "All never events
are reported via our serious incident reporting process and are subject to
detailed investigation so we can determine what went wrong and how we can ensure
this does not happen again.

"The Trust actively encourages staff to report all incidents and has an open and
honest approach to such incidents."

Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust and South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust
each recorded one case of surgery on the wrong site, while one patient at
Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust had a foreign object left in their
body.

A spokesperson for Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Gateshead said: "These types of
incidents are incredibly rare in Gateshead but it's important to highlight that
in this case no harm came to the patient and the procedure was completed
normally. We carried out a review of the case, in which the anaesthetic was
initially applied to the wrong area, and have put in place new measures to
ensure it won't happen again."

Birju Bartoli, deputy chief executive and executive director of performance and
governance at Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, said: "We take any
level of harm to our patients extremely seriously and any never event is one too
many. Our positive patient safety culture means we have created a supportive
learning environment where staff feel able to openly report any incidents, no
matter how big or small, so that we can learn from them and, as far as possible
prevent them from recurring in the future."

South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust's Medical Director Dr Shaz Wahid said:
"Fortunately, never events are rare but just one is one too many and our target,
clearly, is to have no such events. Including this latest one, we have had only
two never events in the last decade. When one does occur, we want to make sure
that we learn from it to prevent it ever happening again."

Across England, 316 never events were recorded over the same period.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Gateshead.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2016 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Kalgoorlie Miner (Western Australia)

                            October 25, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Call for training

SECTION: KAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 340  words


A KALGOORLIE-BOULDER general practitioner and obstetrician says any move to
encourage young GPs to get extra training especially in obstetrics and
anaesthetics is applauded and supported.

Goldfields GP Mal Hodsdon's comments come after the Rural Doctors Association of
Australia welcomed a Government announcement country GPs can apply for funding
to help them complete procedural training in obstetrics.

Dr Hodsdon said there was a shortage of procedural general practice,
particularly in Western Australia, with the situation tight in
Kalgoorlie-Boulder.

We have  four GPs in Kalgoorlie-Boulder doing obstetrics, but there is one
planning to leave at the end of the year and we have no GPs doing anaesthetics,
he said.

He said the town did get visits from a Norseman GP to provide anaesthetic cover.
RDAA chief executive Steve Sant said the funding would provide much needed
assistance to rural GPs looking to provide a greater level of service to their
regions.

Procedural skills, such as obstetrics, are very much in need in rural
communities, many of which are at risk of losing their current maternity and
surgical services, he said.

Thousands of country women have no local maternity services available to them.
They must travel several hours from their homes and families to give birth.

Increasing the number of GPs able to deliver babies at local hospitals will make
a huge difference to these rural families. We are encouraged to see the Gillard
Government acting on the findings of their Maternity Services Review report that
highlighted the need for better access to high quality maternity services and
more support for the maternity services workforce in rural and remote Australia.

Mr Sant also said  recognition of Rural Generalists as a specialist area and
providing the necessary training early on would also help address the critical
shortage of highly-trained rural doctors.

We have been advocating for the implementation of a national rural generalist
training pathway to support and train rural doctors of the future, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Central Queensland News

                                  May 25, 2011

Training for rural doctors focus of debate

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 336  words


PRESIDENT of the Rural Doctors Association of Queensland, Dr Dan Halliday
thanked the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners for its
contribution to community discussion about training doctors for rural
communities.

"We all know that the one-in-three Australian patients who live outside the
metropolitan centres have poorer access to health care and poorer health
outcomes than their urban cousins," Dr Halliday said.

The RACGP's position statement on Rural General Practice raised concerns with
Queensland Health's Rural Generalist Training Program.

The RGTP has been widely praised by country doctors nationwide for teaching
much-needed procedural skills and providing a well-paid training and career path
in Queensland's country hospitals, and the model may be adopted by other states.

"RDAQ members agree with RACGP that doctors becoming qualified for general
practice cannot be trained solely in hospitals. We believe that all doctors
obtaining GP qualifications such as FRACGP, FARGP or FACRRM do have sufficient
true general practice experience to be safe and effective general practitioners
in any setting. The Australian Medical Council has verified that the curricula
for those qualifications meet that standard," Dr Halliday said.

"RDAQ acknowledges RACGP's concerns that a two-tiered remuneration structure
might develop. Procedural hospital doctors that have advanced skills and work
for Queensland Health could be better rewarded than their office-based general
practitioner colleagues who are funded through Medicare and often self-employed.
Yet both sectors have essential roles in rural communities.

"Our members see this challenge as a call to seek better remuneration through
Medicare rebates for rural doctors in the private sector. RDAQ invites the RACGP
to join us, and the Rural Doctors Association of Australia, in lobbying the
Federal Government to level that particular playing field.

"RDAQ looks forward to a robust debate..."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RCQ


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                             August 30, 2013 Friday

Tighten checks in health care

SECTION: A; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 405 words


Health Minister Ted Flemming and health network CEOs John McGarry and Rino Volpé
have taken significant steps toward the effective reform of health care in New
Brunswick. The disturbing revelation that for 14 years, staff at a regional
hospital did not follow correct sterilization procedure for some surgical
implements illustrates that much more needs to be done.

New Brunswickers can debate whether it should have taken administrators three
months to disclose the information; without knowing how difficult it was to
determine when the errors in question began to occur or which patients might
have been affected, though, we think this is an academic exercise. The more
fundamental question is why it took 14 years for someone to red-flag the fact
that sterilization procedures weren't being followed consistently.

What makes this oversight even more outrageous is that the hospital where it
occurred, Miramichi Regional, has repeatedly been put under the microscope for
procedural and policy violations, ranging from fraud at the highest level in the
former regional hospital corporation to systemic negligence, in the case of a
pathologist who misread biopsy results that potentially affected 15,700
patients.

Despite all the forensic reviews at this facility, and all the claims that what
was wrong had been addressed and that everything else was working smoothly, no
one caught the routine errors taking place in sterilization. This occurred at a
hospital that now stands at the heart of the province's new regional health
network system and which is a critically important part of the Horizon Health
Network, headquartered in Miramichi.

While praising the level of care that New Brunswick hospitals provide, Minister
Flemming has stated that this incident raises questions about whether
performance audits and procedural checks are in place and being carried out. We
agree. In our opinion, this broader issue needs to be dealt with at a level
above the Horizon and Vitalité health network boards.

What can the Department of Health do to ensure consistent high standards are
followed in every provincial hospital? How will services be evaluated, how
often, and by whom, in order to ensure compliance?

These questions need to be answered - and for the sake of ensuring that a high
and consistent level of patient safety is maintained across the province, both
hospital corporations should be asked to meet the same service benchmarks.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2013 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday

Kachkar given risky privileges, court hears

SECTION: GREATER TORONTO; Pg. GT1

LENGTH: 494 words


A man who killed a Toronto police officer was wrongly granted the ability to get
escorted community passes from a psychiatric hospital, a Crown lawyer argued in
Ontario's highest court Monday.

The Crown was "blindsided" by a decision of the Ontario Review Board, which
oversees mentally ill offenders, to allow Richard Kachkar community access at
the discretion of his medical team, court heard.

Crown attorney Eric Siebenmorgen said the decision put the public at "undue
risk."

Kachkar, 47, found not criminally responsible last March in the 2011 snowplow
killing of Sgt. Ryan Russell, has since been detained for treatment at Ontario
Shores Centre for Mental Health Sciences in Whitby.

At his first review board hearing last year, the Crown and defence jointly
recommended granting him supervised hospital grounds privileges.

But the board went a step further in its decision and allowed for escorted trips
into the community.

"It's just premature at this point, given how little we know" about the factors
that led to Kachkar's psychotic break in the first place, Siebenmorgen argued
before a three-member panel of appeal court judges.

The Ontario Review Board has the power to decide whether people found not
criminally responsible should be detained for treatment, released into the
community with various conditions or given an absolute discharge.

In making decisions, the board must balance concern for public safety with a
duty to impose the least onerous restrictions on the forensic patient. Board
members are a mix of retired judges, lawyers with 10 or more years of
experience, psychiatrists, psychologists and miscellaneous members of the
public.

The Crown contends the board made a procedural error in granting community
access because neither the Crown nor the defence were given the opportunity to
argue for or against it.

Peter Copeland, Kachkar's appeal lawyer, argued the review board decision was
reasonable and said there was no procedural breach.

So far, the hospital has not allowed Kachkar the discretionary community access
granted by the review board.However, he has been allowed supervised off-ward
excursions for activities such as physiotherapy, visits to the hospital gym and
grounds walks - all without incident, according to an affidavit sworn by his
doctor.

He has shown no active signs of psychosis since arriving at Ontario Shores, but
is voluntarily taking antipsychotic medication, the doctor said.

If the court decides a procedural error did occur, Copeland said, it should
dismiss the appeal based on fresh evidence of Kachkar's progress since arriving
at Ontario Shores.

"He is a model patient," the defence lawyer said. "He has shown good insight
into his circumstances and his need for treatment."

Copeland said his client's behaviour is not as unpredictable as the Crown made
it seem, pointing out that Kachkar showed clear signs of mental deterioration,
witnessed by friends and family, in the weeks leading up to his snowplow
rampage.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              98 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

COBB COUNTY: Suit against project survives

BYLINE: DAN CHAPMAN; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 176 words


Cobb County residents who sued to stop the development of a large church and
small hospital near Lake Allatoona won an important procedural battle Monday.

The Georgia Supreme Court's unanimous ruling overturns a decision last January
by a Cobb County Superior Court judge. That judge dismissed a lawsuit contesting
plans for a 65-acre tract of land on U.S. 41 near Acworth.

Johnson Ferry Baptist Church, an east Cobb mega-church, wants to build a
satellite church and other facilities on the property. WellStar Health System
proposes building doctors' offices, a diagnostic and testing center and,
eventually, a hospital.

Nearby homeowners, led by Teresa Stendahl and son Timothy Cannon, said the
project at the intersection with Awtrey Church Road would pollute water for
hundreds of thousands of people. Lake Allatoona is a major source of drinking
water for residents of Cherokee and Cobb counties.

Bonnie Wilson, WellStar's general counsel, likened the Supreme Court's decision
to no more than a procedural setback.

The case now returns to Cobb Superior Court.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2008 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              99 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly

                          November 11, 2015 Wednesday

Civil practice - Commitment - Notice

BYLINE: Tom Egan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 582  words


Where a respondent who voluntarily admitted himself to a petitioner hospital
moved to dismiss a petition for civil commitment, the motion should have been
allowed because the hospital did not comply with a state regulation regarding
written notice.

"M.C. applied for admission at Beverly Hospital as a conditional voluntary
patient on July 18, 2014, pursuant to G.L.c. 123, §§10 & 11. Having found that
M.C. was competent to apply for a conditional voluntary status, the hospital
admitted M.C. on the same date. On July 31, 2014, the attending psychiatrist for
M.C., without notice to M.C. or a family member, rescinded the conditional
voluntary status of M.C. and filed a petition for the civil commitment of M.C.
M.C. moved to dismiss the petition, asserting that the hospital improperly
rescinded his conditional voluntary status, having failed to adhere to
applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. The motion was denied, and,
after hearing, M.C. was civilly committed on August 14, 2014. Approximately six
weeks later, on September 29, 2014, M.C. was discharged.

"We agree that the clinical finding of the attending psychiatrist as to the
capacity of M.C. to remain on a conditional voluntary status is specific to M.C.
and is unique to this particular case. Inthis context, this case is not capable
of repetition and can have no precedential value; it is moot. ...

"Yet the actual legal issue presented is not unique to M.C. Rather, the issue
affects potentially all individuals who apply for conditional voluntary
admission to a hospital. The rights of the mentally ill are 'classic examples'
of issues that are 'capable of repetition, yet evading review. ' ... Where the
issue is of public importance, very likely to arise again, and is likely not to
obtain appellate review before becoming moot, we will exercise our discretion
and address the issue. ...

"... (W]e find that the record does not support a finding that the hospital
complied with the regulation concerning notice to M.C. of an intent to conduct a
competency evaluation on M.C. 's ability to remain at the hospital on a
conditional voluntary status.

"The Department of Mental Health regulations require a hospital, '(p]rior to the
periodic review,' to 'give reasonable advance written notice' to a patient of
the intended review. ... There is no evidence in the record that M.C. was
provided with written notice. Compliance is both procedural and substantive. It
gives notice and allows an individual, such as M.C., to understand that an
exchange between the individual and a 'senior reviewing clinician' is not merely
for treatment, but may impact the freedom of the individual. The required notice
places the individual on awareness of the seriousness of the evaluation.

"With the hospital having failed to follow its own procedural requirements as
contained in the regulations of the Department of Mental Health, the motion to
dismiss should have been allowed.

"The order of commitment is vacated. "

In the Matter of M.C. (Lawyers Weekly No. 13-045-15) (6 pages) (Coven, J.)
(Appellate Division, Northern District) Appealed from a decision by Lauranzano,
J., in Salem District Court. Richard F. Ready, of Geraghty Hall & Ready, for the
petitioner; Devorah A. Borenstein for the respondent (App. Div. No.
14-ADMS-10033) (Nov. 5, 2015).

Click here to order the full text of the opinion.



http://www.masslawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Corporate earnings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 9, 2015 Monday

Washington: Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74

LENGTH: 862  words

DATELINE: Olympia


The State of Washington has issued the following Job Vacancy:

Job Title:  Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74
Opening Date/Time:  Thu. 12/19/13 12:00 AM Pacific Time
Closing Date/Time:  Continuous
Salary:  $56,532.00 - $75,372.00 Annually
Job Type:  Full Time - Permanent
Location:  Thurston County - Olympia, Washington
Department:  Health Care Authority

Description Benefits Supplemental Questions

Hospital Finance Unit Manager


The Health Care Authority (HCA) is Washington's largest health care purchaser,
responsible for providing comprehensive health coverage to more than 1.5 million
residents through the Public Employees Benefits and Medicaid programs. The
agency provides health purchasing leadership, benefitting both public and
private sectors with a focus on moving the health delivery system away from
volume toward higher value and better outcomes.

The HCA is currently implementing the Medicaid Expansion component of the
Affordable Care Act and anticipates more than 300,000 new clients over the next
two years.

Position Objective:

This position manages the DSH, CPE, NH Proshare, CAH, Major Trauma, Air and
Ground Ambulance, and Out-of-State Medical Services contracting programs within
the Hospital Finance section. With four professional positions reporting to this
position, this group is responsible for:

Fiscal and procedural management of the DSH, CPE, Nursing Home Proshare
programs, and special projects as they arise. These programs account for
million's annually, and they receive a great deal of stakeholder and federal
scrutiny.

Fiscal and procedural management of the thirty-eight hospitals participating in
our CAH program.

Fiscal and procedural management of the Major Trauma Program, Air and Ground
Ambulance transportation, and out-of-state medical services contracting.

Oversight of the DSH application process and the complex calculations to
determine hospital DSH payments; oversight of the Inpatient Hospital and Nursing
Home Proshare CPE programs involving complex calculations and federal
settlements.

Representation of HCA to external entities, hospitals, the Washington State
Hospital Association (WSHA), and stakeholders within state government, in
coordination with the Section Manager.


This position requires expert knowledge of federal rules governing these
programs; expert knowledge of state laws and regulations; advanced level skills
for data mining and analysis; and knowledge of hospital payment methodologies.
It also requires advanced project management, supervisory, communication and
analytical skills to meet the challenges of this position.

The position is authorized to work with various stakeholders on program and
policy issues in representing HCA as the subject matter expert.

This position is has full decision making authority to authorize payment within
budget limits for the programs it manages.

This position reports to the Section Manager for the Hospital Finance Section
and may have delegated authority to act on behalf of the Section Manager.

This position performs legislative bill analysis and may be assigned to draft
legislation.

This position takes a leadership role or actively participates in agency-wide
quality improvement projects.

This position is responsible for overseeing the annual federally-required DSH
audit, and works with the independent auditors for ensuring accuracy and
regulatory compliance with the DSH rules.

 Duties:
Supervises four professional staff within the Hospital Finance section that are
responsible for programs worth over $516 million annually.

Manage the annual DSH process including the DSH application process, calculation
of DSH payments, DSH Data Reporting File (DRDF), budget impacts, and changes to
processes, Washington Administrative Codes (WAC) and State Plan Amendments
(SPA). Data mining and analysis, review and analysis of hospital payment
methodologies and hospital financial reports; review of federal regulations and
understanding of changes to these regulations. Develops strategies for
implementation of new and existing regulations. Manages, coaches and mentors
staff responsible for carrying out the objectives of the DSH program.

Manage the annual CPE processes including the calculations of the Inpatient and
Nursing Home Proshare programs, the hold harmless grants, budget impacts, and
changes to processes, WAC and SPA. Data mining and analysis; review and analysis
of hospital payment methodologies and hospital financial reports; review of
federal regulations and understanding of changes to these regulations. Develops
strategies for implementation of new and existing regulations. Manages, coaches
and mentors staff responsible for carrying out the objectives of the CPE
program.

Manage the CAH processes including calculations of interim and final settlements
based on review and analysis of the hospital's Medicare cost reports, budget
impacts, changes to processes, and updates to WAC.

Manage the Major Trauma, Air and Ground Ambulance, and out-of-state medical
services contracting programs, budget impacts, and changes to processes, WAC and
SPA.

For Further information please visit:
http://agency.governmentjobs.com/washington

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                              June 13, 2016 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

North hospitals admit nine 'never events'

BYLINE: Katie Dickinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 574 words


THEY'RE called "never events" - incidents in hospital that are so serious they
should not happen.

However in the 12 months to April, there were nine such incidents in the
region's NHS Trusts, including four of medics operating on the wrong part of the
body.

The figures were released in a report by NHS England Patient Safety. Newcastle
Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (NUHT) and City Hospital Sunderland NHS
Foundation Trust recorded three "never events" each.

Incidents at NUHT included a nerve block being administered to the wrong eye
before cataract operation surgery, and an incision for spinal surgery being
extended to the next disc, leaving the patient with a longer scar.

An NUHT spokesperson said the figures needed to be viewed in the context "of the
many hundreds of thousands of care/procedural actions taken in a hospital
setting", adding: "Each involved an error by the attending clinical practitioner
and documented accordingly to ensure consistent adherence to procedural routine
reinforced with lessons learnt."

At Sunderland, two "foreign objects" were left inside patients' bodies after
procedures, while in another incident a feeding tube was put the patient's
windpipe rather than oesophagus.

A Trust spokesperson said: "All never events are reported via our serious
incident reporting process and are subject to detailed investigation so we can
determine what went wrong and how we can ensure this does not happen again. The
Trust actively encourages staff to report all incidents and has an open and
honest approach to such incidents."

Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust and South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust
each recorded one case of surgery on the wrong site, while one patient at
Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust had a foreign object left in their
body after a procedure.

A spokesperson for Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Gateshead said: "These types of
incidents are incredibly rare in Gateshead but it's important to highlight that
in this case no harm came to the patient and the procedure was completed
normally. We carried out a review of the case, in which the anaesthetic was
initially applied to the wrong area, and have put in place new measures to
ensure it won't happen again."

Birju Bartoli, deputy chief executive and executive director of performance and
governance at Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, said: "We take any
level of harm to our patients extremely seriously and any never event is one too
many. Our positive patient safety culture means we have created a supportive
learning environment where staff feel able to openly report any incidents, no
matter how big or small, so that we can learn from them and, as far as possible
prevent them from recurring in the future."

South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust's Medical Director Dr Shaz Wahid said:
"Fortunately, never events are rare but just one is one too many and our target,
clearly, is to have no such events. Including this latest one, we have had only
two never events in the last decade.

"When one does occur, we want to make sure that we learn from it to prevent it
ever happening again."

Across England, 316 never events were recorded over the same period.

Surgery on the wrong site was the most common never event, happening 132 times.
Meanwhile 79 foreign objects, including part of a chisel and a surgical clamp,
were left inside patients, while 39 incorrect implants or prosthetic limbs or
devices were inserted.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2016 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                             June 24, 2006 Saturday
                                 Travel Edition

We must save our small hospitals, for the good of the nation

BYLINE: ROSS MAXWELL

SECTION: FEATURES; Health; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 903  words


SMALL hospitals have been the lifeblood of communities across Australia for more
than a century. They have provided emergency care for victims of farming
accidents, car accidents and heart attacks. They have delivered generations of
babies and often also served as the local nursing home.

They are often the only places in country towns where nursing and allied health
services are available, and where rural patients can receive chronic care for
conditions like a diabetic foot ulcer or rehabilitation.

But in less than 15 years many of these hospitals have closed or lost their
maternity and other procedural services. More than 130 small rural maternity
units have been closed by state governments in the past decade.

The Rural Doctors Association of Australia (RDAA) has welcomed a proposal by the
Deputy Prime Minister and the leader of the Nationals Mark Vaile that the next
Australian Health Care Agreements (AHCAs) between the federal and state
governments should include funding specifically for public hospitals in rural
and regional areas.

Such a measure would help ensure the survival of rural hospitals by requiring
that Commonwealth funding intended for these hospitals is not instead siphoned
into metropolitan hospitals by state governments.

RDAA has been leading the call for dedicated funding for rural and regional
hospitals for many years. Such a measure was also a central element of the Good
Health to Rural Communities 10-point plan that RDAA, together with the National
Farmers' Federation, Country Women's Association of Australia, Australian Local
Government Association and Health Consumers of Rural and Remote Australia,
developed in 2004.

The absence of dedicated funding for rural hospitals in the AHCAs has been a key
contributor to the poor co-ordination between the federal and state governments
in relation to rural healthcare delivery.

For example, while the federal Government has been introducing very useful
support measures to maintain the procedural doctor workforce in rural areas
(doctors who can undertake obstetrics work, administer general anaesthesia and
perform general surgery), state governments have been closing the facilities in
which they can work.

Closing and downgrading small rural hospitals places further pressure on larger
regional hospitals and discourages more doctors from moving to rural areas. It
also diminishes the local capacity to handle emergencies. The loss of emergency
departments in rural hospitals -- and the subsequent delays in patients
receiving hospital-based treatment -- undoubtedly is leading to worse outcomes
for those needing critical care in country areas.

Neglect of many of these emergency departments is exemplified by facilities not
being maintained, capital works not being approved, deteriorating equipment
levels, the healthcare professionals who work in them not being relieved so they
can undertake regular upskilling, and positions not being filled. Similarly, the
loss of rural maternity services has left many women with no option but to
travel hundreds of kilometres to deliver at larger centres, often paying for
accommodation in these centres in the weeks before labour or making a terrifying
trip on lonely country roads in the hours before birth.

Quarantined AHCA funding should be allocated to restore, maintain and expand
maternity and other essential procedural services (such as general surgical and
emergency capability) in rural areas, and to ensure additional locum assistance
and upskilling relief is available to the doctors and other healthcare
professionals.

A first priority will be to track expenditure in rural hospitals and match it
with the level of funding needed to maintain existing services and plan for
service enhancement, in line with current health outcomes data.

Quarantined funding should also be allocated to develop rural and regional
hospitals as centres of training. This will become crucial as the increasing
numbers of medical and other healthcare students in our universities require
more hospital training places than metropolitan hospitals can provide.

Rural and regional hospitals would provide ideal training for students who are
bonded to rural practice, hold rural medical training scholarships, have an
interest in rural practice or are from a rural background. Our country hospitals
would also make excellent centres for upskilling doctors, nurses, midwives and
allied health professionals and for re-training those wishing to resume
healthcare careers.

The next AHCAs should also quarantine funding to help develop sustainable models
of care where hospital or GP services are non-existent or at risk.

While the proposal from the Nationals is a welcome step forward, the measure is
yet to receive a public seal of approval from their federal Coalition partner.
It will also require the agreement of the state governments.

We implore all the major parties, at a federal and state level, to urgently
support the measure. With the next AHCAs due to be introduced in 2008, work must
begin on formulating the specific amount of funding to be quarantined on a
state-by-state basis.

Governments cannot afford to play the political blame game on this issue. Rural
and regional hospitals provide an essential service to country Australia. It is
equally essential that AHCA funding is quarantined to help save, maintain and
expand them.


Ross Maxwell is president of the Rural Doctors Association of Australia

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday
                               1 - State Edition

Careers in Health, Nursing & Medical Call for rural GP training

SECTION: EMPLOYMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 257  words


A NEW training pathway needs to be developed to ensure country South Australia
has enough rural general practitioners in coming years, says the Rural Doctors
Association of South Australia.

President Dr Tim Wood says a rural generalist training pathway, based on a
successful Queensland model, will help keep health services in rural areas by
encouraging medical staff to experience work and life in the regions.

``We desperately need to provide more rural SA students with education
opportunities in medicine and other health fields to increase the number of
health professionals choosing to live and work in rural SA,'' he says.

``It is also essential that SA urgently develops a Rural Generalist Training
Program to ensure we have adequate numbers of procedural GPs.

``(They) can provide key services in accident and emergency, obstetrics,
anaesthetics and surgery in rural locations in the future.''

Doctors who do not have the additional procedural skills limit the health
services provided to communities.

Dr Wood says specific funding needs to be assigned to programs that teach and
train rural GP proceduralists in metropolitan and rural hospitals in order to
provide appropriate health services.

``We also need to be giving more medical students, interns, registrars and other
doctors the opportunity to undertake training, not only in metropolitan
hospitals but in key teaching practices and hospitals across rural South
Australia,'' he says.

``This is a key part of the jigsaw in enticing them to consider rural practice
as a career choice.''

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            December 31, 2000 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

GPs threaten to deliver on baby ban

BYLINE: KATHRYN SHINE Medical Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 493 words


COUNTRY doctors who deliver babies are planning to scrap their obstetric
services because medical insurance premiums are too high.

Doctors warn this could lead to a crisis in the bush because people will have to
travel long distances for specialist treatment.

Cowra GP Mark Adamski said he would probably stop obstetric and anaesthetic work
in January.

He is one of four GP obstetricians in the shire, which has a population of
12,000.

Dr Adamski said the other three doctors who worked in his practice were all
considering stopping obstetric work.

He said: "I want to continue providing a service I have been providing for nine
years, and so do my colleagues, but we are between a rock and a hard place and
we hope the government will help us out.

"The [State] minister, Craig Knowles, said it wasn't his problem, but if it
leads to towns like Cowra losing their procedural GPs that will be a disaster on
a mammoth scale.

"There will be no-one to deliver babies, no-one to give anaesthetics and that
means the base hospitals will be choked.

"They won't be able to do any elective surgery because they will be doing all
our emergency cases.

"Women would have to drive an hour to Orange and risk delivering on the way.
It's very frightening for a woman in labour."

Most GPs who do obstetric and other procedural work are facing premiums of up to
$26,000 for 2001.

The fee for 2001 is about $13,000, but doctors who are members of United Medical
Protection insurance company have been asked to pay another year's premium on
top of that.

Dr Adamski said his insurance premium would drop to about $3,000 a year if he
stopped doing procedural work.

The issue is a major concern to the Rural Doctors Association of Australia.

NSW RDAA president Ken Mackey has arranged to meet NSW Health director-general
Mick Reid next month to try to find a solution.

Dr Adamski said he wanted the State Government to cover GP obstetricians for the
work they did on public patients in public hospitals.

He also believed law reform was necessary to curb litigation and high lawsuit
payouts.

"The only reason we are still in this business is that we love our work and we
want to service our community," he said. "It's pretty hard to tell a woman who
is 40 weeks pregnant that you can't do the delivery when you want to and she
wants you to."

Mr Reid said: "Obviously we don't want to lose these services. They are
something the community rightly values."

He said the Government had agreed to cover specialist obstetricians for public
work in public hospitals about two years ago.

It was hoped that that would mean lower premiums, but so far it hadn't happened.

United Medical Protection chairman Richard Tjiong said his company had made a
call for an extra year's premium because claim costs were expected to rise by 30
per cent over the next two years. He said the extra money could be paid in
instalments, over five years.

"Our call is not to do with backfunding," he said. "We are financially healthy."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: WORRIED: Chris and Sharon Groves and their daughter Charlotte.
Picture: SIMON ALEKNA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Warrnambool Standard

                            November 8, 2013 Friday

WHEN Dr John Menzies and his wife Carolyn arrived

BYLINE: CLARE QUIRK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 404 words


WHEN Dr John Menzies and his wife Carolyn arrived in Camperdown 35 years ago
they knew it was for good.

"I always felt like a fish out of water in the city," he said.

"It wasn't my natural environment. I'd always preferred to make the country my
home base."

Dr Menzies has been recognised by the Australian College of Rural and Remote
Medicine (ACRRM) for his outstanding advocacy and medical service to the
Camperdown community.

Dr Menzies, 65, grew up in Terang and said he and his wife were always both very
country oriented.

"We knew we wanted to be up in the country and be a country GP," he said.

He said his work had allowed him do a mixture of clinic and hospital work.

"The hospital in Camperdown is staffed by GPs like myself and visiting
specialists and the work allows you to continually be engaged and extend
yourself," he said.

Dr Menzies said he'd delivered babies who'd he'd seen go on to have babies and
he planned to continue working as long as he stayed "upright".

"The good thing about being a GP is you can modify the work to your capacity,"
he said.

"It looks like we're beginning to get a good number of young doctors coming back
and beginning to take things on."

Dr Menzies began practising in Camperdown in 1978 after working as a junior
doctor in the navy, then training in procedural obstetrics at the Royal Women's
Hospital in Melbourne.

He received the Peter Graham 'Cohuna' Award on Saturday night in Cairns, where
ACRRM president, Professor Richard Murray, described him as "an exemplar of the
rural generalist", providing a wide range of community and hospital services
including obstetrics, anaesthetics and emergency care.

"John has played a key role in ensuring that the people of Camperdown and
surrounding towns have continued to have local access to obstetric and other
procedural service despite the frequent closure of small hospital obstetric
services across rural Victoria over the past three decades," Professor Murray
said.

"It is this commitment to the health and safety of his community, to providing
quality medical services that people in cities take for granted, which qualifies
him for the national honour of the Peter Graham 'Cohuna' Award."

Professor Murray said Dr Menzies has also been a dedicated teacher and mentor of
junior doctors and medical students, and involved in all the major initiatives
in rural medical education over the past two to three decades.

cquirk@fairfaxmedia.com.au

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 17, 2017 Monday

Govt cancels organ transplant registration of Kochi hospital

SECTION: THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

LENGTH: 433 words


Thiruvananthapuram: The state government temporarily cancelled the organ
transplantation registration of a Kochi hospital in April for not following the
rules stipulated under the Transplantation of Human Organs Act. The government
also constituted an expert committee - headed by joint director of medical
education - to probe a complaint against the hospital.The decision was taken
after a complaint was filed by a doctor from Kollam in the high court in the
first quarter of this year. The doctor pointed out that there was a lapse on the
hospital' part while complying with the norms for organ transplant."The decision
was taken since the government had to ensure before the high court that it took
the safe route.

The complaint was given to the state health department six months ago and no
action was taken till I approached the court," said Dr S Ganapathy, the
complainant.Dr Noble Gracious, state convener of Kerala Network of Organ Sharing
(KNOS), said: "There was only a procedural lapse as norms suggest that a team of
four doctors should conduct a series of tests and sign the report before a
patient is declared brain dead. But in this case, it was certified by only three
doctors. This was the case pointed out by the complainant before the court."
KNOS monitors organ transplant in the stateIn May, the hospital management had
requested the director of medical education to reinstate the registration,
assuring that the hospital would obey all norms. Later, the government appointed
a three-member committee on July 3 to look into the incident and submit a report
within one month.Rules stipulate that a panel of four doctors have to certify
the tests conducted in two-steps within a gap of six hours. However, in this
case four doctors certified the tests in the first step and only three doctors
did so in the next step that was done after six hours. It can be rated as
procedural delay, said Dr Gracious.But, the complainant is arguing that if the
hospital is not obeying stipulated norms, then it should be treated as 'wrong
brain death certification'. "How can you claim a brain death certification when
the hospital is not following set norms? This should be regarded as a serious
lapse on the hospital's part," said Dr Ganapathy.Recently, the government had
announced stricter guidelines and making the presence of a government doctor
mandatory for the certification process in such cases. The objective was to make
organ donation a transparent process and thus ensure that the certification
procedure is in done as per international protocols.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            February 11, 1985 Monday

OVERSEAS RECRUITS NEXT MOVE, DOCTORS WARNED

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


Overseas recruits next move, doctors warned SYDNEY._ The New South Wales
Government may bring in overseas specialists to end the Medicare dispute which
has brought the state public hospital system to the point of collapse. The
Premier, Mr Wran, said yesterday the Government would consider this move. He
said he would meet the Cabinet policy committee soon to discuss the matter.
Government-appointed teams could leave for Europe and New Zealand by the end of
the week to interview doctors interested in working in Australia. Mr Wran said
the Government had held off on such a move, hoping the dispute would be resolved
through negotiations. The refusal of a small group of ""rebels" (the procedural
specialists) to co-operate had forced the Government's hand, he said. It had to
be emphasised there would be no dropping of doctors' or hospital standards by
bringing in overseas specialists. It is believed that specialists in Holland,
Britain and New Zealand are high on the list of people who would be suitable to
work in New South Wales. Mr Wran said the Government could wait no longer for
the procedural specialists to co-operate, and there was no way the Government
would back down. Mr Wran said he was not at all impressed by emergency plans
announced on Saturday by the specialists to maintain emergency medical services.
The specialists' interpretation of emergencies differed from that held by most
people, he said. The Australian Medical Association said it would write to
fellow medical associations overseas warning them not to participate in the NSW
recruitment plan. A spokesman said the AMA did not regard Mr Wran's announcement
as an idle threat, but the move would not bring a settlement or alter the
determination of about 280 procedural surgeons and anaesthetists in the state's
teaching hospitals to resign at the end of the month.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              108 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            August 8, 2015 Saturday

Psychiatric patients feel coerced into hospitalisation

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 448 words


In a study published in the Psychiatry Research Journal, a Trinity College
School of Psychology researcher found a large difference between levels of
coercion reported by people being admitted into psychiatric facilities and their
caregivers, who are usually family members.

Family members reported a higher level of procedural justice and less coercion
than patients who had been admitted.

The research focused on perception of coercion, pressures and procedural justice
relating to psychiatric admissions in five acute in-patient facilities in
south-east Dublin, north Wicklow and Galway.

The study is only the second of its kind to highlight the experiences of the
families of those admitted into psychiatric hospitals as well as patients
themselves.

Of the 66 caregivers who took part in the study, the majority were parents
(56.1%), while 16.7% were spouses or partners.

Nearly half of the service users who agreed to take part in the research had a
diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.

There were 18,457 psychiatric admissions in Ireland in 2013, 2,100 of which were
involuntary.

Researcher Veronica Ranieri said the study points to a need for improved
communication between patients and those who care for them and could have
implications for follow-on care for psychiatric patients who have been
discharged from hospital and have returned to the care of family members.

Our aim is to reduce the rate of relapse. If a plan can be drawn up for
rehospitalisation, that could really help the service users and their
caregivers,  Ms Ranieri said.

Currently, 20% of those admitted involuntarily to a psychiatric facility will be
readmitted within one year, according to research conducted by Ms Ranieri s
colleague, Brian O Donoghue of the University of Melbourne.

Ms Ranieri would like to see her research being used towards creating a  toolkit
for family members and help form a strategy such as drawing up a plan in case of
future readmissions to hospital, as well as helping families to understand why
loved ones are reluctant to be readmitted to hospital.

Caregivers are often an  invisible pillar of support , and have themselves been
traumatised by their experiences, Ms Ranieri said.

If your relative becomes unwell it often reaches crisis point before you seek
help and often there is hospitalisation. Caregivers often don t know what to do
and are very much alone. There is a duty of care there towards the caregivers
themselves, who have no training and very little support,  Ms Ranieri said.

As well an increased need for communication between patients and their families,
Ms Ranieri also called for increased dialogue between psychiatric facilities and
caregivers.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Premium Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

VMO ENT Surgeon

LENGTH: 318  words

DATELINE: Canberra


Department of Employment, The Government of Australia has issued the following
Jobs:

Employment Type:
Position Number:
Facility/Location:  Tamworth

VMO ENT Surgeon
Reference Id: 237512
Sessional
Tamworth Rural Referral Hospital
Tamworth

Position Summary

VMO ENT Surgeon, Tamworth Hospital

An experienced ENT Surgeon is required to provide effective Specialist adult and
paediatric ENT inpatient service to Tamworth Hospital. This position involved
elective and emergency theatre lists and acute on-call work, privately referred
outpatient consultancy/procedural services in private practice in your own
rooms. Work will occur in both the public and private sector and may occur in
Tamworth or other localities in the North West area of Hunter New England Local
Health District.

Tamworth is a vibrant, prosperous and easygoing place where lifestyle means work
doesn't outweight precious family time, sporting activities, creative or
artistic pursuits. Nestled in a valley surrounded by rolling hills and
picturesque landscapes, Tamworth is conveniently located halfway between Sydney
and Brisbane. Lower housing costs and little time spent travelling to and from
work, means less stress and more time to enjoy life!

Tamworth Hospital has 288 beds and is the major Rural Referral Hospital
providing services to the North West of NSW. It services a local community of
55,000 and a referral community of 150,000. It conducts over 8,000 surgical
procedures p.a. It's ED is one of the busiest non-metro ED's in NSW with approx.
48,000 presentations p.a. The University Department of Rural Health in located
onsite, offering excellent opportunities to become involved in teaching and
research activities.

Tamara Private Hospital has 53 beds, 3 operating theatres equipped to undertake
major surgical procedures, large procedural room, and a large day surgery
facility.

For more information please visit: http://www.seek.com.au/

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 THE AUSTRALIAN

                            January 10, 2006 Tuesday
                           All-round Country Edition

Specialist rural GPs to get $15,000 incentive

BYLINE: Patricia Karvelas

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 380  words


RURAL doctors who deliver babies and administer anaesthetics will get a $15,000
annual handout from the federal Government just to continue doing the work they
are already doing.

The Government has doubled incentives to bush general practitioners who carry
out procedures conducted by specialists in the city, in a move that will cost
taxpayers an extra $5.2million each year.

Health Minister Tony Abbott said the Government recognised the higher cost of
delivering services to the bush and wanted to make sure rural doctors performing
additional duties continued their work in remote communities.

''This boost will provide further support to GPs who provide surgical,
anaesthetic and obstetric services to rural and remote communities throughout
Australia,'' he said.

''This is an important measure for rural communities relying on experienced
general practitioners to keep local hospitals running.''

Almost 800 GPs participate in the incentive program.

Rural Doctors Association Australia spokeswoman Sue Page said that the move
would entice ''procedural'' GPs to move to rural communities.

''When you've got a procedural doctor in your practice it's not just the
procedural doctor doing something all by themselves, it actually has an impact
on the practice,'' Dr Page said.

''If you imagine if somebody goes into labour in the middle of a really busy
Monday morning, when the waiting room is full, then obviously there is an
administrative burden and an impact on your colleagues who have to fill the
gaps.

''If you walk out of the building you may not be back for another hour or two,
and there's a cost burden.''

Peter Rischbieth -- a procedural GP who works as an obstetrician and anesthetist
at Murray Bridge, 80km east of Adelaide -- said that the extra money would help
build up the numbers of doctors becoming proceduralists.

''We do 250 deliveries a year with some women travelling up to 200km to access a
delivery,'' he said.

''There's been a huge loss in the number of doctors choosing to be procedural
doctors in rural areas, and the services are so important, so that people do not
have to travel huge distances.

''The doubling of the payment will mean people can continue the work they're
doing and it may attract younger graduates to consider training in procedural
skills.''

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Herbert River Express (Australia)

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday

Rural health plan welcomed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 387  words


THE Rural Doctors Association of Australia (RDAA) has welcomed a proposal by the
Deputy Prime Minister and Leader of The Nationals, Mark Vaile, that the
Australian Government's healthcare funding agreements with the states should
include funding specifically for public hospitals in rural and regional areas.

RDAA president Dr Ross Maxwell said this was a key measure the organisation has
been seeking for many years.

''It was also a central element of the Good Health to Rural Communities ten
point plan that RDAA, together with the National Farmers' Federation, Country
Women's Association of Australia, Australian Local Government Association and
Health Consumers of Rural and Remote Australia, developed in 2004,'' Dr Maxwell
said.

''It is very pleasing to see the National Party coming right behind the idea of
quarantining funding for rural and regional hospitals in the forthcoming
Australian Health Care Agreements.

''It is critical that this occurs if Australia's rural and regional hospitals,
and their maternity and other procedural services, are to be saved from closure
or downgrading and instead maintained and expanded.''

Dr Maxwell said the RDAA urged Federal Health Minister Tony Abbott and his
Coalition colleagues to support the Nationals' proposal to make it a reality.

''The absence of dedicated funding for rural and regional hospitals in the
Australian Health Care Agreements is a key contributor to the poor co-ordination
between the federal and state governments in relation to rural healthcare
delivery,'' Dr Maxwell said.

''For example, while the Federal Government has been introducing very useful
support measures to maintain the procedural workforce in rural areas, state
governments have been closing the hospital facilities in which these
proceduralists can work -- this is illustrated clearly by the fact that 130
small rural maternity units across Australia have been closed in the past 10
years alone.

''Closing and downgrading small rural hospitals places further pressure on
larger regional hospitals, and discourages doctors from moving to rural areas.
It also diminishes the local capacity to handle emergencies, which can have a
critical impact on the ability to cope with serious road and farming accidents.

''In short, small rural hospitals provide an essential service to rural
communities.''

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: HRE


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                 The Morning Bulletin (Rockhampton, Queensland)

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

Doctor "~dodging probe'

BYLINE:  Rae Wilson,

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 591  words



HIGHLIGHT: Vega Vega's legal threats stymied review: Queensland Health barrister



QUEENSLAND Health says Central Queensland urologist Antonio Vega Vega threatened
litigation to prevent a review of his patient care amid allegations of botched
surgeries.

Barrister Declan Kelly, acting for Queensland Health and the investigators, said
Dr Vega Vega had thwarted efforts to allow him procedural fairness, declining
four interview requests and avoiding written requests for information.

He told Brisbane Supreme Court there had been a "shift" in correspondence from
wanting to provide answers to wanting to prevent the process going forward to
completion.

"The focus then is not so much on giving information, but "~here are our demands
and if they're not met we're going to court to solve this process'," he said.

Mr Kelly said it might have been an approach Dr Vega Vega thought was reasonable
in protecting his interests globally, but his actions hampered investigators in
their efforts to give him procedural fairness in the review.

"They're operating in a dynamic where litigation is being threatened to prevent
the review proceeding," he said.

Dr Vega Vega, who has worked as a surgeon at Rockhampton and Gladstone
hospitals, hit the headlines last year following allegations he removed the
wrong kidney from a patient during a complicated surgical procedure at
Rockhampton Hospital.

The Central Queensland Hospital and Health Service stood down Dr Vega Vega and
launched an investigation into his care of four patients.

Dr Vega Vega claims those investigations were biased and did not allow natural
justice to take its course.

His barrister, Stephen Keim, told the court that clinical reviews - which he
seeks to have declared invalid - had looked at a narrow band of complex
surgeries Dr Vega Vega had performed to determine he lacked experience to
conduct them.

"I say that is cherry-picking," he said.

"The point I want to make is that it's a very selective quotation of the
evidence.

"Even if at the end of the day the clinical reviewers wanted to and were correct
in saying "~we're not convinced about the experience', they should have referred
to a much broader section of the operations that were carried out."

Mr Keim also argued the doctor was not given enough time to respond to the
issues and that his client was not given reports in his favour, only given
adverse material.

"The applicant should have been given time to find alternative expert witnesses
"¦ and to address the adverse conclusions being drawn," he said.

"To be fair to the two reports, they both say lots of witnesses said good things
about (Dr Vega Vega).

"The only problem is that it is only ever expressed in those general terms, not
in the conclusions that they made."

Mr Kelly argued Dr Vega Vega had made a blanket request for all material from
the investigation despite not being entitled to it all.

Justice Ann Lyons questioned how Dr Vega Vega could weigh the allegations
against him unless he had all the information before him.

Mr Kelly said doctors felt they were more likely to be frank, forthright and
truthful if their submissions were confidential.

"These people work with Dr Vega Vega and they needed to keep going on in a close
environment," he said.

Mr Kelly also pointed the court to cases showing there was a strong basis for
not providing both the beneficial and detrimental evidence to Dr Vega Vega.

"Dr Vega Vega, at the end of the day, was not entitled to see everything that
had been sighted by investigators," he said.

"We suggest the authorities (precedents) are strong for us on that point."

Justice Lyons reserved her decision.

- APN Newsdesk

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RMB


                    Copyright 2015 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

INNOVATING WITH Cynthia Borders VICE PRESIDENT OF CLIENT SERVICES, UNIBASED
SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE INC.

BYLINE: Rachel Melcer | St. Louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 509 words


The company - Unibased Systems Architecture Inc. develops software for the
health care industry, including products that hospitals use to register patients
and schedule and track procedures. Unibased was rated as the "best overall"
health care information technology company this year by KLAS Enterprises LLC, an
independent research firm in that industry.

The challenge - Hospitals that face staff shortages and tight budgets want to
improve efficiency and attract more customers - doctors and their patients - in
an increasingly competitive health care world. Unibased must convince them that
good information technology services are a means for meeting those goals, said
Cynthia Borders, vice president of client services.

What they did - Unibased developed a scheduling system that links all areas of a
hospital - operating rooms, endoscopy suites, departments such as radiology and
oncology and registration and billing centers. A patient's personal and
insurance information is entered once, eliminating the time-consuming and
frustrating practice of asking for the same data in each department.

Unibased also built in layers of "rules," or requirements that must be met
before a procedure can be scheduled and performed. These include managed care
requirements for payment (is a referral on file?), procedural rules (does test X
need to be completed before operation Y can begin?) and necessary clinical data
(is a patient diabetic, or taking certain medications?).

Borders and her team gleaned this information through detailed document reviews
and interviews with health care providers.

"Much of this was in the heads of the nurses," she said. Hospitals had rooms
full of nurses who were assigned to scheduling and coordinating procedures
"which was a very expensive, labor-intensive process" that Unibased has
automated.

The inspiration - It's simple, Borders said. "We listen to what our clients are
telling us. When we go out and do demonstrations, we listen to their wish
lists."

Progress report - Unibased, which is having its best year ever, is getting a lot
of client interest in a new offering, Borders said. The company added a
"physicians access" software module that allows a hospital to give select
physicians' offices direct access to the scheduling system over an Internet
browser. It asks for all of the same information a hospital staff member would
over the phone, and invokes all of the same procedural rules as the main system
- but it saves time and labor on both ends of the process.

"It's a marketing feature for hospitals to offer to physicians' offices," Border
said. The software also generates a protocol that a doctor's office can give to
a patient on the spot, containing an itinerary and instructions on how to
prepare for each test.

---

Unibased Systems Architecture Inc.

Headquarters: Chesterfield

President: Lawrence V. ­Covington

Employees: 32

Founded: 1986

Website: Chwww.unibased.com

Sales: Does not disclose

---

Contact us

Are you or your company on the cutting edge in your industry or area of
research? We'd like to hear from you.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  INNOVATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Cynthia borders

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Salem News (Beverly, MA)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              June 8, 2015 Monday

Ex-cop loses appeal of firing

BYLINE: Julie Manganis, The Salem News, Beverly, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 652 words


June 08--PEABODY -- Three years ago, former Peabody police officer George
Sideris was considered so mentally ill that he could not be tried on charges
that he beat his elderly mother unconscious, and his case was dismissed.

But Sideris, 45, who within weeks of the court's decision back in 2012 was moved
from a state hospital to a group home, appears to have taken that dismissal not
as the procedural finding that he was incompetent to stand trial that the judge
intended, but as vindication.

He wants his job as a police officer back.

On Friday, however, the Appeals Court told him no, upholding both the state's
Civil Service Commission and a Middlesex Superior Court judge.

While his criminal case was pending, the city of Peabody fired Sideris in 2007
for conduct unbecoming an officer. He appealed then, but the Civil Service
Commission told him that it would not hear the case until his criminal charges
were resolved.

After a Salem Superior Court judge dismissed the case because Sideris had spent
as much time hospitalized as he likely would have in jail on the charges,
Sideris was eligible to go back to Civil Service for reconsideration of his
appeal.

But he waited too long, the commission and the courts found.

The court's decision cited procedural grounds -- Sideris waited too long, seven
months, after his criminal charges were dismissed, to appeal his firing to Civil
Service, and offered no reason for the delay.

"The plaintiff argues that the commission deprived him of due process of law
when it determined that his motion for reconsideration was not timely because it
was not filed within 30 days after the dismissal of the criminal charges," the
Appeals Court wrote in an unpublished decision. "We discern no error of law or
abuse of discretion."

While the Civil Service decision was based on the procedural delay,
commissioners also questioned whether, even if Sideris had filed his appeal
within 30 days, whether he'd ever be eligible to carry a firearm due to his
history of mental illness -- something that would be a critical factor in
whether he could be re-hired.

Because the Appeals Court ruling was unpublished and based on procedural issues,
Sideris's chances of any further appeals are slim.

Peabody officials, who vigorously challenged Sideris's attempts to appeal his
firing both in 2008 and again in 2013, also argued against the appeal.

Sideris had been working full time as a patrolman for the department for four
years when, on Thanksgiving Day, 2004, he assaulted his elderly mother Melpomeni
Sideris.

His mother subsequently went into a coma, and, after talking to his priest and a
Peabody police lieutenant, Sideris confessed to beating her on that day and on
another occasion, an incident that had also led to her hospitalization.

As his criminal case was pending in the courts, Sideris's mental status
deteriorated. On the day he was originally set to stand trial in 2007, his
attorney at the time told a judge that Sideris was not making any sense, and
Sideris was sent for an evaluation.

He subsequently tried to commit suicide while awaiting trial at home, and was
hospitalized at Bridgewater State Hospital and later at Taunton State Hospital.
After the criminal case was dismissed, he was moved to a group home in
Tewksbury.

Sideris was diagnosed with persecutory type delusional disorder, and believed
that the charges against him were the result of a conspiracy between police and
his priest.

At the time of his arrest, he blamed the stress of working in a police
department where he was mocked for living with his mother, among other factors,
for his abuse of his mother.

Melpomeni Sideris died in 2009.

Courts reporter Julie Manganis can be reached at 978-338-2521, via email at
jmanganis@salemnews.com or on Twitter @SNJulieManganis.

___ (c)2015 The Salem News (Beverly, Mass.) Visit The Salem News (Beverly,
Mass.) at www.salemnews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150608-ZS-Ex-cop-loses-appeal-of-firing-0608-20150608

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZS


                         Copyright 2015 The Salem News


                              115 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                      January 17, 2016 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

The North American Medical Simulation Market to Reach USD 969.8 Million by 2020

BYLINE: Meticulous Research

LENGTH: 800  words


Wembley, United Kingdom,  January 17, 2016 --(PR.com)-- Meticulous Research
announced the release of a new market research report titled, "North American
Medical Simulation Market Outlook: 2013-2020." The research report analyzes the
major drivers, restraints, opportunities, and challenges that have long and
short-term impact on its growth across the globe. This latest publication from
Meticulous Research states that the North American medical simulation market
would reach $969.8 million by the year 2020 at a CAGR of 15.0% over the period
of 2015 to 2020.

Copy and paste the given link to browse in-depth report-

http://www.meticulousresearch.com/research/north-american-medical-simulation-mar
ket-outlook-2015-2020/

With the full potential of healthcare/ medical simulation has yet to unfold in
the U.S. and Canada, the growth of the North American medical simulation market
will be primarily driven by medical training institutions and hospitals which
are incessantly taking efforts to de-risk the impact of training on live
patients; standardize their teaching practices and increase the time available
for their trainees to practice various medical procedural skills. With the
projected growth in the aging population in the U.S. and Canada, rising waiting
time for healthcare services, growing pressure to curtail healthcare costs,
decreasing subsidies and state funds, healthcare is certainly an attractive
field for scientific exploration using simulation.

The growing pressure to curtail rising healthcare costs and create efficiencies
in the healthcare delivery in the U.S. and Canada, exponential growth in the
complexity of medical devices and procedures due to technological revolution,
increasing adoption of advanced medical simulators and task trainers in the
academic sector due to reduced access to real patients in this sector, and
growing need of patient safety have all heralded the promise of simulation as a
keystone of health profession education and patient safety.

The research report on the North American Medical Simulation Market provides
comprehensive analysis of the market with a country level analysis and helps in
understanding the driving forces for the growth of this market. The report also
provides analysis of major product and service segments such as patient
simulators, task trainers, procedural skills trainers, web-based simulation,
audiovisual solutions, and simulation training services. The procedure skills
trainers market is further sub-segmented into IV simulators, endovascular
trainers, airway management products, arthroscopy trainers, laparoscopy
trainers, dental trainers, and other procedural/surgical trainers. Similarly,
the simulation training services market is categorized into educational
services, hospital services, and other vendor-based services. The major
end-users of the medical simulation products and services are analyzed by
categorizing into healthcare education, hospitals, military, emergency medical
services, and voluntary organizations. Market size estimates and forecasts for
the period 2015 to 2020 has been provided for each segment and its sub-segment,
in terms of USD million, calculating growth rates from 2015 to 2020, considering
2014 as the base year for calculations.

The North American medical simulation market is fragmented with the presence of
various global and local players. The patient simulators and task trainers
market is mainly dominated by Laerdal Medical and CAE Healthcare whereas,
Simbionix USA Corporation (3D Systems Inc.) have noted significant developments
in the recent years. Other notable players in the market are B-Line Medical
(U.S.), 3B Scientific (Germany), Adam, Rouilly Limited (U.K.), Cardionics, Inc
(U.S.), IngMar Medical (U.S.), KaVo Dental GmbH (Germany), Simulaids, Inc.
(U.S.), Surgical Science Sweden Ab (Sweden), Education Management Solutions
(U.S.), Gaumard (U.S.), Medical Simulation Corporation (U.S.), and MedaPhor
North America, Inc.

About Meticulous Research

We are Meticulous. We are one of the leading market research and consulting
company focusing on medical devices, biotechnology, healthcare IT,
pharmaceuticals, food and beverages, and agriculture domains. We provide
solutions to our clients through our market research support, data management
services & advanced analytical skills. With the meticulous primary and secondary
research techniques, we have built strong capabilities in data collection,
interpretation and analysis of data including qualitative and quantitative
research with the finest team of analysts.

We focus on client satisfaction by delivering excellent market research
solutions which help organizations to adapt, sustain, and grow in the changing
business environment.

Contact:

sales@meticulousresearch.com

Visit: http://www.meticulousresearch.com/

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2016 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Ayr Advocate (Australia)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                  1 - Edition

Contribution recognition for doctors

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 378 words


THE Royal Australian College of General Practitioners (RACGP) have been thanked
for their contribution to community discussion about training doctors for rural
communities.

``We all know that the one-in-three Australian patients who live outside the
metropolitan centres have poorer access to health care and poorer health
outcomes than their urban cousins,'' president of the Rural Doctors Association
of Queensland, Dr Dan Halliday, said.

``Our members believe that all options to encourage doctors to train and
practice in the country should be explored.''

The RACGP's Position Statement on Rural General Practice, released last week,
raises concerns with Queensland Health's Rural Generalist Training Program
(RGTP). The RGTP has been widely praised by country doctors nationwide for
teaching much-needed procedural skills and providing a well-paid training and
career path in Queensland's country hospitals, and the model may be adopted by
other States.

``RDAQ members agree with RACGP that doctors becoming qualified for General
Practice cannot be trained solely in hospitals. We believe that all doctors
obtaining GP qualifications such as FRACGP, FARGP or FACRRM do have sufficient
true general practice experience to be safe and effective general practitioners
in any setting. The Australian Medical Council has verified that the curricula
for those qualifications meet that standard,'' Dr Halliday said.

``RDAQ acknowledges RACGP's concerns that a two-tiered remuneration structure
might develop. Procedural hospital doctors that have advanced skills and work
for Queensland Health could be better rewarded than their office-based general
practitioner colleagues who are funded through Medicare and often self-employed.
Yet both sectors have essential roles in rural communities.''

``RDAQ does not agree with RACGP that Rural Generalist roles create
'fragmentation' in the rural medical workforce. Just as cities have specialists
and urban GPs who may work solely in skin cancer or travel medicine, for
example, there are country doctors who may work just in hospitals or just in
private practice. There's plenty of room and plenty of demand for all special
interests, and they will support each other. One-size fits-all just won't
address rural communities' needs.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: TAA


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 3, 2017 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

TransEnterix Announces First Senhance U.S. Innovation Center at Florida Hospital
Orlando

LENGTH: 389  words


Aug. 3 -- TransEnterix, Inc. (NYSE MKT: TRXC), a medical device company that is
pioneering the use of robotics to improve minimally invasive surgery, today
announced that it has installed a Senhance Surgical Robot at the Institute for
Surgical Advancement at Florida Hospital Orlando.

The Senhance Robot is placed under a collaboration agreement with Florida
Hospital ISA. Nicholson Center Orlando will be used as a facility to perform
pre-clinical training and procedural development in cooperation with surgical
staff from Florida Hospital. Additionally, surgeons from around the world are
participating in the robotic pre-clinical activities at the innovation center.

"The selection of a U.S. innovation center is a critical milestone in the global
expansion of Senhance," said Todd M. Pope, President and CEO at TransEnterix.
"We are pleased to partner with a leading institution such as Florida Hospital
Orlando and the clinicians at the Institute for Surgical Advancement. Together,
we will continue to usher in an expansion in the use of robotics to advance
minimally invasive surgery."

"We have created a center for the interdisciplinary development of new surgical
approaches utilizing the latest technology," said Dr. Steve Eubanks, Surgeon and
Executive Director for the Institute for Surgical Advancement. "Our team is
excited to be the first U.S. center to explore the clinical and training pathway
for this new surgical robotic platform, and to share these programs with
surgeons from across the globe."

About Florida Hospital Institute for Surgical Advancement

The Institute for Surgical Advancement was developed to facilitate the success
of physicians who have the capabilities and desires to innovate academically and
through procedural and instrumentation development. Through our various
resources, we facilitate and assess the needs of our physicians to help develop
advancements for patient care and innovate new surgical approaches. Combining
physician experience with expertise in engineering improves the early phases of
design and encourages the flow of ideas. We have various resources for this
process, including the brainstorming room, our prototype lab, and Florida
Hospital Nicholson Center, a world leader in surgical training. For more
information, visit https://www.floridahospitalisa.com.

Source: Transenterix

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           August 29, 2002, Thursday

OPS POSTPONED FOLLOWING ERROR'

BYLINE: Sian Harris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 353 words


ALL emergency and planned orthopaedic operations have been suspended at a
Valleys hospital where an investigation is to be carried out following a
procedural error'.

Around 20 patients who were due to have orthopaedic surgery at Prince Charles
Hospital (PCH), Merthyr Tydfil, in the next week have had their operations
postponed due to the two-week suspension.

Director of corporate services at the PCH, Phil Williams, said only those due to
come into hospital this week had been contacted because patients scheduled for
surgery next week would not yet have been informed about the time of their
operations.

He said that all those affected will be given priority once the service is back
in operation.

Meanwhile, emergency patients coming into the casualty department who require an
orthopaedic operation will be transferred to a neighbouring health trust but
will return to the PCH at the appropriate time for rehabilitation.

The suspension, which is expected to last until September 9, when the situation
will be reviewed, was announced by North Glamorgan NHS Trust yesterday.

The announcement followed the withdrawal of an entire theatre team after a
procedural error during an operation.

A staff shortage meant the trust was unable to assemble a replacement team,
meaning there would not have been sufficient cover to ensure patient safety for
furtheroperations. Mr Williams explained that none of the details of the
procedural "checking' error", which resulted in the suspension, would be made
public because of patient confidentiality.

But he emphasised that the error had not been life-threatening.

He added: "The investigation will be carried out by a clinical team from outside
the North Glamorgan Trust.

"We hope the external investigation will happen as quickly as possible and
report quickly because we want to get back in operation."

The orthopaedic team, which includes a consultant surgeon and nursing staff, is
currently working in different areas of the hospital.

All orthopaedic outpatient services and non-orthopaedic other surgery' is
continuing.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd


                              119 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                            November 20, 2006 Monday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

MEDICAL MEMOS

SECTION: HEALTH; MEDICAL MEMOS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 256 words


Dr. Lisa Pallini has joined the practice of Dr. Sandra Weakland and Mass.
Associates in Podiatry. She received her medical degree from Barry University
School of Graduate Medical Sciences in Florida and completed a residency in
podiatry at Saint Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford. She is
board-certified in podiatric surgery, and her clinical interests include
reconstructive foot surgery, sports medicine and diabetic foot care and
complications.

Dr. Sunil Matiwala joined Emerson Hospital's medical staff as a hospitalist. Dr.
Matiwala received his medical degree from Government-Medical College in Surat,
India, and completed his residency at Crozer Chester Medical Center in
Pennsylvania. He completed a fellowship in clinical heart failure/cardiomyopathy
and a research fellowship in heart failure at Boston Medical Center. Dr.
Matiwala, who is board-certified in internal medicine, is a hospital-based
internist who treats adult inpatients and does not have a private internal
medicine office practice.

Dr. Benjamin Solky has joined the practice of Adult and Pediatric Dermatology,
PC, with Drs. Sola Choi, Steven Franks and Samuel Goos. He received his medical
degree from the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in Philadelphia
and completed his residency at Harvard Medical School. Dr. Solky also completed
a fellowship in procedural dermatology from the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
Dr. Solky is board-certified in dermatology, procedural dermatology and Mohs
micrographic surgery and cutaneous oncology.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS
(1) Dr. Pallini (2) Dr. Matiwala (3) Dr. Solky

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 12, 2004, Tuesday

This ruling will impact on the detention of those who lack the capacity to
consent or object

BYLINE: Stephen Cragg

SECTION: Features; Public Agenda 7

LENGTH: 485 words


THE European Court of Human Rights has given a judgment relating to those who
lack the capacity to volunteer their consent to be kept in a particular place.
The ruling is likely to impact on both the Mental Capacity Bill and the Mental
Health Bill, currently being considered by Parliament.

Readers may remember the "Bournewood" case considered by the House of Lords some
years ago. It concerned a patient known as HL, an autistic man, now aged 55, who
was admitted to Bournewood psychiatric hospital after becoming agitated and
starting to harm himself while at a daycare centre. He was admitted informally
because he did not resist the detention and his disabilities meant he was unable
to object. He was kept there for five months with none of the procedural
protections (such as a right to appeal to a tribunal) granted to those formally
detained under the Mental Health Act. The European judges noted that he was
under "continuous supervision and control and could not leave" and to argue
otherwise was a "fairytale". Thousands are in a similar position. The House of
Lords ruled that HL was not, in fact, detained and was being treated in hospital
in "his best interests".

However, the European judges disagreed, saying that his right to liberty and his
right to have the legality of his detention speedily reviewed by a court had
been breached. The court was concerned about the "striking lack of any fixed
procedural rules by which the admission and detention of compliant incapacitated
patients was conducted". They were of the view that the very purpose of
procedural safeguards was to protect individuals against any misjudgment or
professional lapse by healthcare professionals. Such safeguards were missing in
this case, and the common-law approach of acting in a person's best interests
was not sufficiently rigorous to fill this gap in our law.

The judgment is likely to make professionals err on the side of caution and more
often use formal powers of detention in relation to people who lack the capacity
to decide that they want to be in hospital or a nursing home. Many will feel
that to have to use these powers when a patient shows no signs of objecting to
his surroundings is excessively legalistic. Others think that the procedural
safeguards that come with formal detention mean that the patient's situation
will at least be reviewed from time to time by an independent tribunal.

The Government now needs to balance these views while having to accept that the
human rights court in Strasbourg wants to see more formal protection of the
passive patient who lacks capacity. Whatever happens, the prospect of rotting
away in hospital without independent scrutiny as to whether you should be there
has receded as a result of this judgment.

Stephen Cragg is a barrister specialising in public law at Doughty Street
Chambers E-mail: s.cragg@doughtystreet.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited


                              121 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                  1 - Edition

Hospital chief's inquiry review

BYLINE: DANIELLE McKAY

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 355  words


THE Health Department is under investigation over allegations an investigator it
employed to examine accusations against ousted Royal Hobart Hospital chief
Michael Pervan was biased and invalidly appointed.

Justice David Porter yesterday ruled the appointment would be examined as part
of a Supreme Court review of the State Service Commissioner's investigation into
the department's internal inquiry into Mr Pervan's conduct.

Justice Porter said he would allow the review to include allegations the
interstate investigator was biased, was invalidly appointed and was unfairly
``enlarging'' the investigation.

The investigator was appointed by Department of Health and Human Services
secretary David Roberts.

Mr Pervan was suddenly removed from his $200,000-a-year position by Mr Roberts
amid allegations of bullying levelled by several senior hospital staff against
the RHH chief in October.

An internal investigation ensued. However, Mr Pervan complained to the Acting
State Service Commissioner, Iain Frawley, that he had been denied a right of
reply and procedural fairness when he was not interviewed as part of the
internal inquiries.

But in January Mr Frawley ruled there had been no miscarriage of justice or
denial of procedural fairness by the department during its initial investigation
of the bullying allegations.

Mr Pervan's lawyer Roland Browne launched an immediate application for the
review of Mr Frawley's actions on his client's behalf.

Mr Browne filed an application for an amendment of the review when concerns over
the appointment of the interstate investigator surfaced.

Justice Porter scheduled the hearing to begin on March 17.

Mr Pervan has not been formally stood down as chief executive, but is working as
executive director of Community Development, Disability and Housing for the
Department of Health and Human Services.

Last month the department announced another RHH acting chief executive, leaving
hospital staff facing a continued wait to find out who their boss may be.

North-West Area health chief executive Jane Holden has started a three-month
stint in the job, following a previous occupant of the role.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Daily The Post

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Committee approves manual for post-grad doctor trainee inductions

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: New York



 Lahore: A meeting of the Admission Committee for Postgraduate Trainee Doctors
was held on Sunday in the Civil Secretariat headed by Advisor to Chief Minister
on Health Khawaja Salman Rafique.



 The committee reviewed in details the Policy and Procedural Manual (PPM) for
induction of postgraduate trainee doctors into teaching hospitals. After
detailed deliberation, the Committee approved in principle the Policy and
Procedural Manual for admissions. It was decided that the approved draft of the
PPM would be sent to the Chief Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif for his final
approval.

 Secretary Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Najam Ahmed Shah, Vice
Chancellor Fatima Jinnah Medical University Prof Dr Sardar Fakhar Imam, Pro-Vice
Chancellor Prof Amir Zaman Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor University of Health
Sciences Prof Junaid Sarfraz Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor King Edward Medical
University Prof Qazi Saeed, Prof Dr Syed Muhammad Owais, Chief Executive Mayo
Hospital Prof Asad Aslam Khan, Additional Secretary Technical Dr Suleman Shahid,
Deputy Secretary Medical Education Dr Nasir Shakir and a representative of the
Punjab Information Technology Board Baddar Munir also attended the meeting.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                              March 1, 1985 Friday

NEW THREAT IN HOSPITAL DISPUTE

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 93 words


New threat in hospital dispute SYDNEY._ New South Wales surgical specialists
last night indicated they might stop manning crisis treatment centres. The
centres are filling gaps in the hospital system during the Medicare dispute
between the NSW Government and doctors. The Council of Procedural Specialists'
deputy chairman, Dr Michael Aroney, said the NSW Premier, Mr Wran, had said the
Health Department was managing. But this was only because surgeons were manning
the crisis centres, which were handling emergency operations at major hospitals.
""

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              124 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            November 10, 2014 Monday

Stradis Healthcare to acquire medical procedural kits provider Medikmark

SECTION: HOSPITAL SUPPLIES; Business Expansions

LENGTH: 184 words



HIGHLIGHT: US-based Stradis Healthcare has signed an agreement to acquire
Illinois-based healthcare kits provider Medikmark, a combination that will offer
customers the advantage of one stop shopping for both small kits as well as
large kits.


Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.

Established in 1987, Medikmark is a disposable medical kit packing company,
which produces and supplies medical procedural kits and trays for hospitals,
nursing homes, and home health care providers.



Stradis Healthcare president and CEO Derrell James said: "Our companies will
work closely with our customers, suppliers, and employees to make the
integration process as smooth as possible.

"During the integration, our customers will continue to receive the same high
quality service they have come to expect.

Stradis Healthcare manufactures small kits and trays, including IV start kits,
dressing change trays, suture removal kits, tracheostomy care kits, urological
and catheter/irrigation trays, instrument trays, sterile solutions, and other
small kits.

In addition, the firm produces wound care, pandemic/staff protection, and
custom/private label products, as well as admission kits and laceration trays.

Stradis produces large and custom procedural kits for the endovenous, oral
health, ophthalmic, plastic, tissue bank and OB/GYN, among other surgical
markets.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                              April 4, 2011 Monday

Bligh to sign deals for Coast hospitals Finished hospitals will need 3500 staff

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 488  words


THE state government will finalise a deal with Ramsay Health Care today to
develop the Sunshine Coast's new private hospital at Kawana.

And in a second piece of good news for the region's health facilities, Premier
Anna Bligh has confirmed her government will call for tenders for the Coast's
new $2 billion Sunshine Coast University Hospital within a fortnight.

Hailing the moves as "the green light for a new era in health care for the
Sunshine Coast", Ms Bligh said work would start on the new private hospital in
October.

"When it opens in late 2013 we will begin seeing the first public patients
treated under a service purchase arrangement with Ramsay Health Care," she said.

"We will begin the search for consortia to build the new public hospital this
month with a call of Expressions of Interest for this project on April 13."

Both hospitals will be built on a 20ha site on the corner of Lake Kawana
Boulevard and Kawana Way.

The Premier said the deal with Ramsay Health Care would deliver more beds sooner
for the Coast.

The global hospital group operates 116 hospitals and day surgery facilities
across Australia, the United Kingdom, France and Indonesia.

The Premier said the contract to develop a 200-bed private hospital would
deliver up to 110 extra beds for public patients from 2013.

She also confirmed the government's new $2 billion public hospital would be
delivered as a Public Private Partnership.

THE public hospital will open in 2016 with 450 beds, growing to 738 beds by
2021.

"This will be the biggest hospital building project in the country when
construction gets under way in early 2013," she said.

"And as a result, Sunshine Coast residents will have access locally to services
including a new comprehensive cancer care centre, and a range of complex
surgical services including neurosurgery, cardiothoracic surgery, maxillofacial
surgery and a trauma service.

"That means that approximately 10,000 patients will no longer have to travel to
Brisbane to access these complex services each year."

More than 2000 workers will be involved in construction of the hospitals which
the government says will employ 3500 doctors, nurses and support staff.

The facility will also include a $60.8 million Skills, Academic and Research
Centre to help attract, train and retain clinicians on the Coast.

Ms Bligh said the government was also providing new services and more beds,
ahead of the hospitals opening, by delivering:

A cardiac catheterisation laboratory.

A vascular surgery procedural suite.

A dedicated endoscopy procedural suite.

A radiation oncology service for public patients.

Outpatient neurosurgery service.

"These services will begin this year at Nambour Hospital where they will come on
top of a new 96-bed ward block," she said.

"We will also see an expanded Emergency Department at Caloundra Hospital."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Committee approves procedure for induction of PG doctors

SECTION: Vol. 39 No. 321

LENGTH: 199  words


A meeting of Admission Committee for Postgraduate Trainee Doctors held on Sunday
at Civil Secretariat with Advisor to Chief Minister on Health Khawaja Salman
Rafique in the chair.

The committee reviewed in detail the Policy and Procedural Manual (PPM) for
induction of Postgraduate Trainee Doctors in the teaching hospitals. After
detailed deliberations, the committee approved in principle the Policy and
Procedural Manual for the admission.

It was decided that the approved draft of the PPM would be sent to Chief
Minister Mohammad Shehbaz Sharif for his final approval.

Besides Secretary Specialised Healthcare and Medical Education Najam Ahmed Shah,
Vice Chancellor Fatima Jinnah Medical University Prof Dr Sardar Fakhar Imam,
Pro-Vice Chancellor Prof Amir Zaman Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor University of
Health Sciences Prof Junaid Sarfraz Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor King Edward
Medical University Prof Qazi Saeed, Prof Dr Syed Mohammad Owais, Chief Executive
Mayo Hospital Prof Asad Aslam Khan, Additional Secretary Technical Dr Suleman
Shahid, Deputy Secretary Medical Education Dr Nasir Shakir and representatives
of the Punjab Information Technology Board Baddar Munir also attended the
meeting.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Committee approves procedure for induction of PG doctors

LENGTH: 202 words

DATELINE: New York



 LAHORE: A meeting of Admission Committee for
 Postgraduate Trainee Doctors held on Sunday at Civil Secretariat
 with Advisor to Chief Minister on Health Khawaja Salman Rafique
 in the chair.


 The committee reviewed in detail the Policy and Procedural
 Manual (PPM) for induction of Postgraduate Trainee Doctors in
 the teaching hospitals. After detailed deliberations, the
 committee approved in principle the Policy and Procedural Manual
 for the admission.
 It was decided that the approved draft of the PPM would be
 sent to Chief Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif for his final
 approval.
 Besides Secretary Specialised Healthcare and Medical Education
 Najam Ahmed Shah, Vice Chancellor Fatima Jinnah Medical
 University Prof Dr Sardar Fakhar Imam, Pro-Vice Chancellor
 Prof Amir Zaman Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor University of
 Health Sciences Prof Junaid Sarfraz Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor
 King Edward Medical University Prof Qazi Saeed, Prof Dr
 Syed Muhammad Owais, Chief Executive Mayo Hospital Prof Asad
 Aslam Khan, Additional Secretary Technical Dr Suleman Shahid,
 Deputy Secretary Medical Education Dr Nasir Shakir and
 representatives of the Punjab Information Technology Board Baddar
 Munir also attended the meeting.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Role changing slightly

BYLINE: Anne Kyle, The Leader-Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 426 words


While a relatively high percentage of family doctors in Saskatchewan provide
patient care in hospitals, there has been a slight decline between 1994 and
2003, a new study says.

"It's a small decline -- 74 per cent from 82, but it is also something we see
happening at the national level,'' said Francine Anne Roy, director of health
resource information with the Canadian Institute of Health Information -- the
organization which released the study on Wednesday.

"What we have seen at the national level in the last 10 years is that there are
two trends. Fee-for-service family physicians tend to offer less broad services
or they have narrowed their practice so the participation rate in the services
that they offer is less. The second trend we are seeing for those
fee-for-service family doctors that offer a broader range of services is that
they tend to do more.''

In 2003, 60 per cent of fee-for-service family physicians in Canada provided
office-based assessments, basic procedural skills (such as allergy tests and
stitches) and mental health care services, according to the CIHI report.

"And just over 40 per cent of this group offered in-patient hospital care
services that required advance procedural skills such as setting broken bones
and administering local anesthetic,'' Roy said.

The number of family physicians providing this type of service in hospital in
Saskatchewan and across the country is dwindling, she said.

In Saskatchewan there are fewer family doctors providing surgical and
obstetrical care compared with 10 years ago, according to the study.

In 1994 family physicians were providing 48 per cent of Saskatchewan's
obstetrical services. In 2003 they were providing only 25 per cent of those
services, Roy said.

"So you see there was a good decline in the last 10 years. The role of the
specialist, the role of the midwife and the birth rate in Saskatchewan are all
factors that may have played a role in that decline,'' she said.

Other factors include the closure of hospitals, regionalization of services, the
introductory of the multidisciplinary primary care team -- nurse practitioners,
midwives and other professionals and the role they play in the delivery of
services -- technology and the increase in the number of female family
physicians and the changing needs of the patient population.

"This report only provides one piece of the puzzle that will help
decision-makers understand what is currently happening with the fee-for-service
family physician workforce and what changes need to be made to support these
doctors,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2006 The Leader-Post, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 6, 2014 Saturday

Montana: Sales Rep Hernia Specialist - Montana / 10075751

LENGTH: 284  words

DATELINE: Helena


Department of Labor & Industry, The State of Montana has issued the following
job announcement:

10075751
Job Title:  Sales Rep Hernia Specialist - Montana /
Employer:  Covidien
Location:  HELENA MT, 59626
Description:  ## Description Provide procedural and product expertise to
targeted customers and Key Opinion Leaders (KOL) through field travel, meeting
attendance, educational seminars, and OR case observations.

Manage all aspects of hernia business in the field including, but not limited
to, selling Surgical Device?s full line of hernia and mesh products, and the
education of surgeons, hospital personnel, and all sales representatives on
procedures and product applications. Drive revenue to increase hernia and soft
tissue repair business achieving necessary budget targets. Develop and support
clinical relationships. Drive procedural conversions from open procedures to
laparoscopic procedures to meet the overall goal of positioning Surgical Devices
to be the market leader in Hernia repair. Key Responsibilities: * Master all
hernia and soft tissue repair related Surgical Devices? products and
applications for hernia repair. * Develop procedural knowledge and expertise on
hernia and soft tissue repair procedures. * Develop local market strategy to
increase hernia and soft tissue repair market share and create a business plan
to execute on the strategy * Attain required objectives designed to increase
hernia and soft tissue repair revenue and increase market share. * Act as the
hernia and soft tissue repair expert in the field for internal and external
customers. * Create effective selling strategies and tools to assist entire
region in converting hernia and soft tissu(51745872)
Open

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday

89 absentee doctors dismissed: young doctors continue hunger strike

BYLINE:  Recorder Report

SECTION: Vol. XLIX No. 39

LENGTH: 340  words


Young doctors' hunger strike camp continued for the fifth consecutive day here
on Friday amid dismissal of as many as 89 doctors who remained absent from their
duties since last many years. A spokesman of Health department, however, said
that doctors who were dismissed from their service were neither young doctors
nor their dismissal had any link whatsoever with the current hunger strike of
young doctors.

The spokesman said that doctors who were dismissed remained absent since last
many years and action against them was taken after fulfilling all the codal/
procedural formalities including issuance of show cause notices. Sources claimed
that the Health department was also completing procedural formalities for
dismissal of more doctors who were absent from their official duties without any
intimation.

Moreover, protesting young doctors, who were observing hunger strike camp in
front of Services Hospital, had taken a plea that they were ready to end their
hunger strike, if the government released requisite funds for the provision of
free medicines, free medical tests to public and to make functional medical
equipment which were out of order.

YDA representative Dr Nasir Abbas told media that they were also waging a
struggle for service structure but they would get it resolved at a later stage.
He demanded provision of funds for free treatment of patients and repair of
out-of-order machines in government hospitals.

Some of the protesting doctors at the hunger strike camp also announced that
they would attend the inauguration ceremony of Metro Bus Service on Sunday to
press the government to fulfil their demands.

They said Punjab government would be responsible if any unwanted incident
happened if they were stopped to participate in the ceremony. They said they
would end ongoing hunger strike only after provincial government's assurance of
accepting their demands. Furthermore, people from different walks of life
including political activists, lawyers, media men attended the camp to express
solidarity with doctors.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday

89 absentee doctors dismissed: young doctors continue hunger strike

BYLINE:  Recorder Report

SECTION: Vol. XLIX No. 39

LENGTH: 340  words


Young doctors' hunger strike camp continued for the fifth consecutive day here
on Friday amid dismissal of as many as 89 doctors who remained absent from their
duties since last many years. A spokesman of Health department, however, said
that doctors who were dismissed from their service were neither young doctors
nor their dismissal had any link whatsoever with the current hunger strike of
young doctors.

The spokesman said that doctors who were dismissed remained absent since last
many years and action against them was taken after fulfilling all the codal/
procedural formalities including issuance of show cause notices. Sources claimed
that the Health department was also completing procedural formalities for
dismissal of more doctors who were absent from their official duties without any
intimation.

Moreover, protesting young doctors, who were observing hunger strike camp in
front of Services Hospital, had taken a plea that they were ready to end their
hunger strike, if the government released requisite funds for the provision of
free medicines, free medical tests to public and to make functional medical
equipment which were out of order.

YDA representative Dr Nasir Abbas told media that they were also waging a
struggle for service structure but they would get it resolved at a later stage.
He demanded provision of funds for free treatment of patients and repair of
out-of-order machines in government hospitals.

Some of the protesting doctors at the hunger strike camp also announced that
they would attend the inauguration ceremony of Metro Bus Service on Sunday to
press the government to fulfil their demands.

They said Punjab government would be responsible if any unwanted incident
happened if they were stopped to participate in the ceremony. They said they
would end ongoing hunger strike only after provincial government's assurance of
accepting their demands. Furthermore, people from different walks of life
including political activists, lawyers, media men attended the camp to express
solidarity with doctors.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday

89 absentee doctors dismissed: young doctors continue hunger strike

BYLINE:  Recorder Report

SECTION: Vol. XLIX No. 39

LENGTH: 340  words


Young doctors' hunger strike camp continued for the fifth consecutive day here
on Friday amid dismissal of as many as 89 doctors who remained absent from their
duties since last many years. A spokesman of Health department, however, said
that doctors who were dismissed from their service were neither young doctors
nor their dismissal had any link whatsoever with the current hunger strike of
young doctors.

The spokesman said that doctors who were dismissed remained absent since last
many years and action against them was taken after fulfilling all the codal/
procedural formalities including issuance of show cause notices. Sources claimed
that the Health department was also completing procedural formalities for
dismissal of more doctors who were absent from their official duties without any
intimation.

Moreover, protesting young doctors, who were observing hunger strike camp in
front of Services Hospital, had taken a plea that they were ready to end their
hunger strike, if the government released requisite funds for the provision of
free medicines, free medical tests to public and to make functional medical
equipment which were out of order.

YDA representative Dr Nasir Abbas told media that they were also waging a
struggle for service structure but they would get it resolved at a later stage.
He demanded provision of funds for free treatment of patients and repair of
out-of-order machines in government hospitals.

Some of the protesting doctors at the hunger strike camp also announced that
they would attend the inauguration ceremony of Metro Bus Service on Sunday to
press the government to fulfil their demands.

They said Punjab government would be responsible if any unwanted incident
happened if they were stopped to participate in the ceremony. They said they
would end ongoing hunger strike only after provincial government's assurance of
accepting their demands. Furthermore, people from different walks of life
including political activists, lawyers, media men attended the camp to express
solidarity with doctors.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday

89 absentee doctors dismissed: young doctors continue hunger strike

BYLINE:  Recorder Report

SECTION: Vol. XLIX No. 39

LENGTH: 340  words


Young doctors' hunger strike camp continued for the fifth consecutive day here
on Friday amid dismissal of as many as 89 doctors who remained absent from their
duties since last many years. A spokesman of Health department, however, said
that doctors who were dismissed from their service were neither young doctors
nor their dismissal had any link whatsoever with the current hunger strike of
young doctors.

The spokesman said that doctors who were dismissed remained absent since last
many years and action against them was taken after fulfilling all the codal/
procedural formalities including issuance of show cause notices. Sources claimed
that the Health department was also completing procedural formalities for
dismissal of more doctors who were absent from their official duties without any
intimation.

Moreover, protesting young doctors, who were observing hunger strike camp in
front of Services Hospital, had taken a plea that they were ready to end their
hunger strike, if the government released requisite funds for the provision of
free medicines, free medical tests to public and to make functional medical
equipment which were out of order.

YDA representative Dr Nasir Abbas told media that they were also waging a
struggle for service structure but they would get it resolved at a later stage.
He demanded provision of funds for free treatment of patients and repair of
out-of-order machines in government hospitals.

Some of the protesting doctors at the hunger strike camp also announced that
they would attend the inauguration ceremony of Metro Bus Service on Sunday to
press the government to fulfil their demands.

They said Punjab government would be responsible if any unwanted incident
happened if they were stopped to participate in the ceremony. They said they
would end ongoing hunger strike only after provincial government's assurance of
accepting their demands. Furthermore, people from different walks of life
including political activists, lawyers, media men attended the camp to express
solidarity with doctors.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                     Coffs Coast Advocate (New South Wales)

                            October 18, 2010 Monday

Maternity training boost for rural GPs

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 359  words


IN A boost for mums-to-be along the Mid North Coast, specialist maternity
services are expect to proliferate in the years ahead.

The Federal Government has given the go-ahead for country GPs to apply for
funding to assist them to complete procedural training in obstetrics.

Rural Doctors Association of Australia CEO Steve Sant said this funding would
provide much-needed assistance to rural GPs looking to offer a greater level of
service to their regions.

"Procedural skills, such as obstetrics, are very much in need in rural
communities, many of which are at risk of losing their current maternity and
surgical services," Mr Sant said.

"Thousands of country women have no local maternity services available to them
and must travel several hours from their homes and families to give birth.

"Increasing the number of GPs able to deliver babies at local hospitals will
make a huge difference to these rural families.

"We are encouraged to see the Gillard Government acting on the findings of their
Maternity Services Review report that highlighted the need for better access to
high-quality maternity services and more support for the maternity services
workforce in rural and remote Australia."

Mr Sant said the RDAA was also looking forward to seeing the anaesthetic
training component of this $5 million initiative for country GPs to be delivered
soon.

He said that recognition of Rural Generalists as a specialist area and providing
the necessary training early on would also help address the critical shortage of
highly trained rural doctors.

"We have been advocating for the implementation of a National Rural Generalist
Training Pathway to support and train rural doctors of the future," Mr Sant
said.

"The pathway would provide doctors with the high-level skills needed to serve
rural communities, and recognise and reward them accordingly.

"If we can encourage more doctors into rural practice early on in their careers,
then the need for initiatives such as these training grants will be greatly
reduced," Mr Sant said.

Details: www.ranzcog.edu.au/-gpdiploma/gpptsp.shtml

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCA


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                     Coffs Coast Advocate (New South Wales)

                            October 18, 2010 Monday

Maternity training boost for rural GPs

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 359  words


IN A boost for mums-to-be along the Mid North Coast, specialist maternity
services are expect to proliferate in the years ahead.

The Federal Government has given the go-ahead for country GPs to apply for
funding to assist them to complete procedural training in obstetrics.

Rural Doctors Association of Australia CEO Steve Sant said this funding would
provide much-needed assistance to rural GPs looking to offer a greater level of
service to their regions.

"Procedural skills, such as obstetrics, are very much in need in rural
communities, many of which are at risk of losing their current maternity and
surgical services," Mr Sant said.

"Thousands of country women have no local maternity services available to them
and must travel several hours from their homes and families to give birth.

"Increasing the number of GPs able to deliver babies at local hospitals will
make a huge difference to these rural families.

"We are encouraged to see the Gillard Government acting on the findings of their
Maternity Services Review report that highlighted the need for better access to
high-quality maternity services and more support for the maternity services
workforce in rural and remote Australia."

Mr Sant said the RDAA was also looking forward to seeing the anaesthetic
training component of this $5 million initiative for country GPs to be delivered
soon.

He said that recognition of Rural Generalists as a specialist area and providing
the necessary training early on would also help address the critical shortage of
highly trained rural doctors.

"We have been advocating for the implementation of a National Rural Generalist
Training Pathway to support and train rural doctors of the future," Mr Sant
said.

"The pathway would provide doctors with the high-level skills needed to serve
rural communities, and recognise and reward them accordingly.

"If we can encourage more doctors into rural practice early on in their careers,
then the need for initiatives such as these training grants will be greatly
reduced," Mr Sant said.

Details: www.ranzcog.edu.au/-gpdiploma/gpptsp.shtml

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCA


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

FDA approves TriVascular's Ovation iX Abdominal Stent Graft System

SECTION: CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES; Product Regulatory Events

LENGTH: 144 words



HIGHLIGHT: Medical device firm TriVascular Technologies has obtained approval
from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for its Ovation iX Abdominal
Stent Graft System.


The new system features built-in procedural option that can be used to replace
retrograde cannulation of the main body device, allowing to place the
contralateral iliac stent graft.



It also features low profile 12-13F integrated sheath, which is designed to
minimize vessel trauma and reduce procedural steps.

TriVascular Technologies CEO and president Christopher Chavez said: "The launch
of the complete Ovation iX system supports our mission to improve and safely
expand EVAR for all and serves as evidence of our commitment to deliver a strong
pipeline of products.

"We believe the Ovation iX delivery system enhancements will complement the
broad IFU of the Ovation system and further enable our physician partners to
provide improved, on-label EVAR treatment to more patients."

TriVascular distributes Ovation Abdominal Stent Graft platform in around 35
countries.

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 20, 2015 Thursday

US Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania) Issues Solicitation
for "KLS Martin Cranial and Maxillofacial Procedural Sets"

LENGTH: 575  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations Officer has issued
requirement for "KLS Martin Cranial and Maxillofacial Procedural Sets"

Solicitation no. SPE2DE-15-R-0006

Notice Type: Presolicitation
Posted Date:
August 18, 2015
Response Date:
N/A

Description: The goal of the Manufacturer Direct Program is to establish an
alternative to manual open market purchase activity, re-engineer the business
process with automated e-commerce business solution. The objective of this
solicitation is to establish a Fixed Price (with Economic Price Adjustment)
Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contract with KLS Martin for
their Cranial and Maxillofacial "procedural sets". The "procedural sets" include
the following product mix: implants, instruments, auxiliary products, biological
products including distraction devices, biomaterials, power systems, sternal
products, and threadlock device systems.  The product mix that makes up the "
procedural set" varies based on the individual needs of the patient. Other
sole-source KLS Martin product groups may be solicited at a future date under
the forthcoming solicitation.
This solicitation contains an on-site personnel requirement for the contractor
to provide advice and guidance to physician's before, during and after
implantation of the device at the request of the Medical Treatment Facility.
Technical support shall be available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7)
days a week.
Market Research has revealed that there are no other known manufacturers or
distributors other than KLS Martin who can provide DoD hospitals with the
complete "procedural set" under all three delivery methods and have direct
control over a sales force that is knowledgeable in KLS Martin's products.  The
KLS Martin Sales Representatives are experts on the vendor's products and are a
vital part of helping to ensure that the patient is getting the necessary
treatment.
KLS Martin will have their product line loaded into the DLA Troop Support
Medical Electronic Catalog (ECAT). All Orders, Order Acknowledgements and
Invoice transactions are required to be electronic. Items will be delivered to
various Department of Defense (DoD) research centers, hospitals, and clinics,
and any federal customer participating in this program.
The term of the contract will be a one-year Base Period and four one-year
unilateral Option Periods. This procurement has an estimated value of $2.45
million for the Base Period, $2.47 million for the first option period, $2.49
million for the second option period, $2.5 million for the third option period,
and $2.52 million for the fourth option period, for a total of approximately
$12.4 million over the five-year life of the procurement.  The contract maximum
is $37,356,201 over the 5 year life of the contract.
Solicitation SPE2DE-15-R-0006 is expected to be issued September 3, 2015 and can
be found on the DLA Internet Bid Board System (DIBBS) at
https://www.dibbs.bsm.dla.mil/. The point of contact is Chuck Reimer, DLA Troop
Support-FSCB, 215-737-3829. The solicitation may not become available until the
solicitation issue date.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia,
 Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United States

Point of Contact(s): Charles Reimer Charles.Reimer@dla.mil Phone: 215.737.5495

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Daily Variety

                                  May 9, 2012

early morning call;
TNT picks up Kelley's hospital skein

BYLINE: Stuart Levine

SECTION: TOP NEWS; TV; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 205  words


TNT has ordered David E. Kelley's hospital drama "Monday Mornings" to series.

Show, produced by the Atlanta-based cabler and formerly titled "Chelsea
General," stars Ving Rhames, Alfred Molina and Jamie Bamber. Kelley and CNN
medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta, on whose book the show is based, will
exec produce.

Show is the first Kelley is doing outside his production deal at Warner Bros.
Television that recently ended. His NBC legal drama "Harry's Law," whose cast
and crew are anxiously awaiting word on whether it will return next season, is
through WBTV. Kelley shot a "Wonder Woman" pilot last year for NBC that didn't
make it to air.

Set at a fictional hospital in Portland, Ore., "Monday Mornings" follows the
lives of doctors as they push the limits of their abilities and confront their
personal and professional failings.

As for other pilots that TNT is considering for a series greenlight, there won't
be a decision made before next week's Gotham upfront on either Carol
Mendelsohn's procedural "Scent of the Missing" or the serialized "L.A. Noir,"
from creator Frank Darabont. Production for the "L.A. Noir" pilot is under way.

TNT will likely shoot more procedural pilots before choosing which one to put on
the air.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 Reed Business Information, US, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Central Western Daily

                                August 24, 2016

Doc takes heart

BYLINE: Danielle Cetinski

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 325  words


AFTER hundreds of people backed a respected cardiologist against hospital
management, his supporters have expressed their disappointment following his
failed NSW Supreme Court challenge.

Dr David Amos appealed to the court saying he had been denied procedural
fairness in a dispute with the Western Local Health District, but the court
found none was required unless Dr Amos was suspended.

In a statement, Dr Amos said he hoped to put the situation behind him and return
to work.

"I am disappointed that the court found that I was not entitled to a fair
process,' he said.

'However, I am pleased the judgement is absolutely clear that I have not been
afforded procedural fairness.'

Dr Amos has been on leave during the dispute, which had involved support from
fellow cardiologists, senior nurses, Orange Health Service's Medical Staff
Council and former member for Orange Andrew Gee.

The staff council unanimously voted in support of the cardiology department in
May and 400 people attended a rally in June.

In the wake of Tuesday's judgment, the staff council's executive issued a
statement describing Dr Amos as an excellent cardiologist and an integral member
of the team.

'[The] court decision is profoundly disappointing, as it seems to confirm that
Dr Amos was not afforded procedural fairness at all points in this process,' the
statement said.

'However, the Medical Staff Council expects the Local Health District to respect
the need to offer appropriate procedural fairness to Dr Amos and to work to
quickly resolve the issues in a fair, transparent and appropriate manner.'

The executive noted recent events had been stressful for Dr Amos and his family
and it looked forward to having him back at work and caring for patients.

Mr Gee had asked for Health Minister Jillian Skinner to investigate the claims
as a matter of urgency.

The Western Local Health District declined to comment on the Central Western
Daily's questions on Wednesday.

Judgment page 3.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Policy for induction of trainee doctors approved

SECTION: Vol. 27 No. 321

LENGTH: 199  words


A meeting of Admission Committee for Postgraduate Trainee Doctors held on Sunday
in Civil Secretariat headed by Advisor to Chief Minister on Health, Khawaja
Salman Rafique. The Committee reviewed in details the Policy and Procedural
Manual (PPM) for induction of Postgraduate Trainee Doctors in the teaching
hospitals. After detailed deliberation, the Committee approved in principal
Policy and Procedural Manual for the admission. It was decided that the approved
draft of PPM would be sent to the Chief Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif for his
final approval.

Besides Secretary Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Najam Ahmed Shah,
Vice Chancellor Fatima Jinnah Medical University Prof. Dr. Sardar Fakhar Imam,
Pro-Vice Chancellor Prof. Amir Zaman Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor University of
Health Sciences Prof. Junaid Sarfraz Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor King Edward
Medical University Prof. Qazi Saeed, Prof. Dr. Syed Muhammad Owais, Chief
Executive Mayo Hospital Prof. Asad Aslam Khan, Additional Secretary Technical
Dr. Suleman Shahid, Deputy Secretary Medical Education Dr. Nasir Shakir and
representatives of Punjab Information Technology Board Baddar Munir also
attended the meeting.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                                  City Edition

Health: Review shows patient-dumping is uncommon in Oklahoma ;
Hospitals minding the rules;
Complaints and fines decrease under federal law requiring emergency care.

BYLINE: Jeff Raymond, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 632 words


Oklahoma hospitals rarely receive legitimate patient-dumping complaints and face
few federal fines, a review of state and federal data shows.

Violating the law could lead to the financial ruin of a hospital, officials say.

Records at the Oklahoma Department of Health and the U.S. Department of Human
Services Office of Inspector General show the state's hospitals have a good
record of complying with the 1986 Emergency Treatment and Active Labor Act, or
EMTALA.

The law requires hospitals that accept Medicare payments to offer emergency
screening and stabilizing treatment regardless of a person's ability to pay.

Such treatment is whatever it takes to resolve the emergency that brought the
patient to the hospital.

The law, which came about after some hospitals turned away poor women in labor,
does not compel hospitals to provide nonemergency treatment or services they
don't normally offer.

The inspector general's office ultimately can impose fees on wayward hospitals,
whereas the state can put the hospital on a quick track to lose its Medicare
funding eligibility. The biggest fine the inspector general's office has levied
in the past seven years against an Oklahoma hospital was $80,000 in August 2003
against Griffin Memorial Hospital in Norman, records show.

The allegations were that hospital staff failed to screen seven people who came
to the emergency room with psychiatric complaints.

Jeff Dismukes, director of public information for the Oklahoma Department of
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services, which operates the hospital, said
the agency has a "no-wrong-door policy," and after the fine incorporated
act-related training at its treatment centers and on the Internet.

"Our priority is that anyone who's seeking assistance gets appropriate
services," he said.

Procedural violations

Since 2000, the inspector general's office has imposed only seven fines on
Oklahoma hospitals. Most are more than five years old. Hospitals and treatment
centers run by the state have not logged any complaints since 2003.

In 2006, the state Health Department investigated 21 act-related complaints and
substantiated eight of them.

Most violations are procedural, and state investigators are meticulous. A common
finding is that hospitals do not have a sign in the emergency room notifying
patients they may receive screening and stabilizing care.

Tom Welin, chief of medical facilities for the state Health Department, said
hospital officials understand the importance of obeying the law and the
consequences of violations. Under the most serious circumstances, a hospital can
lose its ability to accept Medicare patients. Given the large percentage of such
patients, their importance to hospital bottom lines is huge.

"The physicians take it seriously because they can also be sanctioned," Welin
said.

When state health officials substantiate a complaint - often anonymously - it
places the hospital on a 90-day "termination track" during which hospital
officials must provide a correction plan.

In serious cases, the state can give hospitals less than a month to comply.

Welin said most complaints come from patients who don't understand the law or
had a poor emergency room experience. For example, hospitals are not required to
provide aid beyond stabilizing care.

Patti Davis, executive vice president of the Oklahoma Hospital Association, said
hospitals take compliance with the act "very seriously" and noted the many other
regulatory requirements hospitals must meet.

Because of staff turnover, "EMTALA is an ongoing education process at every
hospital across the state," she said.

Hospitals also have an added incentive.

"You want an appropriate medical screening because the last thing you want is
for something to be missed and turn out to be an emergency," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Whyalla News

                            February 7, 2012 Tuesday

Need for more rural doctors

BYLINE: Kayleigh Bruce

SECTION: EGN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words


In meeting the demand for more doctors and specialists in rural Australia, the
Whyalla hospital will welcome several new staff members this year.

As part of the Road to Rural General Practice report commissioned by Country
Health SA, a number of recommendations were outlined to achieve an increased
supply of Australian trained GPs for rural South Australia.

Currently, a state-wide implementation committee is being established to
progress these recommendations.

In 2012, the Whyalla hospital will welcome the services of a new physician set
to start in August along with four new salaried medical officers in the coming
months.

As upgrades are carried out at the Whyalla hospital, it is well staffed with six
resident specialists across various fields as well as 16 local GPs to assist in
managing inpatients and the emergency department.

The hospital is further supported by a large array of visiting specialists and
other health providers.

In supporting Whyalla's health care services, Country Health SA has an ongoing
recruitment and retention strategy in place for a range of specialties in
Whyalla.

Some of these specialties may be based in Whyalla while others will practice
across the region on a visiting rotation.

Addressing the need for more doctors in rural Australia, the Australian Medical
Association submitted an extensive practical plan to the senate last month.

AMA president Doctor Steve Hambleton said the plan incorporates clever thinking
and local solutions to attract doctors to rural practice and keep them in local
communities for the long term.

Mr Hambleton said there was a nationwide shortage of doctors but rural and
remote areas are particularly feeling this shortage.

"Rural Australia is highly reliant on international medical graduates (IMGs) to
address these workforce shortages," Mr Hambleton said.

Mr Hambleton said while the contribution made by IMG doctors has been essential
and greatly appreciated by the communities they serve, this strategy was not
sustainable in the long term.

"We need to attract and retain Australian-trained doctors in rural areas," Mr
Hambleton said.

"To do that, rural practice must be an attractive career and lifestyle choice
for doctors."

As part of viable strategies to improve access to health care for people living
in rural and remote Australia, the AMA highlighted two key points of support:

A rural isolation payment to be paid to all rural doctors (including GPs,
specialists and registrars) to reflect the isolation associated with rural
practice and a rural procedural and emergency/on-call loading to better support
rural procedural doctors (including procedural specialists) who provide
obstetric, surgical, anaesthetic or primary emergency on-call services in
regional communities.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

Montana: Sales Rep Hernia Specialist 10078268

LENGTH: 335  words

DATELINE: Helena


Department of Labor & Industry, The State of Montana has issued the following
job announcement:

10078268
Job Title:  Sales Rep Hernia Specialist
Employer:  Confidential
Location:  MONTANA CITY MT, 59634
Description:  Provide procedural and product expertise to targeted customers and
Key Opinion Leaders (KOL) through field travel, meeting attendance, educational
seminars, and OR case observations.

Manage all aspects of hernia business in the field including, but not limited
to, selling Surgical DeviceÃ¢Â¿Â¿s full line of hernia and mesh products, and
the education of surgeons, hospital personnel, and all sales representatives on
procedures and product applications. Drive revenue to increase hernia and soft
tissue repair business achieving necessary budget targets. Develop and support
clinical relationships. Drive procedural conversions from open procedures to
laparoscopic procedures to meet the overall goal of positioning Surgical Devices
to be the market leader in Hernia repair. Key Responsibilities: 1. Master all
hernia and soft tissue repair related Surgical DevicesÃ¢Â¿Â¿ products and
applications for hernia repair. 2. Develop procedural knowledge and expertise on
hernia and soft tissue repair procedures. 3. Develop local market strategy to
increase hernia and soft tissue repair market share and create a business plan
to execute on the strategy 4. Attain required objectives designed to increase
hernia and soft tissue repair revenue and increase market share. 5. Act as the
hernia and soft tissue repair expert in the field for internal and external
customers. Covidien is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer and
VEVRAA Federal Contractor. Covidien will make reasonable accommodations to allow
qualified individuals to perform their job duties unless the accommodation
imposes an undue hardship. Please feel free to request a copy of the Covidien
Equal Employment Opportunity and Reasonable Accommodation policies for
additional information. for more information see url
Open

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                              May 20, 2011 Friday

Medtronic unveils data from CoreValve trials

LENGTH: 1054 words

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report

Medtronic (Minneapolis) released results of clinical data at EuroPCR 2011 that
show the Medtronic CoreValve System, delivered through a new approach beneath
the collarbone, achieved excellent procedural success rates and low in-hospital
complication rates. The new approach, via subclavian access, received CE mark in
December and has been used primarily for people whose femoral arteries are too
narrow or are compromised due to disease.

The multi-center study evaluated 132 consecutive subclavian patients in Italy
and found positive patient outcomes, despite patients in the subclavian group
being sicker than patients in the femoral access group (based on EuroSCORE and
rates of peripheral artery disease, coronary artery disease, prior stroke and
prior heart attacks). Procedural success was obtained in 97.7% of the subclavian
group versus 96.3% of the transfemoral group, with intraprocedural mortality of
1.5% vs. 1.8%, respectively. No serious complications were reported as a result
of accessing the aortic valve through the subclavian artery. Freedom from
cardiac death rates were almost identical (90.6% vs. 90.4%, respectively), and
freedom from major adverse cardiac event rates were 87.6% for the subclavian
group vs. 86.3% for the femoral group.

"The subclavian approach is a feasible and safe option for TAVI, providing
excellent procedural success and low in-hospital complication rates," said Sonia
Petronio, MD, associate professor of Cardiology and Head of the Catheterization
Lab of the Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Pisana, Pisa, Italy. "In our
opinion, this approach should be considered a valid alternative not only in
patients with the impossibility of a femoral approach, but also in patients with
a difficult femoral approach with high risk of vascular complications."

In other conference news:

o Neovasc (Vancouver), a developer of technologies used to treat vascular
disease, reported positive six-month follow-up data for a patient with severe
refractory angina who received the Neovasc Reducer product in a "live case"
procedure broadcast during the 22nd annual Transcatheter Cardiovascular
Therapeutics (TCT) scientific symposium in September 2010.

The results presented at EuroPCR showed a marked improvement in the patient's
angina symptoms six months following implantation of the Reducer device. At the
time of implantation, in spite of multiple prior revascularizations, the patient
was classified as having CCS Class III angina, which included experiencing
substantial limitations due to angina pain interfering with everyday activities,
such as walking a short distance or climbing a flight of stairs. Since
implantation of the Reducer device, her angina classification has improved to
CCS Class I, in which patients typically experience angina symptoms only with
strenuous, rapid, or prolonged exertion.

o OrbusNeich (Hong Kong) said that data from multiple clinical trials supporting
the safety and efficacy of the Genous Stent in cases where prolonged dual
antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) is not advisable were featured during the HEALING
Symposium titled "How to assess and treat patients who are not suitable
candidates for prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy."

Presenters discussed current treatment alternatives to drug eluting stents (DES)
for patients who are contraindicated for prolonged DAPT and the benefits of the
Genous endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) capture technology for addressing these
challenging cases. The symposium also explored the potential for new imaging
tools to assess stent apposition and arterial healing in a clinical setting.

Robbert de Winter, MD, PhD, of the Academic Medical Center (Amsterdam) presented
three-year follow-up data that demonstrated the safety and efficacy of the
Genous Stent in a large real-world patient population with mostly complex
lesions and estimated high risk for restenosis. At three years, the definite
stent thrombosis (ST) in 405 unselected patients treated with the Genous Stent
was 0.5%, which was unchanged from one year, and there was a probable ST in one
patient, which increased the rate of probable ST to 1.% at three years compared
to 0.8% at one year. In addition, the target lesion revascularization (TLR) rate
at three years was 14.2% versus 10.6% at one year.

"These long-term data show no additional cases of definite stent thrombosis
between one and three years attests to the durability and excellent safety
profile of the Genous Stent," said de Winter.

o Cappella (Galway, Ireland), a company developing dynamic solutions for the
treatment of coronary bifurcation disease, reported how its Sideguard coronary
sidebranch technology was featured in several scientific sessions at this week's
EuroPCR Congress in Paris, including a new European survey on the challenges in
treating bifurcation disease.

Developed to protect the ostium of the sidebranch, the Cappella Sideguard
coronary sidebranch technology offers interventional cardiologists a dynamic,
effective, and easy-to-use solution in the treatment of bifurcation disease.
This next generation stent platform preserves the sidebranch of diseased
coronary arteries by protecting the ostium and minimising plaque shift. Cappella
is currently engaged in a large-scale registry of more than 250 patients in
Europe which should further confirm the ease of use and the reduced TVF rate.

A recent survey carried out on behalf of Cappella Medical and published in the
May/June edition of Coronary Heart magazine, invited clinicians across Europe to
share their views on the challenges and opportunities for improvement in the
treatment of bifurcation lesion treatment.

David Blossom, vp of Commercial Operations at Cappella Medical, said of the
results, "It was promising to learn that even though 82% of respondents most
frequently used provisional stenting when treating bifurcation disease and an
additional 13% used a mixture of the provisional and 2-stent approach, 95% of
respondents were open to the idea of treating the sidebranch prior to the main
artery." The survey revealed that clinicians were aware of the limitations of
current practice with 83% reporting that up to 30% of provisionally stented
patient's return for sidebranch treatment at which point they may not be able to
regain access to the sidebranch."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2011 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

New cardiac facility

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 199  words



HIGHLIGHT: Catheter lab at Nambour keeps treatment local


NAMBOUR General Hospital's new $18 million cardiac catheter facility, laboratory
and procedural suites will be officially opened today.

The new ward will be able to treat up to 40 patients a day, as well as employ an
additional 43 full-time staff and two cardiologists.

Health Minister Lawrence Springborg said the development was a major boost for
public health services on the Sunshine Coast.

"For the first time public patients on the Sunshine Coast have access to the
diagnostic capacity of a cardiac catheter laboratory," Mr Springborg said.
"Patients who previously travelled to Brisbane for cardiac catheter treatment
can now have their procedures performed locally."

The new procedural suites have expanded the hospital's vascular and endoscopy
services.

They include the latest technology for the cardiac, vascular and
gastroenterology fields to improve treatment and patient diagnosis.

"Patients are already benefiting with the new laboratory and dedicated suites
treating their first patients in April 2012," Mr Springborg said. "In that time
more than 1500 patients have had procedures conducted in the new procedural
suites and the laboratory has already provided services to 262 patients."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Doctors' admission body meets

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 258

LENGTH: 386  words


A meeting of an admission committee for postgraduate trainee doctors was held on
Sunday in Civil Secretariat headed by adviser to the chief minister on Health
Khawaja Salman Rafique.

According to a handout, the committee reviewed in details the Policy and
Procedural Manual (PPM) for induction of postgraduate trainee doctors in the
teaching hospitals. The committee approved in principal Policy and Procedural
Manual for the admission. It was decided that the approved draft of PPM would be
sent to the Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif for his final approval.

Secretary Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Najam Ahmed Shah, Vice
Chancellor Fatima Jinnah Medical University Prof Dr Sardar Fakhar Imam, Pro-Vice
Chancellor Prof Amir Zaman Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor University of Health
Sciences Prof Junaid Sarfraz Khan, Vice Chancellor King Edward Medical
University Prof Qazi Saeed, Prof Dr Syed Muhammad Owais, Chief Executive Mayo
Hospital Prof Asad Aslam Khan, Additional Secretary Technical Dr Suleman Shahid,
Deputy Secretary Medical Education Dr Nasir Shakir and representatives of Punjab
Information Technology Board Baddar Munir attended the meeting.

lauded: Thousands of doctors having their specialisation completed from Post
Graduate Medical Institute (PGMI) are serving in medical education institutions
and hospitals both in Pakistan and abroad. The Ameer ud Din Medical College
attached with PGMI/Lahore General Hospital (LGH) has also set a new record of
excellence by securing first position in the province in First Professional
results just after a few years of its establishment. LGH has also rendered great
services by providing medical cover to 1.5 million patients during the last
fiscal year.

This was told by PGMI/LGH Principal Prof Ghias un Nabi Tayyab to the 44th Common
trainee officers of Civil Services Academy, who were on a study visit to LGH,
according to a handout issued here on Sunday. LGH Medical Superintendent Dr
Ghulam Sabir and other administrative doctors were also present. Prof Ghias un
Nabi threw light on the ongoing development projects for the hospital and said
that philanthropists were also cooperating with the hospital for the sacred
mission of serving the ailing humanity. Without philanthropists' assistance, the
government cannot deliver effectively, he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Ayr Advocate (Australia)

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday

Rural doctor crisis needs action: AMA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 251  words


THE Rural Doctors Association of Australia (RDAA) and Australian Medical
Association (AMA) are urging the Government to commit to a major rescue package
of rural-specific support incentives to get more doctors working in country
Australia.

Both the AMA and RDAA have identified a range of measures essential to improving
services to country patients including better funding for rural hospitals, a
rural health obligation, expanded specialist outreach services and better
support.

At least 1000 doctors are needed urgently in rural and remote Australia to
ensure even basic access to healthcare in the bush.

Many rural patients now have to wait up to six weeks for a basic consultation or
drive hundreds of kilometres to access a doctor.

RDAA and AMA are calling on the Government to move quickly to introduce the
following two-tiered support structure:

* A Rural Isolation Payment to be paid to all rural doctors (including GPs,
specialists and registrars) to reflect the isolation associated with rural
practice.

* A Rural Procedural and Emergency/On Call Loading to better support rural
procedural doctors (including procedural specialists) who provide obstetric,
surgical, anaesthetic or primary emergency on-call service in rural communities.

The AMA and RDAA estimate the total cost of this rescue package will be
approximately $300 million per year, making it a very cost-effective way of
getting and keeping more doctors in the bush and helping keep rural communities
and rural health services functioning.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: TAA


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                             July 29, 1996, Monday

DOCTORS SEEK END TO FREE HOSPITALS

SOURCE: QNP

LENGTH: 241 words


KEYWORD-HIT

Doctors seek end

to free hospitals

]TWO key doctors' organisations have called for an end to universal

access to free hospitals.

The Council of Procedural Specialists and the Australian

Association of Surgeons made the call in submissions to a Senate

inquiry into private health insurance.

The inquiry is assessing legislative changes made a year ago to

encourage more people to take out private health insurance.

Council of Procedural Specialists chairman Donald Sheldon said free

access to public hospitals created ""overwhelming disincentives"

against taking out private health insurance.

""The majority of the population is financially able to afford

private health insurance as was demonstrated prior to the introduction

of Medicare," Dr Sheldon wrote in his submission.

""Thirteen years of Medicare has created major and incurable

problems in our health system.

""Major reforms are required to restore equity and access to our

hospital system."

The Australian Association of Surgeons' submission said the

community could no longer afford free hospitals for people who were

able to pay for their own hospital care.

""Such people displace the poor who have no other alternative,"

the submission said.

It also said only pensioners and other health care card holders

should have access to bulk billing, whereby people who visit their

doctors for free and doctors claim the fees from Medicare.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1996 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              149 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday

OHRH working on nurse staffing balance

BYLINE: Rich Suwanski, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 562 words


Dec. 29--Owensboro Health Regional Hospital is trying to balance its nurse
staffing as the seven-month-old facility faces a variety of health care
variables, causing schedule fluctuations.

Vicki Stogsdill, OHRH vice president of nursing, said some nursing units are
working overtime while others are not scheduled to work as many hours due to a
smaller patient census in certain areas. Stogsdill said managers are working to
distribute staffing more evenly.

"Not just here, but everywhere I've worked, patient numbers have fluctuated,"
Stogsdill said. "So we have to make sure we have enough staff for days when the
hospital is fairly full and balance that with times when we have fewer patients.

"Inherently, nurses are expected to work overtime, and there are times when
they're expected to reduce their hours. It's always a delicate balance."

Stogsdill said daily planning meetings involve discussing the number of patients
staying in the hospital, the number being discharged and the number entering the
hospital.

"Nurses are pretty accustomed to fluctuating schedules," she said.

Currently, critical care nurses are working overtime due to higher patient
volume while nurses in the outpatient procedure department are taking more time
off.

"We over-anticipated the volume we've had in the outpatient procedural
department, where patients have a one-night stay," Stogsdill said. "The managers
are working to correct that. They may increase the scope of patients the nurses
care for, or those nurses may be oriented to other areas of the hospital."

Different patient needs require a different skill set from nurses, and
specialized units and procedural areas require specific skills, so nurses aren't
automatically interchangeable.

Before the new hospital opened in June, a non-surgical care unit was dissolved,
and those nurses deployed to Oncology-Medical and the Joint Center since those
units were becoming larger and needed more staff, Stogsdill said. Oncology went
from 19 to 24 beds, and the Joint Center grew from 10 to 22 beds.

Another factor influencing some scheduling is "soft" patient volume as a
national trend, Stogsdill said. OHRH has seen a 4 percent dip in inpatient
volume compared to previous years, she said.

"It's nationwide and across the state," Stogsdill said. "Ours is about half of
the state's decline. Some hospitals are much higher."

Stogsdill doesn't have any hard evidence to support the reason for the dip, but
thinks it could be due to patients "being more judicious about coming to the
hospital" as some insurance coverage requires higher copays and deductibles.

"Patients are becoming more aware of the cost of care," she said. "And with the
medical technology and specialization we have now, we have more and more
patients having surgery and going home the same day or after an overnight stay."

Stogsdill said the new hospital was built with an eye toward future health care
needs, such as the anticipated wave of baby boomers, so any dip in census could
be followed by a spike.

"We added another physical rehabilitation position and, immediately, patient
volume in our rehab center increased about 30 percent," she said.

Rich Suwanski, 691-7315, or rsuwanski@messenger-inquirer.com

___ (c)2013 the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer
(Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131229-OW-OHRH-working-on-nurse-staffing-balance-1229-20131229

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2013 Messenger-Inquirer


                              150 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                      January 7, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Gangnam District Court First to Start the Trial
Process Information Disclosure Platform

LENGTH: 400  words


Beijing, Jan. 7 -- Dongfeng With the introduction of innovative reform
initiatives. January 7 morning, the hospital held a trial platform for the
launch of the process of information disclosure in Nanning Municipal Court's
first "big trial tube" work patterns in order to achieve judicial process
management standardization and systematization of purpose, according to the law
on the protection of judges independent handling, to ensure judicial fairness,
impartiality, openness is important.



* The relevant provisions of the southern district court, "the Court of Justice
on promoting Guangxi platform open three pilot implementation details,"
according to the High Court of the autonomous region, the first public use of
judicial process information platform, and actively build "big trial tube"
pattern. School Party decided that the terms of reference and the hospital staff
tried to re-configure the management office of the division. Trial Management
Office after the reform has two centers, one litigation process service centers;
Second trial management center. Litigation Process Services Center is
responsible for procedural matters, which consists of process groups, service
groups and security groups. Trial management center is responsible for the flow
of information disclosure platform running trial supervision and inspection,
performance evaluation of performance indicators which analyzes judicial
statistics, perform trial run trend analysis, trial management, online
investigators, the sun of justice, the Judicial Committee of transaction
management and jurisdiction limits management.

* After the trial process information disclosure platform construction starts,
the hospital built by the "big trial tube" pattern, relying on the regulatory
implementation of systems management software, and promote judicial process
management, and the trial will be an effective solution to the management of
cross-jurisdiction, procedural and transactional work overlapping entities
trial, trial decentralized management responsibilities and other issues, in
favor of the judge homing conducive to the judge handling the case independently
according to law, in favor of a unified trial management responsibilities, help
the parties to grasp the dynamics of the case, to meet the needs of the people
of justice, to achieve " four in favor, "the purpose, in order to achieve true"
sun of justice. "

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday

Human error 'kills' patient at Sion hospital

BYLINE: Sumitra Deb Roy

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 584 words


MUMBAI: A first-year resident doctor at Sion Hospital, suffering from a panic
attack, ran away from a busy ward last Tuesday, unleashing a chain of events
that ended in the death of a patient.

A senior citizen from Bhandup, caught in the bizarre turn of events, died with
15 minutes of a minor procedure to drain fluid from his lungs carried out by the
replacement doctor.

The family of Waman Zare, 65, alleged that the procedure was carried out in
haste, without their consent or supervision of a senior doctor. An informal
internal investigation has revealed that the doctor had punctured the left lung
instead of the affected right, sending the patient into a cardiac shock.

Authorities at Sion Hospital confirmed the incident, butno inquiry has been
ordered yet. Acting dean Dr N D Moulick said it was a case of "human error" and
not something attributable to stress or work pressure. The ward with 84 patients
was being manned by only two resident doctors.

Zare had been hospitalized and treated for fever and stomach ailments at BMC's
Veer Savarkar Hospital in Mulund before being referred to Sion Hospital on
August 4. An X-ray at the Mulund hospital had shown accumulation of water in the
lungs. On August 4, Zare took discharge and headed to Sion Hospital for draining
the fluid.

"We had lunch together in Mulund and walked till the bus stop to catch a bus for
Sion Hospital. We discussed how water removal from lung was a minor procedure
and he would be home in a day or two," said his son Rahul, 30. "Little did we
know that he would be dead by that evening," he said. Zare got admitted around
4pm and passed away in a span of little over two hours. He is survived by his
65-year-old wife and four sons.

The family claimed that the woman resident doctor attempted the fluid draining
procedure without studying his file properly. "There were no seniors around. It
was visible that something was wrong. My father immediately started complaining
of breathing difficulty. He was shifted to his bed soon after and put on oxygen
support. He died within 15 minutes," said Rahul. He added that the cause of
death was not explained to them. The death certificate issued to them says Zare
died of "cardiac shock".

TOI has learned that the hospital had insisted on a post-mortem, but the family
refused. "We knew our father will never come back. So what is the point of
getting into procedural hassles?" he said. The family's consent should have been
sought and the dangers of the procedure duly explained to them, he added.

Moulick said not seeking a patient's consent was a major oversight. "These are
certain procedural things which our residents have to be trained better in. Such
incidents are rare though," she said.

The woman resident doctor had come to help after the other doctor fled the ward
following a panic attack. The doctor, who had been suffering anxiety attacks,
had not informed his department about his health condition. He is currently
taking treatment and is on leave, added Moulick.

"Handling nearly 100 patients in a single ward and dealing with their relatives
is not easy. Often senior doctors are not around to teach us how to deal with
such situations," said a resident doctor from the hospital.

About 10 days ago, a resident doctor from KEM Hospital had attempted suicide
when he failed to cope with the work pressure. The Maharashtra Association of
Resident Doctors (MARD) has been demanding that their work duties be restricted
to 48 hours per week.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Committee approves procedure for induction of PG doctors

LENGTH: 237  words

DATELINE: New York


New York, Nov. 22 -- A meeting of Admission Committee for Postgraduate Trainee
Doctors held on Sunday at Civil Secretariat with Advisor to Chief Minister on
Health Khawaja Salman Rafique in the chair. The committee reviewed in detail the
Policy and Procedural Manual (PPM) for induction of Postgraduate Trainee Doctors
in the teaching hospitals. After detailed deliberations, the committee approved
in principle the Policy and Procedural Manual for the admission. It was decided
that the approved draft of the PPM would be sent to Chief Minister Muhammad
Shehbaz Sharif for his final approval.

Besides Secretary Specialised Healthcare and Medical Education Najam Ahmed Shah,
Vice Chancellor Fatima Jinnah Medical University Prof Dr Sardar Fakhar Imam,
Pro-Vice Chancellor Prof Amir Zaman Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor University of
Health Sciences Prof Junaid Sarfraz Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor King Edward
Medical University Prof Qazi Saeed, Prof Dr Syed Muhammad Owais, Chief Executive
Mayo Hospital Prof Asad Aslam Khan, Additional Secretary Technical Dr Suleman
Shahid, Deputy Secretary Medical Education Dr Nasir Shakir and representatives
of the Punjab Information Technology Board Baddar Munir also attended the
meeting

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Study: Care providers underestimate pain during pediatric burn dressing change

LENGTH: 389  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Dressing changes have been identified as one of the major contributors to
perceived pain during burn care, and so it is important that pain be assessed
accurately. But a new study from the Center for Pediatric Trauma Research at
Nationwide Children's Hospital suggests that pediatric burn pain assessment can
vary not only based on patient pain intensity, but also nurse clinical
experience.





 A measurement tool called the Face, Legs, Activity, Cry, Consolability Scale
(FLACC) is widely used by nurses to rate pain in pediatric patients. It can be
applied to pediatric patients of all ages, including the very young, so it
provides a standard assessment for all patients in our pediatric burn center.
This study found that nurses tended to underrate both mild and severe procedural
pain. Nurses who had less nursing experience demonstrated significantly higher
accuracy than those with more experience.



 Jonathan Groner MD is the study's senior author, medical director of the Center
for Pediatric Trauma Research and affiliate faculty of the Center for Injury
Research and Policy at Nationwide Children's Hospital stated, "This is
concerning because it demonstrates that on a well-established burn unit that
specializes in caring for pediatric patients, nurses may too often underrate
children's procedural pain for both mild and severe pain." Dr. Jiabin Shen, the
study's lead author also noted concern that "new" burn nurses (less than 5 years
nursing experience) appeared to be more accurate in FLACC rating than more
experienced nurses.



 This study, available today online and in the September issue of Burns, is the
first study to systematically examine FLACC rating accuracy among care
providers. Developed in 1997, the FLACC scale was originally designed to measure
post-operative pain in pediatric populations. The FLACC utilizes an
easy-to-understand 0-10 metric and exerts a relatively low burden on medical
staff. It has previously demonstrated a high level of inter-rater reliability
and concurrent validity with other existing scales. But much of the previous
research was not in clinical settings.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 15, 2016 Friday

Racial Disparities Following Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting

LENGTH: 434  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 Study Questions:



 Do black patients have higher observed and risk-adjusted mortality and
morbidity following isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in
contemporary clinical practice? And, if these differences exist, to which degree
are these ascribed to patient characteristics, socioeconomic factors, and
overall differences in hospital and surgeon quality?



 Methods:



 This was a retrospective analysis of data from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons
Adult Cardiac Surgery Database (STS ACSD). The authors evaluated procedural
outcomes on white and black patients undergoing isolated CABG between 2010 and
2011 at 663 participating STS sites. Data were adjusted for patients' clinical
and socioeconomic features, hospital and surgeon effects, and care processes
(internal mammary artery graft and perioperative medication use).

 Results:



 Blacks patients (n = 11,697) constituted 7.9% of the total CABG study
population (148,059 patients). Blacks were more likely to have comorbid
conditions (e.g., hypertension, diabetes, smoking, and peripheral and
cerebrovascular disease); use of immunosuppressive medications; and preoperative
dialysis. Adverse presenting features such as myocardial infarction within 7
days of surgery, congestive heart failure, lower left ventricular ejection
fraction, and moderate to severe mitral regurgitation were also more common
among blacks. Unadjusted mortality and major morbidity rates were higher in
blacks than in whites and persisted after adjusting for surgeon, hospital, and
care processes in addition to patient and socioeconomic factors (odds ratio
[OR], 1.17; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.00-1.36; and OR, 1.26; 95% CI,
1.19-1.34).

 Conclusions:



 Even after accounting for patient comorbidities; socioeconomic status; and
surgeon, hospital, and care factors, the risks of procedural mortality and
morbidity after CABG were higher among black compared with white patients.

 Perspective:



 This is a valuable study that corroborates others' findings that black patients
have higher morbidity and mortality after CABG compared with white patients. A
major contribution from this analysis is that this disparity persists not only
after adjusting for demographic and clinic factors, but also after accounting
for provider- and hospital-related differences. Future studies should explore
factors that may explain differences in CABG outcomes.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                               February 26, 1999

Doctors to probe baby's death

BYLINE: Shirley kwok

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 230 words


Doctors from outside the hospital where a 16-month-old baby died of blood
poisoning in January will help investigate whether a blunder occurred.

The boy died 26 hours after being admitted to United Christian Hospital on
January 25 with high fever and vomiting.

He had septicaemia caused by meningococcus, the bacteria that causes meningitis.
His parents have accused doctors and nurses of negligence.

The deputy director of the Hospital Authority, Dr Ko Wing-man, said a nurse at
the hospital had forgotten to send the boy's urine for virus tests, although a
doctor had told her to.

"This is a procedural error. But we have yet to find out whether the error led
to later clinical developments," he said.

"We have decided to seek opinions from paediatric experts from other hospitals
for the investigation."

The boy developed a rash on his body after he was admitted to the hospital. The
red spots later turned blue.

Michael Ho Mun-ka, chairman of the Association of Hong Kong Nursing Staff and a
Democratic Party legislator, agreed there was procedural error in the incident
but questioned whether this was the cause of the death.

He said it would take several days for urine to be tested.

"We fully support the family in finding out who should be responsible. And it is
important to find out why the boy was not treated promptly," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1999 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              156 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Medtronic treats first patients in CoreValve Evolut R clinical study

LENGTH: 951 words

Medical Device Daily Staff Writer

Medtronic (Minneapolis) reported the first implants in the CoreValve Evolut R
Clinical Study, which will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the new
Medtronic CoreValve Evolut R Recapturable System.

The company said that this new recapture-enabled valve and delivery system
offers new capabilities that are designed to advance deliverability and valve
performance while providing the option to recapture and reposition the CoreValve
Evolut R valve during deployment, if needed, while performing transcatheter
aortic valve implantation (TAVI).

"The study will be used to seek CE mark approval - the clinical trial sites will
be evaluating about 60 patients outside of the U.S. in Europe and Australia,"
Kathleen Janasz, a spokeswoman for Medtronic, told Medical Device Daily. "And
the CoreValve Evolut R system builds on the procedural success that we've
already seen with the CoreValve system, where more than 98% of the CoreValve
devices are delivered in the correct and proper anatomical position. So when
we're talking about recapture and reposition we're doing this knowing that for
example in the CoreValve advanced study, that 98.7% of those valves are already
positioned correctly in that study. So what we're looking at here is providing
the option to recapture and reposition the valve during deployment if its
needed."

She added, "We believe this will provide increased confidence as procedures are
performed knowing that if that less than 2% . . . need recapturing and
repositioning it is a possibility."

"CoreValve has set a high bar for rates of procedural success, which have been
confirmed in both real-world use and clinical studies such as CoreValve ADVANCE.
We are studying this recapture-enabled valve and low profile delivery system to
provide design enhancements that further increase procedural confidence and,
ultimately, improve patient care," said Ian Meredith, MD, of Monash Medical
Center - Southern Health (Melbourne, Australia), who is a principal investigator
and implanted the first devices in the study.

In addition to Monash Medical Center, the prospective CoreValve Evolut R
Clinical Study will enroll up to 60 patients with severe symptomatic aortic
stenosis who are considered at high risk for open-heart surgical aortic valve
replacement at University Hospital Bonn (Bonn, Germany), St. George's Hospital
(London), and Royal Victoria Hospital (Belfast, Northern Ireland). The primary
endpoints are all-cause mortality and stroke at 30 days, as well as device
success rate at 24 hours to seven days. Secondary endpoints include recapture
success rate, when attempted, and hemodynamic performance.

The new system consists of the CoreValve Evolut R transcatheter valve and the
EnVeo R Recapturable Delivery System. The new valve is anatomically designed to
provide conformability at the annulus for optimal annular fit and sealing, while
maintaining supra-annular valve function for strong hemodynamic performance.

Janasz said that are some differences between this device and previous offerings
from the CoreValve product line.

"There are design differences - the conformability of the valve at the opening
was specifically designed for fit and sealing," she said. "The difference that I
think I would actually emphasize is actually in the delivery system, which is
the equivalent of 14fr. The CoreValve system has a wider range of valve sizes
than any other system available anywhere. [The sizes are] 23 mm, 26 mm, 29 mm,
and 31 mm. So it serves a wider range of valve annulus sizes than any other
system. All of those sizes in the Corevalve system are delivered on an 18 Fr
delivery system. With CoreValve Evolut R the delivery system is the equivalent
of 14fr and the delivery system provides access to the patient and it has a 1 to
1 delivery response. As the physician turns the nob on the delivery system [the
physician] will see accuracy of deployment."

Medtronic gained access to the technology when it completed its acquisition of
CoreValve (Irvine, California) for $700 million (Medical Device Daily, April 13,
2009).

The med-tech giant's acquisition of CoreValve gave it a stronger chance in
staking claim in the TAVI market.

Other competitors developing TAVI systems include: Direct Flow Medical (Santa
Rosa, California); Boston Scientific (Natick, Massachusetts); Colibri Heart
Valve (Broomfield, Colorado); Loma Vista Medical (Burlingame, California); St.
Jude Medical (St. Paul, Minnesota); EdwardsLifesciences (Irvine, California);
and JenaValve Technology (Munich).

Medtronic also reported the U.S. launch of its Export Advance aspiration
catheter, which it said offers greater power and superior deliverability.
Recently cleared by the FDA, the latest addition to Medtronic's portfolio of
thrombectomy devices features a pre-loaded stylet - a core wire that runs
through the middle of the shaft to provide more support during delivery. This
feature increases the deliverability and kink resistance of the new device while
traversing the vasculature to reach the aspiration site.

To further optimize performance, the Export Advance aspiration catheter is also
constructed with full-wall variable braiding technology, which provides variable
degrees of stiffness along the length of the device to enhance flexibility and
pushability while navigating the device through the vasculature.

The Export Advance aspiration catheter received the CE mark in May and has been
introduced in various international markets since then. It is the latest
addition to Medtronic's portfolio of thrombectomy devices, which also includes
the market-leading Export AP aspiration catheter.



Omar Ford, 770-810-3125;


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


          Copyright 2013 Thompson Media Group, LLC d/b/a AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Committee approves manual for post-grad doctor trainee inductions

LENGTH: 199  words


A meeting of the Admission Committee for Postgraduate Trainee Doctors was held
on Sunday in the Civil Secretariat headed by Advisor to Chief Minister on Health
Khawaja Salman Rafique.The committee reviewed in details the Policy and
Procedural Manual (PPM) for induction of postgraduate trainee doctors into
teaching hospitals.

After detailed deliberation, the Committee approved in principle the Policy and
Procedural Manual for admissions. It was decided that the approved draft of the
PPM would be sent to the Chief Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif for his final
approval.

Secretary Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Najam Ahmed Shah, Vice
Chancellor Fatima Jinnah Medical University Prof Dr Sardar Fakhar Imam, Pro-Vice
Chancellor Prof Amir Zaman Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor University of Health
Sciences Prof Junaid Sarfraz Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor King Edward Medical
University Prof Qazi Saeed, Prof Dr Syed Muhammad Owais, Chief Executive Mayo
Hospital Prof Asad Aslam Khan, Additional Secretary Technical Dr Suleman Shahid,
Deputy Secretary Medical Education Dr Nasir Shakir and a representative of the
Punjab Information Technology Board Baddar Munir also attended the meeting.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                          September 18, 2003 Thursday

Significant new data, product rollouts continue at rapid pace

LENGTH: 1119 words


TCT notebook

Significant new data, product rollouts continue at rapid pace

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report  WASHINGTON - The frenetic pace of discovery
at the 15th annual Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT) Symposium
continues, with additional important presentations by physicians in the
cardiology field from around the world. The high-energy atmosphere appears ready
to carry on through to tomorrow, when the meeting concludes at the Washington
Convention Center, although participants have their eye on the pending arrival
of Hurricane Isabel along the mid-Atlantic states.

Spectranetics (Colorado Springs, Colorado) unveiled results from the CORAL LAKE
registry, a single-center, retrospective registry that studied the use of its
excimer laser for the treatment of degenerated saphenous vein grafts at the
conference.

The registry yielded an acute procedural success rate of 98% and an acute major
adverse cardiac event (MACE) rate of 5%.

CORAL LAKE included 119 patients treated with the excimer laser at Lakeland
Regional Medical Center (Lakeland, Florida), by Douglas Ebersole, MD, and other
interventional cardiologists at the hospital. The goal of the registry was to
quantify acute outcomes in saphenous vein grafts after excimer laser treatment,
as evidenced by procedural success and MACE events. Procedural success was
defined as having a final residual stenosis less than 50% of the original
stenosis.

Randomized clinical trials have shown that treatment of saphenous vein grafts
with traditional therapies such as balloons and stents result in 30-day MACE
events approaching 20%. The 30-day MACE rate shown in randomized trials with
traditional catheter-based therapies plus embolic protection devices has been
reduced to approximately 10%. A key contributing factor to MACE events is distal
embolization, or the dislodging of plaque, thrombus, or other atherosclerotic
debris that can form blockages elsewhere in the vascular system.

"The findings of Dr. Ebersole's registry further supports our belief that the
excimer laser can benefit patients with blocked bypass grafts," said John
Schulte, president and chief executive officer of Spectranetics. "This is
encouraging, as it supports our multi-center clinical registry that is already
under way at 12 hospitals in the U.S. This larger CORAL [COronary graft Results
following Atherectomy with Laser] registry is a 250 patient study that also will
be documenting the ability of the excimer laser to successfully treat diseased
saphenous vein grafts."

Treating blocked saphenous vein bypass grafts is one of Spectranetics' seven
FDA-approved indications within the coronary vascular system.

In other TCT news:

· Raoul Bonan, MD, an interventional cardiologist at the Montreal Heart
Institute (Montreal, Quebec), will present results of his mild hypothermia
safety and feasibility study today at the conference.

The study was designed to demonstrate the safety and feasibility of rapidly
inducing hypothermia using a non-invasive approach. His lecture, titled
"Non-invasive Surface Cooling to Induce Systemic Hypothermia," will be presented
at 5:55 p.m. EDT in Room 202B of the Washington Convention Center during the
Innovative Devices and Futuristic Therapies Symposium.

Bonan's study was sponsored by Medivance (Louisville, Colorado) and used the
Arctic Sun 2000 Temperature Management System, which Medivance unveiled earlier
in the week.

"The early initiation of mild hypothermia as an adjunctive treatment in heart
attack can be done non-invasively, safely, comfortably and rapidly upon arrival
to the emergency room to potentially reduce damage to the heart muscle," said
Bonan. "I am excited about the success of the feasibility study with this new
non-invasive device and believe it will enable cooling therapy for a significant
patient population."

Based on the initial safety and feasibility results of this study, Medivance
said it plans to initiate a larger U.S.-based feasibility study - the Chill-ER
Study - that begins next month. That five-center study will focus on the safety,
feasibility and potential benefits of the early initiation of cooling.

Medivance is developer of therapeutic temperature management solutions.

· Toshiba America Medical Systems (TAMS; Tustin, California) is showcasing the
company's latest technology advancements for the Infinix Dual Plane i-Series
(DP-i) system on the TCT exhibit floor.

Designed for cardiologists seeking the best technology for interventional
cardiovascular procedures, the Infinix DP-i imaging system offers traditional
cardiac imaging as well as traditional peripheral imaging in one room. The Dual
Plane design allows one C-arm with a 9" image intensifier to be dedicated to
cardiac and the second C-arm with a 16" image intensifier to be dedicated to
peripheral procedures. Both the 9" and 16" image intensifiers can be upgraded to
flat panel detectors. These are field upgrades at the component level.

"We are dedicated to delivering innovative technology that enhances the
usability and accuracy of cardiac and angio procedures," said Don Volz, director
of Toshiba's Vascular X-ray Business Unit. "With the Infinix DP-i system,
cardiologists can obtain extremely high-quality diagnostic information for
quick, accurate diagnosis of cardiac and peripheral vascular diseases and
disorders."

Built on a PC platform with dual Pentium processors that offer subcomponent
communication, the Infinix DP-i system was designed to meet the demands of the
industry by providing greater throughput and productivity. This completely new
system architecture permits real-time processing of fluoro and recorded images
and at the same time background transfers images to the network. The real-time
processing is more sophisticated than its previous system, the company said,
giving the user additional low dose settings without compromising image quality.
With synchronis frame rate selection, dose mod selection and digital zoom
fluoro, users can reduce dose by more than 80%.

The Infinix DP-i system includes a high-performance liquid-metal bearing X-ray
tube designed to meet the toughest clinical demands. The liquid-metal bearing
X-ray tube provides anti-abrasion performance for a long tube life. Its 3.0 MHU
X-ray tube anode heat-capacity rating is the industry's highest, Toshiba said.
This anode rating virtually eliminates overheating and ensures high patient
throughput. Additionally, a triple-focus design provides small focal spot
redundancy for what the company terms "fail-safe cardiac imaging." And the quiet
operating design of the liquid bearing permits clear communication in the
examination room among the physician, staff and patient.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2003 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     December 7, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

UC Irvine's 'Perioperative Surgical Home' Improves Clinical Outcomes while
Reducing Healthcare Costs

LENGTH: 571  words


New Delhi, Dec. 7 -- As healthcare costs rise in this country, the University of
California, Irvine Department of Anesthesiology & Perioperative Care has
initiated an innovative model to reform healthcare from the frontlines that
improves the patient experience while simultaneously reducing costs.
Approximately 60 percent of a traditional hospital's expenses are associated
with surgical and procedural care. The Perioperative Surgical Home model
coordinates a multidisciplinary continuum of care led by the expertise of the
anesthesiologist through the preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative
periods. The new model also relies heavily on evidence-based medicine and novel
patient preparedness education.



"We've created a hub to centralize all the players in the surgical process into
one multidisciplinary team to increase patient satisfaction while driving down
recovery times, complications, lengths of stay in the hospital and overall
costs," said Zeev Kain, M.D., professor and chair of Anesthesiology &
Perioperative Care and associate dean of Clinical Operations at the School of
Medicine. "This is an excellent example of quality care focused on maximizing
our best practices that then have a ripple effect on improving the entire
spectrum of surgical and procedural care given to the patient."

The Perioperative Surgical Home could be likened to a clearinghouse for the
anesthesiologists, surgeons and other patient care providers to coordinate and
optimize the pre-surgery testing and evaluations of patients. The experts
collaborate and draw on this data to determine the safest and most-cost
effective implants and pharmaceuticals. This PSH model decreases the number of
unnecessary tests and consults that must be performed pre-surgery while reducing
the rate of complications after surgery. The end result is reduced hospital
length of stay, less complications and readmissions, which equals an overall
better recovery and patient experience.

In the surgical preparation class, members of the care team meet with the
patients to create a plan for preparing for surgery and recovery. The class
helps clear any fears and unknowns that often plague patients in the days and
hours leading up to surgery. They also equip patients with mind and body
relaxation techniques to cope with stress pre-surgery and also post-surgery. The
class provides a way for the patient to participate as an active member of the
team in ensuring the most optimal outcome for surgery.

UC Irvine Heath and the Department of Anesthesiology & Perioperative Care is
among the first in the country to implement the PSH. Led by Dr. Kain, the Joint
Surgical Home was initiated in 2012 with tremendous success. The Joint Surgical
Home at UC Irvine has reduced surgical cancellations, complications, length of
stay, readmissions and overall costs associated with joint replacement surgery
and the recovery process while dramatically increasing patient satisfaction.

UC Irvine is delighted to announce that the next surgical lines in the PSH
model, two types of urological procedures, were implemented this month.

Moving forward, Dr. Kain feels the Perioperative Surgical Home model can be
replicated and implemented in most surgical areas of care. According to Dr.
Kain, by standardizing the process, coordinating services and managing patients
through the entire surgical process, the PSH model improves the quality of care
while reducing costs.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            South China Morning Post

                                 April 20, 2004

Nurses 'changed dead patient's records'

BYLINE: Patsy Moy and Mary Ann Benitez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305 words


The Hospital Authority has filed a police report after four nurses were accused
of changing the patient records of an elderly man who died in February after
being unconscious for five months.

The Haven of Hope Hospital said in a letter that the nurses would receive
disciplinary action after a preliminary probe showed they replaced a page in
77-year-old Mo Kam-tong's records.

But the hospital did not specify the type of disciplinary action and Mo's family
passed the letter to Democratic Party legislator Fred Li Wah-ming, who released
it.

" We have decided to report the case to the Coroner's Court and the Nursing
Council to give full assistance to the two bodies to carry out independent
investigations.

"We would also like to make our apology to the family for this procedural
wrongdoing ," the letter stated.

The hospital also conceded that the illicit alteration of medical records was
"inappropriate" and a "serious procedural error".

A Hospital Authority spokeswoman confirmed that it had reported the case to
police.

The authority's director of professional services and public affairs also said
the Nursing Council of Hong Kong would investigate the Haven of Hope nurses.

"Our principle is very clear - that all these records must be factual and they
must as far as possible reflect the facts at the time ," Ko Wing-man said.

A probe began after members of Mo's family lodged a complaint with the Haven of
Hope Hospital last month that they believed alarms removed from his bedside had
contributed to his death.

His son, Mo Wai-ming, said his father had written two letters before he lapsed
into a coma complaining that a nurse had removed the alarm button.

The son asked for his father's medical records and discovered that one of the
pages had been replaced.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2004 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              161 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 23, 2002 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Patients to pay liability increase

BYLINE: Darren Gray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 557 words


Canberra

Victorian patients face bigger doctors' bills, possibly as soon as July, because
doctors are set to pass on looming rises in their insurance premiums of up to 20
per cent.

Victoria's two biggest medical indemnity funds, which insure all but a few
hundred of Victoria's more than 12,000 doctors, both confirmed yesterday that
their annual charges for the next financial year would rise significantly from
July 1.

Doctors said patients would probably be forced to absorb much of the increase in
insurance costs, because the recent rises in indemnity premiums had been
unsustainable. Public hospitals would also face greater pressure because of the
rises, as patients sought to avoid higher charges from private doctors and chose
the public system, and as doctors dumped some "procedural" work from their
private practice, they warned.

Head of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, Paul Hemming,
said it was inevitable that patients would face higher doctors bills because of
the insurance increases.

Medical indemnity premiums have soared in recent years, forcing some doctors to
leave medicine, or to drop practising the more risky elements of it, such as
delivering babies. In New South Wales the indemnity industry has been in crisis,
with NSW and the nation's biggest insurer, UMP, recently receiving a $35 million
Federal Government guarantee to stay afloat.

Federal Health Minister Kay Patterson today will host a meeting in Canberra to
deal with the medical indemnity crisis. Senator Patterson and Assistant
Treasurer Helen Coonan will represent the Federal Government, while state health
ministers and key doctors and lawyers groups will also attend.

Medical indemnity insurance protects doctors if they are sued by patients who
claim to have been the victim of medical errors or negligence.

Chief executive of Victoria's Medical Indemnity Protection Society, Paul
Nisselle, said his fund would increase premiums by about 20 per cent for
procedural specialists such as obstetricians, and by about 15 per cent for non-
procedural doctors such as general practitioners. The premiums would go up
because of a substantial increase in the group's reinsurance costs, an increase
in the number of claims and an increase in payouts, he said.

Unless the key players involved in the meeting developed a framework to ease the
problems with medical indemnity, premium rises would continue for the next five
years or so in the order of 15-20 per cent, Dr Nisselle said.

He said doctors had little room to manoeuvre when dealing with the increased
premiums.

"There's only two things they (doctors) can do, work harder and see more
patients, or put up their fees," Dr Nisselle said.

Victoria's main medical indemnity fund, the Medical Defence Association of
Victoria, insures about 8500 doctors and is considering premium rises of about
10 per cent. Both funds are not-for-profit organisations owned and operated by
doctors.

COUNTING THE COST

The cost of medical indemnity premiums for Victorian doctors:

· Obstetricians - annual figure is $33,000; likely rise in 2002-03 of $6600.

· Gynaecologists - annual figure is $22,000; likely rise of $4400.

· GPs (base rate) - annual figure is $3400; likely rise of $510.

FIGURES PERTAIN TO THE MEDICAL INDEMNITY PROTECTION SOCIETY, VICTORIA'S
SECOND-BIGGEST MEDICAL INDEMNITY INSURER. FIGURES APPROXIMATE.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2002 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                     The Chronicle (Toowoomba, Queensland)

                              July 24, 2017 Monday

Post-op changes sought after death Coroner suggests changes

BYLINE:  Peter Hardwick

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 529  words



HIGHLIGHT: Inquest examines circumstances around patient's death


A CORONER has recommended pre and post-operation procedural changes at Toowoomba
Hospital after examining the circumstances surrounding the death of an Oakey
woman who had surgery there.

Gwendoline Mead died on March 1, 2015, 12 days after having elective surgery to
treat synchronous bowel tumours.

She had been formally diagnosed with high-grade rectal cancer in September 2014.

The inquest conducted by coroner Ainslie Kirkegaard identified a number of
missed opportunities which could have optimised Mrs Mead's care.

"While I cannot say with certainty those opportunities would have been outcome
changing for Mrs Mead, I do consider they were significant in maximising the
potential for better clinical outcomes," she said.

Ms Kirkegaard cited improved pre-operative communication between medical teams
as one such area of concern.

"The most significant of the missed opportunities flows from (Mrs Mead's
treating doctor) Dr Benny's team not being involved in her management during the
second November 2014 admission (to hospital).

"His involvement in investigating and managing her bowel complications at this
stage of her neoadjuvant treatment would have better positioned him to reassess
the planned surgical approach in light of those complications.

"Unfortunately there is insufficient evidence to identify exactly how this
situation arose and whether it represents a broader system failure at Toowoomba
Hospital.

"However, it arose in the context of a patient whose treatment plan had already
been decided by a multidisciplinary team supported by Cancer Care Coordinators.

"The fact his team was not allocated to the surgical review requested by the
medical oncology team suggests to me the need for Darling Downs Hospital and
Health Service (DDHHS) to review the Surgical Oncology Multidisciplinary Team
(SOMDT) mechanism to ensure the correct treating team is allocated to and/or
notified at the time their patient requires investigation and treatment of
complications emerging during and after the neoadjuvant therapy phase and prior
to surgery.

"I recommend that DDHHS examine these aspects of its SOMDT model and formally
report the outcomes of its review.

"Notwithstanding potential improvements to the SOMDT model to enhance surgical
team awareness of emerging pre-operative issues, it remains incumbent on senior
and junior members of all teams involved in a cancer patient's pre-operative and
post-operative care to actively read the patient's chart.

"There were numerous instances of less than optimal or absent clinical
documentation over the course of Mrs Mead's final hospital admission."

The Coroner acknowledge procedural changes had since been made at the hospital.

"I note the evidence of RN Comber that since early 2015 there has been an
operational policy shift at Toowoomba Hospital such that nurses are now required
to document each shift they have in the patient's chart - this is a change from
the process of "~exceptional reporting' in place at the time of Mrs Mead's final
admission.

"I can only reiterate the importance of good clinical documentation in all
health care settings and encourage ongoing efforts to educate and maintain staff
awareness of same."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TCH


                    Copyright 2017 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                              June 5, 2016 Sunday

Organ retrieval: better coordination, training need of the hour

LENGTH: 433  words

DATELINE: VIJAYAWADA


VIJAYAWADA, June 5 -- A cadaver heart transplantation was conducted at a
Government hospital in the new Andhra Pradesh in May which attracted wide
attention. A couple of days later, the heart of a brain dead patient could not
be used because there were no takers.


 A hospital in Chennai placed a request for the heart of 25-year-old K. Suresh,
but backed out. Hospitals in Telangana also said they had no need for the organ.
The Guntur Government General Hospital which had performed the first heart
transplant just a couple of days before that was not prepared for another heart
transplant at such short notice.
 The duration that a heart can be kept intact is less when compared to the other
organs. A heart remains intact for three to six hours, liver six to 12 hours and
kidney up to 48 hours. So the heart lost out to the other organs.
 Organ retrieval from brain dead patients is gaining increased attention as the
waiting list for recipients is exceeding that of donors. Despite a large
population, organs of only two per cent of the brain dead donors could be
harvested, according to a study published in the Indian Journal of Anaesthesia.
The reasons for non-organ donation listed in the 2013 study were - lack of
consent, procedural problems, patients not counselled and organs too unstable
for donation, age and co-morbidities (presence of one or more additional
disorders). Maximal rate of organ donation was fixed at 50 donors per million
population (dpm). In Western Europe it is between 12 and 20 dpm, no data is
available for India.
 End-stage diseases
 Organ transplantation is fast evolving as a mode of treatment for end-stage
diseases.
 After the creation of Jeevandan, systems have been put in place in 25 Organ
Transplant Centres in the 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh to get consent from
relatives, reduce procedural problems and improve counselling.
 Jeevandan Chief Transplant Coordinator G Krishna Murthy said organs too
unstable for donation, age and co-morbidities continued to be reasons for
non-organ donation even now.
 The primary objective of Jeevandan was the wellbeing of organ recipients
compared to the utilisation of cadaver organs, he said. There was however a need
to train the paramedics in providing "inotropic support" to the brain dead donor
to ensure that there was no deterioration in the quality of the vital organs
until they were harvested. Blood pressure and other parameters like blood urea
and serum creatinine had to be monitored and stabilised as part of this
exercise. The paramedics need to be trained in these diagnostic and monitoring
skills, he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 July 18, 2000

Inquiry nurses return to ward

SECTION: Health: HOSPITALS, Pg.2

LENGTH: 236 words


TWO male nurses suspended from their duties at Cefn Coed Hospital in June are
back on their wards following a three-week-long investigation.

Allegations of inappropriate behaviour were made against the fully qualified
nurses by a patient's family.

It has since emerged that the two men have been disciplined for a procedural
matter.

But the matter, which has not been made public by Swansea NHS Trust, was not a
grounds for dismissal, according to a trust spokesman.

Unison branch secretary Pat Dwan, who works at Cefn Coed psychiatric hospital,
this morning assured the public that patients were safe in the care of nurses
there.

He represented the men during the internal investigation.

The inquiry had left no stone unturned, he said.

"The two nurses were disciplined for a procedural matter which was incorrect and
I am sure they will not repeat the mistake again, he said.

"The investigation did not prove the allegations made against them and the
public can rest assured that patients are in safe hands at Cefn Coed Hospital."

Allegations

Chief executive of Swansea NHS Trust David Williams said the nature of Cefn Coed
Hospital sometimes meant they had to deal with allegations and complaints of
this type.

"I can confirm that two male nurses have been disciplined for matters, but
certain allegations made against them have failed to be proved," he said.

"They are now back in work."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 South Wales Evening Post


                              165 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 29, 2016 Monday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
Columbia: CLARIAN HEALTH WEST, LLC, Plaintiff, v. SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL,
Defendant.

LENGTH: 15588  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of Columbia has
issued the following order:



  UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ) CLARIAN HEALTH
WEST, LLC, ) ) Plaintiff, ) ) v. ) Civil Action No. 14-cv-0339 (KBJ) ) SYLVIA
MATHEWS BURWELL, ) ) Defendant. ) ) MEMORANDUM OPINION The Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services ("CMS") is the sub-agency within the Department of Health
and Human Services ("HHS") that administers the federal health insurance program
known as Medicare. In 2012, an agent of CMS informed Plaintiff Clarian Health
West, LLC ("Clarian"), an Indiana hospital, that it needed to repay more than $2
million in Medicare reimbursement funds that the hospital had received under the
Medicare program, due to a reconciliation process that CMS had performed with
respect to certain Medicare payments. Clarian objected to CMS's repayment
demand, and filed the instant action against Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the
Secretary of HHS, to contest the agency's contentions.

Clarian's one-count complaint cites the Administrative Procedure Act ("APA"), 5
U.S.C. §§ 701-706, and the Medicare statute's review provisions, 42 U.S.C. §
1395oo(f)(1), and asserts that the agency lacks the statutory and regulatory
authority to make Clarian repay the money because the regulation that authorizes
the reconciliation process ("the 2003 Rule") and the guidelines that implement
that rule ("the 2010 guidelines" or "the 2010 manual") Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 1 of 46 2 were improperly promulgated and are
contrary to the terms of the Medicare statute. Before this Court at present are
the parties' cross-motions for summary judgment. (Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J.
("Pl.'s Mot."), ECF No. 13; Def.'s Mot. for Summ. J. ("Def.'s Mot."), ECF No.
14.) In its motion, Clarian contends, among other things, that CMS's decision to
recoup the $2 million was procedurally defective because the agency failed to
employ required notice-and-comment procedures prior to adopting the guidelines
that establish the criteria for identifying which hospitals should be subjected
to the reconciliation process. (See Pl.'s Mem. in Supp. of Pl.'s Mot. ("Pl.'s
Mem."), ECF No. 13-1, at 29-36.) 1 The Secretary's cross-motion argues that
there is nothing procedurally or substantively improper about the rule that
relates to the reconciliation process or its implementation. (See Def.'s Mem. in
Supp. of Def.'s Mot. ("Def.'s Mem."), ECF No. 14-1, at 24-49.) Upon
consideration of the parties' arguments, this Court agrees with Clarian that the
qualifying criteria contained in the implementing manual were the sort of
substantive rule that must go through notice-and-comment rulemaking, and on that
ground alone, Clarian's motion for summary judgment will be GRANTED, and the
Secretary's motion for summary judgment will be DENIED. A separate order
consistent with this opinion will follow. I. BACKGROUND A. The Applicable
Statutory And Regulatory Framework The Medicare program "was established in 1965
and provides health care 1 Page numbers herein refer to those that the Court's
electronic case filing system automatically assigns. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 2 of 46 3 coverage for persons age 65 and older,
disabled persons, and persons with end stage renal disease who meet certain
eligibility requirements." Allina Health Servs. v. Burwell, No. 14-cv-1415, 2016
WL 4409181, at *1 (D.D.C. Aug. 17, 2016) (citing 42 U.S.C. §§ 426, 426a).
Medicare reimbursements are governed by federal law, and the obtuse text of the
Medicare statute has produced much inspired grappling among judges, many of whom
have described the legal provisions that govern the Medicare system as a
"maze[,]" Hall v. Sebelius, 667 F.3d 1293, 1301 n.9 (D.C. Cir. 2012) (Henderson,
J., dissenting), a "legislative and regulatory thicket[,]" Adirondack Med. Ctr.
v. Sebelius, 29 F. Supp. 3d 25, 28 (D.D.C. 2014), aff'd sub nom. Adirondack Med.
Ctr. v. Burwell, 782 F.3d 707 (D.C. Cir. 2015), and a "labyrinth[,]" Biloxi
Reg'l Med. Ctr. v. Bowen, 835 F.2d 345, 349 (D.C. Cir. 1987), among other
things. 2 The instant lawsuit centers on the government's reimbursement of
inpatient hospital care under Medicare Part A, pursuant to which the federal
government provides direct reimbursements to healthcare providers to cover the
bulk of the expenses that a patient with Medicare insurance (called a
"beneficiary") incurs for inpatient hospital care. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395d; see
also Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., Pub. No. 100-01, Medicare General
Information, Eligibility, and Entitlement Manual, Ch. 3 §§ 10.2-10.3. 1.
Medicare's Prospective Payment System The complexity of the Medicare scheme is
partly due to the intricacies of the prospective payment system that Congress
has adopted with respect to Part A 2 See also Rehab. Ass'n of Va. v. Kozlowski,
42 F.3d 1444, 1450 (4th Cir. 1994) (calling the Medicare statute "among the most
completely impenetrable texts within human experience"); Catholic Health
Initiatives-Iowa, Corp. v. Sebelius, 841 F. Supp. 2d 270, 271 (D.D.C. 2012)
(inviting the reader to "[p]icture a law written by James Joyce and edited by
E.E. Cummings[,]" and remarking that "[s]uch is the Medicare statute"), rev'd,
718 F.3d 914 (D.C. Cir. 2013). Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16
Page 3 of 46 4 reimbursements--a payment system that Congress developed in
reaction to the failures of the cost-based payment system that was used when
Medicare was first enacted. See Dist. Hosp. Partners, L.P. v. Burwell, 786 F.3d
46, 49 (D.C. Cir. 2015). Under the prior regime, hospitals and other health care
providers were reimbursed for all "reasonable costs" that the provider incurred
in treating beneficiaries, Good Samaritan Hosp. v. Shalala, 508 U.S. 402, 405
(1993), but that cost-based system "deteriorated over time . . . because it
provided little incentive for hospitals to keep costs down, as the more they
spent, the more they were reimbursed[,]" Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 49
(internal quotation marks and citation omitted); see also H.R. Rep. No. 98-25,
at 132 (1983), reprinted in 1983 U.S.C.C.A.N. 219, 351 (asserting that the
cost-based payment system "lack[ed] incentives for efficiency" because the
federal government would "simply respond[] to hospital cost increases by
providing increased reimbursement"). In 1983, Congress replaced Medicare's
cost-based payment system with the prospective payment scheme that has given
rise to many legal disputes and that is at the heart of the present action. See
Social Security Amendments of 1983, Pub. L. No. 98-21, § 601, 97 Stat. 65,
149-63. Under the prospective payment system, in contrast to the cost-based
system, the federal government pays the hospital a set reimbursement amount that
is established in advance of the hospital's expenditures and that is generally
based upon the government's ex ante assessment of what it costs to care for an
individual with the Medicare beneficiary's specific diagnosis, regardless of how
much the hospital actually spends to care for a beneficiary. See Cape Cod Hosp.
v. Sebelius, 630 F.3d 203, 205 (D.C. Cir. 2011); see also Dist. Hosp. Partners,
786 F.3d at 49 (explaining that Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 4 of 46 5 prospective payments incentivize hospitals to reduce the
cost of inpatient care because any reduction in cost directly profits the
hospitals, while increases in the cost of care beyond the predetermined amount
are borne by the hospitals rather than the federal government). The prospective
payments that hospitals receive for treating Medicare patients are calculated by
private health care insurers known as Medicare Administrative Contractors
("MACs") pursuant to a multifactor formula that begins with a "standardized
amount," which generally "reflects the average cost incurred by hospitals
nationwide for each patient they treat and then discharge." Cape Cod Hosp., 630
F.3d at 205. 3 In order to ensure that the prospective payment system fairly
approximates the actual cost of the care provided, the MACs adjust the
standardized amount to account for various factors, including the relative cost
of the care associated with different patient diagnoses. See Dist. Hosp.
Partners, 786 F.3d at 49; Cape Cod Hosp., 630 F.3d at 205. Per the Medicare
statute, HHS has classified the care that can be afforded to every type of
hospital patient into Diagnosis Related Groups ("DRGs"), see 42 U.S.C. §
1395ww(d)(4)(A), and each DRG is weighted in accordance with "the estimated
relative cost of hospital resources used with respect to discharges classified
within that group compared to discharges classified within other groups[,]" 42
C.F.R. § 412.60(b). 4 This means, for example, that the DRG classification that
includes a heart transplant 3 The standardized amount was initially determined
as of 1984, after the prospective payment system came into being; this baseline
has been adjusted for inflation each year subsequently. See Cape Cod Hosp., 630
F.3d at 205. 4 There are other factors that contribute to the calculation of the
DRG weight, see, e.g., Adirondack Med. Ctr. v. Sebelius, 935 F. Supp. 2d 121,
123-24 (D.D.C. 2013) (describing the need for a budget neutrality adjustment),
but these details are not relevant to this case. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document
26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 5 of 46 6 will be weighted more heavily than one for a
non-invasive procedure--i.e., the "DRG weight" will be greater--because heart
surgery uses more resources and imposes higher costs on the hospital. Cty. of
Los Angeles v. Shalala, 192 F.3d 1005, 1008 (D.C. Cir. 1999). And the greater
the DRG weight, the higher the rate of reimbursement; indeed, the DRG weight
adjustment is such an important factor in determining the rate of reimbursement
under the prospective payment system that the Medicare statute itself refers to
reimbursements as the "DRG prospective payment rate." See, e.g., 42 U.S.C. §
1395ww(d)(5)(A)(ii). Significantly for present purposes, Medicare's prospective
payment system not only seems to provide incentives for hospitals to control
costs while accounting for the variable care costs that are associated with
different patient diagnoses, it also recognizes that the costs of healthcare can
sometimes be unpredictable, and that a purely prospective system would unfairly
omit reimbursements for the high costs a hospital can incur when a particular
beneficiary's care ends up being unduly expensive through no fault of the
hospital, as sometimes happens. See Cty. of Los Angeles, 192 F.3d at 1009
("Despite the anticipated virtues of [the prospective payment system], Congress
recognized that health-care providers would inevitably care for some patients
whose hospitalization would be extraordinarily costly or lengthy."). To prevent
hospitals from facing significant losses for providing care to patients in such
"outlier" cases--i.e., situations in which the cost of the care provided to a
Medicare beneficiary far exceeds the prospective reimbursement rate for a
particular diagnosis--Congress authorized HHS to reimburse hospitals for these
costs through a system of "outlier payments." See 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A);
H.R. Rep. No. 98-25, at 154, reprinted Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 6 of 46 7 in 1983 U.S.C.C.A.N. 219, 373. It is the manner in which
CMS calculates, assesses, and retroactively reconciles such outlier payments
that is at issue in this case. 2. Outlier-Payment Calculations Section
1395ww(d)(5)(A)(ii) of Title 42 of the U.S. Code permits a hospital to "request
additional payments" (above and beyond the standardized payments that are
provided pursuant to the prospective payment system) in certain instances, and
the statute identifies the particular circumstances under which such a request
is warranted. Specifically, per the statute, "[a] hospital is eligible for an
outlier payment 'in any case where charges, adjusted to cost, exceed . . . the
sum of the applicable DRG prospective payment rate . . . plus a fixed dollar
amount determined by the Secretary.'" Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 49
(alterations in original) (quoting 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(ii)); see also 42
U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii) (stating that the amount of the outlier payment
"shall be determined by the Secretary and shall . . . approximate the marginal
cost of care beyond" the otherwise applicable "cutoff point"). In practice, this
statutory command has spawned an "elaborate process" for calculating outlier
payments, which involves the intersection of three distinct concepts: (1)
charges, adjusted to cost, (2) the outlier threshold, and (3) the marginal cost
factor. Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 49. The "charges, adjusted to cost"
figure ensures that the outlier payment reflects the actual cost of the care
provided to a beneficiary, and that the government "does not simply reimburse a
hospital for the charges reflected on a patient's invoice[.]" Dist. Hosp.
Partners, 786 F.3d at 50. It is calculated by multiplying two different numbers:
the first is the amount that the hospital charged for the service provided to
the beneficiary, and the second is the "cost-to-charge ratio," which is "a
fraction that Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 7 of 46 8
represents the estimated amount that [a hospital] incurs in costs for every
dollar that it bills in charges." (Def.'s Mem. at 13.) In other words, the
cost-to-charge ratio is "a number representing a hospital's average markup[.]"
Appalachian Reg'l Healthcare, Inc. v. Shalala, 131 F.3d 1050, 1052 (D.C. Cir.
1997). The outlier threshold is also a combination of numbers, but the numbers
are added rather than multiplied. 5 The first figure is "the applicable DRG
prospective payment rate[,]" 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(ii), which is the
payment that the hospital would ordinarily receive under Medicare's
reimbursement process for a nonoutlier case. The second number is the "fixed
loss threshold," which is a fixed amount that the Secretary sets anew each year.
Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 50. 6 The fixed loss threshold essentially
"acts like an insurance deductible[,]" id. (quoting Boca Raton Cmty. Hosp., Inc.
v. Tenet Health Care Corp., 582 F.3d 1227, 1229 (11th Cir. 2009)) (internal
quotation mark omitted), in that it reflects an amount that the hospital simply
has to bear in order to receive any outlier payments. The final component that
factors into the calculation of an outlier payment is the marginal cost factor.
This factor represents the "marginal cost" of offering extra care to outlier
patients, 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii), and by regulation, this factor is
set at 80%, see 42 C.F.R. § 412.84(k). 5 The outlier threshold can include a
number of other factors beyond the two discussed here, such as when a hospital
has a disproportionate share of low-income patients, see 42 U.S.C. §
1395ww(d)(5)(F), or is a teaching hospital, see id. § 1395ww(d)(5)(B). Because
none of these additional factors are implicated by the present case, discussion
of them has been omitted. 6 The fixed loss threshold is calculated such that
outlier payments for the following year will amount to between 5% and 6% of the
Medicare system's total aggregate reimbursement. See 42 U.S.C. §
1395ww(d)(5)(iv). Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 8 of 46
9 Putting these all together, the amount of an outlier payment is determined by
taking the cost-adjusted charges (which are determined by multiplying the charge
for the outlier treatment by the hospital's cost-to-charge ratio), subtracting
the outlier threshold (which is determined by adding the standard reimbursement
payment for the services provided and the fixed loss threshold), and multiplying
that number by the marginal cost factor (which is always 80%). 7 In a recent
opinion, the D.C. Circuit provided a helpful example that explains how this
formula works in practice, and also illustrates the fact that outlier payments
cover some, but not all, of the costs associated with treating outlier cases:
Assume that the Secretary sets the fixed loss threshold at $10,000. Assume also
that a hospital treats a Medicare patient for a broken bone and that the DRG
rate for the treatment is $3,000. The Medicare patient required unusually
extensive treatment which caused the hospital to impose $23,000 in cost-adjusted
charges. If no other statutory factor is triggered, . . . the hospital is
eligible for an outlier payment of $8,000, which is 80% of the difference
between its cost-adjusted charges ($23,000) and the outlier threshold ($13,000).
Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 50-51. B. The 2003 Rule And The 2010
Implementation 1. The Road To Reconciliation Of Past Outlier Payments In the
early 2000s, many hospitals were attempting to game the outlier-payment process
through a sophisticated form of overbilling known as "turbocharging." See Banner
Health v. Burwell, 126 F. Supp. 3d 28, 48 (D.D.C. 2015). Through the practice of
turbocharging, which exploits a tension that arises when the cost-adjusted
charges 7 The following formula generally captures the interaction between these
various concepts: Outlier Payment = (Cost-Adjusted Charges - Outlier Threshold)
x Marginal Cost Factor Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 9
of 46 10 are calculated, a hospital can generate outlier payments that are
significantly greater than would otherwise be expected under the formula
discussed above. This can happen because, as explained, the cost-adjusted
charges are determined by multiplying the amount the hospital actually charged
for a particular type of care by the hospital's costto-charge ratio. However,
there can be a temporal disconnect between these two numbers, given that the
amount charged for a type of care is determined as of the time that the care is
provided, while the cost-to-charge ratio is based on the most recently settled
cost report, and cost reports can take several years to settle. See Dist. Hosp.
Partners, L.P. v. Sebelius, 973 F. Supp. 2d 1, 14 (D.D.C. 2014), aff'd in part,
rev'd in part sub nom. Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d 46. Thus, the
cost-to-charge ratio that is used for purposes of calculating outlier payments
in any given year is based on data that lags behind the hospital's actual
cost-to-charge ratio for that year, see id., and a hospital can manipulate the
cost-adjusted charge factor in the outlier-payment calculation by drastically
increasing the amount that it charges for inpatient care, out of all proportion
to the actual increase in costs associated with that care. In other words, when
current (heavily inflated) charges are multiplied by an out-of-date (relatively
deflated) cost-to-charge ratio, the hospital's cost-adjusted charges figure
increases, and the hospital ends up being reimbursed for outlier payments at
ever higher rates despite no obvious increase in the quality or cost of care.
(See Pl.'s Mem. at 15-17.) See also Elizabeth A. Weeks, Gauging the Cost of
Loopholes: Health Care Pricing and Medicare Regulation in the Post-Enron Era, 40
Wake Forest L. Rev. 1215, 1248-50 (2005) (describing this process). 8 8 Notably,
the outlier-payment system is uniquely susceptible to this kind of manipulation
because, as explained above, outlier payments are partially cost-based--i.e.,
outlier payments reference the amount Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 10 of 46 11 By 2003, HHS had discovered that turbocharging
practices were widespread among hospitals, and issued a proposed rule regarding
a change in the methodology for determining outlier payments partly to address
the turbocharging problem. See Medicare Program; Proposed Change in Methodology
for Determining Payment for Extraordinarily High-Cost Cases (Cost Outlier) Under
the Acute Care Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System, 68 Fed. Reg.
10,420 (March 5, 2003). The agency received notice and comment, and promulgated
the final rule--referred to herein as the "2003 Rule"--on June 9, 2003. See
Medicare Program; Change in Methodology for Determining Payment for
Extraordinarily High-Cost Cases (Cost Outliers) Under the Acute Care Hospital
Inpatient and Long-Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment Systems, 68 Fed. Reg.
34,494 (June 9, 2003). The 2003 Rule revised "the methodology for determining
payments for extraordinarily high-cost cases (cost outliers) . . . under the . .
. prospective payment system[.]" Id. at 34,494. Notably, the 2003 Rule did not
alter the underlying formula for calculating outlier payments, but it did
include a host of measures designed to combat turbocharging. For example,
instead of relying on the most recent settled cost report, the rule provided
that a MAC can consider "the most recent tentative settled cost report" when
determining the applicable cost-to-charge ratio for the following year. See id.
at 34,499 (emphasis added); see also 42 C.F.R. § 412.84. 9 Furthermore, and that
a hospital actually charges for patient care rather than by a predetermined,
standardized amount-- and cost-based repayment systems tend to incentivize
providers to increase the cost of care, unmoored from any improvements in the
quality of care being offered. Cf. Alice G. Gosfield, Medicare and Medicaid
Fraud and Abuse § 1:7 (2014) (describing various types of Medicare fraud and
abuse in the context of physician reimbursement, which is governed by a
cost-based reimbursement system). 9 Using the most recent tentative report
results in less of a lag time between the cost-to-charge ratio applied to a
provider and that provider's actual cost-to-charge ratio. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 11 of 46 12 most relevant to the present case,
the 2003 Rule provided for the "reconciliation" of outlier payments after the
cost report for the relevant period has been finalized. See Change in
Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at 34,501 ("[W]e proposed to add a provision to our
regulations to provide that outlier payments would become subject to
reconciliation when hospitals' cost reports are settled."); 42 C.F.R. §
412.84(i)(4) ("[A]ny reconciliation of outlier payments will be based on
operating and capital cost-to-charge ratios calculated based on a ratio of costs
to charges computed from the relevant cost report and charge data determined at
the time the cost report coinciding with the discharge is settled."). Pursuant
to this new reconciliation process, MACs were authorized to revisit outlier
payments once a hospital's actual cost-to-charge ratio for a particular year had
been determined--despite the fact that the necessary data for making that
determination is ordinarily not available until years after the pertinent
outlier payments have been disbursed--and to revise outlier payments
retroactively. 2. The 2010 CMS Manual And The Qualifying Criteria For Being
Subjected To The Outlier Payment Reconciliation Process The core of Clarian's
complaint revolves around the fact that the 2003 Rule only generally authorized
the reconciliation process and specified that any reconciliation would be based
on the cost and charge data contained in the hospital's final settled cost
report, and did not proceed to detail how the reconciliation process would
operate in practice. See 42 C.F.R. § 412.84(i)(4). In fact, in response to a
number of comments that asked the agency to set certain "parameters" in order to
guide the implementation of the newly authorized reconciliation process, the
Secretary expressly acknowledged that the agency would not be addressing the
specific circumstances under which reconciliation would be appropriate at the
time the rule was promulgated. See Change Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26
Filed 08/26/16 Page 12 of 46 13 in Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at 34,503. The
Secretary made crystal clear that the agency's plan was to issue implementation
guidelines at some later point in time, id. (stating that HHS "intend[s] to
issue a program instruction in the near future . . . [containing] thresholds for
fiscal intermediates to reconcile outlier payments for other hospitals during FY
2003") and, in the context of the 2003 Rule, the Secretary's preamble merely
mentioned that the agency was "considering" certain thresholds for "cost
reporting periods beginning during FY 2004[,]" id. In December of 2010--more
than seven years after the 2003 Rule took effect-- the HHS finally provided
specific standards for MACs to use when administering the reconciliation
process: it published instructions for reconciliation in a CMS manual governing
Medicare claims processing. See Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., Pub. No.
100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Ch. 3 § 20.1.2.5. Importantly,
according to this 2010 manual, a hospital's outlier payments are potentially
subject to reconciliation if two criteria are met: (1) the provider's "actual
operating [cost-to-charge ratio] is found to be plus or minus 10 percentage
points from the [cost-to-charge ratio] used [to calculate a provider's] outlier
payments," and (2) the provider's "[t]otal outlier payments in that cost
reporting period exceed $500,000." Id. § 20.1.2.5(A). The manual instructs that
a MAC must follow a step-by-step procedure for initiating reconciliation if
these two criteria are satisfied. See id. ("If the criteria for reconciliation
are met, Medicare contractors shall follow the instructions below in §
20.1.2.7."); see also id. § 20.1.2.7 (detailing the 14-step reconciliation
process). And as part of that process, the MAC must alert the CMS Central Office
that the offending hospital has met the reconciliation criteria and provide a
bevy of Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 13 of 46 14
information about the hospital. See id. § 20.1.2.7. If CMS gives the go-ahead,
the MAC must then calculate the difference between the original and revised
outlier payments, finalize the hospital's cost report, issue a Notice of Program
Reimbursement, and "make the necessary adjustment from or to the provider." Id.
The manual is less clear about what happens if a hospital does not meet the
reconciliation criteria after the cost report for a given year settles: on the
one hand, it suggests that no reconciliation will occur because "the cost report
shall be finalized[;]" on the other hand, it notes that "[e]ven if a hospital
does not meet the criteria for reconciliation . . . the Medicare contractor has
the discretion to request that a hospital's outlier payments . . . be reconciled
if the hospital's most recent cost and charge data indicate that the outlier
payments to the hospital were significantly inaccurate." Id. § 20.1.2.5(A).
Notably, as mentioned, the Secretary's statement in the preamble to the 2003
Rule hinted at the possibility that the agency might eventually adopt these two
qualifying criteria for initiating reconciliation, see Change in Methodology, 68
Fed. Reg. at 34,503, but these reconciliation standards did not become official
agency policy until the 2010 claims processing manual was published. It is
undisputed that the 2010 manual was produced without notice or an opportunity
for the public to comment on the selected standards, and the manual contains no
statement from the agency that sets forth any justification for these particular
criteria. The only record evidence regarding the agency's reasoning appears in
the preamble to the 2003 Rule, which notes the agency's general view that these
thresholds "would appropriately capture those hospitals whose outlier payments
will be substantially inaccurate when using the ratio from the contemporaneous
cost reporting period." Change in Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 14 of 46 15 34,503. C. Instant
Facts And Procedural History10 Clarian West Medical Center is a 127-bed hospital
that is located in Avon, Indiana. (See Compl., ECF No. 1, &para; 8.) Clarian
began operating in December of 2004 (see id. &para; 48), and according to the
complaint, in its relatively brief existence, Clarian has already been subjected
to the whims of the outlier-payment reconciliation process twice. The first
instance (which Clarian is not challenging in the instant lawsuit) purportedly
occurred in 2005; Clarian maintains that its outlier payments for that year
should have been--but were not--reconciled, and as a result, the hospital lost
out on $1 million in outlier payments. (See Compl. &para;&para; 48-49; Pl.'s
Mem. at 23-24.) 11 It is the second instance of alleged unfairness with respect
to the outlier-payment reconciliation process that is the subject of the instant
dispute; specifically, Clarian insists that the agency has improperly identified
it as a turbocharger under the criteria laid out in the 2010 manual, and then
subjected its outlier payments for the year 2007 to reconciliation, which has
wrongly resulted in a recoupment demand of more than $2 million. (See id. at
24-25.) The problem, according to Clarian, was the agency's alleged failure to
recognize that the cost-to-charge ratio for new hospitals starts high and
inevitably decreases in the 10 The Secretary has not disputed any of the factual
allegations contained in Clarian's complaint and this Court therefore accepts
these facts as true for purposes of analyzing the cross-motions for summary
judgment. See Lee v. United States, 570 F. Supp. 2d 142, 152 (D.D.C. 2008). 11
Under the 2003 Rule, outlier payments for new hospitals (like Clarian) are
calculated according to the statewide average cost-to-charge ratio, rather than
the hospital's actual cost-to-charge ratio, because, by its very nature, a brand
new hospital has not submitted any cost reports from which a genuine
cost-to-charge ratio can be predicted. See 42 C.F.R. § 412.84(i)(3). Clarian
asserts that if its actual cost-to-charge ratio in 2005 had been considered,
then the reconciliation criteria would have been met, and it would have netted
an extra $1 million worth of outlier payments for that year as a result of the
reconciliation process. (See Compl. &para; 49.) Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document
26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 15 of 46 16 first few years of operation, not because of
turbocharging but because initial hospital operations are inherently costly when
evaluated on a per-patient basis. (See Compl. &para; 50.) 12 Per standard
practice, the cost-to-charge ratio that was used to calculate Clarian's outlier
payments for 2007 was based on Clarian's cost reports from 2005 and 2006; those
cost reports necessarily generated a higher cost-to-charge ratio than Clarian's
actual (decreased) cost-to-charge ratio for 2007. (See Pl.'s Mem. at 24.)
Consequently, the MAC that undertook the retrospective evaluation of Clarian's
2007 outlier payment once the cost reports for that year had settled determined
that the two qualifying criteria for reconciliation were met, and on March 30,
2012, the MAC informed Clarian that its outlier payments from 2007 were being
revised downward to reflect updated information regarding Clarian's actual
cost-to-charge ratio for that year. (See Compl. &para; 52.) The upshot of
Clarian's claim is that, due to the reconciliation process, the agency demanded
that Clarian pay back more than $2.4 million worth of outlier payments that it
had received during the period at issue, when, according to Clarian,
reconciliation should not have been undertaken in the first place. (See id.
&para; 53.) To challenge the agency's recoupment demand, Clarian appealed the
repayment decision to the Provider Reimbursement Review Board ("PRRB"), which is
the administrative tribunal that Congress has authorized to review cost-report
disputes between MACs and service providers. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395oo; 42 C.F.R.
12 This is apparently because new hospitals see a sharp increase in the "patient
utilization rate" in the first few years, which decreases their "per-unit
costs[.]" (Compl. &para; 50; see Pl.'s Mem. at 24, 38.) Put another way, all
other things being equal, a new hospital with few patients has higher costs per
patient than a more established hospital with more patients, and as a hospital
gains patients, its average costs decrease even as the amount it charges stays
constant, which results in a decrease in its cost-to-charge ratio. (See Compl.
&para; 50.) Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 16 of 46 17
§§ 405.1835-77. Clarian requested expedited judicial review of the dispute
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1395oo(f)(1) (see Pl.'s Mem. at 25), and on January 3,
2014, the PRRB permitted expedited judicial review of some of Clarian's
arguments, paving the way for the instant action (see id.). 13 Clarian's
one-count complaint, which was filed in this Court on March 3, 2014, asserts
that "the Secretary's 2012 [reconciliation] determination, and the agency rules
governing that determination, are invalid and should be set aside" because they
violate the Administrative Procedure Act and the Medicare statute. (Compl.
&para; 58; see id. &para; 60.) Thus, Clarian challenges not only the $2.4
million recoupment demand but also the administrative acts that form the
backbone of that repayment determination: the 2003 Rule that authorizes
reconciliation and the 2010 guidelines that implement that rule. And Clarian's
memorandum of law in support of its motion for summary judgment, which was filed
October 10, 2014, clarifies that it seeks to attack these regulatory enactments
on three fronts. First, Clarian argues that the Secretary failed to adhere to
the Medicare statute's notice-and-comment rulemaking requirements when the
agency adopted the standards 13 Expedited judicial review permits the PRRB to
grant an appellant access to federal court when the PRRB has jurisdiction over
an appeal but lacks the authority to decide the controlling question of law. See
42 U.S.C. § 1395oo(f)(1); Three Lower Ctys. Cmty. Health Servs., Inc. v. U.S.
Dep't of Health & Human Servs., 517 F. Supp. 2d 431, 435 n.4 (D.D.C. 2007),
aff'd, 317 F. App'x 1 (D.C. Cir. 2009). In this instance, the PRRB decided that
it lacked jurisdiction over three of Clarian's claims; as to the other three,
including the key claim that the governing reconciliation standards "were not
adopted in accordance with the notice and comment rulemaking requirements
mandated by the [APA] and Medicare Act" (Administrative Record ("AR"), ECF No.
19, at 10), the PRRB concluded that it possessed jurisdiction but lacked the
authority to decide the question of law, and granted Plaintiff's request for
expedited judicial review. (See id. at 11-12.) When a party challenges the
PRRB's determination that it lacks jurisdiction over an issue, the Court "must
limit its review to the PRRB's jurisdiction determination" and not reach the
merits of the claim. Eagle Healthcare, Inc. v. Sebelius, 969 F. Supp. 2d 38, 45
(D.D.C. 2013). However, in this case, the Court addresses only the merits of the
claims over which the PRRB granted expedited judicial review, and addressing
these claims is sufficient to resolve the case. Therefore, there is no need for
this Court to assess whether the PRRB was correct in its determination that it
lacked jurisdiction over some of Clarian's claims. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 17 of 46 18 for reconciliation that appear in
the 2010 manual. (Pl.'s Mem. at 29-30, 32-33.) 14 Second, Clarian argues that
the Secretary's decision to authorize reconciliation for outlier payments in the
2003 Rule was not the product of reasoned decision making, because the Secretary
improperly failed to consider a host of factors, including the effect of
reconciliation on new hospitals (id. at 37-40); the procedures for implementing
the reconciliation rules (id. at 40-43); and whether the retrospective
reconciliation process was justified, given the broader prospective payment
scheme (id. at 43-45). (See also id. at 47-49 (arguing that the Secretary did
not have sufficient evidence from which to conclude that retroactively
correcting cost-to-charge ratios through reconciliation would actually lead to
more accurate outlier payments).) Third, and finally, Clarian argues that, to
the extent that the 2003 Rule and the 2010 implementing guidelines permit MACs
to recover interest on payments owed as a result of the reconciliation process
(see id. at 50-53) and transgress certain statute of limitations and beneficiary
notification requirements (see id. at 33-36), these agency pronouncements are
inconsistent with the Medicare statute. The Secretary filed a cross-motion for
summary judgment on October 10, 2014. In that motion, the Secretary argues that
the agency fully complied with the procedural requirements of the Medicare
statute's notice-and-comment rulemaking provision when it promulgated the 2003
Rule and undertook the 2010 implementation. (See Def.'s 14 Clarian specifically
objects to the two qualifying criteria for initiating the reconciliation process
that the agency adopted in the 2010 manual (see Pl.'s Mem. at 29-35), and it
also challenges the Secretary's decision "to use an 'offline' process 'to
reprice outlier claims' [and thereby] make[] hospitals subject to retroactive
outlier adjustments to prior outlier-payment determinations even after
expiration of the four-year reopening period for those determinations" (id. at
33). Clarian's attack is procedural in nature, because it maintains that these
guidelines for the implementation of the authorized reconciliation process are
substantive rules and thus the agency should only have adopted them after
undertaking adequate notice-and-comment procedures. (See id. at 29-30.) Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 18 of 46 19 Mem. at 26-34.)
The Secretary further argues that the substance of the 2003 Rule is entirely
consistent with the terms of the Medicare statute. In particular, the Secretary
contends that there is nothing improper about using an "offline" process for
reconciling outlier payments (id. at 35-37), or in requiring that interest be
paid on all reconciled outlier payments (id. at 46-49). Finally, the Secretary
defends the 2003 Rule's emphasis on revising bloated cost-to-charge ratios
without altering other elements of the outlier-payment formula, and also the
fact that it does not exempt new hospitals from the outlier-payment
reconciliation process. (Id. at 37-42, 44-46.) This Court held oral argument on
the parties' cross-motions for summary judgment on February 10, 2015, and it
took the motions under advisement at that time. On March 9, 2015, the Court
ordered the parties to submit supplemental briefs on significant questions of
law regarding the Medicare statute and the agency conduct at issue here. (See
Order, ECF No. 20.) Those supplemental briefs became ripe on May 1, 2015. (See
Pl.'s Supplemental Brief ("Pl.'s Suppl. Br."), ECF No. 21; Def.'s Supplemental
Brief ("Def.'s Suppl. Br."), ECF No. 22.) II. LEGAL STANDARDS A. Motions For
Summary Judgment In APA Cases "Summary judgment is the proper mechanism for
deciding, as a matter of law, whether an agency action is supported by the
administrative record and consistent with the APA standard of review." Hill
Dermaceuticals, Inc. v. FDA, No. 11-cv-1950, 2012 WL 5914516, at *7 (D.D.C. May
18, 2012) (citing Richard v. INS, 554 F.2d 1173, 1177 & n.28 (D.C. Cir. 1977));
see also Am. Bioscience, Inc. v. Thompson, 269 F.3d 1077, 1083-84 (D.C. Cir.
2001) (collecting cases). Although, in general, a court will grant Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 19 of 46 20 summary judgment
"if the movant shows that there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact
and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[,]" Fed. R. Civ. P.
56(a), due to the limited role a court plays in reviewing the administrative
record, the typical summary judgment standards set forth in Rule 56(c) are not
applicable in APA cases, see Stuttering Found. of Am. v. Springer, 498 F. Supp.
2d 203, 207 (D.D.C. 2007). Rather, "[u]nder the APA, it is the role of the
agency to resolve factual issues to arrive at a decision that is supported by
the administrative record, whereas 'the function of the district court is to
determine whether or not as a matter of law the evidence in the administrative
record permitted the agency to make the decision it did.'" Id. (quoting
Occidental Eng'g Co. v. INS, 753 F.2d 766, 769 (9th Cir. 1985)). In other words,
"when a party seeks review of agency action under the APA, the district judge
sits as an appellate tribunal[,]" and "[t]he 'entire case' on review is a
question of law." Am. Bioscience, 269 F.3d at 1083 (footnote and citations
omitted); see also Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass'n v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.,
463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983) (explaining that a reviewing court cannot "substitute its
judgment for that of the agency"). This Court's review of the Secretary's
interpretation of the Medicare Act is governed by the familiar two-step test
that the Supreme Court adopted in Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources
Defense Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837, 843-44 (1984). Under that test, a court
first determines "whether Congress has directly spoken to the precise question
at issue[,]" id. at 842; and if not, the court defers to the agency's
interpretation so long as it is permissible and reasonable, see id. at 843-44.
However, when the question posed is whether or not a particular agency enactment
should have been subjected to notice-and-comment rulemaking or is exempted from
that Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 20 of 46 21
requirement, no deference is owed to an agency's characterization of its own
rule. See Am. Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037, 1056 (D.C. Cir. 1987) ("[W]e
are not compelled to defer to agency characterizations of rules as [being exempt
from notice and comment.]"); Citizens to Save Spencer Cty. v. U.S. Envtl. Prot.
Agency, 600 F.2d 844, 879 n.171 (D.C. Cir. 1979) ("The . . . characterizations
of these rules as interpretive by EPA counsel are of no avail. . . . The label
that the particular agency puts upon its given exercise of administrative power
is not, for our purposes, conclusive; rather it is what the agency does in
fact." (internal quotation marks and citation omitted)). B. Medicare's
Notice-and-Comment Requirements In the APA, Congress requires that agency
policymaking be subjected to noticeand-comment procedures (unless an exemption
applies) in order "to reintroduce public participation" and "assure[] that the
agency will have before it the facts and information relevant to a particular
administrative problem, as well as suggestions for alternative solutions." Am.
Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1044 (internal quotation marks and citations omitted);
see also id. (explaining that notice-and-comment requirements instantiate
"policy goals of maximum participation and full information"). In the Medicare
context, the HHS generally must proceed by notice-and-comment rulemaking, but
the notice-and-comment mandate emerges from the Medicare statute itself rather
than the APA. 15 Section 1395hh(a)(1) of the Medicare statute authorizes the
Secretary to "prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the
administration" of the 15 Medicare is, in fact, statutorily exempt from the
APA's notice-and-comment requirements because those requirements do not apply to
"matter[s] relating to . . . benefits[.]" 5 U.S.C. § 553. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 21 of 46 22 Medicare statute, 42 U.S.C. §
1395hh(a)(1), and Section 1395hh(b)(1) states that, "[e]xcept as [otherwise]
provided . . . , before issuing in final form any regulation under subsection
(a) of this section, the Secretary shall provide for notice of the proposed
regulation in the Federal Register and a period of not less than 60 days for
public comment therein[,]" id. § 1395hh(b)(1). The Secretary's rulemaking power
encompasses any "rule, requirement, or other statement of policy . . . that
establishes or changes a substantive legal standard governing the scope of
benefits, the payment for services, or the eligibility of individuals, entities,
or organizations to furnish or receive services or benefits[,]" id. §
1395hh(a)(2)--a Medicare-related policy pronouncement that falls within this
definition and that is not subject to an exemption in the Medicare statute is
considered to be a "substantive" rule with respect to which the HHS must provide
notice and an opportunity for comment prior to its adoption. See Allina Health,
2016 WL 4409181, at *8. As a general matter, courts use the APA's standards for
determining whether or not a particular Medicare rule is a "substantive" one for
notice-and-comment purposes. See Monmouth Med. Ctr. v. Thompson, 257 F.3d 807,
814 (D.C. Cir. 2001); Adirondack Med. Ctr. v. Sebelius, 935 F. Supp. 2d 121, 130
(D.D.C. 2013). This is because the Medicare statute's notice-and-comment
rulemaking requirements are substantially similar to those of the APA; however,
the two statutes' notice-and-comment provisions do differ in certain respects,
most notably with respect to the recognized exemptions. The APA provides four
exemptions to notice-and-comment rulemaking: three under Section 553(b)(A) of
Title 5 of the U.S. Code and one under Section 553(b)(B). See 5 U.S.C. § 553(b).
The three exemptions under Section 553(b)(A) are for interpretive Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 22 of 46 23 rules, policy
statements, and procedural rules. See id. § 553(b)(A). 16 And the APA exemption
in Section 553(b)(B) is for situations in which a federal agency finds that
notice-and-comment rulemaking would be "impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary
to the public interest." Id. § 553(b)(B). The D.C. Circuit has cautioned that
"Congress intended the exceptions to § 553's notice and comment requirements to
be narrow ones[,]" Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1044; therefore, rules that do
not fit into any one of these four categories are typically deemed "substantive"
rules and, as such, must be subjected to notice-and-comment procedures, see U.S.
Telecom Ass'n v. FCC, 400 F.3d 29, 34 (D.C. Cir. 2005). The Medicare statute
expressly exempts the HHS from notice-and-comment rulemaking in three
circumstances: (1) when a statutory provision permits an interim regulation to
be issued, see 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2)(A); (2) when a statutory provision
requires that a rule be promulgated within 150 days of the passage of that
provision, see id. § 1395hh(b)(2)(B); and (3) when the rule at issue would be
exempt under the APA's Section 553(b)(B) exemption, see id. § 1395hh(b)(2)(C).
The Medicare statute thus expressly incorporates only the APA's exemption for
situations where notice and comment would be impracticable, unnecessary, or
contrary to the public interest, but it does not contain any provision that
expressly contains or references the APA's exemptions for interpretive rules,
policy statements, and procedural rules. Nevertheless, courts have interpreted
the Medicare statute to import the APA's 16 Although courts sometimes use the
term "interpretive rules" as a catchall term to encompass all three exceptions
contained in 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(A), see, e.g., Cent. Tex. Tel. Co-op., Inc. v.
FCC, 402 F.3d 205, 210 (D.C. Cir. 2005), the instant Memorandum Opinion
differentiates between these three different exemptions; the opinion's
references to "interpretive rules" are intended to address that exemption alone.
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 23 of 46 24 exemption for
interpretive rules because one of the Medicare statute's provisions requires
that the Secretary publish certain material in the Federal Register and
indicates that "manual instructions, interpretative rules, statements of policy,
and guidelines of general applicability," 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(c)(1) (emphasis
added), may not fit the definition of a "regulation" under Section 1395hh(a)(1).
See Monmouth Med. Ctr., 257 F.3d at 814 n.2 ("Although no explicit exception to
those requirements is made for 'interpretive rules,' an exception is implicit in
the provision for periodic publication for such rules, see 42 U.S.C. §
1395hh(c), and courts generally have assumed the exception."). Thus, while the
Medicare Act has been interpreted to incorporate the APA's distinction between
substantive and interpretive rules, this Court is not aware of any case that
squarely holds that the Medicare statute should be read to incorporate the other
exemptions contained in APA Section 553(b)(A)--i.e., policy statements and
procedural rules. III. ANALYSIS By pressing a bevy of legal arguments about the
agency's reconciliation process and the rules that undergird it, Clarian seeks
to challenge the Secretary's decision to recoup from Clarian the $2.4 million
that the agency previously provided to the hospital for outlier payments under
Medicare's prospective payment system. As explained above, Clarian's opening
salvo is its contention that the agency guidelines that establish the criteria
for eligibility for reconciliation and other specifics regarding the mechanics
of the reconciliation process constitute a substantive rule, and as such, can
only be valid if promulgated through notice-and-comment rulemaking, which
indisputably did not occur when the Secretary adopted those guidelines in 2010.
(See Pl.'s Mem. at 29-32.) Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16
Page 24 of 46 25 If Clarian is right about this threshold issue, then there is
no need for this Court to proceed to consider the merits of Clarian's myriad
contentions regarding the unlawful and/or improper substance of the guidelines;
it can vacate the agency's recoupment decision and remand this matter to the
agency simply and solely because of the agency's failure to comply with required
notice-and-comment procedures. See, e.g., Catholic Health Initiatives v.
Sebelius, 617 F.3d 490, 497 (D.C. Cir. 2010); United Steel, Paper & Forestry,
Rubber, Mfg., Energy, Allied Indus. & Serv. Workers Int'l Union v. Fed. Highway
Admin., 151 F. Supp. 3d 76, 89, 91-92, 94 (D.D.C. 2015). Consequently, the
parties have devoted a considerable amount of time and effort to the
notice-and-comment inquiry--and have even engaged in a round of supplemental
briefing--in an attempt to persuade this Court that the qualifying criteria and
other standards regarding the reconciliation process that the Secretary adopted
long after promulgating the reconciliation rule are substantive provisions that
required notice-andcomment procedures (Clarian's argument), or, alternatively,
are the types of enactments that the Medicare statute exempts from
notice-and-comment rulemaking (the Secretary's position). 17 This Court has
evaluated the legal standards for characterizing agency guidelines such as those
at issue here, and, in particular, the requirement that notice-and-comment 17
Prior to oral argument on the cross-motions for summary judgment, the Secretary
had argued only that the 2010 guidelines qualify as an interpretive rule, and as
a result, that it was proper for the agency to adopt them without notice and
comment. (See Def.'s Mem. at 30-34.) Following oral argument, it became clear
that it might also be feasible to consider the 2010 guidelines exempt from
notice-andcomment rulemaking as a so-called procedural rule, but only if the
Medicare statute, like the APA, contains an exemption for procedural rules. On
March 9, 2015, this Court ordered the parties to submit supplemental briefing on
two questions related to the applicability of the procedural-rule exemption:
first, whether the guidelines for reconciliation established in the 2010 manual
fall within the procedural-rule exemption as contained in the APA, and if so,
second, whether the procedural-rule exemption is available under the Medicare
statute's notice-and-comment provision. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 25 of 46 26 procedures be afforded unless the agency's
pronouncement is interpretive, procedural, or otherwise fits into one of the
statutory exemptions from notice-and-comment rulemaking. For the reasons
explained below, the Court concludes that the qualifying criteria for being
subjected to the outlier-payment reconciliation process that the agency adopted
in the 2010 manual and applied to Clarian do not qualify as an interpretive rule
or a procedural rule (even assuming that there is a procedural-rule exemption in
the Medicare statute), and thus, must be deemed a substantive rule that should
have been promulgated through notice-and-comment rulemaking. Accordingly, and
without characterizing the other reconciliation standards that Clarian
challenges or reaching the merits of Clarian's arguments regarding the propriety
of the policies that the guidelines embody, this Court will grant Clarian's
motion for summary judgment and remand this matter to the agency for proceedings
consistent with the findings in this opinion. 18 A. The Qualifying Criteria For
Reconciliation That CMS Established In The 2010 Guidelines Are Not Interpretive
Rules 1. Interpretive Rules Must Relate To Specific Text In A Statute Or A
Regulation As noted, this Court's determination regarding whether or not the
qualifying criteria in the 2010 manual are "substantive" rules involves
eliminating the possibility 18 To be clear, Clarian's notice and comment-based
challenge is broader than the Court's holding in this case: Clarian challenges
not only the two criteria governing the determination of which hospitals undergo
reconciliation but also the rules governing retroactive adjustments to payments
following reconciliation (including the use of a so-called "offline" re-pricing
process), on the ground that the guidelines did not undergo notice and comment.
(See Pl.'s Mem. at 32-36.) The Court addresses only the validity of the
qualifying criteria, which alone is sufficient to merit judgment for the
Plaintiff. See Catholic Health Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 494 (declining to reach
a plaintiff's various other challenges to an agency's policy where the court
determined, as an "antecedent" matter, that the rule was substantive yet did not
undergo notice and comment); cf. PDK Labs. Inc. v. DEA, 362 F.3d 786, 799 (D.C.
Cir. 2004) (Roberts, J., concurring) (stating where there "is a sufficient
ground for deciding th[e] case," the "cardinal principle of judicial
restraint--if it is not necessary to decide more, it is necessary not to decide
more--counsels [the Court] to go no further"). Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document
26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 26 of 46 27 that these guidelines are the type of
pronouncement that is exempted from notice-andcomment procedures by statute,
because a substantive rule is defined in opposition to the various exemptions.
Cf. Mendoza v. Perez, 754 F.3d 1002, 1021 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (defining substantive
rules as "the category of rules to which the notice and comment requirements do
apply"); U.S. Telecom Ass'n, 400 F.3d at 34 (same). Put another way, a
substantive rule is any rule that is not interpretive, procedural, or otherwise
subject to an exemption, and because the statutory exemptions represent a
departure from the default notice-and-comment requirement, the D.C. Circuit has
instructed that "the various exceptions . . . will be narrowly construed and
only reluctantly countenanced." N.J., Dep't of Envtl. Prot. v. U.S. Envtl. Prot.
Agency, 626 F.2d 1038, 1045 (D.C. Cir. 1980). Beginning with the Court's
consideration of whether the qualifying criteria are interpretive in nature, the
Court notes that agency rules are deemed interpretive when the particular
promulgation "clarif[ies] a statutory or regulatory term, remind[s] parties of
existing statutory or regulatory duties, or merely track[s] preexisting
requirements and explain[s] something the statute or regulation already
required." Mendoza, 754 F.3d at 1021 (internal quotation marks and citation
omitted). "To fall within the category of interpretive, the rule must derive a
proposition from an existing document whose meaning compels or logically
justifies the proposition[,]" and "[t]he substance of the derived proposition
must flow fairly from the substance of the existing document." Catholic Health
Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 494 (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).
Courts have warned that "the spectrum between a clearly interpretive rule and a
clearly substantive one is a hazy continuum," Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1045;
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 27 of 46 28 consequently,
any analysis that seeks to categorize agency action as interpretive or
substantive is necessarily "an extraordinarily case-specific endeavor[,]" id.
There are some guideposts, however; for example, an interpretive rule must be
grounded in the specific text of a statute or a regulation. See Catholic Health
Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 494 ("If the rule cannot fairly be seen as interpreting
a statute or a regulation, and if (as here) it is enforced, the rule is not an
interpretive rule exempt from notice-and-comment rulemaking." (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted)); Cent. Tex. Tel. Co-op., Inc. v. FCC, 402
F.3d 205, 212 (D.C. Cir. 2005) ("If, despite an agency's claim, a rule cannot
fairly be viewed as interpreting--even incorrectly--a statute or a regulation,
the rule is not an interpretive rule exempt from notice-and-comment
rulemaking."). Failure to meet this requirement is fatal to the contention that
the 2010 guidelines constitute an interpretive rule. 2. The Purported Textual
Basis For The Qualifying Criteria Is Too Broad And Attenuated To Render These
Guidelines Merely Interpretive The Secretary's cross-motion for summary judgment
suggests only one textual reference point that potentially could support the
agency's contention that the qualifying criteria for reconciliation that were
adopted in the 2010 manual are interpretive rules: the statement in Section
1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii) that outlier payments must "'approximate the marginal cost
of care beyond' the fixed-loss threshold." (Def.'s Mem. at 30 (quoting 42 U.S.C.
§ 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii)). But under binding precedent, this statutory language is
too broad to support the invocation of the interpretive-rule exemption to
Medicare's notice-and-comment requirements, and the link between it and the
technical details of a reconciliation program is too attenuated. See Catholic
Health Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 28 of 46 29
Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 496; United Steel, Paper & Forestry, Rubber, Mfg.,
Energy, Allied Indus. & Serv. Workers Int'l Union, 151 F. Supp. 3d at 89. The
D.C. Circuit's opinion in Catholic Health Initiatives v. Sebelius, 617 F.3d 490
(D.C. Cir. 2010), requires this conclusion. That case involved an agency manual
that provided for the reimbursement of a hospital's insurance costs, see id. at
491-92, but the relevant statutory and regulatory language said only that the
government would reimburse a hospital's "reasonable costs" and left the
determination of what costs are "reasonable" to the Secretary, id. at 491. The
Secretary subsequently determined that insurance costs were in the realm of
reasonable costs, and also permitted reimbursement of insurance costs even where
those costs were paid to so-called "captive" insurers-- i.e., insurers that were
actually a wholly owned subsidiary of the hospital--but the agency expressly
differentiated between "domestic" captives and "offshore" captives, with
insurance costs paid to offshore captives being reimbursable only if those
captives satisfied a series of requirements not imposed on domestic captives.
See id. at 492 (noting that, unlike domestic captives, a covered offshore
captive could not invest more than ten percent of its assets in equity
securities). Significantly for present purposes, when setting out the additional
coverage requirements for offshore captives, the Secretary did not use
notice-and-comment rulemaking, see id. at 493, and the D.C. Circuit held that
the requirements that the agency imposed on offshore captives had to be
promulgated through notice-and-comment rulemaking because the requirements were
substantive and not interpretive, see id. at 497. Two principles undergirded the
Circuit's conclusion in Catholic Health Initiatives and are instructive here.
First, the panel reasoned that, if the statutory or Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 29 of 46 30 regulatory language that is
purportedly being interpreted is sufficiently broad, then any attempt by the
agency to implement that language would necessarily involve making substantive
policy judgments that require notice-and-comment rulemaking. See id. at 494-95.
In the context of the Catholic Health Initiatives case, the Circuit concluded
that the statutory term "reasonable cost" was so broad that "the sort of
detailed--and rigid--investment code" that the agency imposed when it determined
which offshore captives would be covered could not have been derived from an act
of interpretation. Id. at 496. Second, the Catholic Health Initiatives Court
noted that, if an interpretive rule imposes "arbitrary" numeric criteria, then
it likely reflects a substantive, rather than interpretive, policy judgment. See
id. at 495-96. By "arbitrary," the Circuit meant numeric criteria that
represented just one "choice among [many] methods of implementation[,]" id. at
495 (quoting Hoctor v. U.S. Dep't of Agric., 82 F.3d 165, 170 (7th Cir. 1996))
(internal quotation marks omitted), and the panel viewed the manual's
requirement that equity securities not exceed ten percent of an offshore
captive's assets as precisely the sort of numeric requirement that reflects an
agency's substantive policy determination rather than mere interpretation of
statutory provisions, see id. at 496. Applying these two principles to the
circumstances at issue in the instant case, this Court concludes that the
qualifying criteria for the outlier-payment reconciliation process that the
agency adopted in the 2010 manual are not merely interpretive of Congress's
command that outlier payments must "approximate the marginal cost of care
beyond" the fixed-loss threshold. 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii). This is so
because the statutory phrase "marginal cost of care"--much like "reasonable
cost"--is quite broad and does not, on its own, suggest any particular
application. Furthermore, Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page
30 of 46 31 as the complicated nature of the outlier-payment formula
demonstrates, giving effect to that term requires a series of interlocking
policy and technical considerations, see Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at
49-51, which means that the Secretary's identification and adoption of the two
qualifying criteria inherently involved the sort of "reasonable but arbitrary .
. . choice among methods" that the D.C. Circuit found to be substantive in
Catholic Health Initiatives. 617 F.3d at 495 (quoting Hoctor, 82 F.3d at 170).
The numeric thresholds that the agency has selected also plainly reflect an
arbitrary policy determination, because nothing in the language of "marginal
cost of care" suggests that a ten percent change in cost-to-charge ratios should
trigger the reconciliation process, as opposed to a five percent or fifteen
percent change. And however solid the Secretary's reasons for adopting those
specific numeric requirements might have been, the fact that the agency's policy
choice is supported and justified does not make its decision merely interpretive
(i.e., less substantive). The Secretary objects to this conclusion on a number
of grounds, none of which succeeds. Starting with the most sweeping contention,
the agency argues that the qualifying criteria must be deemed interpretive rules
simply and solely because they are set forth in CMS instruction manuals. (See
Def.'s Reply, ECF No. 18, at 12-13 ("Courts construing [Medicare Provider
Reimbursement Manual] provisions have concluded that they are interpretive rules
and do not require notice and comment rulemaking." (internal quotation marks and
citation omitted).) The D.C. Circuit's Catholic Health Initiatives case belies
this contention; the provisions under review in that case were contained in a
CMS manual and were nevertheless found to be substantive, not interpretive. See
Catholic Health Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 497. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26
Filed 08/26/16 Page 31 of 46 32 Undaunted, the Secretary further insists that
the qualifying criteria and other, similar manual instructions provide
"technical details of issues such as calculation methodologies" in order "to
help intermediaries and providers better understand the regulations" and are
exempt from Medicare's notice-and-comment requirements on that basis as well.
(Def.'s Mem. at 31 (internal quotation marks and citations omitted)). Even if
this is an accurate statement regarding the agency's intentions, it does not
help the Secretary, because the particular criteria that Clarian challenges are
much more than mere "technical details"--they reflect substantive policy
decisions, as explained further below. See infra Part III.C. Moreover, as
discussed above, the two qualifying criteria are not sufficiently grounded in
the statutory phrase "marginal cost of care" for them to amount to an
implementation of that language, and their seeming consistency with Medicare's
outlier-payment provisions and/or the text of the 2003 Rule (see Def.'s Mem. at
32-33) is beside the point; it is well established that an agency's
wellintentioned efforts to adopt provisions that are consistent with the text of
a statute or regulation is not a reason to sidestep Medicare's
notice-and-comment requirements if the rule that emerges "is simply too
attenuated to represent an interpretation of those terms[,]" Catholic Health
Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 496. Finally, the Secretary argues that the qualifying
criteria are distinguishable from the reimbursement instructions at issue in
Catholic Health Initiatives because the investment instructions in Catholic
Health Initiatives were mandatory whereas the qualifying criteria for the
outlier-payment reconciliation process do not necessarily result in
reconciliation--in this regard, the agency emphasizes that the CMS manual builds
in an extra layer of discretion whereby CMS must approve reconciliation once a
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 32 of 46 33 hospital has
been shortlisted. (See Def.'s Mem. at 33-34.) See also Ctrs. for Medicare &
Medicaid Servs., Pub. No. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Ch. 3 §
20.1.2.5 (providing that reconciliation of any hospitals that satisfy the
qualifying criteria will be "[s]ubject to the approval of the CMS Central
Office"). However, the mandatory-versus-discretionary distinction between the
investment instructions in Catholic Health Initiatives and the qualifying
criteria for outlier-payment reconciliation does not bear on the fundamental
question of whether the challenged provisions are tied to any reasonably
specific statutory or regulatory language, or whether those provisions reflect a
substantive policy judgment. In other words, when a rule is plainly not
interpretive in light of the ordinary criteria for making this designation, its
mandatory or voluntary nature is of no moment. Cf. Catholic Health Initiatives,
617 F.3d at 494- 97 (holding that the agency instruction is a substantive rule
without reference to its mandatory nature). Thus, in this Court's view, the
difference between the qualifying criteria and the agency instructions in
Catholic Health Initiatives that the Secretary has identified is not a
meaningful one for the purpose of determining whether the former are
interpretive rules, and the D.C. Circuit's analysis compels the conclusion that
the qualifying criteria cannot be labeled as such. B. The Medicare Statute Does
Not Provide For A Procedural-Rule Exemption And, In Any Event, The Qualifying
Criteria Are Not A Procedural Rule 1. There Is No Express Exemption For
Procedural Rules In The Medicare Statute And One Cannot Reasonably Be Inferred
Procedural rules are agency provisions that are "primarily directed toward
improving the efficient and effective operations of an agency, not toward a
determination of the rights [or] interests of affected parties." Mendoza, 754
F.3d at Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 33 of 46 34 1023
(quoting Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 702 n.34 (D.C. Cir. 1980))
(alteration in original, internal quotation marks omitted). According to the
D.C. Circuit, a "prototypical procedural rule" is an agency's determination that
it will not search for documents produced after the date of a requester's letter
when responding to a FOIA request, Pub. Citizen v. Dep't of State, 276 F.3d 634,
641 (D.C. Cir. 2002); but "the distinction between substantive and procedural
rules" is not always that clear, Elec. Privacy Info. Ctr. v. U.S. Dep't of
Homeland Sec., 653 F.3d 1, 5 (D.C. Cir. 2011), and the difference can be "one of
degree depending upon whether the substantive effect is sufficiently grave so
that notice and comment are needed to safeguard the policies underlying the
APA[,]" id. at 5-6 (internal quotation marks and citation omitted). Generally
speaking, to determine whether or not a rule qualifies as procedural, courts
often inquire into "whether the agency action . . . encodes a substantive value
judgment or puts a stamp of approval or disapproval on a given type of
behavior." Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1047. As mentioned, the Medicare statute
does not contain any express exemption from notice-and-comment rulemaking for
procedural rules, unlike the APA. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2). That fact would
ordinarily be sufficient to dispose of the issue of the applicability of the
procedural-rule exemption to the qualifying criteria for the outlierpayment
reconciliation process, but it is at least theoretically possible that an
exemption for procedural rules could be read into the Medicare statute just as
the exemption for interpretive rules has been. Cf. Monmouth Med. Ctr., 257 F.3d
at 814 n.2 (holding that the interpretive-rule exemption exists in the Medicare
Act despite its absence from the Act's express exemptions). This Court has
reviewed the parties' submissions regarding Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26
Filed 08/26/16 Page 34 of 46 35 this possibility (see Order, ECF No. 20; see
also Pl.'s Suppl. Br., ECF No. 21; Def.'s Suppl. Br., ECF No. 22), and concludes
that the language and structure of Medicare's notice-and-comment requirements
foreclose any such reading, for several reasons. First of all, given that the
Medicare statute expressly provides for some of the exemptions contained in the
APA but not the exemption for procedural rules, see 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2)(C),
the canon expressio unius est exclusio alterius--"the expression of one is the
exclusion of others[,]" Adirondack Med. Ctr. v. Sebelius, 740 F.3d 692, 696
(D.C. Cir. 2014)--strongly suggests this Court should treat the exclusion of
procedural rules from the list of exemptions to Medicare's notice-and-comment
requirement as an intentional policy choice, see United States v. Vonn, 535 U.S.
55, 65 (2002) (explaining that, under this canon of interpretation, the
legislature's "expressi[ion of] one item of a commonly associated group or
series" is considered the intentional "exclu[sion of] another left
unmentioned"). Of course, this canon applies only where "it is fair to suppose
that Congress considered the unnamed possibility and meant to say no to it[.]"
Marx v. Gen. Revenue Corp., 133 S. Ct. 1166, 1175 (2013) (internal quotation
marks and citation omitted). And so it is here, because Congress has expressly
incorporated into the Medicare statute one of the four express APA exemptions,
see 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2)(C), which makes it entirely plausible that Congress
actually considered--and rejected--the possibility of incorporating the APA's
other exemptions, including the one for procedural rules. Cf. Council for
Urological Interests v. Burwell, 790 F.3d 212, 221 (D.C. Cir. 2015) ("Congress
knew how to permit per-click payments explicitly, suggesting that the omission
in this particular context was deliberate."). In addition, the exemptions that
Congress expressly included Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16
Page 35 of 46 36 in Section 1395hh(b)(2) of the Medicare statute are all of a
common type--that is, exemptions to notice-and-comment rulemaking--and the
procedural-rules exemption is also of that type, which makes application of the
expressio unius canon even more reasonable. See Barnhart v. Peabody Coal Co.,
537 U.S. 149, 168 (2003) (asserting that the expressio unius canon "has force
only when the items expressed are members of an 'associated group or series,'
justifying the inference that items not mentioned were excluded by deliberate
choice, not inadvertence"). To be sure, the D.C. Circuit has indicated that the
expressio unius canon has limited utility in the administrative law context. See
Adirondack Med. Ctr., 740 F.3d at 697. But it can still be relevant where there
are no other reasonable explanations for the exclusion, see Indep. Ins. Agents
of Am., Inc. v. Hawke, 211 F.3d 638, 644 (D.C. Cir. 2000), and, here, the
Secretary has offered none (see Def.'s Suppl. Br. at 20-22 (arguing that the
procedural-rule exemption should be read into the Medicare statute without
providing any rationale for importing this exemption)). Thus, the expressio
unius canon provides a clear and compelling reason to find that the Medicare
statute does not incorporate the APA's procedural-rule exemption. The text and
structure of the Medicare statute also supports the conclusion that there is no
procedural-rule exemption in the Medicare context. First, and foremost,
Medicare's notice-and-comment provisions are plainly distinguishable from those
that appear in the APA, which means that exemption conformity cannot be assumed.
See Allina Health Servs. v. Sebelius, 746 F.3d 1102, 1109 (D.C. Cir. 2014)
(noting that the fact "that the Medicare statute is similar to the APA hardly
means it is identical"). Moreover, Section 1395hh(b) proceeds in definitive
terms, and those terms provide no Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 36 of 46 37 indication that any exemptions beyond the three
specified in that section are applicable. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(1) (stating
that notice-and-comment rulemaking shall apply "[e]xcept as provided" by the
three enumerated exemptions). And Congress's silence regarding procedural rules
is especially telling in light of the fact that the Medicare statute expressly
cross-references one of the APA's exemptions, see 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2)(C);
that is, Congress has specified in the clearest possible terms that the APA
exemption contained in 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(B) applies, but says nothing of the
exemptions contained in 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(A). Couple this with the fact that the
Medicare statute expressly recognizes that "statements of policy" may not
constitute regulations subject to Medicare's notice-and-comment procedures, see
42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(c)(1), but makes no such references to the types of
non-policy procedural pronouncements that are sometimes needed in order to
effectuate the agency's policy statements, and one is left with the distinct
impression that the exemptions in Medicare's notice-and-comment procedures were
not intended to incorporate procedural rules. The Secretary is certainly correct
to point out that courts have found that certain APA exemptions have been
implicitly incorporated into the Medicare statute under similar circumstances
(see Def.'s Suppl. Br. at 21), as this Court acknowledges above. See, e.g.,
Vencor Nursing Centers, L.P. v. Shalala, 63 F. Supp. 2d 1, 11 (D.D.C. 1999)
("The court treats the Medicare Act's exemption for interpretive rules as
identical to the APA's."). However, courts have made this finding based on a
separate subsection of the Medicare statute that expressly references
"interpretative rules[.]" 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(c)(1) (emphasis added); see
Monmouth Med. Ctr., 257 F.3d at 814 ("[I]t seems Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document
26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 37 of 46 38 fair to infer that, as the Medicare Act was
drafted after the APA, § 1385hh(c)'s reference to 'interpretive rules' without
any further definition adopted an exemption at least similar in scope to that of
the APA."); see also id. at 814 n.2 ("Although no explicit exception to those
requirements is made for 'interpretive rules,' an exception is implicit in the
provision for periodic publication for such rules . . . ."). The Secretary has
not demonstrated that procedural rules are likewise specifically referenced in
another provision of the Medicare statute; therefore, this Court doubts that the
reasoning that has compelled several courts to infer an exemption for
interpretive rules actually supports the conclusion that the Medicare statute
has, sub silentio, adopted an additional exemption for procedural rules. The
Secretary's suggestion that this Court should infer that a procedural-rule
exemption exists in the Medicare context nevertheless, because the D.C. Circuit
appears to have done so in American Hospital Association v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037
(D.C. Cir. 1987), is also unavailing, and it fails for one simple reason: the
challenged agency action in the American Hospital Association case occurred
before the passage of the Medicare statute's notice-and-comment provision--at a
time when the Secretary had voluntarily adopted the APA's notice-and-comment
requirements, including the APA's exemptions. See 36 Fed. Reg. 2532 (Feb. 5,
1971) (directing agencies "to utilize the public participation procedures of the
APA, 5 U.S.C. 553"); see also Timothy Stoltzfus Jost, Governing Medicare, 51
Admin. L. Rev. 39, 88 & n.272 (1999). Thus, while it was entirely appropriate
for the D.C. Circuit to apply a procedural-rule exemption in the American
Hospital Association case, that case says nothing about the applicability of a
procedural-rule exemption to Medicare's current notice-and-comment provisions.
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 38 of 46 39 Nor is this
Court persuaded by fact that more recent decisions from this district have
relied upon a procedural-rule exemption in the Medicare context. (See Def.'s
Suppl. Br. at 22 (citing Sierra-Nevada Mem'l-Miners Hosp., Inc. v. Shalala, No.
91-cv- 2198, 1994 WL 675720, at *4-6 (D.D.C. Nov. 21, 1994); Beverly Health &
Rehab. Servs. v. Thompson, 223 F. Supp. 2d 73, 99-101 (D.D.C. 2002); and Gentiva
Healthcare Corp. v. Sebelius, 857 F. Supp. 2d 1, 13 (D.D.C. 2012)).) "[A]
decision from another Judge in this District is not controlling authority on
this [Court.]" Carik v. U.S. Dep't of Health & Human Servs., 4 F. Supp. 3d 41,
54 n.8 (D.D.C. 2013) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted); see also
Cmty. Health Sys., Inc. v. Burwell, No. 14-cv-1432, 2015 WL 4104644, at *20 n.22
(D.D.C. July 7, 2015) (noting that, "[w]hile potentially persuasive," other
District Court "decisions are not binding"). And it appears that the opinions on
which the Secretary relies merely assumed the applicability of a procedural-rule
exemption to Medicare's notice-and-comment requirement, without specifically
analyzing the issue. See Sierra-Nevada Mem'l-Miners Hosp., 1994 WL 675720 at *4;
Beverly Health & Rehab. Servs., 223 F. Supp. 2d at 99; Gentiva Healthcare Corp.,
857 F. Supp. 2d at 13. Finally, this Court rejects the Secretary's suggestion
that a procedural-rule exemption must necessarily be implied because an agency's
ability to develop procedural rules is a "basic tenet of administrative law[.]"
(Def.'s Suppl. Br. at 20 (quoting Perez v. Mortg. Bankers Ass'n, 135 S. Ct.
1199, 1207 (2015)) (internal quotation marks omitted).) It is no doubt true that
an agency must have the capacity to provide for the implementation of the
policies it adopts, especially in the APA context, see 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(A), but
that is beside the point; what matters for present purposes Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 39 of 46 40 is whether
Congress intended to excuse the agency from its duty to provide the public with
notice of any such procedural command, and an opportunity to comment on it,
prior to its adoption. And the fact that a rule is procedural in nature (and
thus important to the agency's function) does not, in itself, establish that
Congress implicitly desired to permit the agency to forgo the public vetting
that it has otherwise prescribed. 2. Even If The Medicare Statute Could Be Read
To Contain A Procedural-Rule Exemption, The Qualifying Criteria For
Reconciliation Are Not Procedural Rules The two qualifying criteria for the
initiation of the reconciliation process that the Secretary adopted in the 2010
manual--(1) that a hospital's actual cost-to-charge ratio for a given year is
"plus or minus 10 percentage points" from the cost-to-charge ratio that was used
to calculate the hospital's outlier payments for that year, and (2) that the
hospital's "[t]otal outlier payments in that cost reporting period exceed[ed]
$500,000[,]" Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., Pub. No. 100-04, Medicare
Claims Processing Manual, Ch. 3 § 20.1.2.5(A)--unquestionably "encode[] a
substantive value judgment" about the hospital's charges and cost reporting for
Medicare reimbursements and "put[] a stamp of . . . disapproval" on the
hospitals that are singled out by the rule. Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1047.
Indeed, according to the Secretary, the entire purpose of the reconciliation
process was to prevent the manipulation of outlier payments by nefarious
turbochargers, see 68 Fed. Reg. at 34,5001 (claiming that reconciliation process
was needed to "completely eliminate" the ability of "hospitals to manipulate the
system to maximize outlier payments"), and the selected criteria purportedly
reflect the agency's substantive judgment regarding how best to "appropriately
capture those hospitals whose outlier payments will be substantially inaccurate
when using the ratio from the contemporaneous cost reporting period." Id. at
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 40 of 46 41 34,503. In
other words, because the qualifying criteria are the mechanism by which the
agency identifies those hospitals that it has deemed potentially worthy of this
metaphorical "stamp of . . . disapproval[,]" Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1047,
the Secretary is hard-pressed to make a convincing argument that the qualifying
criteria fall within the category of agency actions that properly can be deemed
mere "procedural" rules. In its supplemental briefing, the agency makes a
valiant effort, nevertheless. The Secretary contends, in essence, that the
qualifying criteria are procedural for two reasons: first, because they are a
"type[] of agency guidance" that merely "provide[s] details as to the
operational aspects of reconciliation" (Def.'s Suppl. Br. at 17), and second,
because the qualifying criteria are not the final say in determining whether a
hospital's outlier payments are reconciled because reconciliation is still
subject to the approval of CMS (see id. at 16-17). The first argument is belied
by the analysis above, and in particular, by this Court's finding that the
qualifying criteria initiate the process pursuant to which the agency disgorges
prior Medicare payments and thereby visits opprobrium upon a hospital, and
insofar as the criteria speak to which hospitals may be subjected to this
treatment, they represent substantive policy choices on the part of the agency.
The Secretary's second contention fails because it is the flip-side of the
(misguided) argument that the mandatory nature of a rule makes it less
non-substantive, which is an assertion that this Court has already rejected. See
supra Part III.A.2. What is more, the D.C. Circuit has already held that agency
discretion does not, alone, transform an otherwise substantive rule into a
procedural one. In Electronic Privacy Information Center v. U.S. Dep't of
Homeland Sec., 653 F.3d 1 (D.C. Cir. 2011), the government sought to defend the
introduction of a new type of security-screening machine Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 41 of 46 42 at airports without going through
notice-and-comment rulemaking, on the ground that "there are no [machines] at
some airports and the agency retains the discretion to stop using the scanners
where they are in place." Id. at 7.19 The D.C. Circuit rejected this argument,
noting that, although the government retained discretion to use the machines or
not, "[m]ore clearly significant is that a passenger is bound to comply with
whatever screening procedure the TSA is using on the date he is to fly at the
airport from which his flight departs." Id. In other words, the D.C. Circuit has
made clear that the existence of agency discretion to adopt a rule that mandates
certain procedures (or not) does not ameliorate the fact that the rule has
consequences for those subject to its terms, and this Court finds that principle
fully applicable here. That is, although CMS may, in its discretion, decide not
to reconcile a hospital's outlier payments despite the fact that the qualifying
criteria are satisfied, those criteria have a very real effect on those
hospitals that do not receive the benefit of the agency's discretionary
determination that reconciliation is not warranted, and thus, the discretionary
nature of the challenged criteria is of no moment with respect to the
characterization of those agency pronouncements as of the type that requires
notice-and-comment rulemaking. C. The Qualifying Criteria Have The Typical
Characteristics Of A Substantive Rule Because They Govern The Scope Of Benefits
Having determined that the qualifying criteria for reconciliation of outlier
payments that the Secretary adopted in the 2010 manual are neither interpretive
nor procedural as the Secretary claims, and seeing no other exemption in the
Medicare statute under which these 19 The discretion argument that was addressed
in the EPIC case arose in the context of a dispute about whether the
introduction of the screening machine fell within the APA's policy statement
exemption, but the circuit panel also addressed the government's attempt to rely
on the procedural-rule exemption. See Elec. Privacy Info. Ctr., 653 F.3d at 5-6.
Thus, the fact that the rule contemplated agency discretion did not transform it
into a procedural rule. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page
42 of 46 43 guidelines might fit, this Court has already effectively deemed
those criteria substantive. See Mendoza, 754 F.3d at 1021; U.S. Telecom Ass'n,
400 F.3d at 34. Because courts have also articulated a number of positive
characteristics that tend to indicate that a rule is substantive rather than
interpretive or procedural, see, e.g., Mendoza, 754 F.3d at 1021 (explaining
that a rule is likely substantive if it "supplements a statute, adopts a new
position inconsistent with existing regulations, or otherwise effects a
substantive change in existing law or policy"); Syncor Int'l Corp. v. Shalala,
127 F.3d 90, 95 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that a substantive rule "modifies or
adds to a legal norm based on the agency's own authority"), this Court observes
additionally that the qualifying criteria in the instant case have at least two
quintessential "substantive rule" characteristics. First, the qualifying
criteria for reconciliation of outlier payments clearly effect a change in
agency policy. In the Secretary's notice of proposed rulemaking for the 2003
Rule, the Secretary stated that reconciliation was adopted for a singular
purpose: "to correct those situations in which hospitals would otherwise receive
overpayments for outlier cases due to excessive charge increases." Proposed
Change in Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at 10,421. The Secretary emphasized the
agency's findings regarding the substantial number of hospitals that it deemed
guilty of engaging in the practice of drastically increasing charges for care
provided to beneficiaries in order to decrease the cost-to-charge ratio, and
explained the agency's view that combatting such turbocharging justified the new
reconciliation process. See id. at 10,428 ("[W]e have identified 123 hospitals
that appear to have been most aggressively gaming the current policy."). But the
qualifying criteria that the agency subsequently adopted do not plainly
distinguish between turbocharging hospitals and those hospitals that experience
a significant change in their cost-to-charge ratio for different reasons, as
Clarian Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 43 of 46 44
asserts. Indeed, the qualifying criteria are such that hospitals whose
cost-to-charge ratio increases (i.e., the opposite of turbocharging) by 10
percentage points or more, as well as hospitals whose cost-to-charge ratio
decreases by that much because of a decrease in costs rather than an increase in
charges, are also implicated. The qualifying criteria thus broaden the
applicability of the outlier-payment reconciliation process beyond the specific
problem of turbocharging, and while that approach may well be justified for
reasons of policy and practicality, it clearly represents a substantive
departure from the purposes of the reconciliation process that were identified
when the 2003 Rule was proposed. The qualifying criteria also plainly "implicate
the policy interests animating notice-and-comment rulemaking." Elec. Privacy
Info. Ctr., 653 F.3d at 6. The purpose of notice-and-comment rulemaking is "(1)
to reintroduce public participation and fairness to affected parties after
governmental authority has been delegated to unrepresentative agencies; and (2)
to assure that the agency will have before it the facts and information relevant
to a particular administrative problem." MCI Telecomm. Corp. v. FCC, 57 F.3d
1136, 1141 (D.C. Cir. 1995) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted);
accord Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1044. There were a number of public comments
that addressed how the reconciliation process would be applied during the 2003
Rule's notice-and-comment period, despite the fact that the notice of proposed
rulemaking did not discuss how the reconciliation process would be implemented.
See Change in Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at 34,503 ("Some commenters suggested
that we clarify how reconciliation will be implemented and only reconcile
outlier payments to those providers whose cost-to-charge ratios increased or
decreased outside of certain Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16
Page 44 of 46 45 parameters."). And not only was there a desire among members of
the public to comment on the specific criteria that would subject a hospital to
reconciliation, there is also reason to think that subjecting those criteria to
notice and comment may have led the agency to a different result. For example,
and as noted above, the current qualifying criteria do not take into account
fluctuations in the cost-to-charge ratio that are caused by decreasing costs
rather than increases in the amount that a hospital charges beneficiaries.
According to Clarian, this scenario is common among new hospitals in particular
(see Pl.'s Mem. at 37-40), and notice-and-comment rulemaking would have allowed
the Secretary to respond to these concerns and/or develop a rule that accounted
for this circumstance. Thus, in addition to the fact that the qualifying
criteria are neither interpretive nor procedural--which is sufficient to trigger
the requirement of notice-and-comment rulemaking standing alone--this Court
finds that the criteria also share at least two of the characteristics that
courts have established as being indicative of a substantive rule. IV.
CONCLUSION Clarian has sustained its contention that the qualifying criteria CMS
issued to MACs in the 2010 manual, which were used to identify Clarian as a
candidate for the outlier-payment reconciliation process, needed to be subjected
to notice-and-comment rulemaking prior to their adoption. This is because, for
the reasons explained above, the criteria are not sufficiently grounded in any
statutory or regulatory text to fall within the interpretive-rule exemption, and
the qualifying criteria cannot be construed as a procedural rule, even assuming
that the procedural-rule exemption applies in the Medicare context. (The Court
concludes herein that it does not.) The inapplicability of Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 45 of 46 46 these exemptions
means that the qualifying criteria count as a substantive rule, and the fact
that the criteria also exhibit the characteristics of substantive rules further
reinforces that conclusion. Accordingly, and as set forth in the accompanying
order, Clarian's motion for summary judgment will be GRANTED, the Secretary's
motion for summary judgment will be DENIED, the matter will be REMANDED to the
Secretary for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. DATE: August 26,
2016 Ketanji Brown Jackson KETANJI BROWN JACKSON United States District Judge
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 46 of 46



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

Drugs numb her maternal instinct

BYLINE: Ambika Pandit

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 505 words


NEW DELHI: Twenty-four-year-old Anita (name changed) begs and sells flowers at
the famous Hanuman Mandir complex in Connaught Place. She is homeless and
reeling under the effects of substance abuse. What makes her condition worrisome
is that she's expecting twins. Due to the high-risk full-term pregnancy, she
needs immediate medical attention.

But providing help isn't all that easy. On Saturday, a rescue operation was
carried out to take her to a safe place but it was marred by procedural delays.

She was rescued from the Hanuman Mandir complex around noon on Saturday. She was
found in a mentally unstable and violent condition - the fallout of substance
abuse and a traumatic street life. The rescue team consisted of the
state-appointed Mother NGO for homeless, St Stephen's Hospital, a mental health
team from the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences and Delhi Police.
Though Anita was picked up from Hanuman Mandir around noon, she could be
admitted to Lok Narayan Jai Prakash Hospital only by 8.30pm. Getting clearances
and completing procedures took up all the time.

Anita lives at the Hanuman Mandir complex with her husband and four children.
They scrounge a meal by begging and also sell flowers and balloons to visitors.
Like many others in the area, the couple is into substance abuse. The community
workers from MNGO found her during a survey of the homeless last year. "We have
been tracking Anita throughout her pregnancy. Staying on the streets in this
condition is fraught with risks," said Dr Amod Kumar from the MNGO.

The rescue team found Anita in a violent state. According to Kumar, her husband
and community members, too, felt that she should be admitted to a hospital but
they did not accompany her.

The rescue team first took Anita in an ambulance to St Stephen's Hospital but
she refused to go inside and turned violent. The IHBAS team expressed their
helplessness in admitting Anita as she was a case of a full-term pregnancy and
they are not equipped enough.

Times City found Anita in the ambulance urging the team to leave her back at
Hanuman Mandir and growing violent every now and then. With the law making it
mandatory for NGOs to get orders from the lower court in such cases to enable
hospitals to admit the patient, the ambulance headed for the Patiala House
court. The metropolitan magistrate gave its order around 5.30pm, directing that
the patient be placed for treatment in Lok Narayan Jai Prakash Hospital.

Once at LNJP, she was shunted from one department to another despite her
delicate condition. Finally, she was admitted to the hospital around 8.30pm.
Minister Kiran Walia, in charge of social welfare and women and child
development, said that such cases are difficult to deal with and agreed that
procedural delays in these matters are a big concern.

"This is why we involve NGO and institutions like IHBAS who specialize in mental
health. In this case, I have asked LNJP Hospital to cooperate fully as it is a
delicate matter," Walia added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Experts criticise meagre allocation for health, 10% of overall budget

BYLINE: Maitri Porecha

LENGTH: 480  words


The city's health budget has turned out to be a mere copy-paste exercise. Not
only are there no plans to make Mumbai's civic hospital infrastructure robust,
but also the promises made in previous year's budget have not been fulfilled.

In 2015-16, Rs3,359.78 crore have been allocated for the health department, a
marginal increase of 0.8% from last year. However, the increase itself is a
hogwash, say experts.

BMC's budget planning is spread over three years, so the actual utilisation of
money that occurred in 2013-14 was revealed in the budget announcements of
2015-16 on Wednesday. While close to Rs2,508 crore was allotted for health in
2013-14, only Rs1,894.47 crore were utilised. "Nearly Rs614 crore (up to 25%)
lie unutilised," said Ravi Duggal, researcher, International Budget Partnership.

In 2014-15, many new promises were made - constructing hospitals, acquiring
advanced machinery, such as MRI machines, and increasing the bed strength. The
promise of constructing hospitals, including one 600-bed facility in Bhandup, or
reconstruction of Bhagwati Hospital in Borivli was made over a year ago, but
neither has become a reality yet.

Corporators said the promises made in last year's budget have been repeated.
"For the past three years, the talk of refurbishing maternity homes in Mumbai is
on. The same pointers have been copied and pasted from last year's budget this
year. BMC has failed to implement its promises and proposals related to
augmentation of health infrastructure," said corporator from Kurla Rais Shaikh.

Shaikh added that BMC has got its priorities wrong. For a burgeoning population
of over 35,000 people suffering from TB, to allot a mere Rs1 crore for
constructing an 11-bed Intensive Respiratory Care Unit is nothing but a joke, he
said, slamming the Rs45 crore allotment for building a cultural centre.

Experts said BMC's health infrastructure is rotting in stagnation. "The health
budget is 10% of the overall BMC budget of Rs33, 540 crore, but if you look at
how BMC's money is spent a huge gap in actual spending is revealed," said
Duggal.

BMC's additional health commissioner Sanjay Deshmukh admitted there were
procedural delays in constructing hospitals and equipping them with
infrastructure. "The cost of building the hospitals escalated due to procedural
delays over the last two years," said Deshmukh.

More empty promises?

11

bed Intensive Respiratory Care Unit is proposed for TB patients at GTB Hospital
in Sewri; Rs1 crore has been set aside for it.

68

dialysis beds will be added to the current 38 through public-private
partnership.

1,000

bed Bhagwati Hospital in Borivli is being redeveloped.

Rs13cr

has been kept for cleaning up GTB Hospital premises, work of which will be
outsourced to an NGO.

Rs1,000

a month will be given to every handicapped leprosy patient.

Rs50L

has been earmarked for Arogya Bhavan to be built in Kasturba Hospital campus.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Nation (Kenya)

                             June 9, 2016 Thursday

Congolese doctor sues after licence is cancelled

BYLINE: MAUREEN KAKAH

LENGTH: 459  words


Dr Djemba argues the verdict was tainted with procedural impropriety, prejudice
and is unlawful.

A foreign doctor accused of causing the death of a woman during a botched birth
operation in a Nairobi hospital three years ago has moved to court to challenge
the cancellation of his practising licence.


Dr Joseph Omeonga Djemba sued the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board
(KMPDB) for cancelling his licence on May 26 over the April 8, 2013 incident.
Through lawyer Wilfred Mutubwa, Dr Djemba claimed that he discharged his duties
accordingly and that Ms Mary Njeri Gichuru died due to sudden uterine rapture as
well as massive bleeding occasioned by circumstances beyond his control.
The DR Congo national accused the board of delivering its verdict on a complaint
on negligence against him by the husband of the deceased, Mr Joshua Gichuru
Gathii, without according him a hearing.
As a result, he said, he was sacked by Fatima Maternity Hospital, a
Catholic-based institution in Ongata Rongai.
"Dr Djemba has been rendered jobless without any other source of income,
together with his family, they have suffered humiliation and untold mental
anguish, unless this matter is heard urgently, they stand to be prejudiced
irreparably," Mr Mutubwa said.
The University of Lubumbashi medicine graduate said he had recommended that the
woman required an emergency caesarean section operation. But just before the
surgery, she became restless and appeared shocked but was rushed to theatre.
Unfortunately, she succumbed to cardio-pulmonary arrest while being resuscitated
as soon as the operation had been done, said Dr Djemba. He alleged that he
removed a stillborn baby though her uterus was destroyed beyond repair as medics
fought to save the mother's life.
COMPILE REPORT
He claimed that he was asked to compile a report of what had transpired by the
hospital administrator but the board relied on a factually incorrect post mortem
report done by a pathologist known to the family of the deceased alone.
He argued that the verdict was therefore tainted with procedural impropriety,
prejudice and is therefore unlawful.
He also alleged that the public health and sanitation ministry officials who
conducted an inspection over the death did not cite negligence on his part.
He now wants the High Court to temporarily stop implementation of the board's
verdict against him and the hospital.
In the verdict, the board ruled that the hospital had failed to put up adequate
patient monitoring systems, was to compensate the family of the deceased Sh
100,000 in a month's time besides cancelling his license.  The Health Regulatory
body was also asked to inspect the hospital which was also ordered to present a
list of its professional health employees.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1144


                       Copyright 2016 Nation Media Group
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           February 4, 2012 Saturday

E-prescribing slashes prescription errors

LENGTH: 267 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Feb. 4 -- Prescribing errors can be slashed by 66 percent with the
introduction of electronic methods in hospitals.

University of New South Wales (UNSW) researchers reviewed 3,291 patient records
and looked at both procedural (incomplete, unclear medication orders) and
clinical (wrong dose, wrong drug) errors, and rated the potential severity of
the errors (minor to serious).

Researchers found that procedural prescribing error rates fell by more than 90
percent, and the most serious prescribing errors declined by 44 percent, the
journal Public Library of Science reports.

"The study provides persuasive evidence of the value of commercial e-prescribing
systems to significantly and substantially reduce a range of prescribing
errors," said study leader Johanna Westbrook, professor from UNSW's Australian
Institute of Health Innovation.

The six percent reduction was far beyond anything anticipated. Previous attempts
to reduce such errors, had resulted in an improvement of only around four
percent, Westbrook said, according to a UNSW statement.

"Prescribing errors are among the top hazards faced in a hospital setting," said
Ric Day, professor of pharmacology, who helped implement a commercial
e-prescribing system at Sydney's St Vincent's Hospital.

"Most of this technology was developed in the US with the big medical centres
designing their own customised systems," Westbrook said. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                            August 4, 2012 Saturday

New lab will treat patients locally

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 262  words


A SHORTFALL in cardiac health services in the Sunshine Coast region has been
counteracted with the launch of a new $18.45 million cardiac catheter laboratory
and procedural suites at Nambour General Hospital.

The facility enables heart patients to have treatment on the Coast, rather than
travelling to Brisbane for procedures that require the insertion of a catheter
into a heart chamber or major blood vessel.

"It is the only such facility that exists between Townsville and Brisbane," Mr
Springborg said.

The facility has been open since April, and has resulted in some 262 patients
receiving treatment in the catheter laboratory, while some 1500 patients have
had procedures in the adjacent procedural rooms.

"Treating patients locally not only cuts down on the need to travel or find
accommodation, it also allows them to stay close to family and friends," Mr
Springborg said.

The new suites include the latest technology for the cardiac treatment, and have
enabled an expansion of the hospital's vascular and endoscopy services to
improve treatment and patient diagnoses in that field.

"The new suites are strategically located directly above the coronary care unit
and the cardiac ward, with close links to the emergency department, intensive
care and operating theatres," Mr Springborg said.

"The Sunshine Coast Hospital and Health Services is contin-uing to grow and
expand its capabilities to look after the local community."

The new facility has seen the employment of 43 full-time equivalent staff, with
a further two extra cardiologists due to start work in September.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             August 12, 2016 Friday

Professional drivers' health record to be logged online in Dubai

LENGTH: 415 words


Medical centres that treat drivers of heavy trucks, buses and taxis required to
notify Dubai's Roads and Transport Authority

Image Credit: Gulf News Archive Staff Report

Dubai: Accredited hospitals that issue occupational health certificates to the
drivers of heavy trucks, buses and taxis must specify the details of the
treatment they give to the patients online to ensure road safety and minimise
illness-related accidents, a senior official said on Friday.

The Roads and Transport Authority (RTA) has made it mandatory for accredited
hospitals and medical clinics that treat and give drivers of heavy trucks, buses
and taxis the green light to work after an illness to post the treatment
duration in the online system of such driving permits.

"Obliging hospitals to specify the treatment period and the type of treatment is
extremely important prior to the issuance of occupational permits to drivers of
heavy trucks, buses and taxis, which in turn consolidates the governance systems
through setting out procedural controls for the medical test," said Jamal
Assada, Director of Drivers Testing, RTA Licensing Agency.

Professional drivers who are suffering from certain illnesses are required to
take the prescribed medical treatment before appearing for retesting in order to
ensure a safe driving practice for the driver, road users and roads.

"Medical check-ups include measuring diabetes and blood pressure, and detecting
various eyesight-related ailments that constitute a realistic driving hazard.
Adopting the British Medical Standards, the medical testing system in Dubai is
at par with the European Standards, which are among the best in the industry,"
Assada said.

Around 114,000 drivers were tested in Dubai from the fourth quarter of 2013 to
mid-2016, resulting in the suspension of driving licences of more than 1,400
drivers.

"Stating the type and duration of treatment in the doctor's prescription will
generate safe results towards ensuring a sound driving environment. This
requirement is particularly relevant following the introduction of the unified
online system comprising all procedural matters -- starting from medical tests,
test results up to the final issuance of the occupational permit," Assada said.

The tests are conducted in a number of hospitals and clinics all over Dubai, the
names of which are listed on the RTA website (www.rta.ae). For more information,
call RTA's contact centre (8009090).

http://imgs.syndigate.info/34/57/51/147112580950.jpg

Medical test in Dubai

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2016 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 18, 2017 Tuesday

Trials on Valvular Heart Disease From ACC.17

LENGTH: 2575  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: American College of Cardiology has issued the following news
release:
SURTAVI: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement With a Self-Expanding
Bioprosthesis Compared With Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement in Patients at
Intermediate Surgical Risk: First Results From the SURTAVI Clinical Trial
(Presented by Michael J. Reardon, MD)


Key Question
What are the outcomes of patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS) undergoing
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) with a self-expanding
bioprosthesis compared with surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) who are at
intermediate surgical risk?
Characteristics
    1,746 patients underwent randomization at 87 centers; 1,660 underwent either
TAVR (CoreValve 84%, Evolut R 16%) or SAVR.
     Mean age: 79.8 ± 6.2 years.
     Mean STS score: 4.5 ± 1.6%.
     Primary outcome: composite of death from any cause or disabling stroke at
24 months.
Key Findings
    Primary outcome occurred in 12.6% in the TAVR group and 14.0% in the SAVR
group (met non-inferiority).
     Death from any cause at 2 years was similar (11.4% in TAVR, 11.6% in SAVR).

     Disabling stroke at 2 years tended to occur more commonly after SAVR (2.6%
in TAVR, 4.5% in SAVR; 95% confidence interval [CI] for difference -4.0 to 0.1).

     Echocardiographic findings: TAVR group compared with SAVR group had lower
mean aortic valve gradients, larger aortic valve areas, and a higher prevalence
of moderate to severe paravalvular aortic regurgitation (AR) at 1 year (5.3% in
TAVR vs. 0.6% in SAVR).
     SAVR was associated with higher rates of acute kidney injury, atrial
fibrillation (AF), and blood transfusion.
     TAVR was associated with a higher rate of post-procedural pacemaker
implantation (25.9 vs. 6.6%).
Implications
    TAVR using a self-expanding bioprosthesis in patient at intermediate
surgical risk with severe AS is non-inferior to SAVR over 2 years of follow-up.
     Post-procedural complications differ between TAVR and SAVR, most notably
stroke (strong trend), and rates of atrial fillbrilation and pacemaker
implantation; these may affect procedural choice and clinical management.
     The high pacemaker rate may be a barrier to widespread use of TAVR in
younger and lower risk populations.
     Longer follow-up is needed to assess durability of TAVR self-expanding
bioprosthesis.
STS/ACC TVT Registry: Comparison of In-Hospital and 1-Year Outcomes of
Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement for Failed Surgical Bioprosthesis Versus
Native Aortic Stenosis From the STS/ACC TVT Registry (Presented by E. Murat
Tuzcu, MD)
Key Question
What are the 1-year outcomes of valve-in-valve (ViV) TAVR compared with native
aortic valve (NV) TAVR?
Characteristics
    757 ViV TAVR and 28,895 NV TAVR were included from the STS/ACC TVT Registry
and linked to Medicare claims data for outcomes.
     1:2 simple matching was done based on STS-PROM reoperative risk of 7%,
inoperable or extreme risk designation, and hostile chest or porcelain aorta.
     Final cohort consisted of 750 ViV TAVR and 1,495 NV TAVR patients.
     ViV TAVR patients compared with NV TAVR were younger (79 vs. 84 years) and
more often male (61 vs. 54%).
     ViV TAVR indications: 333 (48%) significant AS, 135 (17.8%) probable AS, 95
(12.5%) pure AR, 167 (22%) mixed AS and AR.
     Outcomes: All-cause mortality, stroke, and heart failure (HF)
hospitalization at 30 days and 1 year.
Key Findings
    In-hospital mortality was 2% in ViV TAVR vs. 7% in NV TAVR.
     1 year mortality was 13% in ViV TAVR vs. 23% in NV TAVR (hazard ratio (HR)
0.49, 95% CI 0.63-0.69). Results persisted with stratifying patients according
to age <80 vs. [>=]80.
     Stroke rate at 1 year was 2% in ViV TAVR vs. 4% in NV TAVR (HR 0.41, 95% CI
0.2-0.82).
     HF hospitalization rate at 1 year was 12.3% in ViV TAVR vs. 15.6% in NV
TAVR (HR 0.71, 95% CI 0.54-0.95).
     On echocardiography, ViV TAVR had higher gradients across the aortic valve
compared with NV TAVR (17 vs. 8 mmHg, p < 0.001).
     Moderate or severe AR occurred in 2.8% of ViV TAVR vs. 9.5% of NV TAVR (p =
0.05).
Implications
    ViV TAVR is safe and carried out with good outcomes.
     It is unclear why patients with ViV TAVR had significantly better outcomes
than patients with NV TAVR, but it may have to do with differences in baseline
characteristics, the indication for the procedure (AS vs. AR), or other factors.

     A registry-based study or a randomized trial comparing ViV TAVR vs. re-do
SAVR is needed prior to changing clinical practice.
ADVICE Study: Real-World Comparative Effectiveness of Transcatheter Versus
Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement in the United States: An Analysis from Two US
Registries Linked to Medicare Data (Presented by J. Mathew Brennan, MD, MPH)
Key Question
What are the real-world outcomes of TAVR compared with SAVR for severe AS in the
United States?
Characteristics
    9,464 propensity-matched intermediate and high-risk (STS PROM [>=]3%)
patients enrolled in the STS/ACC TVT registry and linked to Medicare claims
database.
     4,732 underwent TAVR, and 4,732 underwent SAVR.
     Median age 82 years, 48% female, median STS-PROM 5.6%.
     76.3% of TAVR patients underwent transfemoral access.
     Outcome at 1 year: discharge to home, death, stroke, days alive and out of
the hospital.
Key Findings
    3% of TAVR and 5% of SAVR patients had in-hospital death (p < 0.001).
     2.5% of TAVR and 2.7% of SAVR patients had in-hospital stroke (p = 0.04).
     70% of TAVR and 41% of SAVR patients were discharged home.
     1 year mortality, stroke, and days alive and out of the hospital were not
statistically different between TAVR and SAVR groups.
Implications
    TAVR is a safe and effective alternative treatment to SAVR in intermediate
and high surgical risk patients with severe AS over 1 year of follow-up.
     Discharge to home is more common in TAVR group compared with the SAVR
group, reflecting the less demanding early recovery.
     Longer term follow-up of such real-world data is needed because the
clinical effects of differences in post-procedural complications (e.g., atrial
fillbrilation, pacemaker implantation, paravalvular AR) may not become evident
until later.
Procedural and Clinical Outcomes in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement for
Bicuspid Versus Tricuspid Aortic Valve Stenosis (Presented by Sung-Han Yoon, MD)

Key Question
What are the procedural and clinical outcomes in TAVR for bicuspid aortic valve
stenosis (BAV) vs. tricuspid (TAV) aortic valve stenosis?
Characteristics
    A multi-center (33 centers) observational Bicuspid AS TAVR registry was
utilized.
     Propensity-score matching design.
     546 BAV patients were matched to 546 TAV patients. All patients underwent
TAVR.
     Mean age in both groups was 77 ± 8 years. 63% males in BAV and 61% males in
TAV.
     Mean STS score of 4.6 ± 4.6 in BAV vs. 4.3 ± 3.0% in TAV (p = 0.29).
Key Findings
    Procedural success occurred in 85.3% of BAV group vs. 91.4% in TAV group (p
= 0.002). When only new-generation devices were included in the analysis (Sapien
3, Lotus, and Evolut R valves), procedural success was not statistically
different between the groups.
     In BAV compared with TAV, there were more aortic root injury (1.6 vs. 0%, p
= 0.004), second valve implantation (4.8 vs. 1.5%, p = 0.002), and paravalvular
leak (10.4 vs. 6.8%, p = 0.04). When only new-generation devices were included
in the analysis, there was no statistically significant difference in procedural
outcomes between the groups.
     At 30 days, there was no statistically significant difference in mortality,
stroke, bleeding, major vascular complications, or acute kidney injury.
     1 year all-cause mortality occurred in 11.6% of BAV vs. 11.2% in TAV (p =
0.28).
Implications
    In older patients with BAV, TAVR is feasible and safe compared with TAVR in
a TAV, with improved procedural success and outcomes using newer generation
devices.
     A trial of patients with BAV randomized to TAVR vs. SAVR is needed to guide
clinical practice.
RESOLVE and SAVORY: Subclinical Leaflet Thrombosis in Transcatheter and Surgical
Bioprosthetic Aortic Valves: Results From RESOLVE and SAVORY Registries
(Presented by Raj R. Makkar, MD)
Key Questions
What are the outcomes of subclinical leaflet thrombosis (SLT) in patients who
underwent TAVR vs. SAVR? What is the impact of novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs)
and warfarin on SLT and its clinical outcomes?
Characteristics
    931 patients were enrolled (RESOLVE: 657 patients; SAVORY: 274 patients).
     890 patients had interpretable computed tomography scans (CTs) (median time
to CT was 83 days), of which 138 underwent SAVR and 752 underwent TAVR.
     Patients with SLT were older (82 vs. 78.9 years, p < 0.001) and had less AF
(16% vs. 29.9%, p = 0.003).
Key Findings
    SLT occurred in 4% of SAVR patients vs. 13% of TAVR patients (p < 0.01).
     In the TAVR group, SLT occurred in 7.2% of CoreValve, 13.8% of Sapien,
13.3% of Lotus, and 30.8% in Portico.
     SLT occurred more frequently in patients on dual antiplatelet therapy (15%)
compared with patients on oral anticoagulants (4%) (p < 0.0001).
     NOACs (3%) and warfarin (4%) had similar rates of SLT (p = 0.72).
     In a subgroup of patients who underwent a follow-up echocardiogram, 14%
(12/88) with SLT vs. 1% (7/632) without SLT had mean AV gradients >20 mmHg and
an increase in AV mean gradient >10 mmHg (p < 0.0001).
     Stroke rates were not statistically different between SLT group (4.12
strokes per 100 person-years) and no SLT group (1.92 strokes per 100
person-years). However, transient ischemic attack rates were higher (4.18 vs.
0.6 transient ischemic attacks per 100 person-years; HR 5.89, 95% CI
1.87-18.62).
     In a subgroup of patients who underwent a follow-up CT scan; SLT resolved
in 36/36 patients receiving NOACs (n = 12) or warfarin (n = 24) but persisted in
20/22 patients not on oral anticoagulants (p < 0.0001).
Implications
    SLT is more frequent in TAVR patient than in SAVR patients. SLT is
associated with hemodynamic deterioration of the implanted valve. Oral
anticoagulation could help in treating SLT. Stroke rates were not statistically
different between both groups; however, transient ischemic attack rates were
higher in SLT group.
     Further studies are needed to establish whether SLT can be prevented by
short-term anticoagulation after TAVR, whether SLT leads to further valve
deterioration over longer follow-up, whether it has a causal relationship to
stroke, and whether treating with oral anticoagulants leads to better clinical
outcomes.
Silent Cerebral Microbleeds During TAVR: Insight From a Prospective Cerebral MRI
Cohort (Presented by Eric Van Belle, MD, PhD)
Key Questions
Are silent cerebral microbleeds (CMB) associated with the TAVR procedures? What
are the clinical and procedural predictors of CMB occurring during TAVR
procedures?
Characteristics
    84 patients enrolled and completed the imaging protocol.
     Detailed neurological assessments was done pre-TAVR and at 6 months
post-TAVR.
     Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed before and after
the TAVR procedure.
     Outcomes: incidence of CMB, post-procedural events, and mortality at 1
year.
Key Findings
    On pre-procedural MRI, 26% of patients had at least one CMB.
     Post-TAVR, CMB developed in 19 (23%) asymptomatic patients.
     History of bleeding, longer fluoroscopy time, prolonged exposure to
anticoagulation, balloon post-dilation, and post-procedural acquired Von
Willebrand disease were all predictors of new post-TAVR CMB.
     The presence of CMB at baseline and at 6 months follow-up was associated
with impaired cognitive function. No relationship with mortality was found.
Implications
    There is a high incidence of new CMB after TAVR procedures. Although its
presence is associated with impaired cognitive function, its effect on clinical
outcomes and how the incidence can be modulated remain to be defined.
Clinical Outcomes at 1-Year After Commercial Transcatheter Mitral Valve Repair
in the United States (Presented by Paul Sorajja, MD)
Key Question
What are the acute, 30-day, and 1-year outcomes of commercial transcatheter
mitral valve repair with the MitraClip system in the United States?
Characteristics
    2,952 patients were enrolled in the STS/ACC TVT registry. Of those, 1,867
(63%) were linked to Medicare claims data.
     Acute procedural success was defined as achieving mitral regurgitation (MR)
[<=]2, without surgery or death.
     Median age was 82, 56% males; 86% had degenerative MR only.
     Median STS-PROM was 6.1% for MV repair and 9.2% for MV replacement.
Key Findings
    Acute procedural success was achieved in 91.8% of all patients enrolled in
the STS/ACC TVT registry. In-hospital mortality was 2.7%, and 85.9% were
discharged home.
     Of the 1,867 patients who were linked to Medicare data, 25.9% died at 1
year, and 20.2% had HF rehospitalization; 37.9% either died or were
rehospitalized for HF by 1 year.
     At 1 year, 6.2% required repeat MitraClip procedure, and 2.1% underwent MV
surgery.
     Predictors of all-cause mortality at 1 year: age, dialysis, moderate to
severe lung disease, left ventricular ejection fraction, severe tricuspid
regurgitation, and residual grade III and IV MR.
Implications
    The real-world data in the United States show the acute safety and
effectiveness of the MitraClip system for MR.
     Further studies are needed to enhance patient selection given the high
all-cause mortality rate at 1 year.
Comparative Effectiveness of Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion Among Atrial
Fibrillation Patients Undergoing Cardiac Surgery: A Report From the Society of
Thoracic Surgeons Adult Cardiac Surgery Database (Presented by Daniel J.
Friedman, MD)
Key Question
What is the effectiveness of surgical left atrial appendage occlusion (S-LAAO)
in the reduction of thromboembolism (TE) among patients with AF?
Characteristics
    10,524 patients (37% had S-LAAO) were enrolled from STS registry and linked
to Medicare claims data.
     Median age: 75 years.
     Surgeries: 35% coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), 35% aortic
procedures ± CABG, and 30% mitral procedures ± CABG.
     Primary endpoint: 1 year readmission for TE.
     Secondary endpoint: hemorrhagic stroke, death, and a composite endpoint.
     Inverse probability weighted analysis was done.
Key Findings
    1.6% of patients who underwent S-LAAO had an admission for TE at 1 year
compared with 2.5% of patients without S-LAAO; adjusted HR of 0.62 (95% CI
0.46-0.83).
     S-LAAO was associated with a reduction in all-cause mortality at 1 year (HR
0.85, CI 0.74-0.97). No reduction in the risk of hemorrhagic stroke was
observed.
     When patients were stratified according to discharge anticoagulation
status, and after the adjustment of concomitant surgical AF ablation, S-LAAO was
associated with less TE among patients discharged without anticoagulation (HR
0.29, CI 0.14-0.60) but not among patients discharged on anticoagulation.
Implications
    In this retrospective evaluation of a heterogeneous population, after
adjustment for surgical AF ablation, S-LAAO is associated with a reduced
incidence of TE, but this benefit is confined to those patients discharged
without anticoagulation.
     Although S-LAAO appears to be effective, a randomized trial is needed prior
to large-scale adoption in clinical practice.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            The Press (Christchurch)

                           January 31, 1998, Saturday

High praise for Burwood spinal unit

BYLINE: JACKSON Greg

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 4; REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 242 words


New Zealand's health system would be a lot easier to run if it did as the
Burwood Hospital Spinal Injuries Unit has done, says Health Minister Bill
English.

Mr English said the unit had provided real leadership'' by becoming the first
acute unit to gain an internationally recognised industrial qualification such
as ISO 9000 accreditation.

The spinal unit, which Mr English visited yesterday, had provided proof that
complex medical units can provide set performance standards by getting the ISO
9000 accreditation.

The way Burwood codified its procedures had big implications for other health
service providers, he said.

A big issue is how do you know that a hospital is running properly?''

In the absence of set performance and procedural standards it was often hard to
tell how well hospitals were performing. Controversy and criticism of aspects of
other health services had been able to flourish because there often were no set
standards for evaluating circumstances.

Across the health services the attention given to this issue has been patchy,''
Mr English said.

Recent investigations into patient safety at Christchurch Hospital would have
been simpler if similar detailed procedural guidelines had been available.

--------------------

CAPTION:

PHOTO: DEAN KOZANIC Physiotherapist Jennifer Hall, left, and Tony Flutey discuss
their work at the Burwood Hospital gymnasium with Health Minister Bill English.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 Fairfax New Zealand


                              174 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday

Cancer control programme facing hurdles in the state

BYLINE: Ashish Gaur

SECTION: INDORE

LENGTH: 440 words


INDORE: Almost two years after rolling out the national programme for prevention
of cancer at five centres, the state is struggling to start cancer screening and
treatment at its district hospitals.

The aim of Union ministry of health and family welfare to strengthen diagnosing
and treating patients in Ratlam in 2010 and subsequently in Dhar, Jhabua,
Hoshangabad and Chhindwara in 2011 failed to come out of paper due to shortage
of trained manpower.

Joint director Dr Sharad Pandit says lack of trained manpower is the biggest
hurdle in starting the screening for different types of cancers, which is
required under the programme.

He said, "Phase-wise screening and chemotherapy facility had to come up in two
district hospitals in Indore division and then extend further. Screening and
early diagnosis facilities were mulled over by the Centre to curb the disease
but there is a lot to be done on the ground." He further said that the
government was trying to implement the programme in the district hospitals but
lack of trained manpower, infrastructure and lack of ground work posed a problem
for its start.

The Union ministry in 2010 had also planned to upgrade Regional Cancer Centers
(RCC) at Gwalior and Bhopal to Tertiary Cancer Centers (TCC) along with
government-run cancer hospital in Indore but the matter too stuck up in
procedural hassles.

Dr Fakruddin, superintendent, cancer hospital, said, "Union government wanted to
upgrade the centers for which a grant of Rs 6 crore had to come. We had applied
for it and report was sent to the higher officials but the matter seems to have
gone in cold baggage."

According to sources, state government is looking for an option to set up linear
accelerator amounting Rs 8-9 crore on PPP model in cancer hospitals, which has
shelved the up gradation scheme of Union government. It is to be noted that
among half a million cancer deaths in the country, the state has a share of
27,214 deaths in the year 2011.

Expressing concerns over the spreading disease, Dr Dilip Acharya, chairman, MP
State Tobacco and Cancer Control Committee said, "State government initiative to
ban tobacco from coming month is appreciable and would put a curb on cancer
menace. We are also hopeful that government would expedite the process of
setting up tertiary cancer centre in the city so that people here and nearby
areas would get treatment facility."

The Union ministry in 2010 had planned to upgrade Regional Cancer Centers at
Gwalior and Bhopal to Tertiary Cancer Centers along with government-run cancer
hospital in Indore but the matter was stuck up in procedural hassles.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     October 28, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Medtronic Focuses on Preventable Patient Safety Issue: Respiratory Compromise

LENGTH: 986  words


Oct. 28 -- Medtronic plc (NYSE: MDT) today announced findings from two clinical
studies, the first validating the clinical utility of the Integrated Pulmonary
Index(TM) (IPI) in the post anesthesia care unit (PACU) to identify respiratory
adverse events (RAE) and the second, a study on the cost-effectiveness of
capnography in gastrointestinal (GI) sedation. The study results highlight the
need for clinicians to actively monitor for respiratory compromise following
general anesthesia and procedural sedation with both pulse oximetry and
capnography. These data were presented at the ANESTHESIOLOGY 2015 annual meeting
in San Diego.

Respiratory failure is the second-most frequently occurring preventable safety
adverse event[1] causing higher mortality rates, longer hospital and intensive
care unit stays, and billions of additional healthcare dollars spent each
year.[2, 3] It is rapidly becoming the third most costly hospital inpatient
expense in the U.S.2 Respiratory Compromise, which consists of respiratory
insufficiency, failure and arrest, dramatically increases the likelihood of
adverse outcomes and cost of patient care. Currently, 13 million patients use
patient-controlled analgesia each year and up to 678,000 of these patients
experience life-threatening, opioid-induced respiratory depression.[4]

"The findings presented today demonstrate the clinical benefits and potential
cost savings capnography can provide across a broad spectrum of patients," said
Michael Tarnoff, MD, vice president and chief medical officer, Minimally
Invasive Therapies Group at Medtronic. "These studies underscore Medtronic's
commitment to reducing the growing burden of respiratory compromise across
clinical settings to improve the health and care of patients."

Abstract #3024: Integrated Pulmonary Index Can Predict Respiratory Adverse
Events in Postoperative High-Risk Hypoventilation Patients at Post-Anesthesia
Care Unit

A prospective observational study found using Medtronic's IPI in the PACU can
help predict respiratory adverse events, also referred to as respiratory
compromise, more effectively than pulse oximetry alone. The study evaluated 163
patients at high-risk for hypoventilation (breathing at an abnormally slow rate)
in the PACU following general surgery, enrolled at two hospitals in Japan
between October 2014 and February 2015. Patients at high-risk for
hypoventilation were defined as having a body-mass index of more than 28
(considered obese) or were more than 75 years old. At both PACUs, these patients
were monitored with electrocardiography and for blood pressure as well as
Medtronic's Capnostream(TM) 20 patient monitor, which measured pulse oximetry,
pulse rate, respiratory rate and end-tidal carbon dioxide for the IPI. The study
investigated onset of RAE defined as a respiratory event with prolonged stay in
PACUs or transfer to intensive care units due to airway narrowing, hypoxemia,
wheezing and apnea.

Of the 163 patients enrolled in the study, 7 percent (11 patients) had an RAE.
The study found that the initial IPI of the RAE patients was lower compared to
the non-RAE patients (6.5  2.5 vs. 9.1  1.3; p&lt;0.0001) and the initial SpO2
of the RAE patients was lower than the non-RAE patients (96.6  4.4% vs. 98.3
1.9%; p=0.0147). Importantly, the authors concluded that the sensitivity and
specificity of IPI was better than that of SpO2 for onset of RAE.

"It is critical that patients who are administered any type of sedation, from
general anesthesia to procedural sedation, be carefully monitored for signs of
respiratory compromise," said Hiroshi Morimatsu, MD, PhD, director,
Anesthesiology and Resuscitology Department at Okayama University Hospital in
Japan. "Capnography monitoring can detect subtle changes in respiratory status
and provide the earliest indication of airway compromise. The findings from this
study provide further evidence of the necessity to use capnography, along with
the Integrated Pulmonary Index, for postoperative patients, especially those
with high risk of hypoventilation."

To monitor the respiratory status of patients and identify early changes in a
patient's breathing, Medtronic developed the IPI, an algorithm that incorporates
four real-time vital signs (end-tidal CO2, pulse oximetry, respiratory rate and
pulse rate) into a single number. MicrostreamTM capnography plays a critical
role in the PACU to monitor for respiratory compromise, providing the earliest
indication of a change to a patient's breathing by measuring levels of exhaled
carbon dioxide.

Abstract #4163: Modeling the Cost Effectiveness of Capnography Monitoring During
Procedural Sedation for Endoscopy

A cost-efficacy modeling study of capnography during procedural sedation for
endoscopy was also presented at ANESTHESIOLOGY 2015. The study found that
MicrostreamTM capnography was likely to be cost-effective and may have important
applications to patient safety during endoscopy. Based on the cost-efficacy
model assuming 8,000 patients in one year and a capnography cost of $4,000 per
monitor, study researchers found capnography was estimated to prevent nine
procedure terminations, two unplanned hospital admissions and an
anesthesiologist intervention. The study also found the use of capnography for
endoscopy reduced adverse events, resulting in a savings of $123 per procedure
after one year.

"Capnography monitoring is considered the standard of care during deep sedation
administered by anesthesiologists," said John Vargo, MD, MPH, chair,
Gastroenterology Department of the Digestive Disease Institute at the Cleveland
Clinic. "Our study results concluded that capnography can be cost effective when
used during endoscopic sedation practices where a mixture of deep and moderate
sedation is employed."

This document has footnotes and they may be found at:
(http://newsroom.medtronic.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=251324&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=2103
395)

Source: Medtronic

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 15, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

TriVascular Technologies Announces First Patients Treated in Europe with Ovation
iX Abdominal Stent Graft System

LENGTH: 434  words


Sept. 15 -- TriVascular Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:TRIV) announced today that
the first European patients have been treated successfully with the Ovation iX
Abdominal Stent Graft System in Germany and England. Building off of the
clinically proven Ovation platform, the Ovation iX System provides physicians
with options for greater procedural consistency and ease of use.

With the new system, contralateral gate access can be achieved either by
retrograde cannulation or through a new, built-in cross-over lumen. Cannulation
of the contra-lateral limb has been a common procedural challenge during EVAR,
especially when treating the growing number of patients with complex aortoiliac
anatomy. TriVascular's patent-pending crossover lumen technology offers
physicians an optional capability designed for easier and more predictable
cannulation of the contralateral limb when they need it. The Ovation iX System
received CE Mark and approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
earlier this year. The first implants in Europe were performed last week at
Herz- und Gefasszentrum Bad Bevensen, Germany and Watford General Hospital,
United Kingdom.

Dr. Thomas Nolte, Head of Vascular Surgery at Herz- und Gefasszentrum Bad
Bevensen, commented, "The Ovation platform, based on its breadth of application
and the strength of its clinical data, is my frontline device. The new Ovation
iX delivery system allows me to deploy the Ovation stent graft with increased
ease and predictability. The iX system is the latest delivery system improvement
from TriVascular in what is now a five year experience with the Ovation platform
in Germany."

Over 1,000 patients, including the first cases completed in Europe, have been
treated with the Ovation Platform in Germany since 2010. The launch of the
Ovation iX Abdominal Stent Graft System demonstrates TriVascular's ongoing
commitment to providing physicians with clinically valuable technologies.

The Ovation iX System will be featured at the annual DGG (Deutschen Gesellschaft
fur Gefasschirurgie und Gefassmedizin) Congress, taking place in Munster,
Germany from 16th - 19th September. Dr. Nolte will be joined by Prof. Eric
Verhoeven, Prof. Omke Teebken and Prof. Gotz Richter for a symposium on 17
September.

The Ovation platform has been used in the successful treatment of over 7,500
patients worldwide. Excellent clinical results have been reported from both the
Ovation global pivotal trial and a 501-patient European Post-Market Registry.
The Ovation Prime and Ovation iX systems are available for sale in over 35
countries.

Source: TriVascular Technologies

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           September 2, 2014 Tuesday

AstraZeneca reports results from Phase IV ATLANTIC study of Brilinta/Brilique

SECTION: DRUG MANUFACTURING; Product Developments

LENGTH: 728 words



HIGHLIGHT: AstraZeneca has announced the results of the Phase IV ATLANTIC study,
which indicates that the profile of BRILINTA/BRILIQUE (ticagrelor) is comparable
whether administered in a pre-hospital or in-hospital setting to ST segment
elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients.


The data will be presented during the European Society of Cardiology congress1
taking place between 30 August and 3 September 2014 in Barcelona.

ATLANTIC was designed to evaluate pre-hospital administration versus in-hospital
administration of ticagrelor in terms of pre-percutaneous coronary intervention
(PCI) - or angioplasty - procedural effectiveness, bleeding at 24 hours and 30
days and the pre-specified composite endpoint of death, MI, stroke, urgent
revascularisation and definite acute stent thrombosis at 30 days. Research shows
that the effectiveness of PCI may be impacted by delays caused when transferring
patients with acute STEMI to the catheterisation lab in hospital, and that STEMI
patients have a high risk of persistent and total coronary occlusion
(obstruction of blood flow in the coronary artery), resulting in a higher risk
of short-term mortality2.

There was no statistically significant difference between the pre-hospital or
in-hospital study arms in the co-primary endpoints of pre-PCI procedural
effectiveness; percentage of patients not achieving ST segment elevation
resolution [>=]70% before PCI (OR 0.93;95% CI 0.69, 1.25; p=0.632), and
percentage of patients not reaching thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI)
flow grade 3 in the infarct-related - or "culprit" - artery at initial
angiography (OR 0.97; 95% CI 0.75, 1.25; p=0.821).

The ATLANTIC study was not powered to look at clinical outcomes, however there
was no difference between the two arms in terms of composite endpoint. The pre-
hospital administration of ticagrelor indicates a risk reduction of post-PCI
stent thrombosis (a secondary endpoint) both at 24 hours (0% versus 0.8%;
nominal p = 0.0078) and 30 days (0.2% versus 1.2%; nominal p=0.023).

The study results also showed that there was no difference in bleeding events
between the pre-hospital and in-hospital study arms, the primary safety endpoint
of the study. Rates of bleeding events that were not related to coronary-artery
bypass grafting were low during the first 48 hours after the initial dose, and
from 48 hours through to 30 days, and the rates did not differ significantly
between the two study groups, indicating that earlier, pre-hospital
administration of ticagrelor in patients with acute STEMI can be undertaken
without increased bleeding risk3.

"ATLANTIC has indicated that in STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI,
ticagrelor has the flexibility to be used safely in either pre-hospital or in-
hospital settings with a potential benefit on the early occurrence of stent
thrombosis" said Dr. Gilles Montalescot, MD, Professor of Cardiology at
Pitié-Salpétrière Hospital, Paris, France, and Primary Investigator of the
ATLANTIC study. "These results are in line with the new ESC/EACTS 2014
Guidelines on Myocardial Revascularisation that were also presented at this
year's ESC conference, which give a class I recommendation to start dual
antiplatelet therapy in STEMI patients at first medical contact."

Marc Ditmarsch, Global Development Lead for BRILINTA said: "The results from the
ATLANTIC study allow us to better understand the role of BRILINTA in treating
STEMI patients. The data indicates that BRILINTA has the flexibility to be
initiated pre-hospital or in-hospital in STEMI patients with no adverse impact
on bleeding. While not the primary focus of this study, the data indicating a
risk reduction of post-PCI stent thrombosis in those patients who received
BRILINTA before reaching hospital are also encouraging, and warrant further
investigation."

ATLANTIC is a key trial building on the results of the pivotal PLATO study,
which demonstrated that treatment with ticagrelor plus aspirin for 12 months was
associated with a 21% relative risk reduction (RRR) in cardiovascular death (4%
vs. 5.1%; 1.1% ARR; P=0.001) and a 16% RRR in MI compared to clopidogrel plus
aspirin at 12 months (5.8% vs. 6.9%; 1.1% ARR; P<0.005). PLATO was the first
study to report in the global PARTHENON programme, designed to address
unanswered questions in atherothrombotic disease and to investigate the impact
of BRILINTA on reducing atherothrombotic events. PARTHENON is AstraZeneca's
largest ever clinical trial programme, involving more than 80,000 patients
worldwide, and is part of the company's commitment to understanding and
advancing treatments for cardiovascular diseases to improve patient health.

LOAD-DATE: September 03, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                          September 11, 2010 Saturday

on Lucas to sack Bob

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 512  words



HIGHLIGHT: 2016: the year of the 'iron clad' promise


WITH hundreds listening, Health Minister Paul Lucas made an "iron clad"
guarantee that patients would be admitted to the new Sunshine Coast hospital in
2016.

His pledge was made at a Property Council lunch at Maroochydore Events Centre
yesterday.

The business community quizzed Mr Lucas about the timeframe of the $2 billion
project and job opportunities.

There has been growing frustration on the Coast at the lack of infrastructure
provisions from state and local governments.

The 450 bed Sunshine Coast University Hospital at Kawana, which will be a jobs
bonanza, should have been delivered in 2014.

And many in the construction industry also blame the amalgamated Sunshine Coast
Regional Council's "green policy" for a lull in development.

During the lunch, one businessman even went as far as telling Deputy Premier Mr
Lucas to use his powers to get rid of the "big fella" Mayor Bob Abbot.

Ken Brownjohn, of Rider Levett Bucknall, said it was understood that the Coast
was closed for business.

"It is like it is summer here but no one else is allowed to enjoy it," he said.

"We need to move forward."

Mr Brownjohn said he did not buy into Mr Abbot's excuse for stopping population
growth and dragging the chain on the Caloundra South development.

"Infrastructure is provided to booming communities," he said.

"You cannot cry about not having infrastructure in place if there is nothing in
place to attract it.

"It does not work the other way around. The Sunshine Coast is never going to
become like the Gold Coast.

"It has its own identity, it has Hastings Street and Twin Waters."

Mr Lucas said while he was concerned about housing affordability and
availability on the Coast, he respected Mr Abbot and would not comment on his
job security.

"Just like the last federal election and the last council election, the public
chose (their leader) democratically," he said. Mr Abbot is a very intelligent
man.

"But it must be said if the Coast does not free up more land, it will not
attract young families or couples."

Construction of the Sunshine Coast University Hospital is set to begin in 2013.

The three-year building phase is expected to provide 2000 jobs. The tenders for
the co-located private hospital will be announced next year. More than 300 jobs
will be on offer during construction. It will open in 2013 with 70 public beds.

Mr Lucas said there was no way Queensland Health could speed up the project.

"Instead we are strengthening health services on the Sunshine Coast," he said.

"This includes opening 90 beds at Nambour General Hospital, introduction of
cardiac catheterisation lab, vascular surgery procedural suite and endoscopy
procedural unit."

He said if the State Government could not find a public-private partnership for
Kawana hospital, they would seek their own funding. Many at the lunch hoped Mr
Lucas's "iron clad" promise would carry more weight than previous politician's
pledges.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                             August 12, 2013 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Banff MD loses bid on maternity ward; Closure will stand, judge decides

BYLINE: Cathy Ellis, For The Calgary Herald

SECTION: CITY & REGION; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: BANFF


The Alberta Court of Queen's Bench has thrown out a Banffdoctor's request for a
judicial review of the closure of the maternity ward at Mineral Springs
Hospital. Dr. Ian MacDonald claimed that Alberta Health Services and Covenant
Health had made the controversial decision without "necessary, appropriate and
meaningful consultation."

But in a 20-page ruling handed down July 17, Madam Justice S.L. Martin dismissed
the application.

She said the hospital's consultation was not perfect and may not stand as a
shining example of best practice, but the multiple steps taken do not fall short
of what is legally required.

Martin said from the point of view of common sense, good management and sound
human relations, it is easy to appreciate why. MacDonald believes the situation
could have been handled differently.

"The issue before me is not what ought to have been done to promote the best or
most inclusive decision possible. Rather, the court's focus is restricted to
what the law establishes as the requirements of procedural fairness," she wrote.

"Under the legal doctrine of legitimate expectations, the applicant must show
that there was a particular promise or representations that a certain process
would be followed and it was not."

The obstetric unit at Mineral Springs Hospital was closed March 25 and moved to
Canmore General Hospital. At the same time, all vascular and cosmetic surgery in
the Bow Valley was moved to Banff.

Babies will be delivered in Banffonly on an emergency basis and low-risk
expecting moms, their physicians and families from Banffhave to go to Canmore
for delivery, just 25 kilometres away.

Moderate and high-risk patients will continue to be sent to Calgary for
delivery, as was the case prior to the March 25 closure of the maternity ward.

The number of babies delivered in Banffhad been decreasing, to a low of 51 in
2012, while there are a growing number of deliveries in Canmore. There were 267
babies born in the Canmore hospital in 2012.

But MacDonald - who has practised general surgery and emergency medicine in
Banfffor 20 years - believes the decision to close the unit is short-sighted.

"The judgment shows clearly that they didn't consult," he said in an interview.

"Obviously its going to make it more difficult for us to look after our patients
in the Bow

Valley. Patients are very put out and are concerned about having to go to
Canmore."

MacDonald's wife and clinic partner is Dr. Jane Fowke, who, after Patti Edgar
went to a new family medical clinic in Canmore with a focus on obstetrics, was
the only doctor in Banffdelivering babies.

Hospital administrators told court that the decision was made in the best
interest of patient care and sustainability of obstetrics in the Bow Valley, not
to save money.

The hospital says that the low volume of births in Banffmeant it was difficult
for nurses to maintain the necessary skills in obstetrics, which is critical to
patient safety.

The hospital was also having trouble filling nursing vacancies because of the
need for the specialized skills in obstetrics. In 2009, obstetrics was suspended
for five months for this reason.

MacDonald claimed there was inadequate consultation before the decision was
made, citing a lack of procedural fairness that may result in safety risks to
mothers and babies.

MacDonald told the court he believes the decision to close the maternity ward
was based on economics alone.

"Removing local maternity services increases maternal and neo-natal risks," he
said in court documents.

With files from Tamara Gignac, Calgary Herald Cathy Ellis is a reporter with the
Rocky Mountain Outlook

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 15, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Doctors Hospital: OhioHealth Interventional Cardiologist First in Ohio to Use
Newly-Approved Device to Remove Calcified Coronary Lesions in High-Risk Patients

LENGTH: 447  words


July 15 -- OhioHealth interventional cardiologist Mitchell J. Silver, DO,
recently performed Ohio's first coronary atherectomy using the Diamondback 360
Coronary Orbital Atherectomy System, a vessel preparation treatment for severely
calcified coronary lesions developed by Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. and
FDA-cleared late last year.

"This is an exciting new device that allows us to safely remove calcified
lesions in coronary arteries before stent deployment," said Dr. Silver, who
performed the procedure with good initial results at OhioHealth Riverside
Methodist Hospital. "Calcification in the coronary arteries is difficult to
treat and translates into higher-risk stent procedures. This system enables us
to increase our procedural safety while ensuring optimal stent deployment in
these high-risk patients."

Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death for both men and women in
the United States. It's a condition that occurs when the arteries that supply
oxygen-rich blood and nutrients to the heart muscle become narrowed or blocked
by a gradual build-up of plaque, which is made up of fatty deposits, white blood
cells, calcium, and scar tissue that collect in the coronary artery wall.

Calcified arterial plaque is a sign of advanced coronary artery disease and
reduces the effectiveness of traditional treatments like angioplasty.
Angioplasty involves temporarily inserting and inflating a tiny balloon where
the artery is clogged to help widen the artery followed by the placement of a
small wire mesh tube called a stent to help prop the artery open and decrease
its chance of narrowing again. Because calcified plaque can be as hard as bones
and teeth, angioplasty cannot effectively widen clogged arteries when calcified
lesions are present.

The Diamondback system uses an electrically driven diamond-coated crown to
reduce the calcified lesions, widen the artery and enable successful stent
deployment.

The FDA granted approval for use of the Diamondback System on October 21, 2013.
The 30-day data from CSI's ORBIT II clinical study demonstrated that the
Diamondback 360 Coronary Orbital Atherectomy System technology produced clinical
outcomes that exceeded the trial's two primary endpoints (safety and efficacy)
by a significant margin.

At 30 days, ORBIT II results showed patient freedom from major adverse cardiac
events was 89.8 percent and procedural success was 89.1 percent. Excluding in-
hospital events, procedural success was 98.6 percent with 97.7 percent of stents
successfully delivered. Moreover, 92.8 percent of patients were free from severe
angiographic complications, and core lab assessed final procedure residual
stenosis was 4.7 percent.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                           September 10, 2007 Monday

ICD registry points to clear need for implant procedure training

LENGTH: 998 words


ICD registry points to clear need for implant procedure training

By DON LONG Medical Device Daily Executive Editor

When you implant an implantable device and something goes wrong, what's (who's)
to blame -- the implanted device or the physician doing the implanting?

A new registry report by the Heart Rhythm Society (HRS; Washington), points to
the second of these possibilities and, thus, the need for increased training in
this sector.

First-year data from the National ICD registry, just published in HeartRhythm,
the journal of HRS, reports few complications last year with implantable
cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs), but that a number of implanting physicians
had no formal training to do the procedure.

The first-year data showed that 15% of the 3,249 physicians lacked this
training.

The National ICD Registry is being touted as the nation's first comprehensive
database of detailed information about patients implanted with the devices. It
found that complications at the time of device implantation and prior to
hospital discharge occurred at a 3.6% rate in the more than 108,000 ICD
implantations at 1,117 hospitals. Adverse events included hematomas (1.2%), lead
dislodgement (1%) and death (0.02%).

But then that report only points to procedural issues, not device failures and
malfunctions, according to Stephen Hammill, MD, chair of the National ICD
Registry steering committee and past president of HRS.

Hammill told Medical Device Daily, "All the stuff that we report at this time
deals with the time of implantation, no follow-up." And the reporting time
period is "only a few days around hospitalization," with those reports only of
procedural complications.

"We don't have any indication related to devices or [failures of] leads."

He added that this follow-up data will be presented in future reports from the
registries, perhaps as early as the American Heart Association's (Dallas) annual
meeting in November.

Hammill said there is no umbrella requirement for training of cardiologists
implanting ICDs.

"[T]he filtering point," he said, "is when the physician applies to the hospital
credentialing committee to do a procedure, any kind of procedures." Hence,
approval to do the procedures is the responsibility of local credentialing
committee "to determine qualifications."

HRS, he said, has "tried to help the credentialing committees and developed
guidelines to all of the hospitals to help give them guidance."

Offering a hypothesis, Hammill said the reason for so many implants by those
without any formal training may be that hospital credentialing committees have
looked at the background of older docs, "with, I suspect, a significant amount
of experience with pacemaker implantation, and they've moved over to ICD
implantation."

Hammill said that there are a variety of ways for surgeons to get this
credentialing -- though not in medical school -- and that HRS in 2004 "put
together a different pathway for those individuals so they could gain some type
of credentials."

Hammill said that the "second version" of the registry will look at follow-up
data concerning implanted patients "and we will be combining registry data with
Medicare claims data and the National Death Index. This information will include
complications, such as infections, "further out in hospitalizations."

Hammill said that by the spring of 2008, the registry will be able to report
"immediate complications information that we can look at to tell us if there is
any relationship between training or the volume of a particular physician and
their specific outcomes with regard to complications."

Ongoing are four research protocols, he said, that look at various issues that
will be further extrapolated from the registry data -- "gender, race, others
with physician entering patients in the registry and their following recommended
implantation guidelines" -- with the expectation that some of this information
will be reported at the November AHA meeting. "And we'll get a much better
feeling for how often those problems are occurring," Hammill said.

Further out additional information will include data on the performance of ICDs
produced by all of the companies that make these devices.

The registry data comes from all of the U.S. hospitals that do ICD implants,
totaling 1,450, and representing the procedural experiences of "nearly" 3,900
physicians. HRS said.

As Hammill told MDD last year, when the registry was officially unveiled to
attendees at the HRS annual meeting, that the hospitals have little choice but
to provide the information since it is required as a qualification for receiving
reimbursement from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (MDD, May 10,
2007).

There has been no pushback, Hammill said. "We have all the hospitals that are
implanting ICDs participating in the registry."

And he added that "a gratifying aspect" of the effort is that "most of the
hospitals have elected to enter all their patients into the registry, Medicare
and non-Medicare."

"The nice aspect of the registry is that quarterly reports go back to every
hospital to compare their outcomes with national averages, plus averages of
hospitals of similar size."

He said that this helps hospitals "see if they're having more complications,
longer hospital stays or other issues." When a hospital sees data in an
"outlier" category, it can then drill down. "They can look deeper to see if
that's related to a procedure room or a particular physician" or some other
issue.

In a general assessment of the effort, Hammill said that it has the goal of
being "a constructive way to give feedback to these hospitals and physicians,
not point fingers."

And he said that as this follow-up data is added to future registry reports, it
will become even "more useful."

The registry was initiated in 2004 with convening of a registry working group,
CMS officially adopting the effort in 2005. It was then provided a sort of
public unveiling last year at the HRS annual meeting in Denver.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2007 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                              May 17, 2016 Tuesday

Clinical Trial: Pilot Study of a New Device (Buzzy(R)) for Procedural Pain
Relief During Needle-Related Procedures in Paediatric Patients

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., May 17 -- ClinicalTrials.gov registry received information related to the
study (NCT02771600) titled 'Pilot Study of a New Device (Buzzy(R)) for
Procedural Pain Relief During Needle-Related Procedures in Paediatric Patients'
on May 9.

Brief Summary: Needle-related procedures are the most important source of pain
and anxiety in pediatric patients. Consequently, needle-phobia and anxiety are
common in children with auto-immune disease and immune deficiency and may be
barriers to adherence in treatment. The use of a non-pharmacological and
easy-to-use approach, like the Buzzy(R) device, could be an alternative or
adjuvant for the management of procedural pain and anxiety of these children
during needle-related procedures.

This study aims to determine the feasibility, acceptability and satisfaction of
the Buzzy(R) device for procedural pain and anxiety relief of
immunology-rheumatology patients undergoing needle-related procedures. The
investigators will compare the Buzzy(R) device with an anaesthetic cream
(Maxilene(R)) during needle-related procedures. The investigators also plan to
assess feasibility outcomes and satisfaction of the nurses and the children with
the use of the Buzzy(R) device. This pilot study should refine or modify the
research methodology and improve the intervention being piloted before it's
efficacy will be verified within a larger scale-study.

The investigators strongly believe that the use of the Buzzy(R) device in
immunology rheumatology department could optimise procedural pain and anxiety
management. Since most of the treatments administered for auto-immune diseases
and immune deficiency diseases are through subcutaneous or intramuscular
injections, pain and anxiety management using non-pharmacological and/or
pharmacological interventions should be prioritized. Given this knowledge, the
investigators feel that this pilot study has the potential to contribute to pain
and anxiety management of children undergoing needle-related procedures.

Study Start Date: October 2016

Study Type: Interventional

Condition: Autoimmune Rheumatologic Disease

Immune Deficiency

Pain Due to Certain Specified Procedures

Child/Adolescent Problems

Intervention: Device: Buzzy

See arm description

Drug: Topical anaesthetic cream

See arm description

Other Name: Maxilene

Recruitment Status: Not yet recruiting

Sponsor: St. Justine's Hospital

Information provided by (Responsible Party): Ariane Ballard, St. Justine's
Hospital

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                           November 28, 2006 Tuesday

With Suit Settled, California Hospital District Set to Sell

BYLINE: Rich Saskal

SECTION: THE REGIONS; Pg. 3 Vol. 358 No. 32516

LENGTH: 504  words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The Silicon Valley-area El Camino Hospital District is preparing to go to

market this week with $148 million of general obligation bonds.

The deal is expected to price Wednesday, according to the bond calendar

published by underwriter Citigroup Investment Banking.

The offering comes more than three years after voters in the Santa Clara

County district passed the bond measure by more than 70%. District officials

originally hoped to issue the debt to finance a new hospital building in 2004

and begin construction in 2005.

Their plans were delayed by a taxpayer lawsuit that the district settled

earlier this year to get on with the project. The suit caused several months

of construction delays, according to Marla Gularte, the district's chief

financial officer.

"Our original start date was November of '05," she said. "We delayed it

to the summer [of 2006] because we could not get that lawsuit resolved."

Aaron Katz, who owns property in the district but lives elsewhere, filed

the lawsuit. It challenged three different voter-approved tax measures in

Santa Clara County with the argument that, as a property owner paying the

tax, he should have the right to vote on the tax.

Though his arguments have not prevailed in court, the Hospital District

and the West Valley-Mission Community College District settled their cases

rather than wait for the legal process to conclude.

The El Camino district reported settling the case in May for $200,000.

West -Valley-Mission reportedly settled for $60,000 late last year. The

college district issued $100 million of GO bonds this April.

The remaining plaintiff in the Katz lawsuit, Campbell Union High School

District, has a voter-approved parcel tax for operations.

A state Superior Court judge ordered the lawsuit against Campbell Union

dismissed on procedural grounds, because the reverse validation action Katz

filed failed to meet statutory requirements.

Katz's legal argument, which would fundamentally reshape local-tax GO

bond and election practices in California, was not addressed.

On Nov. 14, the Sixth District Court of Appeal upheld the lower court's

dismissal of the case.

"Since we affirm for the procedural reasons upon which the trial court

relied, we do not reach the substantive issues," according to the appeal

court opinion.

Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP is bond counsel for the El Camino GO

bond deal, which is expected to carry insurance on top of the district's high

underlying ratings: AA-minus from Standard & Poor's and Aa2 from Moody's

Investors Service.

The bonds are backed with an unlimited property tax pledge.

"The cities in the district's service area form the wealthiest core of

Santa Clara County," according to Moody's.

The new hospital is slated to open in 2009. The district plans to issue

about $250 million of revenue bonds to complete it.

"We should be issuing revenue bonds probably in the early spring of '07,"

Gularte said. The district expects to issue $120 million of revenue bonds

then, followed by $250 million in 2008.

http://www.bondbuyer.com http://www.sourcemedia.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: b


                        Copyright 2006 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                Central Telegraph and Rural Weekly (Queensland)

                                 June 29, 2012

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 345  words



HIGHLIGHT: Mums want tohave childrenclose to home


LAST Friday, I had the pleasure of opening the Macintyre Maternity, Child and
Family Health Service in Goondiwindi.

Happy mums, toddlers and babies joined me at the event. It reinforced to me the
importance of women being able to give birth close to home, close to their
families and without the need to travel.

I was born at Inglewood Hospital and two of my four children were also born
there. I share the concerns of families and rural mums who want to be able to
give birth and have support services close to home.

The well-documented financial difficulties left by the former State Government
require us to keep a tight rein on expenditure but we remain committed to
improving front-line service delivery.

In rural Queensland, we have increased flying obstetrics and gynaecology
services (FOGS) out of Roma and begun a plan to re-open obstetric and procedural
services at other regional and rural locations.

Currently, the Roma FOGS contract is delivered via the Royal Flying Doctor
Service. The contract will be more than doubled in size as it expands in stages
from the current 400 flying hours a year to up to 1000 flying hours.

Meanwhile, on the ground, obstetric and procedural services at Beaudesert
Hospital will be re-introduced by July, 2014.

The previous Labor Government dropped the ball when it came to front-line
service delivery. In rural Queensland and every other part of the state, decades
of centralism have undermined local priorities and services.

Within the next week, local control of health priorities will be regained when
Hospital and Health Boards take up duty in communities across the state. The
head office of Queensland Health will be restructured.

Together, these initiatives help spell out the future of our statewide health
service. Our health workers deliver services essential to Queenslanders at every
stage of their lives. I am determined to see them valued and encouraged in the
good work they do.

Queensland Minister for Health Lawrence Springborg writes exclusively for Rural
Weekly CQ each week as part of our focus on rural health.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RRW


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           August 29, 2002, Thursday

OPERATIONS ARE SUSPENDED AFTER PROCEDURAL ERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 207 words


ALL orthopaedic operations have been suspended at a hospital after a procedural
error forced the withdrawal of an entire theatre team.

The incident at Prince Charles Hospital in Merthyr Tydfil prompted North
Glamorgan NHS Trust to announce yesterday a halt all further procedures pending
an external investigation.

The error was further compounded when the trust was unable to assemble a
replacement team because of staff shortages during the summer holiday period.

It would have left insufficient cover to ensure patient safety, although all
other surgery apart from orthopaedics is continuing.

The orthopaedic team, including a consultant surgeon and nursing staff, have
been stopped from carrying out further surgery and are working in different
areas of the hospital.

Phil Williams, the trust's board secretary and director of corporate services,
said the withdrawal of the team was a standard response to an incident during an
operation in which a checking procedure was not properly implemented, resulting
in an error being made.

"Although it was not life-threatening and was rapidly spotted and rectified -
with no long term effects for the patient - the trust takes any such incident
seriously," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd


                              186 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Nurses to be questioned by police over C Diff deaths;
Legal advice offered on 'procedural' questions

BYLINE: MARIANNE TAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words


NURSES at Vale of Leven Hospital are seeking legal advice after being told they
will be the first in Scotland to be questioned by police over an outbreak of a
superbug.

It is believed nursing staff at the West Dunbartonshire hospital will  face "
procedural" questions as part of an investigation launched by Strathclyde Police
and the Health and Safety Executive in November last year after Clostridium
Difficile (C Diff) was linked to the deaths of 18 people. Another 55 patients
were affected by the outbreak between December 2007 and last June.

A report in the magazine Nursing Standard, published yesterday, revealed that
nurses would be among the health professionals questioned as part of the probe.

Since this is the first police investigation of its kind to take place in
Scotland, it is also understood to be the first time Scots nurses have been
questioned in this way.

It is not clear how many members of the nursing staff will be questioned by
officers. However a source, at the Royal College of Nursing (RCN) said she
believed the questions would be "procedural" rather than based on individual
actions on any given day.

Norman Provan, of RCN Scotland, said: "As this is a very difficult time for
staff in the Vale of Leven, we are offering support to all our members. For
those who are asked to be interviewed by police, we are making arrangements for
them to meet with our legal advisers prior to being interviewed. We are also
encouraging any of our members with concerns about the investigation to get in
touch with their local RCN Scotland officer."

An independent report into the outbreak was published last summer, outlining a
litany of hygiene failures at Vale of Leven. Senior managers at the hospital
could face criminal charges.

A total of 16 police officers are investigating the outbreak after the force set
up a major incident room at Dumbarton police station. The Health and Safety
Executive has six members of staff working on a separate investigation.

Victims' relatives have called for a public inquiry into the Vale of Leven
deaths but Health Secretary Nicola Sturgeon has said she is reluctant to launch
such an inquiry while a police probe is ongoing.

A spokeswoman for NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said the health board was
co-operating fully with the investigation and was offering support to staff. She
added: "This police inquiry is not an unexpected development as it has been
stated publicly for some time that the police and procurator-fiscal
consideration over the outbreak would involve an inquiry and subsequent report
to establish if there are any grounds for further actions including
consideration of any ensuing criminal proceedings."

A spokeswoman for Strathclyde Police said the force would not comment on the
exact roles of those to be questioned by officers. However, she added it was
"logical" that nurses would be a part of any investigation.

"We will be looking into the circumstances surrounding the deaths of a number of
individuals within the Vale of Leven Hospital, " she added. "This inquiry will
be undertaken jointly with the Health and Safety Executive and the findings
reported to the Crown. The purpose of this is to carry out a full enquiry into
all of the circumstances surrounding a number of deaths linked to the C Diff
virus."

The Scottish Government announced new rules this week which will compel health
boards to monitor hospital bug infections more closely.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2009 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Arizona Capitol Times

                              May 31, 2013 Friday

Mental health contract put on hold in Maricopa County, potentially delaying new
approach to patient care

BYLINE: Jeremy Duda

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 712  words


A multibillion-dollar contract for mental health services in Maricopa County is
on hold while the Arizona Department of Administration sorts through a protest
by the losing bidder.

ADOA issued a stay on a contract awarded by the Arizona Department of Health
Services to Mercy Maricopa Integrated Care. That could delay its implementation
beyond the Oct. 1 start date, with services continuing on a month-to-month
basis.  Still, a mental health advocate said the delay could lead to "dreadful
consequences'' for patients.

The three-year contract, worth $2 billion to $3 billion, depending on whether
Gov. Jan Brewer's Medicaid expansion plan is implemented, would provide mental
and physical health services to about 12,000 seriously mentally ill patients in
Maricopa County.

The stay was issued after Magellan Health Services, which has provided
behavioral health services for the county since 2007, appealed. Magellan alleged
that Mercy Maricopa Integrated Care, a partnership between the county hospital
system and Mercy Care Plan, unfairly received the contract after violating
confidentiality agreements, using Magellan's trade secrets and other
improprieties that the company said effectively rigged the bidding process.

But all parties involved say the stay has nothing to do with the substance of
Magellan's arguments. Jeff Grant, deputy director to ADOA Director Brian McNeil,
wrote in the agency's decision that a stay is appropriate because of the size of
the contract, the scope of the services and the impact of the transition between
the two providers. Grant also said it is unknown whether a lawsuit filed by
Magellan against Maricopa Integrated Health System, the county hospital system,
will affect the appeal of the contract.

In a blog post on the ADHS website, Director Will Humble wrote that stays of
protested contracts are common, and emphasized that it wasn't based on the
merits of Magellan's appeal. Humble described it as a procedural decision to
give ADOA enough time to review the materials submitted by the agency, Magellan
and Mercy Maricopa Integrated Care.

Cory Nelson, ADHS deputy director for behavioral health services, said the stay
"wasn't unexpected. " But it could potentially delay the scheduled Oct. 1
beginning of Mercy Maricopa Integrated Care's contract. If the stay pushes the
official transition back, Nelson said ADHS would continue its contract with
Magellan on a month-to-month basis.

"No matter what, at the end of the day our members are going to receive
services," Nelson said.

Magellan of Arizona CEO Richard Clarke and spokeswoman Mary Ehlert also said the
stay was simply a procedural matter. Ehlert said the stay isn't indicative of
how ADOA will rule on Magellan's appeal.

"It's not really a ruling on our appeal at all. It's really just about the stay.
It's not really an indicator one way or the other," Ehlert said.

Some mental health advocates, however, are concerned about the impact that a
delay in the new contract might have. Charles "Chick" Arnold, an attorney who
won the landmark Arnold v. Sarn ruling on mental health services in Maricopa
County, emphasized that the new contract will provide services that the old one
didn't.

While Magellan's current contract is for behavioral health services only, the
new contract is for integrated services that provide both mental and physical
health treatment. On average, people with serious mental illnesses die 32 years
earlier than other people, Arnold said, and most of the time the cause of death
is physical issues that go untreated such as asthma or diabetes.

Arnold said he fears "dreadful consequences" if such treatment is delayed.

"People were excited about the notion of an integrated system and to suggest
that it might be delayed is going to have a negative impact on the collective
mindset of our mental health community," Arnold said. "The current delivery
system isn't responsive. It's not accessible and needs to move toward an
integrated system. And the state has recognized that in the way the RFP was
drafted. "

In the meantime, ADHS is asking the Department of Administration to reconsider
the stay.

http://www.azcapitoltimes.com/be-the-first-to-know/Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Government activity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1986, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                 November, 1986

                         Vol. 19, No. 11, HOSPLW Pg. 11

LENGTH: 339 words

TITLE: Medical Records; Missouri Statute Granting Privilege to Peer Review
Records Applied Retroactively

TEXT:

     The Missouri Court of Appeals granted a writ of prohibition relieving a
hospital from the obligation to produce peer review committee documents.  These
records included minutes of hospital meetings and conferences pertaining to the
hospitalization, care and treatment of plaintiffs in an underlying malpractice
suit.

   The hospital had refused to comply with the plaintiffs' request, averring
that the documents sought were privileged. The hospital based its objection on a
recently-enacted Missouri statute which provides that proceedings, finding,
deliberations, reports and minutes of peer review committees concerning the
health care provided any patient are privileged and shall not be subject to
discovery subpoena.  Before the statute's effective date, Missouri law
recognized no peer review privilege for factual statements.  The trial court had
overruled the hospital's objection and ordered it to produce the requested
documents.

   On appeal, the hospital asserted that the documents were privileged in
accordance with the new Missouri statute.  The respondent judge, however, argued
that the hospital was foreclosed from invoking the privilege the statute confers
because the date plaintiffs specified for discovery preceded the statute's
effective date.

   The court of appeals reasoned that procedural statutes, under the general
rule of statutory construction, are applicable to all pending cases.  Statutes
dealing with the discoverability of evidence are procedural.  The underlying
action was also pending in that it had not been reduced to a final, unappealable
judgment.  Thus, the statute applied to plaintiffs' discovery request.

   [Ed. note: Compare Hutchinson v. Smith Laboratories, Supreme Court of Iowa,
No. 86-325, Aug. 20, 1986 (Journal of Health Law, Vol. 19, No. 10, p. 7, Oct.
1986), refusing to grant judicial privilege of immunity to peer review records
since legislation granted privilege to future peer proceedings.  Implicitly, the
court refused to give the statute retroactive effect.]

REFERENCE: (State of Missouri ex rel., St. John's Mercy Medical Center v.
Hoester, Missouri Court of Appeals, Eastern District, Division Four, No. 51104,
April 15, 1986.)


                              189 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          Nambour Weekly (Queensland)

                                 August 9, 2012

$18m heart hub opens

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 191  words


NAMBOUR General Hospital's new $18 million cardiac catheter facility, laboratory
and procedural suites were officially opened last Friday.

The new ward can treat up to 40 patients a day, and employs an additional 43
full-time staff and two cardiologists.

Health Minister Lawrence Springborg said the development was a major boost for
public health services on the Sunshine Coast.

"For the first time public patients on the Sunshine Coast have access to the
diagnostic capacity of a cardiac catheter laboratory," Mr Springborg said.
"Patients who previously travelled to Brisbane for cardiac catheter treatment
can now have their procedures performed locally."

The new procedural suites have expanded the hospital's vascular and endoscopy
services.

They include the latest technology for the cardiac, vascular and
gastroenterology fields to improve treatment and patient diagnosis.

"Patients are already benefiting with the new laboratory and dedicated suites
treating their first patients in April 2012," Mr Springborg said.

"More than 1500 patients have had procedures in the new suites and the
laboratory has already provided services to 262 patients."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SNW


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                      The Range News (Maleny, Queensland)

                                 August 9, 2012

Cardiac facility officially opens

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 189  words


NAMBOUR General Hospital's new $18 million cardiac catheter facility, laboratory
and procedural suites were officially opened last Friday.

The new ward can treat up to 40 patients a day, and employs an additional 43
full-time staff and two cardiologists.

Health Minister Lawrence Springborg said the development was a major boost for
public health services on the Sunshine Coast.

"For the first time public patients on the Sunshine Coast have access to the
diagnostic capacity of a cardiac catheter laboratory," Mr Springborg said.

"Patients who previously travelled to Brisbane for cardiac catheter treatment
can now have their procedures performed locally."

The new procedural suites have expanded the hospital's vascular and endoscopy
services.

They include the latest technology for the cardiac, vascular and
gastroenterology fields to improve treatment and patient diagnosis.

"Patients are already benefiting, with the new laboratory and dedicated suites
treating their first patients in April 2012," he said.

"More than 1500 patients have had procedures in the new suites and the
laboratory has already provided services to 262 patients."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SRN


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 4, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

TriVascular Technologies Receives FDA Approval of Ovation iX Abdominal Stent
Graft System

LENGTH: 458  words


Aug. 4 -- TriVascular Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:TRIV) announced today that the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the Ovation iX Abdominal Stent
Graft System. Delivery system enhancements of Ovation iX, which stands for
integrated exchange, are designed to provide physicians with additional
flexibility for even more predictable deployment and greater ease of use. A new,
built-in procedural option is available to replace retrograde cannulation of the
main body device, facilitating placement of the contralateral iliac stent graft.
A low profile, 12-13F integrated sheath is designed to minimize vessel trauma
and reduce procedural steps. At 14F OD, the Ovation iX abdominal stent graft
system remains the lowest profile FDA-approved EVAR device.

"The improvements reflected in the new Ovation iX aortic body set the Ovation
system even further ahead in terms of ease of use and predictability of
deployment. This allows me to treat both straightforward and more challenging
AAA anatomies with confidence," commented Dr. Steve Henao, Vascular Surgeon at
New Mexico Heart Institute. "By providing an alternative to retrograde
cannulation - there when I need it, imperceptible when I don't - the Ovation iX
system offers not only excellent accuracy, but also procedural predictability.
As a result, I am confident in my ability to offer my patients consistent, high
quality clinical outcomes with the Ovation system."

The FDA approval of the Ovation iX Abdominal Stent Graft System marks the sixth
FDA approval related to the Ovation platform since September 2011. This
demonstrates TriVascular's ongoing commitment to quickly providing physicians
with clinically useful products. The ease-of-use enhancements incorporated into
the iX aortic body delivery system, as well as the recently approved iX iliac
limb technology, are a direct result of physician input and indicative of
TriVascular's responsiveness to clinical feedback.

"The launch of the complete Ovation iX system supports our mission to improve
and safely expand EVAR for all and serves as evidence of our commitment to
deliver a strong pipeline of products," said Christopher G. Chavez, Chairman,
CEO and President of TriVascular. "We believe the Ovation iX delivery system
enhancements will complement the broad IFU of the Ovation system and further
enable our physician partners to provide improved, on-label EVAR treatment to
more patients."

The Ovation platform has been used in the successful treatment of over 7,000
patients worldwide. Excellent clinical results have been reported from both the
Ovation global pivotal trial and a 501-patient European Post-Market Registry.
The Ovation platform is available for sale in over 35 countries.

Source: TriVascular Technologies

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                             March 14, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Death of killer mum could halt jail attack case

BYLINE: Tim Bugler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 278 words


A WOMAN accused of slashing Theresa Riggi may have the case against her dropped
after the death of the killer mother.

Riggi, 50, originally from California, was found dead at Rampton Secure Hospital
in Nottinghamshire earlier this week.

She had been transferred there from Scotland, where she was serving 16 years for
killing her three children in Edinburgh in 2010.

It had been hoped she would give evidence by video link next Thursday at a case
in which Angela Hamilton, 40, is accused of slashing her with a razor blade when
they were both in Cornton Vale Prison in November 2011.

Hamilton, whose address was given as care of Leverndale Hospital, Glasgow, was
due to appear at a procedural hearing at Stirling Sheriff Court yesterday, at
which a pyschiatrist from Rampton would have given evidence about Riggi's
fitness to testify. But the procedural hearing was cancelled before Hamilton
could attend.

Her solicitor, Murray Aitken, referred to Riggi's death simply as "a significant
development".

He told the court: "My hope is that the Crown will take the view that any
further proceeding is unnecessary."

Sheriff Wyllie Robertson continued the case for a week, when Hamilton will be
required to appear.

Riggi stabbed her eight-year-old twins Austin and Gianluca and their
five-year-old sister Cecilia eight times in their Edinburgh home in 2010.

She then tried to cover up their deaths with a gas explosion, before leaping out
of their second-floor flat.

She was originally charged with murder but later admitted culpable homicide on
the grounds of diminished responsibility.

She had been involved in a custody battle with her estranged husband over access
to the children.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Target series

                                  July 6, 2011

New pain relief just what doctor ordered

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 291 words


Patients requiring treatment in the accident and emergency department at
Boston's Pilgrim Hospital are set to benefit from new pain controlling
techniques thanks to the department's latest team member.

A&E Consultant Dr Ravindranath Sant has introduced procedural sedation and plans
to train all the middle-grade doctors in the department in its use.

He told the Target: "Procedural sedation is a technique of using a combination
of a very strong painkillers along with a sedative medication for procedures
such as reduction of dislocated shoulder or fracture-dislocation of ankle. It
can also be used for suturing of facial wounds.

"The College of Emergency Medicine is advocating using this technique by
emergency physicians in the emergency department, as it keeps the patient much
more comfortable, calm and pain-free during these particularly painful
procedures, which otherwise would have required a general anaesthetic.

"This technique, therefore, can avoid unnecessary hospital admissions, as
patients could potentially be discharged following one to two hours of
observation in the department itself or in the observation ward."

Before embarking on a career in emergency medicine, Dr Sant was an anaesthetist.

He worked as a specialist anaesthetist in Saudi Arabia from 1993 to 2000 and
came to the UK in April 2000 and began his career in emergency medicine in 2004.

Dr Sant, who completed registrar training at East of England Deanery in
Cambridge this year, said: "Pilgrim Hospital A&E is a friendly, progressive
department, committed to the best care of its patients.

"The consultants, middle-grade doctors, nursing and allied healthcare
professionals are very supportive, caring and hard working. I am delighted to be
a part of the team here."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 95


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Life

                                 July 22, 2007
                                  LIF Edition

LUCKY LEWIS;
FORMULA ONE GRAND PRIX

BYLINE: IAN PARKES

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 347 words


LEWIS Hamilton will race in today's European Grand Prix pending a final medical
examination this morning.

The world championship leader suffered a frightening 175mph smash in qualifying
at the Nurburgring after a faulty airgun led to the front-right wheel working
loose.

Hamilton sustained no injuries, while CT scans taken at a nearby military
hospital have also come back clear.

The 22-year-old will now undergo a procedural, mandatory check this morning to
be conducted by the FIA's medical delegate, Gary Hartstein.

"It was a bit unfortunate, but I am feeling fine," said Hamilton outside the
McLaren garage after being released from hospital.

"I'm very fortunate, very lucky that I haven't got any bruises - although I'm
sure I'll wake up with some.

"But the most important thing is I am okay, and the team are doing a good job to
make sure we have a good car.

"Ron (Dennis) says I have to be signed off in the morning, so we have to wait
and see, but I feel fine for the race, so fingers crossed."

Team boss Dennis added: "He has no bruising, he has no damage anywhere, he is
not sore anywhere.

"He is absolutely fine, all the scans are fine, and at this moment in time there
is no medical reason why he can't race.

"But the procedure is he will have a night's sleep and he will have a final,
mandatory check in the morning with Gary Hartstein. It is a procedural thing."

As soon as Hamilton's accident occurred, the qualifying session was red flagged
and brought to a halt.

It was obvious the Briton was shaken because at one stage, as he tried to steady
himself after climbing out of the cockpit of his car, his legs gave way and he
slumped onto the gravel.

After 13 minutes in which he was attended to by trackside medics, he was
eventually lifted into the back of a waiting ambulance with his neck in a
precautionary brace, while he was also on a drip.

However, Hamilton was able to indicate he was okay as he waved his right arm and
gave a thumbs-up sign.

Dennis, though, conceded he was seriously concerned at one point because the
team were unable to make contact with their young star.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2007 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                            April 21, 2016 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

COURT REJECTS DOCTORS HOSPITAL APPEAL;
FIGHT OVER COLUMBIA COUNTY PROJECT NOT DONE

BYLINE:  TOM CORWIN  STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 687 words


One appeal has been dismissed but another is still pending as Doctors Hospital
of Augusta fights a state license allowing AU Medical Center to build a hospital
in Columbia County. Another court victory and construction on the county's first
hospital complex could be months away, an official with AUMC said.

"We suffered a procedural setback," Doctors spokesman Adam Landau said.

The battle to build a

100-bed hospital in the county, the state's largest without a hospital, has
stretched well over two years and involved two lawsuits from Doctors Hospital.
Three Augusta hospitals - Doctors, AUMC and University Hospital - filed
competing proposals for the required certificate of need to build in Columbia
County using a seldom-used exception to the need standard that would allow for a
facility to be built if the county put up 20 percent of the cost.

The state awarded the permit to AUMC in November

2014, and Doctors and University filed administrative appeals. Before those
appeals were heard in June 2015, Doctors Hospital filed suit against the state,
saying the Department of Community Health could not create the exceptions used
to grant the license, which it termed "loopholes," and that only the Legislature
had that authority.

Noting that Doctors had not exhausted its administrative appeals at the time,
that lawsuit in Fulton County Superior Court was dismissed in October and
Doctors filed notice it would appeal in November, according to a court order.

Meanwhile, a hearing officer decided AUMC was properly awarded the permit,
University decided not to appeal any further but Doctors did, exhausting its
last administrative appeal in November. Doctors Hospital filed a second petition
in Superior Court asking for judicial review of that decision.

In dismissing that appeal, the judge ruled that the "prior pending action
doctrine" should apply, essentially finding that Doctors had two similar suits
with similar causes and the same parties involved, and that because the first
case is still pending, the second has to be dismissed.

"The judge didn't rule on the merits of our case, but on a procedural issue
resulting from another appeal we've filed on the lawfulness of the loophole used
to grant the certificate of need," Landau said.

Doctors Hospital is arguing that the exception is not legal, "but they certainly
did submit an application (for a certificate of need) that tried to take
advantage of the very issues that they are now challenging," said Shawn Vincent,
AUMC's interim chief operating officer.

The other appeal is still pending with the Georgia Court of Appeals, and Vincent
said he expected any hearing on that case would be held in mid- to late July.

"We're reviewing our options, but this isn't nearly the end of our fight for
fairness," Landau said. "Our goal is to get the merits of our case heard."

Should that appeal be denied, Vincent said he believes all that would remain is
a long-shot appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.

The state has told AUMC it cannot build the hospital until the legal issues are
cleared, but he said the health system believes it will prevail. In the
meantime, it is looking over its plans from two years ago to see whether those
services and levels of demand are still accurate, Vincent said.

There will be more intensive discussions with the Columbia County Commission on
what those "next steps" could be, he said.

Should it get the clearance, construction of the hospital is estimated at

30 to 35 months, but the development is going to be more than a hospital,
Vincent said. Some of those other potential pieces, such as a medical office
building, don't require that same licensing process, he said.

"What we've really talked about is the development of an entire health campus,"
Vincent said. "There could be some other construction that would precede a
hospital. And some that might go along concurrently with a hospital."

If or when that approval comes, AUMC is ready to go, he said.

"We're just incredibly eager to get the project started," Vincent said. "I
believe the community is ready for this."

Reach Tom Corwin at (706) 823-3213

or tom.corwin@augustachronicle.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Bullying leads to walkout;
Illawarra psychiatric chief resigns post in disgust

BYLINE: ANGELA THOMPSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 584 words


THE head of the Illawarra's psychiatric services has quit in disgust, citing an
administrative culture of bullying, gagging and scapegoating.

Illawarra Health chief psychiatrist Irwin Pakula walked away from 30 years in
the health service yesterday, fed up with an "immoral" staff review system and a
Sydney-centric administration.

His decision came after the health service allegedly attempted to block an email
in which Dr Pakula voiced concerns to other staff and cancelled a meeting at
which he planned to discuss the issues.

The Mercury put Dr Pakula's claims to the health service, but a spokeswoman
declined to comment.

Dr Pakula, who is also the medical superintendent of Shellharbour's psychiatric
inpatient unit, walked away after a staff member was stood down as a result of
an external review.

He said the review system was flawed and saw staff assessed without necessarily
knowing why, denied the right of reply, then stood down if they refused to
comply with disciplinary action.

"I think it's illegal - it's certainly immoral because it lacks any sense of
procedural fairness," he said.

"The health service uses these reviews to cover up its own deficiencies - lack
of resources, staffing - and they take it out on individual staff members."

Dr Pakula had already given notice to leave the hospital last month because he
was frustrated with the administration. The disciplinary action had hastened his
decision.

Dr Pakula said he was gagged after attempting to voice his concerns to Illawarra
and Shoalhaven staff in a May 2 email.

The Mercury obtained a copy of the email, which he confirmed he had written.

In the email Dr Pakula told colleagues three patients were to be sent from
Sydney's Prince of Wales (POW) Hospital to Shellharbour Hospital in spite of his
objections they did not meet two key criteria, relating to their transfer back
to Sydney and a known address.

"I felt that these criteria were reasonable since they are the criteria devised
by POW whenever I have tried to send a patient to POW when our unit is full," he
wrote.

"I have been advised that the three patients will be sent anyway ... this is an
unreasonable directive from our administration."

Later in the email, Dr Pakula said he would like 10 minutes to speak about
unfair procedural processes, the lack of support given to medical staff and
administration bullying, at a planning day on May 6.

He alleged the area health service then attempted to withdraw the message on his
behalf and later cancelled the planning day.

"They sent out this thing called 'withdraw' to some people. (It said) 'Irwin
Pakula withdraws the email'.

"They then closed off my access to my computer and my email address to try and
stop me sending any more emails."

Yesterday, Dr Pakula said hospital administration had become Sydney-centric
after the Illawarra and South Eastern Sydney were amalgamated in 2005. Staff
were not supported and were frequently bullied by administrators, he said.

"We used to have a nurturing service, an administration that would listen to the
staff and negotiate issues," he said.

"The current administration doesn't listen, yet they seem to have a serious lack
of insight into the issues that we face on the Illawarra and Shoalhaven.

"We've got a lot of pressure on us to discharge patients and it sort of just
goes on all day - being told to discharge, discharge, discharge patients.

"Almost on a daily basis I'd be discharging patients who were quite unwell."

Dr Pakula will expand his private psychiatric practice in Warilla.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fed up: Dr Irwin Pakula at Shellharbour Hospital after clearing
out his desk yesterday. The psychiatrist cited bullying, gagging and
scapegoating in the health service for his decision to quit. Picture: DAVE TEASE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2008 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                August 13, 2016

Kidney Transplant: Doctors demand change of law

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 458  words


Say they don't want to be held responsible for the process of verifying
documents

Mumbai: The Association of Nephrologists in the city have demanded a change in
the law regarding transplant cases so that they are not held responsible for
verification of the documents regarding organ transplants.

This development has come after the recent arrest of five doctors of Hiranandani
Hospital in Powai after they were found to have violated procedures in approving
kidney transplants. The arrests were made following a report by a three-member
committee set up by the state government and which carried out an inquiry into
this case. Investigations revealed that a female donor was being passed off as
the `wife' of a kidney patient with the intention of giving her kidney to him.

"It is the basic duty of the doctor to provide medical care to the patients and
he should have no role to play in procedural matters like verification of
documents"

According to Dr Umesh Khanna, secretary of the Mumbai Nephrologists Group, they
have decided that they will not carry out any further live, related transplant
till there is a change in the law. "Somehow, the rules mention that the medical
practitioner has to verify the donors, which should not be the case at all," he
said. It is the basic duty of the doctor to provide medical care to the patients
and he should have no role to play in procedural matters like verification of
documents, he added.

This was seconded by Dr Lalit Kapoor of the Association of Medical Consultants
who said that the rules laid down by the state government have mandated that it
is the doctors who are responsible for authenticating the documents. "But this
is the job of the hospital committee to carry out this verification process and
it is highly unfair to hold doctors responsible for this," he pointed out.

Nephrologists have now decided that they will not be part of any transplant
activity after this till this issue is sorted out. "As far as the cases that
have already been cleared, we will definitely complete them. But we will not
take up any new cases after this and we will also communicate this to the
administration," he added. However, this does not relate to cadaver transplants
which will be carried out as usual, sources said.

Police sources said the arrest of the five doctors was based on the report
submitted by the inquiry committee which found procedural lapses in the
verification process. These five doctors are the CEO Dr Sujit Chatterjee,
Managing Director, Dr Anurag Naik, Dr Mukesh Shetye, Dr Mukesh Shah and Dr
Prakash Shetty. The police are currently in the process of investigating if
there are some other doctors involved in this kidney scam and if this also
spreads to any other hospital in the city.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: Naval Hospital Jacksonville Increasing Patient Safety Through
Training

LENGTH: 564  words

DATELINE: Washington


United States Navy, The Government of USA has issued the following news release:

According to the World Health Organization, as many as one in 10 patients are
harmed while receiving hospital care - seven out of 100 hospitalized patients
acquire health care-associated infections.

"Medicine, by its inherent nature, can presents risks on a daily basis," said
Kathleen Davitt, nurse educator assigned to Naval Hospital (NH) Jacksonville's
Staff Education and Training (SEAT) department. "But through hands-on, life-like
training from our simulation equipment, our health care professionals are better
prepared to mitigate those procedural and technical risks to maintain an
increased environment of safety and quality within our facilities."

At NH Jacksonville, health care professionals utilize state-of-the-art low-,
medium-, and high-fidelity human-like simulators to provide evidence-based
simulations to develop and hone already acquired skills of its health care
professionals-nurses, physicians, residents and corpsmen.

The simulators, operated by simulation technicians in the hospital's SEAT
department, are capable of creating a broad range of mock team and individual
training on a number of medical situations - such as childbirth, cardiac arrest
and perioperative complications - to enhance medical education and training, and
most importantly promote safe patient outcomes. And to complement the human-like
simulators, NH Jacksonville uses life-like body parts (medical task trainers) to
simulate medical procedural tactics such as lumbar or epidural punctures,
abdominal ultrasounds, injections and arterial line placements.

For military and civilian staff who may deploy to combat zones or on
humanitarian missions, NH Jacksonville utilizes specialized simulators to
replicate extensive trauma victims - like those that may be encountered while
deployed.

"To make training more realistic, we conduct scenarios in actual patient care
areas, rather than a laboratory setting, to simulate a real environment and
promote proficiency," said Davitt. "This type of training can effectively
reaffirm and fine-tune individual and team strengths, or identify and correct
procedures or tactics - ultimately reducing errors and improving patient
safety."

Everyone in the health care process plays a vital role in delivering safe care,
and NH Jacksonville remains focused on patient safety 24/7/365. The command has
been recognized for its ongoing safety efforts by consistently earning the Joint
Commission Gold Seal of Approval for accreditation in health care quality and
safety, and it was recently awarded the National Committee for Quality Assurance
(NCQA) Level III - the nation's highest level - recognition for its
Patient-Centered Medical Home at the hospital and all five of its branch health
clinics.

NH Jacksonville's priority since its founding in 1941 is to heal the nation's
heroes and their families. The command is comprised of the Navy's third largest
hospital and five branch health clinics across Florida and Georgia. Of its
patient population - about 160,000 active and retired Sailors, Soldiers,
Marines, Airmen, Guardsmen and their families - about 70,000 are enrolled with a
primary care manager and Medical Home Port team at one of its facilities.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1984, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                   May, 1984

                          Vol. 17, No. 5, HOSPLW Pg. 3

LENGTH: 327 words

TITLE: Podiatrists should be afforded due process when applying for hospital
staff membership.

TEXT:

     According to the Illinois Attorney General, under a rule of the Illinois
hospital licensing requirements, applicants for medical staff membership,
including podiatrists, must be afforded the following: reasonable notice; the
opportunity to appear and be heard at each level of the application review
process; the opportunity to present evidence and examine the evidence tendered
against them; and the opportunity to present, confront and question witnesses.
The Attorney General added that podiatrists are eligible to apply for membership
on a hospital's staff, and if appointed, become medical staff members.

     However, it was pointed out that a hospital's governing board is not
required to appoint a podiatrist to its medical staff if, in its judgment, such
appointment is not consistent with the hospital's choice of methods to provide
competent health care to patients. Although appointment of podiatrists is a
matter of discretion and judgment, the Attorney General noted that Illinois
hospital licensing requirements mandate that any podiatrist applying for
hospital staff membership be afforded procedural process and a fair hearing.

     Furthermore, the Attorney General pointed out that the procedural due
process guarantee applies to public and private hospitals. While it may be true
that an applicant for staff privileges in a private hospital is not
constitutionally guaranteed the due process safeguards applicable to public
hospitals, the Attorney General explained that Illinois hospital licensing law
and requirements apply to both public and private hospitals. He concluded that,
because the requirement that applicants for hospital medical staff privileges
receive due process and a fair hearing is independent of the general
constitutional rights that might apply, there is no distinction between public
and private hospitals ("Opinion of the Illinois Attorney General," File No
84-004, April 4, 1984).

REFERENCE: "Opinion of the Illinois Attorney General," File No 84-004, April 4,
1984.  The American Academy of Hospital Attorneys was formerly the American
Society of Hospital Attorneys.


                              200 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  AYR ADVOCATE

                            January 13, 2006 Friday

Boost for rural GPs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146  words


FEDERAL Member for Dawson De-Anne Kelly said the Commonwealth Government had
decided to double the incentive payments to rural procedural GPs in further
recognition of their additional skills and responsibilities.

From February 2006, rural procedural GPs will be entitled to claim up to $15,000
per year under the government's Practice Incentives Program.

''This boost will provide further support to GPs who provide surgical,
anaesthetic and obstetric services to rural and remote communities throughout
Australia,'' she said.

''This is an important measure for rural communities relying on experienced
general practitioners to keep local hospitals running.

''At present, almost 800 GPs participate in this incentive program.

''The increased payments are designed to encourage these GPs to continue to
provide procedural services and will cost an additional $5.2 million a year.''

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: TAA


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Seminar underscores need for legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect victims

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 704

LENGTH: 432  words


There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber Crime law due to incidents against
unassuming victims, recommended participants of a seminar organized to celebrate
25th anniversary of WAR, the NGO working against women. Women's rights icon in
Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour on the occasion while Sindh
Minister of Culture and Tourism, Sharmila Farooqi presided the session that
attracted diverse segments of people, comprising members of the Civil Society,
representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers, teachers, human rights activists.
Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in the
Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gangrape, could be reduced
through "no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against women. They
urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and implementation of all laws
recently passed for women protection and welfare. Participants urged to empower
the existent Women Police Stations and increase their numbers in every district.

Moreover, medico legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded to be made
operational in all major hospitals, including those in private sector as Aga
Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital. Mandatory DNA testing for all cases was also
recommended besides provision for DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all
districts. They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state
prosecutors, judges, police officers, medicolegal officers and clerical force in
judiciary. Guest of honour Mukhtaran Mai pleaded for speedy trials to ensure
prosecution of offenders of the heinous crime. The Minister for Culture and
Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising the work of NGOs , reiterated the
Government's resolve to continue its work for the welfare of women.

The seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan who
reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in the late 1980s.
The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &amp;
Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh
Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint Act, but urged the government to
focus on the challenge of its actual implementation. Activist and researcher
Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges in context of medicolegal and the
procedural obstructions hindering disbursement of fair trial and justice to
survivors. Going through her experience as a past Director in WAR, she sought
need for urgent reforms in the MedicoLegal Sector.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 17, 2014 Monday

Nurse Manager (GI/GU)

LENGTH: 1562  words

DATELINE: Lansing


National Association of Sales Professionals has issued the following job
announcement:


Nurse Manager (GI/GU)
Job ID:  21278356
Position Title:  Nurse Manager (GI/GU)
Company Name:  Veterans Affairs, Veterans Health Administration
Location(s):  Tampa, Florida, 33601, United States

Posted:  November 16, 2014
Job Function:  RN
Entry Level:  No
APPLY FOR THIS JOB
Apply URL:  http://www.ecentralmetrics.com/url/?u=59523124989%...
Save Job  Email Job  Print Job
Job Description

The James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital and Clinics in Tampa, Florida is seeking a
dynamic, experienced nurse leader to serve as Nurse Manager (NM) for
Perioperative Service GI/GU. The NM demonstrates performance and leadership that
is broad enough to improve patient care with the goal of demonstrating
improvements at an organizational level within the facility, VISN or VACO. The
NM must demonstrate excellence in customer service for both internal and
external customers. The NM is responsible for assessment, planning, provision,
and evaluation of nursing services in a specified client area(s). The NM is also
responsible for directing and organizing the unit specific orientation, training
and development of staff and for directing, supervising, and evaluating their
performance. The NM functions as a role model, educator, practitioner, and
manager and provides leadership to an interdisciplinary team. NM position is a
24/7 available with occasionally flex schedule when needed to meet patient
care/staff needs.

The Nurse Manager reports to the Chief Nurse of Perioperative Service. She/he
executes position responsibilities that demonstrate leadership, experience and
creative approaches to management of complex patient care. This Nurse Manager
(NM):

Keeps staff informed of Clinical/Administrative goals through facilitating both
vertical and horizontal communication in a timely manner.
    Provides leadership in day-to-day operations and input into the strategic
planning process for the attainment of organizational goals.
    Holds the responsibility for implementation of the mission, vision, and
operational goals of the James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital and Clinics within
his/her defined areas of responsibility.
    Demonstrates leadership and mastery of practice in delivering and improving
efficient, comprehensive, and continuous patient-driven holistic care through
active collaboration, communication and coordination of resources.
    Responsible for ensuring patient care is delivered.
    Plays a key role in the ongoing systematic evaluation and improvement of the
quality and effectiveness of nursing care and services as they affect patient
outcomes.
    He/she is accountable for effective operations in this busy procedural unit
providing care to patients undergoing procedures in the GI/GU and Pulmonary
labs. This includes oversight of multiple complex procedural areas including
gastroenterology, urology, and bronchoscopy.
    In addition, the Nurse Manager is responsible for promoting and supporting
evidenced-based practice of staff members to enhance nursing skills, quality
patient care delivery and lead efforts in cultural transformation. Accomplished
candidates will demonstrate a vast knowledge of the various procedural areas of
oversight.

Work Schedule: Varies

Functional Statement: Nurse Manager

BASIC REQUIREMENTS:

* U.S. citizenship. Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to
recruit qualified citizens in accordance with VA Policy.

* Full unrestricted Licensure, Certification, or Registration required

* Graduate of a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate
State-accrediting agency and accredited by one of the following accrediting
bodies at the time the program was completed by the applicant: The Accreditation
Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) or The Commission on Collegiate
Nursing Education (CCNE). In cases of graduates of foreign schools of
professional nursing, possession of current, full, active and unrestricted
registration will meet the requirement of graduation from an approved school of
professional nursing. The completion of coursework equivalent to a nursing
degree in a MSN Bridge Program that qualifies for professional nursing
registration constitutes the completion of an approved course of study of
professional nursing. Students should submit the certificate of professional
nursing to sit for the NCLEX to the VA along with a copy of the MSN transcript.
(Reference VA Handbook 5005, Appendix G6)

* Current, full, active, and unrestricted registration as a graduate
professional nurse in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of
the United States, or the District of Columbia.

Education/Experience Requirements:

* Nurse II- A BSN with approximately 2-3 years of experience, or ADN or Diploma
in Nursing and a bachelor's degree in a related field and approximately 2-3
years' experience or a Master's degree in nursing or related field with a BSN
and approximately 1-2 years' experience, or a Doctoral degree in nursing or
meets basic requirements for appointment and has doctoral degree in a related
field with no experience.

* Nurse III- Master's degree in nursing or related field with BSN and
approximately 2-3 years' experience or Doctoral degree in nursing or related
field and approximately 2-3 years' experience.

Preferred Experience: 3 years of full-time RN experience, 2-3 years of recent RN
experience. Progressive leadership and management experience in a
multidisciplinary setting. Current BLS/ACLS provider card. Demonstrated skill in
interpersonal relations, critical thinking, problem solving and conflict
resolution.

Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done
through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other
organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religions; spiritual;
community; student; social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies,
knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that
translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all
qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.

Grade Determinations: Experience as a RN will be evaluated to determine if the
experience is of an acceptable level of quality with regard to the following
four dimensions of nursing: Practice, Professional Development, Collaboration
and Scientific Inquiry. Each dimension of practice has criteria that demonstrate
essential core competencies for VHA Nursing Personnel. The criteria are as
follows:

* Practice: practice, ethics and resource utilization;

* Professional Development: performance, education/career development;

* Collaboration; collaboration, collegiality;

* Scientific Inquiry: quality of care, research.

Reference: VA Regulations, specifically VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G-6
Nurse Qualification Standard. This can be found in the local Human Resources
Office.

Physical Requirements: This is a very active position requiring dexterity. Work
might require heavy lifting, carrying (45 pounds and over), reaching above
shoulder, walking, standing, bending, kneeling.

All applicants are required to submit the following supporting document type(s):

*ResumeApplicants may also submit the following supporting document
type(s),which may not be required for all applicants:
*Cover Letter
*DD-214
*OF-306
*Other
*Other Veterans Document
*SF-15
*SF-50
*Transcript

VA Form 10-2850a - Application for Nurses and Nurse Anesthetists (Available
http://www.va.gov/vaforms/medical/pdf/vha-10-2850a-fill.pdf) (required)

Please use this checklist to make sure you have included other documents
required for your application, such as a copy of your transcript (if using
education to qualify), documentation to support Veterans Preference claims, or
ICTAP/CTAP documentation (for displaced Federal employees). You will not be
contacted for additional information.

Veterans' Preference: When applying for Federal Jobs, eligible Veterans should
claim preference on the Occupational Questionnaire in the section provided and
provide a legible copy of your DD214(s) and/or documentation related to your
active duty service which shows dates of service, character of service
(honorable, general, etc.), or dates of impending separation. Additionally,
disabled veterans and others eligible for 10-point preference (such as widows or
mothers of eligible Veterans) must also submit an SF-15 "Application for 10
Point Veterans Preference" with required proof as stated on the form. For more
information, please review the information for disabled Veterans in the
application checklist or visit
http://www.fedshirevets.gov/job/vetpref/index.aspx.

Faxing Applications or Supporting Documents: You are encouraged to apply online.
Applying online will allow you to review and track the status of your
application. If you are unable to apply online or unable to upload your
supporting documents to your online application, follow the directions located
at the following site: Fax Options. The Vacancy ID of the job opportunity
announcement is 1257264.

NOTE: If you applied online and your application is complete, do not fax the
paper application (1203-FX) as this will overwrite your prior online responses
and may result in you being found ineligible.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 April 29, 1999, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Procedural move defeats bill that would help TGH

BYLINE: DAVID KARP

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



An attempt to give Tampa General Hospital more power to collect unpaid bills
died in the Legislature on Wednesday.

The House Community Affairs Committee postponed passage of a bill that would put
hospitals in Hillsborough County in a better legal position when attempting to
collect money from patients who do not pay their bills despite winning insurance
settlements in court.

With only a few days left in the legislative session, the procedural move
effectively killed the bill, which was sponsored by state Sen. John Grant,
R-Tampa. The committee won't meet again to reconsider Grant's bill.

Grant could not be reached for comment.

"When all . . . the smoke clears and the dust settles, we are right back where
we were: without a lien, providing major trauma care and not having the ability
to get reimbursed for it," TGH spokesman John Dunn said.

"We're the only major trauma center in the state of Florida in that boat," he
added.

The Hillsborough County Commission could change that with a simple vote.

Last year, the Legislature gave the commission the power to grant hospitals lien
power against insurance settlements, but not the kind of lien power
commissioners want. The current lien power won't leave any money for patients or
lawyers, commissioners say.

Grant's bill would have given lawyers the first bite at an insurance settlement,
then let the hospital take money left over. Tampa General's lobbyists preferred
a version that would give hospitals the first shot at insurance settlements.

TGH officials have said the hospital is losing millions of dollars each year
because it lacks the lien power.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              204 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            April 27, 2016 Wednesday

'Procedural lapse': BMC to probe convict's 4-month stay in Rajawadi Hospital;
He remained admitted even after being declared fit: Kurla corporator.

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 303  words


He remained admitted even after being declared fit: Kurla corporator.

THE BRIHANMUMBAI Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into
whether there was any procedural lapse or irregularity in permitting a convict,
Shekhar Chandrashekhar, to remain admitted in the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital in
Ghatkopar for nearly four months.

At a meeting of the BMC's health committee, elected corporators raised the issue
and forced an adjournment after their demand for the suspension of chief of
BMC-run peripheral hospitals Dr M Wadiwala and Superintendent of Rajawadi
Hospital Dr Vidya Thakur was not met.

Kurla corporator Dr Saida Khan raised the issue and pointed out that the convict
remained admitted even after he was declared fit by the civic hospital's
doctors.

She said as per accepted rules, criminals must be admitted only in state-run JJ
Hospital for treatment. In this case, however, Chandrashekhar was admitted in
Rajawadi Hospital where his discharge date was repeatedly extended due to
alleged backache, chest pain and giddiness.

Khan also alleged possible involvement of doctors in the hospital to aid
Chandrashekhar's stay at the hospital.

According to BMC Director of Medical Education and Tertiary Hospitals Dr Avinash
Supe, an inquiry will be ordered into the convict's hospital admission.

"We have not yet decided who will head the probe. We cannot suspend our doctors
before the inquiry is over," said Supe.

Chandrashekhar was admitted to Rajawadi Hospital in December last year after he
was first taken to JJ Hospital.

On April 23, Chandrashekhar was finally taken back to Arthur Road Jail.

In the health committee meeting, Wadiwala, who heads city's peripheral
hospitals, admitted that he was aware of Chandrashekhar's admission while Supe
claimed he was not aware until he read the newspaper reports.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 18, 2016 Thursday

Regulatory update: Arkansas Public Service Commission; APSC General Staff , has
submitted ( 16-036-FR ) 81 . Joint Motion to Adopt Procedural Schedule filed by
the General Staff (Staff) of the Arkansas Public Service Commission, Entergy
Arkansas, Inc., the Attorney General of Arkansas, Arkansas Electric Energy
Consumers, Inc., and the Hospitals and Higher Education Group. Cm

LENGTH: 597  words

DATELINE: New York



 Little Rock: Arkansas Public Service Commission has issued the following
document:



 1

 BEFORE THE

 ARKANSAS PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION

 IN THE MATTER OF FORMULA RATE PLAN )

 FILINGS OF ENTERGY ARKANSAS, INC., ) DOCKET NO. 16-036-FR

 PURSUANT TO APSC DOCKET NO. 15-015-U )



 JOINT MOTION TO ADOPT PROCEDURAL SCHEDULE

 Comes now, the General Staff (Staff) of the Arkansas Public Service

 Commission (Commission), Entergy Arkansas, Inc. (EAI), the Attorney General of

 Arkansas (AG), Arkansas Electric Energy Consumers, Inc. (AEEC), and the
Hospitals

 and Higher Education Group (HHEG) (collectively "the Parties") and for their
Joint

 Motion to Adopt Procedural Schedule, state as follows:

 1. On July 22, 2016, EAI filed an Application with the Commission pursuant to
and

 in compliance with its Rate Schedule No. 44, Formula Rate Plan Rider (Rider
FRP).

 2. The Parties propose the following procedural schedule in this matter per the


 Formula Rate Protocols approved by the Commission in Docket No. 15-015-U:

 Staff/Intervenors File Errors and Objections September 30, 2016 (by noon)

 (90 days before rates effective)

 EAI Response to Errors and Objections October 17, 2016 (by noon)

 (15 days from E&O filing)

 Stipulation or Settlement Filed October 25, 2016 (by noon)

 (7 days before hearing)

 Response to Settlement October 27, 2016 (by noon)

 (5 days before hearing)

 Hearing Date s November 1-2, 2016

 (50 days before rates effective)

 Commission Order By December 9, 2016

 (20 days before rates effective)

 APSC FILED Time: 8/18/2016 3:37:49 PM: Recvd 8/18/2016 3:36:49 PM: Docket
16-036-fr-Doc. 81

 2

 EAI Revised Attachment A.1 Filed December 14, 2016 (by noon)

 (5 days after Order, if necessary)

 Staff/Intervenors Response to Revised December 19, 2016 (by noon)

 Attachment A.1

 (3 days after Attachment filing)

 EAI Requested Rate Adjustment December 30, 2016

 Effective Date

 WHEREFORE, the Parties request that the Commission adopt the procedural

 schedule proposed herein and for all other relief to which they may be
entitled.

 Respectfully submitted,

 GENERAL STAFF OF THE ARKANSAS

 PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION

 By: /s/ Christina L. Baker

 Christina L. Baker (ABN 2016001)

 Staff Attorney

 Dawn Kelliher Guthrie (ABN 90103)

 General Counsel

 1000 Center Street | P.O. Box 400

 Little Rock, Arkansas 72203

 ENTERGY ARKANSAS, INC.

 By: /s/ N. Wesley Hunt

 N. Wesley Hunt (ABN 2008135)

 Senior Counsel

 Entergy Arkansas, Inc.

 425 W. Capitol Ave., 28th Floor

 Little Rock, Arkansas 72201

 APSC FILED Time: 8/18/2016 3:37:49 PM: Recvd 8/18/2016 3:36:49 PM: Docket
16-036-fr-Doc. 81

 3

 LESLIE RUTLEDGE

 ATTORNEY GENERAL

 By: /s/ Charles Harder

 Charles Harder (ABN 86080)

 Assistant Attorney General

 M. Shawn McMurray (ABN 92250)

 Sr. Assistant Attorney General

 323 Center Street, Suite 200

 Little Rock, Arkansas 72201

 ARKANSAS ELECTRIC ENERGY

 CONSUMERS, INC.

 By: /s/ Jordan B. Tinsley

 Jordan B. Tinsley (ABN 2008270)

 Counsel

 Tinsley & Youngdahl, PLLC

 300 South Spring Street, Suite 614

 Little Rock, Arkansas 72201

 HOSPITALS AND HIGHER EDUCATION

 GROUP

 By: /s/ Brandon Robinson

 Brandon Robinson (ABN 2006031)

 Counsel

 University of Arkansas System

 4301 W. Markham Slot #860

 Little Rock, AR 72205

 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

 I certify that a copy of the foregoing has been delivered to all Parties of
Record

 by electronic mail via the Electronic Filing System, this 18th day of August
2016.

 /s/ Christina L. Baker

 Christina L. Baker

 APSC FILED Time: 8/18/2016 3:37:49 PM: Recvd 8/18/2016 3:36:49 PM: Docket
16-036-fr-Doc. 81



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Roaming the halls with Michael Shanks; Kamloops-raised actor enjoying new role
as Charlie on CTV's hit series Saving Hope

BYLINE: Jason Hewlett, The Daily News

SECTION: SPOTLIGHT; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 681 words


Most actors consider themselves lucky to have a starring role in one hit TV
series, which is why Michael Shanks thinks himself blessed to have lightning
strike twice.

Best known for his role as Daniel Jackson on the long-running sci-fiseries
Stargate SG-1, Shanks has found another hit as a doctor trapped between the
world of the living and the realm of the dead on CTV's Saving Hope.

Raised in Kamloops and a graduate of Kam High, he never intended to make his
mark as an actor in genre TV. But Shank's is thankful for the success that has
come his way.

"You set out to work and make a living doing what you love doing and I've been
very fortunate to have a lot of success in that area," he told The Daily News.

Saving Hope is just six episodes into its 13-episode run and it's already the
fifth most popular show in Canada, drawing 1.6-million viewers a week.

Although more of a character piece than Stargate, Saving Hope is still fantasy
based as Shanks's character, Dr. Charlie Harris, is a car accident survivor
trapped in a coma.

He spends the episodes wandering the halls of a Hope Zion Hospital helping other
souls trapped in the same purgatory. Meanwhile, his fiancee, Dr. Alex, played by
Erica Durance, is attempting to revive him.

The series is shot in Toronto. Shanks admits that, upon first

hearing the premise, Saving Hope sounds a little out there.

But he said it puts a new and interesting spin on the medical procedural. And,
at its core, it's about the relationship between Charlie and Alex.

"It's a way to bring another layer to the hospital procedural. You have life and
death situations and you sort of have after-life situations. Charlie walks this
line of the in-between world interacting with people who are in comas or who
have passed on," he said.

"Charlie is kind of a psychologist to the dead, if you will."

In a recent episode titled The Great Randall, a hypnotist is called to the
hospital to aid a severely injured man with no memory of his identity. In the
process, he is able to put Charlie and Alex in contact with each other.

Every actor desires to work on a drama and Shanks is enjoying the work, saying
it's a nice change from the physicality that came with Stargate. But he still
looks back at that series with fondness.

"Science fiction is a great thing to do when you're doing a show for 10 seasons.
It's always different. It leaves stuff up to the imagination. There's action and
costumes," said Shanks. "You can have a lot of fun doing it."

The Lower Mainland's film industry was just beginning to take off when Shanks,
who took acting classes at Cariboo College (now Thompson Rivers University)
under instructor Dave Edwards, set out to make a career for himself.

He had roles in shows like Highlander and The Commish before landing Stargate.
That show wrapped up in 2007 after a decade on the air, but Shanks did star in
the direct-to-DVD movies Stargate: Ark of Truth and Stargate: Continuum.

He also appeared on the series Andromeda, where he met his wife, actress Lexa
Doig, and a three-episode arc of the wildly successful Fox show 24.

With his family now moved to Maple Ridge, Shanks doesn't get to return to his
hometown very often. He was last here in 2008 to film the TV movie Lost Treasure
of the Grand Canyon.

But the city will always have a soft spot in his heart. He still keeps in touch
with his hockey buddy, Mayor Peter Milobar, and owes his former high school
teacher, Rhonda Diaper, a class visit.

"The town has grown up. There were 20,000 more people than when I was growing
up. Businesses are booming and the town is looking fantastic," he said.

There's no word yet on whether Saving Hope will be back for a second season, but
the cast and crew are hopeful, he said.

No matter what happens, Shanks will keep doing the job he loves.

"There's half of the one per cent of the population of actors who work and then
there's the one per cent of those people who have the ability to pick and choose
their projects," he said. "In the meantime, the rest of us are just working."

Saving Hope is televised Thursdays at 9 p.m. on CTV.

jhewlett@kamloopsnews.ca

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Michael Shanks, actor;
Colour Photo: Michael  Shanks played Daniel Jackson for 10 seasons on Stargate
Atlantis  SG1.;
Colour Photo: Studio Handout; "Businesses are booming and the  town is looking
fantastic," says actor Michael Shanks, who still  visits Kamloops.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 08:38 AM EST

Light-based networks could replace wires for hospital patients

BYLINE: Patrick Nelson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 557  words


Click for image

Interference has been a major issue when hospitals have tried to replace the
cluttered, bulky wiring used to monitor patients' conditions-those are the wires
protruding from a body, along with the associated beeps, as seen in the hospital
TV drama procedurals we know and love.

Hard-wiring, though, has never been an ideal solution for biomedical signals-it
prevents patients from moving around, for one thing. That ties up expensive
hospital beds.

Interference

RF interference can not only interfere with other signals, but it can apparently
damage hospital equipment, say some researchers in South Korea.

Those researchers, from Pukyong National University in Busan, reckon that they
have a better solution. They want to use light instead.

Visible light

Li-Fi, or visible-light communications (VLC), could be a better solution if it
can be made to work accurately. The researchers say they've gotten it to
transmit signals from an electroencephalograph (EEG) over 50 centimeters. Their
findings were published in IEEE Sensors Journal.

An EEG measures brain activity along the scalp. Voltage fluctuations are
monitored from the neurons of the brain.

RGB LEDs

The team used LEDs' line of sight to communicate the EEG signals.

The transmitter consisted of RGB LEDs, and the receiver used three photodiodes
with red, green, and blue filters.

Photodiodes are semiconductors that convert light into current-photons are
absorbed by the diodes.

"It's a very much friendlier means of transmitting biomedical signals in a
hospital," Yeon Ho Chung, an engineer at the university, said in an IEEE
Spectrum report.

Weak signals

The EEG signals were relatively weak, Chung said in the IEEE article. Power
ranged from one half to 100 millivolts, and frequencies between one half and 45
hertz. So the signals had to be amplified.

Distortion was also an issue, according to the article. That's where the filters
came in. The group used them to match each of the three LED colors, thus
eliminating bit errors.

"You have to be very accurate. You can't make any mistakes in transmitting,"
Chung said, according to the report.

Other hospital monitoring

Brain monitoring with EEGs isn't the only successful demonstration of Li-Fi in a
hospital environment, the publication says. Electrocardiogram (EKG) readings
have also been obtained with light by fellow scientists of the EEG team.

EKGs measure electrical activity in the heart and are used for finding health
problems. The instrument displays results as spikes and dips in line tracings.

Communications for paralyzed patients

Electrooculography (EOG), a measurement of differences between the back and
front of the eye, could also potentially use the same visible light
communication technique.

It's used for eye diagnosis, but can also be used for detecting eye movement.
Thus, it could conceivably be used by paralyzed individuals for
communication-without hindering wires, IEEE Spectrum says.

What happens to our TV shows?

But the big question, obviously, and without wanting to sound too facetious
about this important and potentially life-changing invention for some, is what's
going to happen to the TV procedural's dramatic effect, when there aren't any
wires sticking out of the patients and they're nonchalantly walking around the
ward?

There's the drip still. And, hopefully, we'll still have the dramatic beeps.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 TOWNSVILLE SUN

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday

Townsville Health Service District Huge task servicing such a large area

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 317  words


TOWNSVILLE Hospital's Cardiac Services Unit faces the mammoth task of caring for
patients from an area south to Sarina, west to the Northern Territory border,
north to the Torres Strait Islands and coastal and island communities to the
east.

A team of highly qualified medical, nursing, scientific and paramedical staff
look after services in the Coronary Care Unit/Angio suite and are supported by
the Cardiac Catheter Lab, the Cardiac Investigation Unit, Cardiac Clinics, the
Cardiothoracic Ward, Cardiac Surgery, patient education and rehabilitation.

The Coronary Care Unit has eight acute beds and six procedural/non-acute beds
all with monitoring equipment.

The Cardiac Investigations Unit was purpose-built and has seven procedural rooms
and a large waiting area. It also includes state-of-the-art echocardiography
machines, routine thansthoracic echocardiography, transoesphagael
echocardiography, exercise echocardiography, dobutamine stress echocardiography
and intra-operative echocardiography facilities.

Other facilities include exercise stress testing ambulatory ECG monitoring and
tilt table testing.

A comprehensive pacemaker follow-up service including follow-up of patients with
cardiac defibrillators is also undertaken.

Ward/Medical 3 is a 24 to 26-bed cardiac and cardiothoracic surgical ward with
capabilities of 12 telemetry monitoring beds and four roaming haemodynamic
monitors.

There are six outpatients clinics per week at the hospital including one
registrar clinic which is supervised by a consultant.

There is also an outreach service to Mt Isa where 40 patients are seen over two
days.

An outpatient Paediatric Cardiology Service is provided four times a year by Dr
Dorothy Radford, visiting paediatric cardiologist from the Prince Charles
Hospital.

A cardiac rehabilitation service is also functional, imparting information and
education of patients regarding healthy heart lifestyles.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TOW


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 5, 2016 Tuesday
                            British Columbia Edition

HEALTH CARE;
Official blames 'payment process' for disputed doctors' fees

BYLINE: JUSTINE HUNTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 650 words

DATELINE: VICTORIA


A senior hospital administrator is defending a decision to allow payments to a
small group of cardiologists at two Vancouver hospitals for procedures they did
not perform, saying it was an informal arrangement meant to compensate for other
services that the doctors were not adequately paid for.

"It's a payment process that is at issue rather than any wrongdoing by the
cardiologists or anybody else," said Dean Chittock, the senior medical officer
for St. Paul's and Vancouver General Hospitals, the two facilities named in an
internal audit report obtained by The Globe and Mail.

Dr. Chittock said anesthetists routinely perform one procedure that used to be
done by cardiologists, but the fee schedule has not changed to reflect that
development. The doctors do not directly bill for the service, but management
has been aware since at least 2012 that it was being lumped in under an
automated billing system run by the hospitals.

"We didn't keep up to the change in practice where the cardiologist no longer
did the procedure but it was still paid for - it's really our fault," he said.
"Initially the thought was, that kind of compensates for other procedures they
do that they don't get paid for."

However, the opposition health critic said the undocumented arrangement, which
ended only after a whistle-blower complained last year, is disturbing.

"It is pretty shocking," New Democratic Party MLA Judy Darcy said. "It means we
don't actually know and the Ministry of Health does not know what is happening
in health care, they don't have an accurate picture of who is doing what. I
think the bigger question [is] are there other informal agreements like this?"
The Globe reported on Monday that an internal investigation found the doctors
were paid about $1-million for services they did not perform. No discipline was
meted out because the hospital managers tacitly approved the payments, arguing
that the doctors are doing more complex work that is not recognized under the
existing fee structure.

However, the auditors were not able to determine whether the hospitals suffered
an overall financial loss because the documentation provided "lacks sufficient
information to be able to provide meaningful oversight," the audit found.

The investigation was triggered by an anonymous letter in June, 2015, that
alleged a small group of cardiologists at St. Paul's and Vancouver General
hospitals had charged the two facilities nearly $4-million for procedures they
did not actually perform. The audit report, dated Aug. 17, 2015, was obtained by
The Globe through a Freedom of Information request.

The anonymous complaint did not say over what time period those payments had
been made.

But it cited a 2012 report that flagged the issue of "unanticipated procedural
fees" being paid for some procedures and recommended those fees be eliminated.

The procedure, known as a transesophageal echocardiogram, or TEE, involves
inserting a probe into the esophagus to monitor a patient during heart surgery.
TEEs used to be done primarily by echocardiographers.

But over about the past decade, more cardiac anesthetists have been trained in
the procedure.

However, the complainant alleged, "a few cardiologists who may or may not even
be in the hospital at the time of the procedures have been charging the
hospitals for years a procedural fee ... for performing as many as 10 per day of
the above procedures without actually performing or even being present for any
of them as required by the billing code."

Dr. Chittock said the hospital administration has put a stop to the payments to
cardiologists for the TEE procedures, and the team is now trying to figure out
how to address the work that is being provided without pay. "We are trying to
clean up the electronic billing system so that it is more verifiable, and we are
looking at their workload, the procedures where they are not properly being
compensated for."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2016 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday

Talwar no longer head of cardiology dept, to continue as PGI director

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 562  words

DATELINE: Chandigarh


CAT says irregularity committed in grant of extension, but he will remain on
post 'in public interest'

In a significant development, the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT),
Chandigarh, ordered that PGI Director Dr K K Talwar will no longer head the
Department of Cardiology. He will, however, continue to serve as the hospital
director.

The directions were issued on a petition filed by Dr R K Yadav of Bhagwat Dayal
Sharma Medical College, Rohtak, who had challenged Talwar's extension as PGI
director. In its judgment, the Tribunal ruled that there is has been a
procedural irregularity in processing the matter of extension given to Dr Talwar
up to 65 years, but since "there is no illegality in the process, therefore, the
extension cannot be quashed and set aside".

The Tribunal has directed the Centre and PGI authorities to re-advertise the
post of Cardiology HoD and complete the process of selection preferably within a
period of six months. Till then, Dr Talwar will remain incharge of the post.

"The decision given in the present case shall not be treated as a precedent for
any other case," the order reads. CAT has further stated that the Central
government and PGI authorities are directed to strictly adhere to the prevalent
practice of inviting nominations from various institutes in future for the post
of director, PGIMER, or they should adopt proper procedure of inviting
applications from eligible candidates through an appropriate channel by giving
wide publicity in reputed newspapers to invite maximum talent for the institute
of national fame.

"Though there has been procedural irregularity in processing the matter to the
Centre for extension to be given to Dr Talwar, we are of the considered view
that the end of justice would not be achieved by quashing and setting aside the
extension given to him on procedural technicalities depriving PGI of an eminent
and experienced director already running the institute. In view of public
interest at large, the institute cannot be kept without a director for a long
period as the process of selection is time consuming. Therefore, instead of
quashing the order of extension, we dispose of the case with some directions,"
the Tribunal has held.

CAT ruled that being the director of the institute, Talwar should have been more
vigilant and cautious while making such a request directly instead of getting it
routed through the hospital authorities concerned. In a petition filed on July
1, 2009, Dr Yadav had alleged that the Centre had "illegally" granted extension
to Talwar before he could attain the age of superannuation at 62 years.

"The post has already been advertised and the process for finding a suitable
candidate for professor and HoD is underway. Till then, Professor Talwar will
head the post," PGI authorities said.

The post of professor is lying vacant for several years despite senior faculty
members facing the interview panel many times. Resentment had been brewing
against Prof Talwar as some senior teachers alleged that their chances of
promotion had been curtailed on "flimsy" grounds. Two years ago, in the race for
the post of AIIMS head, Talwar had resigned from the post of Head of the
Cardiology department and the charge was given to additional professor Dr Yash
Pal Sharma. Dr Talwar, however, retained the post when his extension orders came
from the Centre last year in April.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            November 8, 1987 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

HOSPITAL BED PHONE-IN A CON, SAY LIBS

BYLINE: JOAN MABBUTT

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 571 words


THE NSW Government's advertising campaign to promote the public health service
was an extravagant con, Opposition health spokesman Mr Peter Collins said
yesterday.

But it has been welcomed by the Doctors' Reform Society as a way of combating a
"conspiracy by some procedural specialists to exaggerate hospital waiting
lists".

The campaign, which starts today, is called "No One Need Wait" and will be run
on television and in newspapers.

It will include a toll-free Healthline so that the public can phone to discuss
their concern about public hospital waiting lists.

But the Opposition claims the campaign will cost $1 million without dealing with
the real problem.

Propaganda

"Having been caught out in Parliament, the Government and the minister (Mr Peter
Anderson) have mounted an expensive propaganda exercise to deliberately con the
public," Deputy Opposition Leader and shadow health minister, Mr Collins, said
yesterday.

Mr Collins has seriously embarrassed the Government by revealing long waiting
lists at St George Hospital.

He claimed that 13 patients had died during a three-month period while waiting
for operations - a figure contested by Mr Anderson.

The Health Minister said said the true figure was four and that none of the
people had died from causes related to the illnesses for which they had needed
operations.

"While we have proven examples of hospitals turning away patients who have
subsequently died, the Government is more concerned with trying to hoodwink the
public than fixing up what is wrong with hospitals," said Mr Collins.

"The minister conceded (in Parliament) that he doesn't have a centralised
hospital waiting list. If he has $1 million to spare he should allocate that
money to establish lists and help pinpoint problems.

"Instead of throwing away a million dollars they should be looking at what is
causing the problem."

A spokesman for Premier Barrie Unsworth said the campaign cost considerably less
than the $1 million amount claimed by the Opposition. It was funded from money
already allocated to the Department of Health's promotions and information
budget.

"It is a campaign and a service which will provide information to the public who
may have concerns about waiting times for particular operations,"the spokesman
said.

"One of the very reasons that we have been prompted to do this is because of a
misleading and politically motivated campaign, which has caused anxiety in the
community.

"We have to respond to the concerns in the community. Our campaign and service
will be pointing out that there is no need to wait for an extensive period for
surgery.

"So if you need some advice about where to go, or what the delays will be for
some specific operation, then we will be providing that information."

The president of the Doctors' Reform Society, Dr Robert Marr, said the society
basically welcomed the program but felt some extra steps might be taken to
reduce waiting lists in NSW.

'Conspiracy'

"We believe that there has been a conspiracy by some procedural specialists to
exaggerate waiting times," he said. "This has resulted in several cases where
patients have not been told that they could have operations done quicker if they
went to another hospital."

Dr Marr said society delegates meeting in Sydney today would be calling on the
State Government to take further action, such as employing further community
nurses to enable earlier discharges from hospital, and more staff specialists.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1987 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 5, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Research and Markets: Global Medical Simulation Market Outlook: 2013-2020

LENGTH: 521  words


May 5 -- Research and Markets
(http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/8ccmg4/global_medical) has announced
the addition of the "Global Medical Simulation Market Outlook: 2013-2020" report
to their offering.

The global medical simulation market is projected to grow at a CAGR of 14.8%
from 2015 to 2020

In spite of these driving forces, medical simulation did not gain widespread
acceptance in the recent past, principally for the reasons of high cost of
simulators and reluctance to adopt new training methods. These factors are still
expected to restrain the growth of the global medical simulation market across
the globe during the forecast period to a certain extent. Moreover, limited
availability of funds, especially in the developing and underdeveloped countries
further restricts the growth of this market.

The research report on the medical simulation market provides comprehensive
analysis of the global market with a country level analysis and helps in
understanding the driving forces for the growth of this market. The report also
provides analysis of major product and service segments such as patient
simulators, task trainers, procedural skills trainers, web-based simulation,
audiovisual solutions, and simulation training services.

The procedure skills trainers market is further sub-segmented into IV
simulators, Endovascular trainers, Airway Management Products, Orthroscopy
Trainers, Laparoscopy trainers, Dental Trainers, and other procedural/Surgical
Trainers. Similarly, the simulation training services market is categorized into
Educational Services, Hospital Services, and other vendor-based services. The
major end-users of the medical simulation products and services are analyzed by
categorizing into healthcare education, hospitals, military, emergency medical
services, and voluntary organizations.

Market size estimates and forecasts for the period 2015 to 2020 has been
provided for each segment and its sub-segment, in terms of USD million,
calculating growth rates from 2015 to 2020, considering 2014 as the base year
for calculations.

Key Topics Covered:

1 Introduction to Global Medical Simulation Market

2 Executive Summary

3 Market Insights

4 Global Medical Simulation Market Crackdown ($ Value Analysis), By Product Type

5 Global Medical Simulation Market Crackdown ($ Value Analysis), By Service
Types

6 Technological Assessment

7 Global Medical Simulation Market Crackdown ($ Value Analysis), By End-user

8. Medical Simulation Market Crackdown ($ Value Analysis), By Geography

9 Global Medical Simulation Market Competitive Outlook

10 Competitive Profiles Major Players

* 3B Scientific GmbH

* 3D Systems, Inc. (Simbionix)

* Adam,Rouilly Limited

* Altay Scientific S.p.A.

* CAE Healthcare

* Cardionics, Inc

* Gaumard Scientific Company, Inc

* IngMar Medical

* KaVo Dental GmbH

* Kyoto Kagaku Co., Ltd

* Laerdal Medical As

* Limbs & Things, Ltd

* Medical Simulation Corporation

* Mentice Ab

* Moog Inc

* Simulab Corporation

* Simulaids, Inc.

* Surgical Science Sweden Ab

* Yuan Technology Limited

For more information visit
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/8ccmg4/global_medical

Source: Research and Markets

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            January 7, 2014 Tuesday

Govt sends 13 pre-PPP IT projects to NAB

LENGTH: 323  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


On direction of Minister of State for Information Technology Anusha Rehman, the
government has referred 13 IT projects to National Accountability Bureau (NAB)
after allegations of gross financial, administrative and procedural
irregularities.



According to an official announcement made by the Ministry of Information
Technology (MoIT) here on Monday, the ministry has ordered to refer the internal
audit reports showing gross financial, administrative and procedural
irregularities of thirteen (13) PSDP IT projects, executed by Pakistan Computer
Bureau (PCB) and Electronic Government Directorates (EGD), to NAB.

Most of the projects started during the period in between 2004-2006 with
completion period of 2-3 years thereof. However, despite a lapse of more than 7
years, the projects desired deliverable were not achieved within the defined
timelines. It had become a yearly trend of PCB/EGD to seek extension of these
projects on one pretext or the other.

The projects include 'Provision of E-Services at CDA, Islamabad', 'M/o
Information Technology - Health NET Telemedicine Project for Rural/Remote Areas
in Punjab (Holy Family Hospital Rawalpindi)', 'HMIS and Networking facilities at
Children Hospital, PIMS, Islamabad', 'E-Enablement of Establishment Division',
'Federal Government Data Centre and Intranet', 'E-Services at Chief/Deputy
Commissioner's Office', 'E-Services of Islamabad Police', 'E-Office at MoIT',
'E-Office Replication at Federal Ministries/Divisions', 'E-Services at FIA',
'E-Services at Ministry of Health', 'E-Services at Ministry of Interior' and
'E-Services at Ministry of Population'. The minister way back in September 2013
ordered to conduct a special audit of all the projects of MoIT attached
departments/entities to ensure the transparency, efficiency in their business
processes and in-time delivery of the project deliverables. The reports of
special audit to be conducted by AGP are still awaited.


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             August 5, 2016 Friday

Task force on health policy to facilitate training of doctors, students

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: BENGALURU


BENGALURU, Aug. 5 -- A task force on Karnataka Public Health Policy has begun
work on plugging the vacancies in hospitals, by facilitating training for
resident doctors and students in rural areas.

The Karnataka Knowledge Commission had constituted the 16-member task force
comprising doctors, academics, representatives of government agencies and
industry experts to come out with a comprehensive report on the policy and
recommend steps for positioning health ombudsmen for enhancing transparency,
redressal of complaints and accessibility of health services in the state.

Various sub-committees were formed and each looked at strengthening of primary
health centres, human resources, medical technology, training, electronic
medical records, health ombudsmen and procedural costs, quality systems and
access to affordable medicines.

The task force has approached the National Board of Examinations to train
resident doctors in rural areas and students. So far, eight district hospitals
have agreed to apply.

The doctors will have to clear a common entrance test to avail of training of
four years across specialities like orthopaedics, paediatrics, gynaecology and
general surgery.

"We will also tie up with the Healthcare Sector Skill Council to train people in
other areas," Dr Alex Thomas, executive director of Association of Health
Practitioners of India, who is the member secretary of the task force, said.

"There are vacancies across specialities in hospitals. The number of PG seats in
medical colleges should be increased. We found MBBS graduates prepare for PG
exams for at least three years appearing for exams again, or taking classes from
coaching institutes. Every year, 1,50,000 MBBS doctors are sitting at home when
we have dearth of doctors," Thomas said.

The sub-committee on procedural costing will compare costs of commonly done
procedures that are covered under government schemes and see what the government
pays. "Be it a CABG (coronary artery bypass grafting) or knee replacement, the
rates are very high. The National Accreditation Board of Hospitals, CMC-Vellore,
IIM-Bangalore, medical wing of ISRO and other specialty associations will look
into costs of various procedures and apprise the government on what it pays
under various schemes," he said.

Sometimes, the government schemes subsidies are too little for procedures that
cost a lot more. This scientific research by the task force will give the
government a fair idea on how much a procedure actually costs.

"We are also looking at a policy in geriatric care, technology in health,
integrating various systems of medicine, maintaining electronic medical records
and strengthening primary health care centres," he said.

Dr Devi Shetty, chairperson, Narayana Hrudayalaya, is chairing the task force
that includes prominent names like Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairman and managing
director, Biocon.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           January 8, 2014 Wednesday

Pakistan: Govt sends 13 pre-PPP IT projects to NAB

LENGTH: 359  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Jan. 8 -- On direction of Minister of State for Information
Technology Anusha Rehman, the government has referred 13 IT projects to National
Accountability Bureau (NAB) after allegations of gross financial, administrative
and procedural irregularities.

According to an official announcement made by the Ministry of Information
Technology (MoIT) here on Monday, the ministry has ordered to refer the internal
audit reports showing gross financial, administrative and procedural
irregularities of thirteen (13) PSDP IT projects, executed by Pakistan Computer
Bureau (PCB) and Electronic Government Directorates (EGD), to NAB.

Most of the projects started during the period in between 2004-2006 with
completion period of 2-3 years thereof. However, despite a lapse of more than 7
years, the projects desired deliverable were not achieved within the defined
timelines. It had become a yearly trend of PCB/EGD to seek extension of these
projects on one pretext or the other.

The projects include 'Provision of E-Services at CDA, Islamabad', 'M/o
Information Technology - Health NET Telemedicine Project for Rural/Remote Areas
in Punjab (Holy Family Hospital Rawalpindi)', 'HMIS and Networking facilities at
Children Hospital, PIMS, Islamabad', 'E-Enablement of Establishment Division',
'Federal Government Data Centre and Intranet', 'E-Services at Chief/Deputy
Commissioner's Office', 'E-Services of Islamabad Police', 'E-Office at MoIT',
'E-Office Replication at Federal Ministries/Divisions', 'E-Services at FIA',
'E-Services at Ministry of Health', 'E-Services at Ministry of Interior' and
'E-Services at Ministry of Population'. The minister way back in September 2013
ordered to conduct a special audit of all the projects of MoIT attached
departments/entities to ensure the transparency, efficiency in their business
processes and in-time delivery of the project deliverables. The reports of
special audit to be conducted by AGP are still awaited

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Sutton Observer

                                January 29, 2010

Medicine errors at good hope

BYLINE: John Newton

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 617  words


A Medication error which killed a Good Hope patient was one of six 'serious
untoward incidents' at the hospital, according to an investigation.

The incidents, covering a range of procedural mistakes, are listed in a report
by the Care Quality Commission (CQC).

The Commission began reviewing the safety of patients at the request of Heart of
England Foundation Trust (HEFT) which runs three hospitals, including Good Hope.

The Trust confirmed this week that there were four fatal medication errors at
its sites during the period under investigation - March 2007 to June 2009.

One came at Good Hope, where a second patient survived a drugs mistake. The
remaining three deaths happened at Heartlands Hospital, Birmingham, where a
non-fatal overdose was given to a baby.

Lisa Dunn, hospital director at HEFT, said: "We deeply regret that these
incidents occurred and would again like to apologise to the patients and
relatives of those affected. We have invited those affected by medication errors
to work with us on an independent review surrounding prescribing and
administrating medication within the trust."

The final CQC report actually mentions five fatalities, but a HEFT spokesperson
said the figure was one too many and a new report would address the oversight.

Of the Good Hope fatality, HEFT would only say that it involved insulin.

Victims of the fatal mistakes at Heartlands include Sutton cancer patient Paul
Richards. In 2007, he was given a lethal overdose of amphotericin, a drug
designed to combat the side effects of cancer treatments.

In addition to medication mix-ups, the CQC has been reviewing a series of
procedural errors which it brands Serious Untoward Incidents.

It reports 27 across HEFT sites and they range from junior staff not raising
concerns quickly enough to gaps in training. Six occurred at Good Hope.

'A cluster' of serious incidents within the paediatric service has also been
identified at HEFT. However, the CQC concludes that it has no 'immediate
concerns' about the safety of HEFT patients.

Paul Richards' widow, Lisa Richards-Everton, is leading a campaign which calls
for a review of the way drugs are administered across the NHS.

She said she was 'not surprised' by the numbers, predicting increases until
procedure was overhauled.

She also criticised the report for simply collating numbers, instead of breaking
down the details of incidents.

"It is misleading, the report has nothing to do with medication and the deaths
are just mentioned in passing. I'm insulted.

"They should never have put the deaths in the report if they fail to investigate
them in it."

She said that HEFT had written to her as pledged, asking for her input. "I said
I'd be willing to help and I'm now waiting to see what happens next.

"My only concern is that I find it difficult to go anywhere near the hospital
because I have so many traumatic memories."

The CQC's review praises HEFT for launching internal investigations, but says
more work is required.

Andrea Gordon, CQC director, said: "We found there were some improvements needed
with ensuring action plans were specific and were consistently implemented
following incidents.

"The Trust also recognised this, and was already working to improve."

Formally closing the case, she added: "The commission did not have any immediate
concerns relating to safety of patients."

HEFT's Lisa Dunn said the Trust contacted the CQC due to the incidents' 'very
serious nature'.

"To further enhance patient safety and in keeping with our commitment to it, we
are commissioning a further external review of our medicines management, which
was cited in the report as the most common cause of incidents."

For more on the campaign by Paul Richards' widow, see page ten.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 56


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

ECA Medical Instruments, Intelligent Implant Systems Unveil World's First
Pre-Sterile, Single-Procedure Spinal Fusion Kit

LENGTH: 735  words


Nov. 7 -- US-based ECA Medical Instruments issued the following news release:

ECA Medical Instruments, the leading designer and manufacturer of
single-procedure torque-limiting and fixed-driver surgical instruments and
procedural kits, has developed in partnership with Intelligent Implant Systems
(I2S) the industry's first complete spinal implant instrument fixation kit that
is 100% disposable. The sterile packed kit features the full complement of
fixation instruments including the industry's first single-procedure cannulated
torque limiters, ratchets and fixed drivers needed by orthopaedic surgeons to
perform both open and minimally invasive surgeries (MIS) that offer potential
for the best surgical outcomes at the best value.

The I2S Revolution system is a pre-sterilized, single-use posterior spinal
fixation procedural system providing hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers
(ASCs) a novel delivery method to increase productivity and reduce operational
costs as well as curb risk of surgical site infection. The fusion implants and
instruments are packaged as a bundled solution. The Revolution Spinal Fixation
System is intended to provide immobilization and stabilization of spinal
segments in skeletally mature patients as an adjunct to fusion in the treatment
of acute and chronic instabilities or deformities of the thoracic, lumbar and
sacral spine.

All ECA instruments for the Revolution spinal fusion kit are single-procedure
and disposable, simplifying workflow by eliminating the need to clean and
reprocess instruments prior to every procedure. Single-procedure instruments
minimize the risk of infection due to cross contamination, ensuring pristine out
of the box instruments are used to support every patient procedure. The kit
contains 100% disposable fixation tools including awls, pedicle probes, driver
shafts and industry first cannulated torque-limiting handles, ratchet and fixed
driver making them ideal for MIS procedures.

"We're helping transform healthcare economics by providing our OEM implant
customers with robust and tailored disposable instruments and fixation kits as
alternatives to traditional and costly reusable tools," said John Nino, ECA's
president & CEO. "Adoption of disposable kits across the orthopaedic market is
saving hospitals and ASCs on inventory and operating costs, improving patient
safety, reducing risk of surgical site infection and increasing OR efficiency
levels," he said.

"The focus in healthcare is on gaining the best possible outpatient outcomes at
the best price point or value," said James Schultz, ECA's executive vice
president. "Our single-procedure instruments and kits allow OEMs like I2S to
offer cost savings, OR efficiency gains and increased patient safety to
hospitals and ASCs as every torque-limiter used to secure an implant is sterile
and 100% calibrated."

ECA Medical Instruments estimates hospitals and ASCs with an average number of
surgical cases can save over $1,200 per procedure using the disposable
instrument set with the I2S Revolution kit and the healthcare industry several
billion dollars a year by converting to single-use instrumentation.

"We are pleased to have partnered with ECA for developing single-use and
disposable instrumentation kits for our new Revolution System," said Marc
Richelsoph, president and CEO of Intelligent Implant Systems. "The future of
spinal implants will be cost effective sterile implant and instrument systems,
and I2S is leading the way with the help of ECA, the market leader in single-use
instrumentation."

Commercial launch of the new I2S Revolution system featuring ECA's disposable
instrument set is under 510(k) review and not currently available for sale. Once
approved by FDA it will be available via distributors throughout North America.
Focus will be on serving ASCs as well as hospitals. All the kits are fully
disposable, biodegradable and recyclable.

ECA Medical and I2S are showcasing the Revolution kit solution at the North
American Spine Society (NASS) conference in San Francisco, CA. November 12
through 15. Surgeons and healthcare professionals may see the Revolution
single-use implant and fixation kit at ECA Medial booth #2245 and at Intelligent
Implant Systems booth #719. ECA Medical will also be displaying its complete
line of single-procedure instruments and operational samples of spine &
orthopaedic procedural kits.

Source: ECA Medical Instruments

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

Health Information Management (HIM) Supervisor

LENGTH: 559  words

DATELINE: Arlington


National Defense Industrial Association has issued the following Job Vacancy:


Job Summary

Company
    BJC Progress West and St.[#x200b] Peters
Location
    Saint Peters, MO 63376
Industries
    Healthcare Services
Job Type
    Full Time
    Employee
Years of Experience
    2+[#x200b] to 5 Years
Education Level
    Associate Degree
Career Level
    Manager (Manager/[#x200b]Supervisor of Staff)

Health Information Management (HIM) Supervisor
About the Job

Barnes-Jewish St.[#x200b] Peters Hospital offers full inpatient services,
including 24-hour physician-staffed emergency, pediatric, obstetric and
intensive-care coverage.[#x200b] The hospital also has a Siteman Cancer Center
location on campus.[#x200b]

The Health Information Management (Medical Records) Department is a multifaceted
department supporting record management for patient care areas as well as
administrative departments.[#x200b] Primary responsibilities include
maintaining, safeguarding, and processing health information of patient medical
records in accordance with regulatory requirements.[#x200b] The department is
also responsible for correctly assigning diagnostic and procedural codes to each
record to ensure proper and compliant billing.[#x200b]

Role Purpose

Supervises and coordinates the functions of the medical records team and work
processes.[#x200b] Provides procedural assistance as necessary.[#x200b] Serves
as a resource person to internal and external customers.[#x200b] Reports to HIM
Manager.[#x200b]

Responsibilities
Manages individual(s) including but not limited to: hires, trains, assigns work,
manages & evaluates performance, conducts professional development
plans.[#x200b] Ensures that the productivity and actions of that group
meet/[#x200b]support the overall operational goals of the department as
established by department leadership.[#x200b]
Coordinates activities to ensure health information management remain compliant
with each of the requirements.[#x200b]
Maintains appropriate quality assurance reviews.[#x200b]
Coordinates operations and integrates services within the work unit and with
other departments.[#x200b]
Participates on hospital committees as designated.[#x200b]
Provides leadership to other programs as assigned.[#x200b]
May participate in the development of departmental staffing, revenue
and/[#x200b]or expense budgets and having direct responsibility for adhering to
those goals.[#x200b] This includes responding to changes in the business which
may affect the ability to achieve the budget goals.[#x200b]

Minimum Requirements

Degree
Associate's Degree

- HIM/[#x200b]related

Experience
2-5 years

Preferred Requirements

Degree
Bachelor's Degree

- Health Information Management

Licenses & Certifications
RHIA
RHIT


Benefits Statement

Note: not all benefits apply to all openings

-  Comprehensive medical, dental, life insurance, and disability plan options
-  Pension Plan/[#x200b]403(b) Plan
-  401(k) plan with company match
-  Tuition Assistance
-  Health Care and Dependent Care Reimbursement Accounts
-  BJC Fitness Center (depending on location)
-  Earned Time Off Program for vacation, holiday and sick time

Legal Statement

The above information on this description has been designed to indicate the
general nature and level of work performed by employees in this
position.[#x200b] It is not designed to contain or be interpreted as an
exhaustive list of all responsibilities, duties and qualifications required of
employees assigned to this job.[#x200b]

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday

Police delay 'kills' youth

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: .Indore


.Indore, Aug. 23 -- Insensitivity of the Indore police cost the life of a youth
in the city on Tuesday.According to reports, the deceased, identified as Ravi
Dangi, a resident of Chatrapati Nagar, had been stabbed by some youths, while he
along with his friend, Ankit was standing near a temple near his house on
Tuesday afternoon.

Following the incident, the victim rushed to the nearby Rajendra Nagar police
station where the cops instead of providing prompt medical aid to him, kept him
waiting to complete the procedural formalities. By the time he was rushed to the
MY Hospital, it was too late and he succumbed to his injuries.

The insensitive approach of the police has come in for widespread condemnation
with the state home minister Umashankar Gupta taking serious note of the
incident and ordering a probe into the matter.

On the other hand, Indore IG Anuradha Shankar has denied that there was any
lethargy on the part of the police and refuted the allegation that the youth
died on account of delay in completing official formalities.

Talking to The Pioneer, Ms Shankar asserted that there was absolutely no truth
in the allegation that the youth died on account of delay on the part of the
police.

Ankit, who was a witness to the incident, said that Ravi, a student of B. Com
(first year), had a tiff with some youths over eve-teasing as the they had
passed some lewd remarks at his (Ravi) sister. Following resistance by Ravi, the
accused left only to return later with arms. Seeing Ravi standing near the
temple, the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon and fled.

Ankit said that Ravi who sustained severe injuries, immediately rushed to the
Rajendra Nagar police station, but the jawans there instead of rushing him to a
hospital, made him wait in the police station to complete the procedural
formalities and it was only after completion of the formalities that the victim
was rushed to MY Hospital. However, by then it was too late and he succumbed to
his injuries. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday

Rhode Island Superior Courts Case Summaries: October 6, 2011

BYLINE: Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2740  words


Administrative OHIC - Blue Cross contracts Where the defendant Rhode Island
Office of the Health Commission abrogated certain provisions contained within
contracts between the plaintiffs and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Rhode Island
and also imposed upon Blue Cross an administrative penalty of $5,000, the
defendant was acting within its statutory authority and did not commit a due
process violation. Background "Before the Court is Plaintiffs Care New England
Health System, Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island, Butler Hospital, Kent
County Memorial Hospital, and Kent County Visiting Nurse Association d/b/a VNA
of Care New England's (collectively, CNE) Partial Motion for Summary Judgment.1
Also before the Court is Defendants The Rhode Island Office of the Health
Commission and Health Insurance Commissioner Christopher F. Koller's
(Commissioner Koller) (collectively, OHIC) Motion for Summary Judgment. The
instant matter arises out of OHIC's November 16, 2010 Final Order (OHIC-2010-5)
(Final Order) -- following an examination pursuant to G.L. 1956 §§27-13.1-1, et
seq. (Examinations Statute) -- which abrogated certain provisions contained
within contracts between CNE and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Rhode Island
(Blue Cross) and imposed upon Blue Cross an administrative penalty of $5,000.
... "CNE's challenge of OHIC's Final Order is essentially three-fold.

CNE contends: (1) OHIC exceeded its statutory authority by abrogating a contract
provision entered between CNE and Blue Cross; (2) OHIC failed to comply with the
procedural requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act (APA), G.L. 1956
§42-35-1, et seq.; and (3) OHIC abridged a property interest without affording
adequate due process. For its part, OHIC seeks summary judgment as to all counts
of CNE's Verified Complaint and asserts: (1) its actions were not ultra vires in
light of its broad enforcement authority; (2) CNE was afforded the requisite due
process; (3) OHIC complied with the provisions of the Examinations Statute and
APA; and (4) CNE's claim for tortious interference with contract must fail as a
matter of law. " Valid agency action "[B]ased on the plain and unambiguous
language of titles 27 and 42, as well as Regulation 2, the Court finds no basis
for CNE's assertion that Commissioner Koller did not have the statutory
authority to conduct an examination or issue an order nullifying the Challenged
Provision and ordering the parties to renegotiate. OHIC conducted an examination
to address concerns over the Challenged Provision's effect on Blue Cross's
financial condition and the potential impact on health insurance affordability,
accessibility, provider fairness, and other regulatory objectives; thus, it was
free to order Blue Cross, based on its findings, to undertake those actions
deemed necessary and appropriate to remedy the violation. For that reason, the
Court: (1) finds that OHIC's actions were not in excess of its statutory
authority; (2) rejects CNE's attempt to read the language of OHIC's enabling
statute and the Examinations Statute in a manner nullifying the Final Order; and
(3) grants OHIC's motion for summary judgment as to this claim. ... "According
to CNE, OHIC's Final Order violated a protected interest arising under the APA.
In particular, CNE asserts that the APA's statutory scheme, requiring OHIC to
provide notice and an opportunity to be heard before issuing final orders in
contested cases, forms the basis for its due process claim. For its part, OHIC
maintains that the APA's procedural requirements relating to 'contested cases'
are inapplicable to the instant matter and directs the Court to the procedural
requirements set forth in the Examinations Statute itself. ... "Here, however,
CNE's claim of entitlement arising under the APA fails for two reasons. First,
in order to implicate the procedural protections of §42-35-9 -- and claim a
protected interest thereunder -- CNE must have been a party to a 'contested
case. ' ... To qualify as 'contested case,' the APA provides that a hearing be
required by law before a party's legal rights are affected. ... Given that CNE
was not a party to OHIC's examination and that the Examinations Statute does not
require a hearing where an examination report has been adopted, the Court finds
as a matter of law that the instant matter cannot possibly qualify as a
contested case. "Second, CNE's claim of entitlement under the APA is simply
inconsistent with the plain language of the Examinations Statute. Indeed, when
conducting an examination, adopting an examination report, or issuing a final
order, the Examinations Statute itself -- not the APA -- dictates the requisite
procedural safeguards owed to a party. ... It is only upon the issuance of a
final order by the health insurance commissioner, that a party's right to invoke
the APA is even implicated. ... Moreover, the procedural safeguards of the
Examinations Statute are only afforded to the examined company, and CNE -- a
nonparty to the examination -- may not now claim any entitlements to due
process. ... Consequently, in light of the foregoing, the Court finds as a
matter of law that CNE is not entitled to the procedural protections of either
the Examinations Statute or §45-35-9 of the APA, and for that reason, the Court
denies its claim for due process thereunder. ... "The second basis for CNE's due
process claim is premised on its alleged vested property interest arising under
the Blue Cross Agreements. CNE contends that OHIC issued the Final Order without
providing it with adequate notice or a hearing, and consequently divested CNE of
its vested contractual rights without due process of law. OHIC maintains,
however, that Blue Cross lacked the statutory authority to enter into the
Challenged Provision, and as a result, the Blue Cross Agreements are void ab
initio. Moreover, OHIC asserts that even assuming the existence of a valid
contract, CNE was afforded the requisite notice and opportunity to be heard. ...
"OHIC, however, has previously determined that the Challenged Provision was an
illegal insurance obligation and that Blue Cross exceeded its statutory
authority by entering into the Blue Cross Agreements. In view of those
determinations, the Court finds that the Blue Cross Agreements are ultra vires
contracts -- having been made in violation of Blue Cross's well-defined and
limited statutory powers -- and therefore, are void ab initio. ... Accordingly,
CNE can assert no rights or entitlements under the Blue Cross Agreements and
thus, its due process claim must fail. ... "Moreover, CNE can point to no other
legitimate claims of entitlement or protectable interests that were deprived by
the Final Order. Rather, without the benefit of the Blue Cross Agreements to
serve as the basis of its due process claim, the terms of the Letter Agreement
must consequently govern CNE's entitlement, if any, to notice and an opportunity
to be heard. Under the Letter Agreement, CNE had a legitimate expectation that
it would be provided with: (1) an opportunity to address the Blue Cross
Agreements before the preparation of any report resulting from the examination;
(2) a copy of any portion of the examination report to be made public following
the entry of an order adopting the report; and (3) the right to attend any
public hearing related to the examination and to participate in any portion of
the hearing related to the Blue Cross Agreements. ... A review of the evidence,
however, indicates that CNE was afforded all the procedural protections
previously agreed to and more. "Indeed, on January 28, 2009, CNE was initially
invited to a meeting with Blue Cross and OHIC to explain the purpose of the
examination, describe the examination process, and to address CNE's concerns.
... During the examination, OHIC organized a teleconference with CNE to discuss
the Blue Cross Agreements and obtain information and CNE's perspective on: (1)
the process by which CNE determines payment rates; (2) the factors that led to
the inclusion of the Challenged Provision; and (3) how the provisions and rates
agreed to by Blue Cross compared to those negotiated by CNE with other insurers.
... Finally, at the conclusion of the examination, both the Examination Report
and Final Order were sent to CNE, and Commissioner Koller instructed CNE to
contact him with any questions regarding the documents or anything else
addressed in his cover letter. ... Therefore, having been afforded all the
procedural protections agreed to, the Court finds as a matter of law that CNE
was not been divested of any contractual rights, and accordingly, due process
was not implicated. "In light of the foregoing, the Court finds as a matter of
law that CNE did not possess a protected interest under the APA or the Blue
Cross Agreements, and for that reason, the entry of the Final Order was not a
violation of its due process rights. Moreover, the Court is of the opinion that
any obligation to provide CNE with notice and an opportunity to be heard arose
solely from the Letter Agreement; and based on the proffered evidence, the Court
finds those obligations to have been adequately satisfied. " Care New England
Health System, et al. v. The Rhode Island Office of the Health Insurance
Commissioner, et al. (Lawyers Weekly No. 61-127-11) (26 pages) (Silverstein, J.)
(Providence Superior Court) (C.A. No. PC 10-6984) (Sept. 28, 2011). Retirement
Municipal pension benefits - Reduction Where the Retirement Board of the
Employees' Retirement System of the City of Providence brought a "Miscellaneous
Petition" seeking a judicial confirmation of its determination that a reduction
of the defendant's municipal pension benefits was warranted, the board's
decision should be afforded deference and accordingly it will be upheld.
Background "On April 2, 2001, following a federal investigation known as
'Operation Plunder Dome,' the United States Attorney filed a Superseding
Indictment against [defendant Frank E.] Corrente and five others. ... On June
24, 2002, a jury in the United States District Court for the District of Rhode
Island found Mr. Corrente guilty on seven of the counts charged in the
indictment. ... An Amended Judgment was entered against Mr. Corrente on: (1)
Count I, conspiracy to violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations statute (RICO); (2) Count II, a substantive RICO violation; (3)
Count V, conspiracy to commit federal bribery; (4) Count XIX, conspiracy to
commit extortion; and (5) Counts XVII and XVIII, attempted extortion. ... Mr.
Corrente was sentenced to (1) a total of fifty-six months of imprisonment, with
a credit for time served; (2) a $75,000 fine; (3) a $600 assessment; and (4) two
years of supervised release for each count, to be served concurrently. ...
"Following his indictment and conviction, the Retirement Board suspended --
effective as of October 2002 -- Mr. Corrente's pension benefits, pending a
hearing to determine whether the benefits should be revoked or reduced pursuant
to the Honorable Service Ordinance. ... In that connection, on April 23, 2003,
the Retirement Board appointed Larry J. Ritchie (Professor Ritchie), a Professor
of Law at Roger Williams University School of Law, to serve as an independent
hearing officer. ... "In his Report & Recommendation, Professor Ritchie advised
the Retirement Board to: "(1) Revoke all retirement benefits attributable to Mr.
Corrente's second term of employment by the City of Providence as Director of
Administration, "(2) Pay a reduced retirement pension to Mr. Corrente based on
his first term of service to the City when he worked in the Controller's office,
"(3) Return any contributions that Mr. Corrente paid into the retirement system
during his years as Director of Administration, without interest, and "(4)
Offset any retirement benefits and interest due on benefits that were suspended
in October of 2002 with the excessive payments made to Mr. Corrente during the
three years and three months following his retirement as Director of
Administration, including interest on those payments. A lump sum payment, if any
is due, could then be made for payments from the time of suspension of payments
until the resumption of payments at the reduced amount. ... "On August 13, 2008,
following a series of hearings, the Retirement Board voted to accept and adopt
Professor Ritchie's Report & Recommendation in full. ..." Judge's analysis "In
the instant matter, Professor Ritchie's Report & Recommendation was both
rational and appropriate in light of the evidence presented, and
correspondingly, the Retirement Board's determination was unequivocally
supported by competent evidence. Indeed, Professor Ritchie advised the
Retirement Board that '[t]he specific acts of which [Mr. Corrente] was
convicted, the power of his position, and the public trust placed in his office
are sufficient reasons to deny any retirement benefits for, at a minimum, Mr.
Corrente's entire second term of service ... as the Director of Administration.
Even if ... his criminal acts did not span his entire term as Director of
Administration, his breach of the employment contract was substantial enough to
disallow any retirement benefits for the entire second term of service to the
City. ' ... Notwithstanding the nature of Mr. Corrente's crimes, Professor
Ritchie further recommended that 'Mr. Corrente's case [was] a clear example of
the underlying rationale for the HSO and [the Rhode Island Public Employee
Pension Revocation and Reduction Act, G.L. 1956 §35-10.1-1, et seq.] -- the
allowance of a reduction of retirement benefits rather than a complete
revocation. ' ... "Central to Professor Ritchie's determination was the fact
that '[Mr. Corrente's] 20-year, first term of employment in the City
Controller's office [] ceased nearly four years before he began working as
Director of Administration. Id. For that reason, he proposed that '[t]he break
between the two terms of City employment, the drawing of retirement benefits
before taking on the second term, and the confinement of any alleged
dishonorable service to the second term of employment with the City suggests a
division that should be recognized under the ordinance. ' ... In that
connection, the record reflects that prior to accepting and adopting Professor
Ritchie's recommendation, the Retirement Board considered and deliberated over
the materials supporting his conclusion, its prior determinations, and the plain
language of the HSO. ... In the end, the members of the Retirement Board had
before them the basis for Professor Ritchie's recommendation, and while they
were free to reject it, they voted and agreed that a reduction of Mr. Corrente's
pension was warranted based on the circumstances before them. ... "The
Intervenors now argue that the Retirement Board's action was arbitrary and
capricious in light of its prior determinations to revoke, or effectively
revoke, the pensions of several other former City employees. The Intervenors,
however, miss the mark. "Despite their assertions, the Retirement Board is not
strictly bound by its prior determinations, but rather, is limited only by the
confines of its own regulations. ... Here, the Retirement Board unquestionably
had the authority to revoke or reduce Mr. Corrente's pension benefits based on
the facts and circumstances before it. To hold otherwise would simply reduce the
Retirement Board's procedures to a rubberstamp of revocation and render them
inconsequential. ... "Furthermore, although a presumption exists that an agency
will adhere to its settled rules or explain its decision to depart from its
prior norms, the Retirement Board's prior actions did not constitute a settled
rule or strictly binding precedent. ... Assuming, arguendo, that the Retirement
Board was required to conform to its prior revocations, the Court finds that
Professor Ritchie's Report & Recommendation, and the Retirement Board's adoption
thereof, adequately justify the departure. ... Indeed, while the Retirement
Board was concerned with the consistency of its determinations, it nevertheless
approved, in its entirety, Professor Ritchie's findings as to the division of
Mr. Corrente's terms of employment and thereby accepted his recommendations as
to the pension. " Retirement Board of the Employees' Retirement System of the
City of Providence v. Corrente (Lawyers Weekly No. 61-128-11) (13 pages)
(Silverstein, J.) (Providence Superior Court) (C.A. No. PB 08-6508) (Sept. 28,
2011).

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 19, 2004, Tuesday

Breach in detention of patient

SECTION: Features; 71

LENGTH: 1564 words


EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS. Published October 19, 2004. L v United Kingdom
(Application No 45508/99). Before M. Pellonpaa, President and Judges Sir Nicolas
Bratza, E. Palm, V. Straznicka, J. Casadevall, S. Pavlovschi and L. Garlicki.
Section Registrar M. O'Boyle. Judgment October 5, 2004

The absence of procedural safeguards to protect an applicant against arbitrary
deprivation of liberty on the ground of necessity after he had been compulsorily
detained breached his right to liberty guaranteed by article 5.1 of the European
Convention on Human Rights.

The European Court of Human Rights also held unanimously that article 5.4 had
been breached in that the applicant's right to have the legality of his
detention reviewed by a court had not been ensured.

L was a United Kingdom national, born in 1949 and lived in Surrey. He was
autistic, unable to speak and his level of understanding was limited. He was
frequently agitated and had a history of self-harming behaviour. He lacked the
capacity to consent or object to medical treatment.

For over 30 years he was cared for in Bournewood Hospital, a National Health
Service Trust hospital. He was an in-patient at the hospital's intensive
behavioural unit from around 1987 until March 1994, when he was discharged on a
trial basis to paid carers, with whom he successfully stayed until July 22,
1997.

In 1995 he started attending a day-care centre on a weekly basis. On July 22,
1997, while at the day centre, he became particularly agitated, hitting himself
on the head with his fists and banging his head against the wall. Staff could
not contact his carers, so called a local doctor, who gave him a sedative. L
remained agitated and, on the recommendation of his social worker, was taken to
hospital.

A consultant psychiatrist diagnosed him as requiring in-patient treatment. With
the help of two nurses, he was tansferred to the hospital's intensive unit as an
"informal patient". Dr M, the medical officer responsible for L since 1977,
considered detaining him compulsorily under the Mental Health Act 1983, but
concluded that it was not necessary, as he was compliant and had not resisted
admission or tried to run away.

In or around September 1997 L sought leave to apply for judicial review of the
hospital's decision to admit him. The High Court rejected his application,
finding that he had not been detained but had been informally admitted in
accordance with the common law doctrine of necessity.

The applicant appealed. Following an indication from the Court of Appeal, on
October 29, 1997, that the appeal would be decided in his favour, L was admitted
for treatment as an involuntary patient under the 1983 Act.

On December 2, 1997 the Court of Appeal found that L had been detained in July
1997 and that, as a patient could only be lawfully detained for the treatment of
a mental disorder under the 1983 Act, he had been unlawfully detained: R v
Bournewood Community and Mental Health NHS Trust, Ex parte L (The Times December
8, 1997; (1998) 2 WLR 764). The relevant health-care authorities appealed.

L had applied, in the meantime, to the Mental Health Review Tribunal for a
review of his detention. An independent psychiatric report was prepared,
recommending his discharge. He was released from the hospital on December 5, and
officially discharged to his carers on December 12, 1997.

The House of Lords ruled, by a majority, that L had not been detained and that
he had been lawfully admitted as an informal patient on the basis of the common
law doctrine of necessity: R v Bournewood Community and Mental Health NHS Trust,
Ex parte L (The Times June 30, 1998; (1999) AC 458).

In its judgment, the European Court of Human Rights held:

The applicant mainly alleged that his treatment as an informal patient in a
psychiatric institution amounted to detention and that that detention was
unlawful, in violation of article 5.1 and that the procedures available to him
for a review of the legality of his detention did not satisfy article 5.4.

In addition, relying on the prohibition of discrimination in article 14, he
alleged that he was discriminated against as an informal patient.

I Alleged violation of article 5.1 A Was the applicant deprived of his liberty?

The Court observed that, between July 22 to October 29, 1997, the applicant was
under continuous supervision and control and was not free to leave. It made no
difference whether the ward in which he was being treated was locked or
lockable.

The Court therefore concluded that the applicant was deprived of his liberty,
within article 5.1, during that period.

B Was his detention lawful under article 5.1(e)?

Article 5.1 provides: "1 Everyone has the right to liberty ... save in the
following cases and in accordance with ... law ... (e) the lawful detention ...
of persons of unsound mind..."

The Court noted that it was not disputed that the applicant was suffering from a
mental disorder on July 22, 1997, that he was agitated, self-harming and
controllable with sedation only while in the day-care centre or that he had
given rise to an emergency situation on that day.

Having regard to the detailed consideration of the matter by Dr M and by the
other health care professionals on that day, together with the day-care centre's
report, the Court considered there was adequate evidence justifying the initial
decision to detain the applicant on July 22, 1997.

The Court further found that the applicant had been reliably shown to have been
suffering from a mental disorder of a kind or degree warranting compulsory
confinement which persisted during his detention between July 22, and December
5, 1997.

In determining whether the applicant's detention was lawful, the Court
considered it clear that the domestic legal basis for the applicant's detention
between July 22 and October 29, 1997 was the common law doctrine of necessity.
That doctrine, in particular the test of what was in the applicant's best
interests, was still developing at the time of his detention.

Whether or not the applicant, with appropriate advice, could reasonably have
forseen his detention, the Court found that a further requirement for lawfulness
under article 5.1, namely that any deprivation of liberty should not be
arbitrary, had not been met.

The Court found striking the lack of any fixed procedural rules by which the
admission and detention of compliant incapacitated patients was conducted.

The contrast between that dearth of regulation and the extensive network of
safeguards applicable to psychiatric committals covered by the 1983 Act was, in
the Court's view, significant. In particular and most obviously, the Court noted
the lack of any formalised admission procedures indicating who could propose
admission, for what reasons and on the basis of what kind of medical and other
assessments and conclusions.

There was no requirement to fix the exact purpose of admission, for example, for
assessment or for treatment, and, consistently, no limits in terms of time,
treatment or care attached to that admission. Nor was there any specific
provision requiring a continuing clinical assessment of the persistence of a
disorder warranting detention.

The nomination of a representative of a patient who could make certain
objections and applications on his or her behalf was a procedural protection
accorded to those committed involuntarily under the 1983 Act and which would be
of equal importance for legally incapacitated patients with, as in the
applicant's case, extremely limited communication abilities. As a result of the
lack of procedural regulation and limits, the Court observed that the hospital's
health care professionals assumed full control of the liberty and treatment of a
vulnerable incapacitated individual solely on the basis of their own clinical
assessments completed as and when they considered fit.

While the Court did not question the good faith of those professionals or that
they acted in what they considered to be the applicant's best interests, the
very purpose of procedural safeguards was to protect individuals against any
misjudgment or professional lapse.

The Court therefore found that such absence of procedural safeguards failed to
protect against arbitrary deprivations of liberty on the ground of necessity
and, consequently, to comply with the essential purpose of article 5.1.

The Court therefore held, unanimously, that there had been a violation of
article 5.1.

II Alleged violation of article 5.4 Finding that it had not been demonstrated
that the applicant had available to him a procedure to have the lawfulness of
his detention reviewed speedily by a court, the Court held, unanimously, that
there had been a violation of article 5.4.

III Alleged violation of article 14 The Court considered that the applicant's
complaint that he was discriminated against as an informal patient did not give
rise to any separate issue not already examined under article 5.1 and 5.4.

IV Application of article 41 The Court held, unanimously, that the finding of a
violation of article 5.1 and 5.4 constituted sufficient just satisfaction for
any non-pecuniary damage sustained.

The Court awarded Euro 29,500 for costs and expenses, less Euro 2,677.57
received in legal aid from the Council of Europe.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited


                              222 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: Naval Hospital Jacksonville Increasing Patient Safety Through
Training

LENGTH: 564  words

DATELINE: Washington


United States Navy, The Government of USA has issued the following news release:

According to the World Health Organization, as many as one in 10 patients are
harmed while receiving hospital care - seven out of 100 hospitalized patients
acquire health care-associated infections.

"Medicine, by its inherent nature, can presents risks on a daily basis," said
Kathleen Davitt, nurse educator assigned to Naval Hospital (NH) Jacksonville's
Staff Education and Training (SEAT) department. "But through hands-on, life-like
training from our simulation equipment, our health care professionals are better
prepared to mitigate those procedural and technical risks to maintain an
increased environment of safety and quality within our facilities."

At NH Jacksonville, health care professionals utilize state-of-the-art low-,
medium-, and high-fidelity human-like simulators to provide evidence-based
simulations to develop and hone already acquired skills of its health care
professionals-nurses, physicians, residents and corpsmen.

The simulators, operated by simulation technicians in the hospital's SEAT
department, are capable of creating a broad range of mock team and individual
training on a number of medical situations - such as childbirth, cardiac arrest
and perioperative complications - to enhance medical education and training, and
most importantly promote safe patient outcomes. And to complement the human-like
simulators, NH Jacksonville uses life-like body parts (medical task trainers) to
simulate medical procedural tactics such as lumbar or epidural punctures,
abdominal ultrasounds, injections and arterial line placements.

For military and civilian staff who may deploy to combat zones or on
humanitarian missions, NH Jacksonville utilizes specialized simulators to
replicate extensive trauma victims - like those that may be encountered while
deployed.

"To make training more realistic, we conduct scenarios in actual patient care
areas, rather than a laboratory setting, to simulate a real environment and
promote proficiency," said Davitt. "This type of training can effectively
reaffirm and fine-tune individual and team strengths, or identify and correct
procedures or tactics - ultimately reducing errors and improving patient
safety."

Everyone in the health care process plays a vital role in delivering safe care,
and NH Jacksonville remains focused on patient safety 24/7/365. The command has
been recognized for its ongoing safety efforts by consistently earning the Joint
Commission Gold Seal of Approval for accreditation in health care quality and
safety, and it was recently awarded the National Committee for Quality Assurance
(NCQA) Level III - the nation's highest level - recognition for its
Patient-Centered Medical Home at the hospital and all five of its branch health
clinics.

NH Jacksonville's priority since its founding in 1941 is to heal the nation's
heroes and their families. The command is comprised of the Navy's third largest
hospital and five branch health clinics across Florida and Georgia. Of its
patient population - about 160,000 active and retired Sailors, Soldiers,
Marines, Airmen, Guardsmen and their families - about 70,000 are enrolled with a
primary care manager and Medical Home Port team at one of its facilities.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                            December 24, 2007 Monday

Survey finds issues at medical center

BYLINE: PAUL CRAIG, Columbian staff writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 733 words


The Washington Department of Health found procedural problems at Southwest
Washington Medical Center that could potentially cost the hospital Medicare and
Medicaid funding in the worst-case scenario.
Hospital officials, however, "have no intention of letting that happen,"
according to Alden Roberts, vice president of quality and medical affairs for
the hospital.

In a recent unannounced survey of the hospital, inspectors cited Southwest for
not properly documenting the use of restraints on patients, failing to promptly
process patient grievances and for not having a system properly set up for
reporting alleged abuse to local law enforcement.
The citations were issued at the end of October and the medical center was
given 45 days to correct the deficiencies. That period ended last week and the
state will now make another announced visit to check on conditions.
State officials based in Olympia served as an agent for the federal Center for
Medicare and Medicaid Services in Seattle in conducting the survey.
"We could have a surprise visit from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid
Services at anytime, but I also think we're ready for it and we'll do well on
the visit," Roberts said.
The investigation of the hospital was prompted by patient complaints to the
state. The state determined that Southwest was not properly documenting the use
of restraints on patients, which must be done by a registered nurse. Southwest
had certified nursing assistants performing assessments of patients in
restraints, while some restraint usage went undocumented, according to the
state's report.
The hospital was not reprimanded for the actual use of restraints, which are
administered for potentially dangerous patients or those who are a threat to
themselves, such as someone trying to remove a ventilator tube.
"There are very legitimate reasons for needing to have this type of restraint,
but if you're going to use it, you have to document it well and it has to be
documented by the right people," Roberts said.

Slow resolution
The hospital was also admonished because it was not prompt enough in closing
out all cases involving complaints. The state found that three of eight patient
grievances that were reviewed were not being resolved promptly and one was not
being processed through the grievance system. The personal privacy of one
patient with a grievance was also not protected, according to the document.
The next federal review will not only look at the areas of concern, but all of
the hospital.
"We'll look at the entire facility this time," said Byron Plan, executive
manager of the state's Office of Health Survey.
The hospital has administered in-house mock surveys and brought in an
independent contractor with experience in conducting hospital surveys to gauge
its performance. Roberts is confident the next official inspection will lead to
a clean slate and the whole experience will lead to better operating
procedures.
If it doesn't, the hospital could again be given a set amount of time to
resolve issues before another investigation. The biggest threat is losing
Medicare and Medicaid funding, which accounted for $180 million in payments to
the hospital in 2006, or 48 percent of the hospital's total intake for that
fiscal year. Medicare and Medicaid totals for fiscal year 2007 won't be
available until January. Roberts said that kind of loss would be "devastating."
Such a sanction "could be the final step, but there would be other things
in-between," said Linda Foss, manager of survey and investigation for the
Office of Health Care Survey. "But, that would be the worst-case scenario."


Update
*  Previously: Southwest Washington Medical Center was cited by the Washington
Department of Health for procedural problems involving documenting the use of
patient restraints and resolving patient complaints.
*  What's new: The hospital had 45 days to address the issues, which expired
last week, before state officials would return for another unannounced review.
*  What's next: The hospital will either be found to comply with regulations
issued by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid services or investigators will
give another set amount of time for more work to be done. Worst-case scenario
would be losing Medicare and Medicaid funding.

Paul Craig covers the health care industry for The Columbian. He can be reached
at 360-759-8072 or via e-mail at
paul.craig@columbian.com
  .


LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 10, 2017 Wednesday

Thirty-Day Readmissions After Endovascular or Surgical Therapy for Critical Limb
Ischemia

LENGTH: 478  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: American College of Cardiology has issued the following news
release:
What are the incidence, predictors, causes, and expense of all-cause 30-day
readmission after hospitalization for critical limb ischemia (CLI) treated with
endovascular or surgical therapy?


 Methods:
The authors reviewed hospitalizations for a primary diagnosis of CLI during
which patients underwent endovascular or surgical therapy (revascularization
and/or amputation) and were discharged alive and were within the 2013-2014
Nationwide Readmissions Databases. Incidence, reasons, and costs of 30-day
unplanned readmissions were determined. Hierarchical logistic regression models
were used to identify independent predictors of 30-day readmissions.
 Results:
There were 60,998 index CLI hospitalizations (mean age, 68.9 ± 11.9 years; 40.8%
women; 24.6% for rest pain, 37.2% for ulcer, and 38.2% for gangrene). Thirty-day
readmission rate was 20.4%. Presentation with ulcer or gangrene, age [>=]65
years, female sex, large hospital size, teaching hospital status, known coronary
artery disease, heart failure, diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease,
anemia, coagulopathy, obesity, major bleeding, acute myocardial infarction,
vascular complications, and sepsis were identified as independent predictors of
30-day readmission. Mode of revascularization was not independently associated
with readmissions. Infections (23.5%), persistent or recurrent manifestations of
PAD (22.2%), cardiac conditions (11.4%), procedural complications (11.0%), and
endocrine issues (5.7%) were the most common reasons for readmission. The
inflation-adjusted aggregate costs of 30-day readmissions for CLI during the
study period were $624 million.
 Conclusions:
Approximately one in five patients hospitalized for CLI and undergoing
revascularization is readmitted within 30 days. Risk of readmission is
influenced by CLI presentation, patient demographics, comorbidities, and in-
hospital complications, but not by the mode of revascularization.
 Perspective:
CLI was defined as chronic ([>=]2 weeks) ischemic rest pain, nonhealing
wound/ulcers, or gangrene in one or both legs attributable to objectively proven
occlusive PAD. The cost of all-cause 30-day re-hospitalization following
treatment for CLI was over $10,000 per patient. The authors suggested that
implementation of multidisciplinary CLI teams and wound teams, remote monitoring
of wound healing and limb perfusion, and measures aimed at reducing procedural
complications and infections may represent potential strategies to decrease
readmissions and lower healthcare costs. Among the limitation of the design is
not including deaths within the index hospitalization, patients may have had a
prior procedure on the same limb >30 days prior to index admission, and that the
sickest of patients were referred to the high-volume teaching hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                                 Delhi Edition

Drugs numb her maternal instinct

BYLINE: Ambika Pandit TNN

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 493 words



HIGHLIGHT: 24-Yr-Old Pregnant Woman Rescued By NGO But Violently Fends Off Help


New Delhi: Twenty-fouryear-old Anita (name changed) begs and sells flowers at
the famous Hanuman Mandir complex in Connaught Place.She is homeless and reeling
under the effects of substance abuse.What makes her condition worrisome is that
she's expecting twins.Due to the high-risk full-term pregnancy,she needs
immediate medical attention.But providing help isn't all that easy.On Saturday,a
rescue operation was carried out to take her to a safe place but it was marred
by procedural delays.She was rescued from the Hanuman Mandir complex around noon
on Saturday.She was found in a mentally unstable and violent condition - the
fallout of substance abuse and a traumatic street life.The rescue team consisted
of the state-appointed Mother NGO for homeless,St Stephen's Hospital,a mental
health team from the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences and Delhi
Police.Though Anita was picked up from Hanuman Mandir around noon,she could be
admitted to Lok Narayan Jai Prakash Hospital only by 8.30pm.Getting clearances
and completing procedures took up all the time.Anita lives at the Hanuman Mandir
complex with her husband and four children.They scrounge a meal by begging and
also sell flowers and balloons to visitors.Like many others in the area,the
couple is into substance abuse.The community workers from MNGO found her during
a survey of the homeless last year."We have been tracking Anita throughout her
pregnancy.Staying on the streets in this condition is fraught with risks," said
Dr Amod Kumar from the MNGO.The rescue team found Anita in a violent
state.According to Kumar,her husband and community members,too,felt that she
should be admitted to a hospital but they did not accompany her.The rescue team
first took Anita in an ambulance to St Stephen's Hospital but she refused to go
inside and turned violent.The IHBAS team expressed their helplessness in
admitting Anita as she was a case of a full-term pregnancy and they are not
equipped enough.Times City found Anita in the ambulance urging the team to leave
her back at Hanuman Mandir and growing violent every now and then.With the law
making it mandatory for NGOs to get orders from the lower court in such cases to
enable hospitals to admit the patient,the ambulance headed for the Patiala House
court.The metropolitan magistrate gave its order around 5.30pm,directing that
the patient be placed for treatment in Lok Narayan Jai Prakash Hospital.Once at
LNJP,she was shunted from one department to another despite her delicate
condition.Finally,she was admitted to the hospital around 8.30pm.Minister Kiran
Walia,in charge of social welfare and women and child development,said that such
cases are difficult to deal with and agreed that procedural delays in these
matters are a big concern."This is why we involve NGO and institutions like
IHBAS who specialize in mental health.In this case,I have asked LNJP Hospital to
cooperate fully as it is a delicate matter," Walia added.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         Buderim Chronicle (Queensland)

                               December 15, 2010

Upgrade is under way for hospital

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 509  words


NAMBOUR Hospital's emergency department waiting times should be reduced thanks
to a new fast-track area due to open next Monday.

The $520,000 project has seen the department's triage and waiting area totally
redesigned to treat high acuity patients more quickly and streamline less urgent
patients.

The department will have five fast-track assessment areas and will be staffed by
a doctor, nurse practitioner and senior nurse.

It also includes an eye treatment room, additional consultation room and two
patient bays.

Emergency department acting nurse unit manager Rob McDonald said the
redevelopment would allow medical staff to quickly assess and treat waiting room
patients.

"They can then be moved on to the next stage of care, whether that's undergoing
further tests or treatment, being admitted, going home or transferring back to
their GP," Mr McDonald said.

"Patients will always be seen on a priority basis meaning the sickest patients
will be seen first, however, every patient who presents to the emergency
department is important."

He said better signage and a more open environment would make it easier for
staff and patients to communicate.

Mr McDonald said a dedicated paediatric unit would also be established in the
emergency department.

Decorated in bright colours, it will be staffed by nurses trained in paediatric
care.

"We recognise the need for children not to be exposed to some of the things that
happen in the emergency department, hence this separate unit," he said.

The paediatric project is funded by the hospital's health foundation, Wishlist,
and is due for completion in the New Year.

About 35,000 people attend Nambour Hospital's busy emergency department each
year, more than 9000 in the three months to September alone.

In September, 48% of category four patients were seen within the national
benchmark of 60 minutes, the average wait being 89 minutes.

About 80% of category five patients were seen within the national benchmark
guidelines of 120 minutes averaging a 72 minute wait time.

The emergency department redesign follows the opening of the $150 million 96-bed
ward block at Nambour Hospital in August.

The redevelopment included an expanded specialist outpatients clinic, acute
geriatrics, acute stroke/neurology and acute medicine, new antenatal and
paediatric clinics, relocated special care nursery and paediatric ward and a
respiratory ward.

As well as the redesigned emergency department, new works being undertaken in
the old ward block include a new 12-bed medical assessment planning unit and
expanded medical imaging, pathology and pharmacy services.

Construction of a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, a vascular procedural
suite and new dedicated endoscopy procedural unit will start next year, with
services to start from late 2011.

All areas are expected to be operational by 2012.

Fast facts

$520,000 emergency department redevelopment, aimed at streamlining less urgent
patients, includes:

Five assessment areas

Two patient bays

Consultation room

Eye treatment room

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SBC


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                     Coolum & North Shore News (Queensland)

                               December 17, 2010

High-need patients to be fast tracked

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 475  words



HIGHLIGHT: New emergency area a shot in the arm for Nambour General Hospital


NAMBOUR hospital's emergency department waiting times should be reduced, thanks
to a new fast-track area due to open on Monday.

The $520,000 project has seen the department's triage and waiting area
redesigned to treat high-need patients more quickly and streamlined treatment
for less-urgent patients.

The department will have five fast-track assessment areas staffed by a doctor,
nurse practitioner and senior nurse, an eye treatment room, an additional
consultation room and two patient bays.

Emergency department acting nurse unit manager Rob McDonald said the
redevelopment would allow medical staff to quickly assess and treat waiting-room
patients.

"They can then be moved on to the next stage of care, whether that's undergoing
further tests or treatment, being admitted, going home or transferring back to
their GP," Mr McDonald said.

"Patients will always be seen on a priority basis, meaning the sickest patients
will be seen first. However, every patient who presents to the emergency
department is important."

He said better signage and a more open environment would make it easier for
staff and patients to communicate with each other.

Mr McDonald said a dedicated paediatric unit would also be established in the
emergency department.

Decorated in bright colours, it will be staffed by nurses trained in paediatric
care.

"We recognise the need for children not to be exposed to some of the things that
happen in the emergency department, hence this separate unit," he said.

The paediatric project is funded by the hospital's health foundation, Wishlist,
and is due for completion in the new year.

About 35,000 people attend Nambour hospital's busy emergency department each
year, more than 9000 in the three months to September.

In September, 48% of category-four patients were seen within the national
benchmark of 60 minutes, the average wait being 89 minutes.

About 80% of category-five patients were seen within the national benchmark
guidelines of 120 minutes, averaging a 72-minute wait time.

The emergency department redesign follows the opening of the $150 million 96-bed
ward block at Nambour General Hospital in August.

The redevelopment includes an expanded specialist outpatient clinic, acute
geriatrics, acute stroke/neurology and acute medicine, new antenatal and
paediatric clinics, a relocated special-care nursery and paediatric ward and a
respiratory ward.

As well as the redesigned emergency department, new works being undertaken in
the old ward block include a 12-bed medical assessment planning unit and
expanded medical imaging, pathology and pharmacy services.

Construction of a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, a vascular procedural
suite and dedicated endoscopy procedural unit will start next year, with
services from late 2011.

All areas are expected to be operational in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCW


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            April 18, 2009 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

stocked to the rafters

SECTION: CAREERONE; Pg. 202

LENGTH: 418  words


AFTER finishing high school, Raymond Thain went looking for any job he could
find, but was lucky enough to secure a position that he would really grow to
enjoy.

Now 16 years on, the procedural area purchasing assistant and chemical
management officer at the Mater Hospital in Pimlico knows his stores and stock
like the back of his hand.

``On a daily basis my job entails unloading trucks, checking procedural areas
for stock requirements, chasing up stock through various suppliers, placing
orders for implantable items such as heart valves and knee and hip joints,
conducting training throughout the hospital in chemical management and I also
supervise four staff within the department,'' Mr Thain said.

``When I started 16 years ago, I only had my high school certificate, but with
the help of the Mater I have studied for my Diploma of Business Frontline
Management at TAFE and Chemical Management Certificate from the National Safety
Council of Australia.''

Mostly Mr Thain enjoys the variety his job offers.

``Every day is different,'' he said.

``You really have to be able to prioritise so you help meet surgeons'
requirements.

``Communication plays a key part of my job as you need to communicate with
nurses, surgeons, suppliers, couriers and allied health professionals as to
their specific product requirements.

``Also, the health industry is always changing with improvements to technology,
so products can become virtually obsolete overnight . . . that's always a
challenge.''

But these changes keep Mr Thain on his toes.

``I enjoy the constant pace, as I don't enjoy sitting around at a desk all
day,'' he said.

``Although there is the paperwork that needs attending to, and then I get to sit
and catch my breath.

``When I first started, at my interview, I was told that I would not be bored .
. . never have truer words been spoken.''

Mr Thain said the hardest part was keeping accurate stock levels on hand to
fulfil all surgeons' requirements and with companies putting stock on back
order, or delays in freight, this could prove frustrating.

``But as part of a professional team, you try and minimise this from happening
and implement strategies to overcome these sorts of problems,'' he said.

Mr Thain said most people only thought of doctors and nurses when they thought
of hospitals, but he said there were other, just as important jobs within the
hospital, and his was one of them.

``My advice would be don't be put off by the job title, because it's the duties
that make the job interesting,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            November 13, 2016 Sunday
                                Bangalore Mirror

State's pioneering Good Samaritan Act

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 442 words


Karnataka is set to become the first state in the country to enact a Good
Samaritan law with the state cabinet giving its approval for "Karnataka Good
Samaritan and Medical Professional (Protection and Regulation during Emergency
Situations) Bill".

The Bill, drafting of which was supported by SaveLIFE Foundation, aims to
provide protection to Good Samaritans who come to the aid of victims of road
accident and other emergency situations, from ensuing legal and procedural
hassles. This was announced by chief minister Siddaramaiah in a Tweet on
Wednesday.

"Cabinet has approved Karnataka Good Samaritan and Medical Professional bill-
2016 seeking to incentivize by standers to help accident victims," the CM
tweeted. The bill is likely to be tabled in the next assembly session starting
November 21.

Once passed, the bill will give legislative backing to the landmark judgment of
the Supreme Court dated March 30, 2016 (SaveLIFE Foundation versus Union of
India) in which the apex court gave "force of law" to the guidelines and
Standard Operating Procedures issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and
Highways.

In the absence of an efficient Emergency Medical Services system in India,
bystanders can play a crucial role in providing assistance to victims within the
first one hour.

In fact, the Law Commission of India had noted in its 201st report that over 50
per cent of road accident deaths can be averted with timely medical care within
the first hour. Considering that Karnataka is one of the top five states in road
accidents deaths in India with over 10,800 people being killed in 2015 alone,
the proposed

legislation will potentially save over 5000 lives annually.

Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO of SaveLIFE Foundation, said, "This law will
strengthen the framework outlined by the Supreme Court to protect Good
Samaritans from legal and procedural hassles and provides a path for its
effective implementation. We hope that other states will follow Karnataka's lead
and enact the law."

BILL OF GOOD

The Bill aims to provide protection to Good Samaritans, who come to the aid of
victims of road accident and other emergency situations, from ensuing legal and
procedural hassles.

Besides protecting a Good Samaritan from any criminal or civil liability which
may arise out of helping an injured victim, the Bill addresses key issues that
make bystanders refrain from coming forward to help- detention at hospitals,
harassment by police, repeated court appearances, and to be compelled to be a
witness in the matter. The Bill also provides protection to medical
professionals during their examination as a witness.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. John's Telegram (Newfoundland)

                             August 21, 2006 Monday

Fewer doctors offering specialized services

BYLINE: DEANA STOKES SULLIVAN

SECTION: METRO/PROVINCIAL NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 527 words


In recent years, fewer Newfoundland and Labrador family physicians have been
providing specialized services such as obstetrical care, hospital inpatient care
and surgical assistance.

A new publication by the Canadian Institute for Health Information (CIHI),
contains data from annual surveys in all provinces from 1994 to 2003.

The report is titled "The Evolving Role of Canada's Fee-for- Service Family
Physicians."

The 2003 survey involved 354 fee-for-service family physicians in this province
while 421 family doctors were surveyed in 1994.

The provision of obstetrical services by family physicians has been steadily
dropping, reaching a low of 9.3 per cent in 2003, from 25.7 per cent in 1994.

National trend

Nationally, a similar trend has been emerging. In 2003, only 15.7 per cent of
female family physicians and 13.2 per cent of male family physicians in the
country provided obstetrical care, compared to 27 per cent of female family
physicians and 26 per cent of male family physicians who offered obstetrical
services in 1994.

Hospital inpatient care was offered by more than half of all family doctors in
Newfoundland and Labrador in 1994 but in 2003, their participation rate in that
category dropped slightly to 42.1 per cent.

The CIHI report notes that while the percentage of family doctors providing
hospital inpatient care in this province has been on the decline, record high
average numbers of hospital inpatient services were provided in 2002 and 2003 by
fewer family physicians. The average number of services, provided by family
doctors, who continued to participate in obstetrical care, rose to 1,300 in 2003
from 955 a year earlier.

Surgical assistance by family physicians in this province has also been
declining, going to 15.5 per cent in 2003 from 28 per cent in 1994.

In the latest survey, 92.9 per cent of Newfoundland and Labrador family
physicians said they were in office practices, with 83.9 per cent offering basic
procedural skills services. Advanced procedural skills services were offered by
76.8 per cent.

Mental-health care is also offered, but this area of practice has also been
declining slightly among family doctors in this province.

In 2003, 60.5 per cent of family physicians said they offered mental health
services, compared to 71 per cent in 1994.

Nationally, in 2003, more than 84 per cent of family doctors said they offered
mental health services, which was no change from 1994.

According to the CIHI report, 68.4 per cent of family physicians in this
province in 2003 were male and 31.6 per cent female.

Half of all fee-for-service family physicians in the province practice in urban
centres, with 15.8 per cent providing services in what's termed "mid-size"
communities and 34.2 per cent practising in rural areas.

Nationally only 15.8 per cent of all family physicians worked in rural Canada in
2003. Newfoundland and Labrador, Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, New
Brunswick and Saskatchewan had markedly higher percentages than other provinces,
all over 30 per cent.

The percentages of family physicians working in rural areas were lowest in
Ontario (10.4 per cent) and British Columbia (12.8 per cent).

dss@thetelegram.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 St. John's Telegram, a division of Transcontinental Media Group
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             March 23, 2012 Friday

Operation melodrama;
Plots involving surgeons, policemen and lovers provide twists aplenty in this
week's crop of serials

BYLINE: foong woei wan, telemad

SECTION: LIFE!; Life Home Entertainment

LENGTH: 688 words


When the going gets tough, the tough fall back on formulas.

For leading Hong Kong network TVB, which is being bled of talent by new
free-to-air players and is in a siege mode, it has meant safe programming such
as procedurals and sequels. In the past year, the network has wheeled out legal
procedurals (Ghetto Justice and The Other Truth), and sequels to police
procedurals (Forensic Heroes III and Lives Of Omission).

Safe isn't necessarily bad, however.

The new TVB hospital drama, The Hippocratic Crush, provides proof that an
above-average medical procedural, pulled off with finesse, can be a pleasure.

The series revolves around trainee surgeons (Tavia Yeung and Kenneth Ma) and
housemen (Mandy Wong and Him Law) - as well as their acquaintances and family
members who are episodes away from ill health and melodrama - and it is not
quite revolutionary.

Nor is it exactly revelatory when Ma, misunderstood as a cold careerist, turns
out to be a good guy and Yeung soon has the hots for him. Or when the aggressive
Wong turns out to be the long-lost sister of the assertive Yeung. Or when Law's
antagonism towards Ma softens into admiration.

But there is such a nice hum as the drama shifts smoothly between light comedy,
heavy-duty drama and friendly explanations of surgery (neurosurgery is just like
gently fishing for a peanut in soft soya beancurd without breaking the surface,
apparently).

The series has a convivial tone which brings another crowd-pleaser, Ghetto
Justice, to mind.

And in Ma, The Hippocratic Crush has an agreeable leading man.

No, he isn't as cute as Law and he doesn't have the effortless charisma of his
Ghetto Justice counterpart Kevin Cheng. But Ma has an aching sincerity which
works in scenes of anguish. He is adequate, and it isn't bad.

Playing it safe is the one thing you can't accuse Channel 8 police drama
Unriddle 2 of.

Would you attempt a psychodrama about a policewoman (Rui En) going off the
rails, knowing it could be a tortured mess'

Would you kill off your stronger actors (Tay Ping Hui, as a twitching detective
with a brain ailment, and Desmond Shen, as a scar-faced criminal) and leave your
viewers at the mercy of a weaker actor (Elvin Ng, as a lollipop-sucking police
whiz-kid)'

Would you risk your actors' dignity in an amateurish shoot-out scene, knowing
they could look like they all have two left hands and two left feet'

MediaCorp does all of the above, and it sure seems to like living dangerously.
It isn't entirely inept though.

In its first season, the series packed an emotional punch whenever it placed its
everywoman (Chen Liping, as a reluctant informant of Rui En's) in peril.

In its second season, it drags her adopted family members into trouble too and
puts her in the painful position of deciding whom to save.

They are an ordinary bunch who help out at her coffee shop but they are also
heroic, believable heartlanders you can root for, even as the drama goes
haywire.

Finally, a confession: I am not sure where the Taiwanese urban drama Love
Forward is going, but I am following it nonetheless.

It is a ride I have hopped on because a few of the characters of Time Story, the
long-running family series I love, are on board. They may have different names
and hairstyles now, like refugees in a witness protection programme, but I
recognise them.

Love Forward's money-mad protagonist, Zeng Aixing (Tammy Chen), is a shrewder
version of Time Story's gleeful Sun Yimei (Chen), and Zeng's boss (Weber Yang)
is a sexier and more predatory version of Sun's childhood crush (Yang).

Three episodes in, Love Forward is looking like a run-of-the-mill romance built
on a false dichotomy between love and money (why can't women have both'). But
the drama is rich in chatty banter, which has a way of making long road trips to
nowhere new bearable - and even enjoyable.

woeiwan@sph.com.sg

view it

THE HIPPOCRATIC CRUSH

StarHub Demand TV, Anytime On Demand

*** 1/2

UNRIDDLE 2

Channel 8, Mondays to Fridays, 9pm

** 1/2

LOVE FORWARD

StarHub Demand TV, Anytime On Demand E City (StarHub Channel 825), Saturdays,
8pm from April 28

***

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In The Hippocratic Crush, Kenneth Ma and Tavis Yeung (both above) play
doctors turned lovers; and Weber Yang and Tammy Chen mix money and romance in
Love Forward. -- PHOTOS: STARHUB, MEDIACORP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

Montana: Sales Rep Hernia Specialist / Wyoming 10094530

LENGTH: 686  words

DATELINE: Helena


Department of Labor & Industry, The State of Montana has issued the following
job announcement:

10094530
Job Title:  Sales Rep Hernia Specialist / Wyoming
Location:  MONTANA CITY, MT, 59634
Description:

JOB DESCRIPTION

Provide procedural and product expertise to targeted customers and Key Opinion
Leaders KOL through field travel, meeting attendance, educational seminars, and
OR case observations. Manage all aspects of hernia business in the field
including, but not limited to, selling Surgical Device s full line of hernia and
mesh products, and the education of surgeons, hospital personnel, and all sales
representatives on procedures and product applications. Drive revenue to
increase hernia and soft tissue repair business achieving necessary budget
targets. Develop and support clinical relationships. Drive procedural
conversions from open procedures to laparoscopic procedures to meet the overall
goal of positioning Surgical Devices to be the market leader in Hernia repair.

Key Responsibilities:

1. Master all hernia and soft tissue repair related Surgical Devices  products
and applications for hernia repair.

2. Develop procedural knowledge and expertise on hernia and soft tissue repair
procedures.

3. Develop local market strategy to increase hernia and soft tissue repair
market share and create a business plan to execute on the strategy

4. Attain required objectives designed to increase hernia and soft tissue repair
revenue and increase market share.

5. Act as the hernia and soft tissue repair expert in the field for internal and
external customers.

6. Create effective selling strategies and tools to assist entire region in
converting hernia and soft tissue repair business

7. Develop business by creation of educational programs to increase surgeon s
safe and effective use of Surgical Devices hernia and soft tissue repair
products in collaboration with Marketing and Sales Training.

8. Increase overall satisfaction levels at Surgical Devices  accounts through
support of product and procedural applications

9. Continually increase technical/industry knowledge through appropriate
training opportunities.

10. Participate in Divisional and Regional meetings.

11. Other duties as assigned with or without accommodation.

QUALIFICATIONS

Bachelor s Degree

Experience: Minimum five years successful professional sales experience in a
hospital setting; medical device or soft tissue sales experience preferred
Preferred Skills/Qualifications: Proven success in Medical Device Sales;
Marketing experience; Skills/Competencies: Excellent written and verbal
communication skills and proficiency in MS Office applications

Covidien is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer and VEVRAA Federal
Contractor. Covidien will make reasonable accommodations to allow qualified
individuals to perform their job duties unless the accommodation imposes an
undue hardship. Please feel free to request a copy of the Covidien Equal
Employment Opportunity and Reasonable Accommodation policies for additional
information.

This employer participates in the federal E-Verify program to confirm the
identity and employment authorization of all newly hired employees. For further
information about the E-Verify program, please click here:  company's website

Please note that the  Essential Job Functions  are listed under the sections
titled  What is the work I will be doing*  and  Are you able and willing to work
under these conditions* .

DISCLAIMER

The above statements are intended to describe the general nature and level of
work being performed by employees assigned to this classification. They are not
intended to be construed as an exhaustive list of all responsibilities, duties
and skills required of employees assigned to this position.

Company  is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, protected veteran status, disability status or any other
characteristic protected by law.

Employer's Job# 1400041M

Please visit job URL for more information about this opening and to view EOE
statement..


Open

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 8, 2015 Thursday

Washington: King Calls on Congress to Increase Funding for Veterans' Care

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Office of the Senator Angus King has issued the following news
release:



 After opposing a procedural motion on a bill that drastically underfunds
critical veterans' health care programs, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-Maine)
released the following statement calling on his colleagues to draft and pass
appropriations legislation that adequately meets and serves the needs of
America's veterans:





             &ldquo;America's veterans deserve the best, highest-quality care
and services available, but unfortunately, that's not what they're getting with
this bill,&rdquo; Senator King said. &ldquo;Instead, this bill maintains sharp
spending reductions under sequestration that would severely underfund the
Department of Veterans Affairs, thereby jeopardizing medical care, VA facility
improvements, and other critical services that our veterans have earned through
their service to our nation. We shouldn't be cutting corners when it comes to
caring for those who have borne the battle. I call on my colleagues to pass a
bill that boosts VA funding and properly serves those who so selflessly served
us.&rdquo;



 Senator King today voted against a procedural motion that would have advanced
H.R.2029, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies
Appropriations Act of 2016, (MilCon-VA) because the bill maintains severe
spending reductions imposed under sequestration that result in substantial
underfunding of critical veterans programs.



 More specifically, the bill reduces funding for the Department of Veterans
Affairs by approximately $857 million below the President's budget request,
which would lead to the underfunding of VA medical care by more than half a
billion dollars - equivalent to the cost of providing care for tens of thousands
of veterans. Furthermore, according to the Office of Management and Budget, the
Senate MilCon-VA bill, if enacted, would negatively impact veterans' medical
care services, including reducing the VA's ability to maintain sufficient staff
and equipment at VA hospitals. It would also underfund programs aimed at
maintenance to address deficiencies at hospitals and clinics.



 The bill is also opposed by the American Legion, the largest veterans
organization in the country, because it does not adequately support critical
veterans care.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            March 5, 2015, Thursday

City planning panel revisits alley closure

BYLINE: Rachel Molenda, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P5A

LENGTH: 676 words


Charleston's Municipal Planning Commission had to revisit a decision made last
month to close an alley on the West Side, because of a procedural error,
Planning Director Dan Vriendt said.

"We notified everyone in the block, but we didn't do a 250-foot radius, Vriendt
said on Wednesday. "Today is just fixing that procedural error and allowing
anyone to speak who wasn't able to last week.

The commission voted last month and again on Wednesday to close a portion of an
alley behind the Staats Hospital building so it can be developed as part of a
rear entrance to the building and a parking lot.

The Charleston Urban Renewal Authority submitted the application because it owns
the parking lot. Crawford Holdings, now the owner and developer of Staats,
leases the lot from the agency.

There was also an issue with one of the commission's voting members, Teresa
Moore, who said she was asked not to attend last month's meeting.

"I was told I couldn't be present at the last meeting, Moore said on Wednesday.

Moore's brother David Arthur owns the Grille, a restaurant next to the Staats
building, and spoke against the alley closure on Wednesday.

Vriendt told the Gazette after the meeting that he asked the city attorney's
office last month if Moore had a conflict of interest in the matter.

"They came back and said, Yeah, she can't vote on it and she shouldn't even be
there.' So I called and told her that so she wouldn't give the appearance of
impropriety, Vriendt said.

Just before February's meeting started, the office called Vriendt to tell him
that because a brother or sister isn't immediate family, Moore could attend but
had to abstain from the vote.

"The meeting was literally starting in one minute and she wouldn't have had time
to get down here, Vriendt said. "Nothing was done maliciously. & It was done for
her best interest.

Vriednt added that, "The planning commission's practice is if you have a
perceived or real conflict of interest you don't participate in the discussion.

"I told her on the advice of the city attorney that she shouldn't participate in
the discussion today, Vriendt said.

Moore and other members of the planning commission had a tense and lengthy
discussion related to the alley closure.

Neighboring business owners reiterated concerns about how delivery trucks would
get to their buildings and congested traffic potentially created by more cars
entering and exiting the parking lot on either Lee Street or another neighboring
alley.

Skip Carson, a West Side property owner who spoke against the measure last
month, said his tenants and other business owners have been driving over the
parking lot as a way to make sharp turns in the alleyways for years.

"[Previous building owners] Dr. Adi and Dr. Staats never stopped any of us from
cutting that corner and making the turn, Carson said.

Planned parking lot development would fence off the lot from the street. If a
car was parked on the lot, Commissioner and City Councilwoman Mary Jean Davis
said trucks still wouldn't be able to make those turns.

"If I park my car on the corner where the semi-trucks or whatever you all are
talking about turn, you're going to go overtop of my car. I guess I don't
understand it unless there are personality issues here, Davis said. "That
happens sometimes with this committee that there are personality issues with an
owner, and you can't overcome that.

Business owners also want Crawford Holdings and its president Tighe Bullock to
meet with them to discuss their concerns about the project's effect on their
businesses.

"I'm against the closure, but I think a compromise could have been worked out
that would have kept our access through it and allowed them to have a safe and
secure exit at the back of the property, Carson said.

Crawford Holding Vice President Dusta Tanner said she would arrange that.

The alley closure isn't yet final.

The request will be heard next by City Council's Planning Committee and then
voted upon by a full council.

Reach Rachel Molenda

at rachel.molenda@wvgazette.com, 304-348-5102 or follow

@rachelmolenda on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Charleston Newspapers


                              235 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                     XPRESS

                                October 31, 2013

Unclaimed dead bodies piling up in Abu Dhabi mortuaries

LENGTH: 386 words


Abu Dhabi: Bodies have been languishing in hospital morgues for months and even
years, with authorities blaming it on procedural delays and tardy response from
embassies.

A case in point is Indian expat Kumar Vihara's body which is lying in Shaikh
Khalifa Medical Hospital (SKMC) mortuary since June 2012.

While the Indian Embassy told XPRESS they have no information about the case,
mortuary authorities claim they always contact embassies for despatch of dead
bodies.

Non-cooperation

"But when we call some embassies, they do not cooperate.  We send letters and
still they do not respond. This is a major problem we face in despatching dead
bodies kept in mortuaries,"  said Dr Jamal Al Mutawa, Manager of Community
Services, Health Authority of Abu Dhabi.

Without divulging details about specifics of the Vihara case, Mutawa said they
have already been in touch with various authorities, including the Indian
Embassy to arrange for cremation, but there was an exceptional delay in the
case.

Details of the deceased could not be verified except the date of demise entered
as June 9, 2012 in the mortuary records. Vihara was born on May 6, 1976, as per
records.

Vihara's is not an isolated case.  "We have many cases where dead bodies are
kept in mortuaries for long periods due to procedural delays," said Mutawa.

There are five mortuaries in Abu Dhabi - two in the city, one in Al Ain and two
in the Western region. SKMC's mortuary is the biggest with capacity of 75 units.
Mafraq Hospital has 12 units and Al Ain 20.

In cases of unnatural death, bodies are kept in the mortuary till police
clearance is obtained. Once the clearance is issued, families, friends or the
employer of the deceased is contacted.

The concerned people have to finish documentation  if the body has to be sent
back to the deceased's home country.

The Health Authority said problems arise when the identity of the deceased
cannot be verified or when no relatives claim the body. "That is when we have to
get in touch with the respective embassies and other external agencies,
including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs," said Mutawa.

He added the Health Authority has the right to cremate bodies 30 days after
police clearance, if no party comes forward to claim the body. "But we take such
a decision only after exhausting all other sources," he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 58


                  Copyright 2013 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD.)

                          November 8, 1995, Wednesday

CSA Upholds Procedures Used To Drug State Mental Patients Intermediate Appeals
Court Rejects Claims by Disability Rights Lawyers That Maryland's Forced
Medication Law Violates Due-Process Clause

BYLINE: By Gregory C. Baumann; Daily Record Opinions Editor

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 646 words


A push by disability rights lawyers for new procedural protections against the
forced medication of patients in mental hospitals failed yesterday in the Court
of Special Appeals.

The court refused Arlena Beeman's claim that the state law controlling forced
medication violated her constitutional rights to due process.

"We conclude that additional protections are not required to be judicially
engrafted to the already hybridized vine and protecting leaves of the statute,"
wrote Judge Glenn T. Harrell for a three-judge panel.

In ruling against Beeman, the court buttressed a statute that disability rights
activists criticized as not protecting adequately the rights of patients put in
mental hospitals against their will.

According to court documents, the state's Mental Hygiene Administration
hospitals approved forced medication in 175 cases each year for the last four
years.

On average, 73 patients appealed the panel's decisions each year.

The first version of the Maryland law controlling involuntary medication was
passed in 1991 after the Court of Appeals declared its predecessor
unconstitutional. That prior statute lacked procedural protections such as
advance notice that an institution would be deciding whether to medicate them
against their will.

The old law also failed to guarantee that patients could be present during a
panel's deliberations on involuntary medication, nor did it mandate any help
from advisors for patients facing forced drugging.

After the Court of Appeals rejected that law, psychiatric hospitals in Maryland
were not able to administer antipsychotic medication to patients against their
will unless a court declared a patient incompetent.

The General Assembly in 1991 revised the involuntary medication statute,
purportedly to provide better due process protections to patients.

Two years later -- as the 1991 statute faced a fight for reestablishment in the
legislature -- the Maryland Disability Law Center and the Legal Aid Bureau
argued that the law's protections should be extended.

The groups were primarily concerned with a patient's competency to understand
the process that could result in their being involuntarily drugged.

Under the terms of the 1991 law -- which still control forced drugging -- a
review panel must approve courses of involuntary medication that may not last
more than 90 days.

Patients are entitled to notice that a panel will be deciding their case and
they have the right to attend the meeting. They may present information
supporting their position and request assistance from a lay advisor.

If a panel decides to approve involuntary medication, a patient has 48 hours to
appeal the decision to an administrative law judge.

In 1993, a panel at the Thomas B. Finan Center in Cumberland decided to
involuntarily medicate Beeman to mitigate her mental condition, diagnosed as
schizoaffective disorder.

Beeman failed to appeal that decision within 48 hours, but one day later she
handed a letter to a Finan Center staffer indicating she wished to appeal the
panel's decision.

The Department of Health and Mental Hygiene moved to dismiss her appeal because
she did not file it on time. The ALJ assigned to Beeman's case granted that
motion.

An Allegany County circuit court affirmed the decision of the ALJ.

On appeal, Beeman argued that in order to satisfy due process, the court should
construe the law to require a determination of a patient's mental capacity.

That determination should assess the patient's ability to understand his or her
administrative appeal at the same time the patient is given notice of a forced
medication hearing, Beeman maintained.

The court disagreed. "There is not separate need for a specialized
administrative competency determination, unless the legislature expresses a
desire to care a broader assumption to the presumption of competency."


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 The Daily Record Co.


                              237 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            July 27, 2016 Wednesday
                                Bangalore Mirror

Task force to review health policy

BYLINE: Vandana Kamath

SECTION: OTHERS

LENGTH: 612 words


On the lines of Bengaluru Vision Group, the state government has now formulated
a task force to review public health policy.

The team of 16 members (doctors, representatives from alternative medicine,
knowledge commission etc) will be looking at reducing infant and maternal
mortality rates in the state followed by lack of human resource in the health
sector.

Several sub-committees (headed by doctors and specialists) have been appointed
under the task force which is being chaired by Dr Devi Shetty of Narayana Health
City.

Dr Alexander Thomas, executive director, Association of Health Care Providers of
India (AHPI), and also a member secretary of the task force told Mirror, "We are
focusing on reviving the public health policy and two main focus areas would be
increasing specialists in public hospitals. On Monday, we had a meeting with the
National Board who will provide training to doctors in the rural areas, both
in-service MBBS doctors and students. We have also received representations from
eight district hospitals who have agreed to send in the applications. There will
be a common entrance test which the doctors have to clear and then the training
will be provided accordingly. After training for four years that would include
teaching as well, the doctors would then be able to teach others in the hospital
as well."

This is one of the main recommendations of the task force with general surgery,
gynaecology, orthopaedics, anaesthesia, and paediatrics as their focus areas.

"This is the only way out to meet the huge shortage of specialists in rural
areas and creating people with experience and expertise. The state of Infant and
maternal mortality rate is very poor in the state and this is largely associated
with less human resources. Another area that we are focusing on is analysing the
procedural costs of surgeries and comparing with the prices fixed by the
government. As of now this area is very cumbersome and we are planning to do
this jointly with IIM-Bangalore, National Accreditation of Board for Hospitals,
insurance companies and CMC, Vellore," Dr Thomas said.

Several representatives from the public health foundation of India (PHFI) and
Knowledge Commission are also a part of the task force.

Dr Giridhar Babu, additional professor, Public Health Foundation of India who is
a part of the sub-committee overlooking strengthening primary health care says,
"Until now seven committees have recommended implementing public health cadre
but no implementation has occurred. Now with the public health task force, there
has to be an implementation committee that could overlook the working of the
various recommendations. It is not enough if the committees are formed but there
has to be an implementation of the committee."

KEY AREAS

Following are the sub committees in the Karnataka Task Force on Public Health
Policy

1. Strengthening of PHC's

2. Human Resource

3. Technology

4. Training

5. IT

6. Electronic Medical Records

7. Alternate Medicines

8. Health Ombudsman

9. Procedural Costs for Different Schemes

10. Quality Systems

11. Access to Affordable Medicines

12. Elder Care

PROMINENT NAMES IN THE COMMITTEE

Dr Devi Shetty,

Narayana Health-Chairman

Kiran Mazumdar

Shaw-chairman, Biocon

Dr Isaac Mathai

chairman, Soukya Holistic Centre

Dr C N Manjunath

Director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology

Dr Srinath Reddy

Public Health Policy Institute

Dr Mukund Rai

Member Secretary, Karnataka Knowledge CommissionPrincipal Secretary

Health and Family Welfare Department, Government of Karnataka

Dr Devadasan

director, Public Health Institute, Bengaluru

Dr Alexander Thomas

executive director, of Association of Health Care Providers of India (AHPI

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 3, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Ischemix Announces Results of Its Phase 2 CARIN Trial

LENGTH: 622  words


May 3 -- Ischemix, Inc., a privately-held pharmaceutical company that has
developed a portfolio of novel, safe and potent cytoprotective compounds for the
prevention and treatment of serious diseases and conditions, today announced the
results of the Company's recently completed Phase 2 CARIN trial. The CARIN trial
(NCT02103959) was a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled 361-subject
Phase 2 study in which Ischemix' lead compound, CMX-2043, was studied for its
ability to protect patients undergoing cardiac catheterization procedures
against contrast-induced kidney injury (CI-AKI) and peri-procedural cardiac
injury. The subjects in the trial received either placebo or CMX-2043
administered in one of three dose arms.

CMX-2043 was shown to be safe in this broad pool of patients and there were no
drug-related serious adverse events. Although the trial did not meet the
pre-specified endpoints of prevention of CI-AKI or peri-procedural injury, the
Company is reviewing post hoc analyses of certain patient subgroups for evidence
of potential benefit of the drug.

Ischemix' Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer, Reinier Beeuwkes, Ph.D., noted
that "The results of the CARIN trial were disappointing given that in an
previous Phase 2 trial in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization
procedures, CMX-2043 demonstrated an ability to prevent peri-procedural cardiac
injury. The compound had also shown efficacy in the prevention of CI-AKI in
pre-clinical models. One possible limitation to the study was the dosing of
CMX-2043. While the specific doses and regimens studied by the researchers did
not yield any significant kidney protection, smaller, larger or more frequent
doses may show such benefits."

Dr. Deepak L. Bhatt, Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Executive
Director of Interventional Cardiovascular Programs, Brigham and Women's Hospital
Heart and Vascular Center, and the lead investigator for the trial, presented
the results of the trial on April 4, 2016 at the annual meeting of the American
College of Cardiology in Chicago, IL.

David A. DeWahl, Jr. President and CEO said, "We are continuing to analyze the
results of the trial and are conducting additional pre-clinical studies to
better understand the dosing dynamics that may have occurred in the CARIN trial.
In addition, we are considering further pre-clinical study of CMX-2043 in
indications in which it has previously shown signs of efficacy in pre-clinical
models, which are prevention of drug-induced nephrotoxicity, prevention of
delayed graft function in connection with kidney transplants and treatment of
traumatic brain injury, stroke and shock."

The randomized, double-blinded clinical trial recruited 361 patients from 31
medical centers in the United States and Canada. Recruited subjects were
previously scheduled for an angiogram with a high likelihood that they would
need angioplasty because of a poor stress test or acute coronary syndrome. The
subjects also had either a severe loss of kidney function or mild-to-moderate
loss of kidney function and another risk factor such as diabetes, low blood
pressure or being more than 75 years old. Patients experiencing a heart attack,
life-threatening arrhythmia or total kidney failure were excluded.

Patients were split into four groups and intravenously given a small dose, a
large dose or two small doses of CMX-2043 or a placebo before receiving contrast
agent. Researchers followed the subjects over a period of 90 days, the primary
endpoint being a reduction in kidney injury. The researchers also examined the
incidence of major adverse cardiac and kidney events, reduction in heart damage
and heart attacks, and major side effects of CMX-2043.

Source: Ischemix

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            February 25, 1985 Monday

OPPOSITION CALL FOR MEDICARE CHANGES

SOURCE: QNP

LENGTH: 204 words


Opposition call for Medicare changes CANBERRA._ The Federal Opposition health
spokesman, Mr Porter, yesterday called on the Government to acknowledge that
urgent changes should be made to its Medicare system. He said specialists, the
Australian Medical Association, nurses, the Voluntary Health Insurance
Association and the Private Hospitals Association of Victoria all agreed that
changes were necessary. Mr Porter made the call although the AMA, led by its
president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, last week bitterly attacked the warring NSW
procedural specialists for making unreasonable demands for changes to Medicare.
""How does the Government explain the queues of 15,000 to 20,000 people waiting
for hospital treatment in Victoria?" Mr Porter asked. ""Procedural specialists'
resignations cannot be blamed." Mr Porter said the queues were a clear
indictment of the Health Minister, Dr Blewett, and proof that Medicare had
failed. He accused the Government of being out of step with the community, which
realised that urgent changes were required. The Opposition Leader, Mr Peacock,
said the Government had ensured that access to adequate health care would remain
the privilege of those with wealth and influence.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              240 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 28, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Aid to Disabled Children Still in Dispute;
Despite New Rules, Mistakes Deny Benefits for Many, Advocate Says

Spencer Rich, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 778 words


In February 1990, the Supreme Court made it easier for disabled children to
qualify for federal cash assistance under the Supplemental Security Income
program.

Hundreds of thousands of children who could not have qualified earlier became
potentially eligible not only for cash assistance of up to $ 407 a month, but
also for Medicaid, which normally goes automatically to anyone on SSI.

But 18 months later, the Social Security Administration, which administers the
SSI program, and Community Legal Services of Philadelphia, which won the case
after a seven-year battle with the government, are still squabbling.

Jonathan Stein, Community Legal Services counsel, said Social Security's figures
show that state disability examiners are making so many mistakes in applying the
new rules that "tens of thousands of children" may end up with no benefits,
despite the ruling in Zebley v. Sullivan. He is asking for a series of remedial
steps to reduce the error rate.

Social Security's sampling of denied cases, Stein said, showed that in 20
percent of the cases, procedural errors were made, from failure to document
findings properly to failure to follow the new rules.

While improvements in collecting data would reinforce the denial of benefits in
some cases, Stein contended that "large numbers [of cases] would be reversed and
the children would get the benefits."

However, the Social Security Administration disputes Stein's contention. Without
providing specific numbers, it said that in the vast majority of the cases,
experience has shown that correcting procedural errors would not change the
final decision.

Commissioner Gwendolyn S. King said that she is trying to hold the states up to
the highest standards and reviewers have been instructed to report even
minuscule procedural errors.

"I have made it a personal commitment that all children applying for SSI
benefits be fairly treated . . . . When we have determined a problem exists we
have conducted additional training wherever it is warranted."

In the Zebley v. Sullivan case, the Supreme Court ruled that even if a child did
not meet any one specific mental or physical disability test used by the Social
Security Administration as a criterion of eligibility, the agency should not
simply rule out benefits, as it had been doing.

Instead, it must give the child an individualized assessment to determine
whether the child's ability to function normally for his or her age was severely
impaired. In many cases, evaluations would find that a child has several
disabilities, and while no one of them might be severe enough to establish
eligibility, their combined impact could.

Under the Supreme Court decision, the government is required to use the new
rules for all those applying from 1990 on. It also must reexamine up to 452,000
children denied under the old rules from 1980 to 1990 if they so request.

Stein said that from February through September 1991 about 146,000 cases, mostly
involving new applicants, had been handled under the new rules by state
disability agencies. Of these, 56,000 requests for benefits were denied and
90,000 allowed. The sampling process, he said, indicated one-fifth of the
denials involved some procedural error.

Stein cited the case of 16-year-old Brandy Edwards, who has been ill for six
years, as an example of how incomplete reviews had led to a rejection of
benefits. Edwards, of Cheraw, S.C., applied for SSI under the new rules on June
23 and was denied aid on Oct. 2.

"She's a brittle diabetic," said Edwards's mother, Frances, in a telephone
interview, and "has been in the hospital three times in the last 9 1/2 months."

Her illness, which brings on headaches, blurred vision and nausea, caused Brandy
Edwards to miss 78 days of school last year. She is treated, her mother said,
with "two different kinds of insulin -- two shots of each kind a day." Her
mother said Social Security officials told her the girl can function reasonably
normally for a child her age.

Although Brandy Edwards's father has health insurance through his $
18,000-a-year job, it doesn't cover all doctor and hospital bills. Their
daughter has been hospitalized this year, Frances Edwards said, and "we have a $
550 bill left over from the hospital in June [and] we'll have to pay $ 225 plus
other hospital bills" from a stay this month.

The dispute over the rules has attracted the attention of a number of groups
concerned with disability issues. Senate Minority Leader Robert J.  Dole
(R-Kan.) is sending an inquiry to the Social Security Administration on the
Zebley process, although an aide emphasized that he is reserving judgment on the
matter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              241 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                               May 9, 2008 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Maternal care spans generations;
Dona Walker and her daughter Jennifer work in Hoag Hospital's Maternal Child
Health Department.

BYLINE: By NIYAZ PIRANI; THE ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

SECTION: CURRENTCM; Pg. Spotlight

LENGTH: 469 words


Like father, like son may be the standard cliche, but the story of Jennifer and
Dona Walker is one of a daughter truly following in her mother's footsteps.

For the last three years, Dona, 57, and Jennifer, 34, have worked together at
Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in the Newport Beach hospital's Maternal
Child Health Department.

Dona, a 25-year field veteran who formerly worked as a nurse in a gynecology
office, came to Hoag three years ago as a clerical coordinator in the Neonatal
Intensive Care Unit. Her daughter, who was inspired at a young age by her mom's
profession, had already been working for a year as a nurse in the Mother/Baby
Unit.

"My Jennifer worked here so I decided that I wanted to come and be a part of the
team," Dona said.

"She's done this as long as I can remember," Jennifer added. "She always loved
her job and I loved going to visit her. ... It's all I ever wanted to do."

While the two have different jobs on separate floors -- Dona places procedural
orders including echocardiograms, ultrasounds, lab orders and answering phones
and Jennifer tends to newborns and new parents -- both say they love their work
because of its rewarding nature.

"I have the best job in the whole world, I love my job," Jennifer said. "It's
one of the few places in the hospital where you want to be here because you plan
to be here. It's so neat teaching new parents how to do everything."

Dona's glee echoes that sentiment.

"I just love being around the babies," she said. "I usually make my rounds in
the morning and check them out. They're just so cute."

The joy of helping mothers and their babies doesn't stop after they are
patients, Jennifer said. In many cases, the bond stays strong years later
because of the ordeals nurses help patients with or because some women have more
than one baby at the hospital.

"I've been to first birthday parties before that parents will invite me to. I've
kept in touch with a lot of moms because you really, really bond with them,"
Jennifer said. "You're with them for days and you're helping them with the most
important thing in their entire life. ... It's so amazing, it really is."

The neighbors -- the pair lives 2 miles apart from each other in Mission Viejo
-- also spend time together having lunch or shopping with friends they've made
at work. Dona even helps her daughter when it comes to babysitting Jennifer's
6-year-old daughter, Annie.

And if Annie follows the career path of Mommy and Grandma, there may just be
another Walker at Hoag in the future.

"Right now her career goal is to be a babysitter," Jennifer said. "Sometimes she
says she'd like to be a nurse, too."

FAMILY TIES:Dona Walker places procedural orders and daughter Jennifer tends to
newborns and their parents in Hoag Hospital's maternity department.

714-445-6689 or   npirani@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 The Orange County Register (California)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 16, 2016 Tuesday

When crisis hits, Park Ridge cops lean on new mental health training

BYLINE: Jennifer Johnson, Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1072 words


Feb. 16--The man climbing up the steep highway embankment on a chilly January
morning was looking to end his life.

He was clear about that in the 911 call he'd made, Park Ridge Police Sgt. Eric
Hilderbrant recalled.

"He was saying he was going to jump off the 294 overpass onto Dempster and kill
himself," Hilderbrant said. "We found him trying to climb up the embankment and
it was evident he had already tried to climb up once and slid down."

Responding to calls of distraught citizens, some intent on harming themselves or
others, is nothing new in Hilderbrant's line of work. But how police officers
are equipped to respond to tense situations, particularly when a mental-health
issue is at the root, is getting a new focus.

Last year, a U.S. Justice Department grant secured by the Park Ridge Police
Department allowed for officers to take crisis intervention training, a program
that aims to prepare officers to deal with citizens struggling with a broad
spectrum of mental health disorders, said Deputy Police Chief Duane Mellema.

The training, Mellema said, is largely aimed at de-escalating tense or
potentially dangerous situations through communication techniques. Some of the
things officers are taught include showing empathy, speaking slowly and calmly,
and taking time with the individual.

"If a person thinks you are bothered or in a hurry, you'll have a hard time
communicating with them," Mellema said.

Out of 39 incidents last year that involved police response to a situation
involving mental illness, all but one was handled without the use of force,
Mellema said. The single incident in which force was used involved an
intoxicated man who was subdued with a taser because he was walking in traffic
on Dempster Street and attempting to get into cars that were stopped in traffic,
Mellema said.

In the case of the man threatening to jump from the Dempster Street overpass,
communication and taking things slowly were key to getting him to come down and
agree to go to a hospital, Hilderbrant said.

"We started engaging him, telling him, 'Hey, it's not a big deal. We'll get you
some help, everything will be fine,'" Hilderbrant said. "He was pretty agitated
when we got there."

Hilderbrant, with fellow officers Jodi Broderick and Jason Doucet, learned the
man's name and spoke directly to him, not at him, in an effort to calm him down,
Hilderbrant said. They developed a rapport with him and explained that they were
there to help him, not arrest him.

Eventually, the man, who was also intoxicated, agreed to come down and go with
paramedics to the hospital, Hilderbrant said.

"What [crisis intervention training] does is slowing it down," he said. "A lot
of times, in law enforcement, we want to solve the problem as quickly as
possible. But sometimes, trying to rush it won't get the best outcome."

Park Ridge Police Officer John Dorner says police have already been using many
crisis intervention components in an effort to diffuse situations, but the new
training has provided "more nuances and insight" into what people who are
mentally ill, intoxicated or both are dealing with.

"It teaches the officer to get on their level and put yourself in a situation
where you're trying to get in tune with what they're going through and being a
little more empathetic to whatever situation is happening," he said.

Dorner recalled responding to a home where officers were told a girl, about 12
years old, who had been diagnosed with "multiple mental-health issues" and was
acting out and refusing to go to the hospital.

"Basically, Officer [Greg] Orta and I sat down next to her on the couch and we
just talked for a good 15, 20 minutes," Dorner said. "Gone are the days when an
officer would go in and say, 'You're going to go to the hospital.' You can talk
your way out of a lot of things just by taking time. Time's on our side,
especially when there's no safety [issue] involved."

If someone in distress can see that an officer is willing to listen to him or
her and is concerned and empathetic, the situation is more likely to be resolved
without the officer needing to use force, Dorner added.

And though safety remains an officer's top priority, "as long as [the citizen
is] contained and they aren't a harm to themselves or to us or anybody around
us, it's OK to let them vent a little bit and let them know you are here to
listen to their concerns," Dorner said.

The training has also taught officers how to better identify when a
mental-health issue is at play, Mellema said.

Park Ridge Police Chief Frank Kaminski led the effort to obtain funding for
crisis intervention training in light of what he believed to be a growing number
of interactions between police and citizens with mental-health issues.

"I think it's going extremely well," Kaminski said of the training, noting that
a class of 14 officers wrapped up on Feb. 12. "I went through it myself and
found it beneficial."

In late December, in the wake of Chicago police shooting and killing a
19-year-old man and his neighbor, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel called for officers
to undergo more training in de-escalation techniques to make situations "less
confrontational and more conversational," the Chicago Tribune reported.

"We were first," Kaminski said.

De-escalation techniques will also come into play when officers undergo
procedural justice training this spring, Mellema said. The U.S. Department of
Justice defines procedural justice as techniques that "resolve disputes" and
involve communication, fairness, transparency and impartial decision-making.

"The real key for procedural justice is to acknowledge the person's point of
views, and express to them and allow them to know they are valued just as
themselves and that their point of view has a value," Mellema said.

Kaminski said procedural justice training has been touched upon in the past, but
this is the first time that a certified, eight-hour training program will be
required of the officers.

"I think we'll be ahead of the curve with all the things we've been doing here,"
he said. "I feel good about that. We're moving the organization forward in the
right direction prior to legislators requiring [procedural justice training]."

Mellema acknowledges that de-escalation techniques will not work in all cases.

___ (c)2016 Pioneer Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) Visit Pioneer
Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) at www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20160216-PIO-When-crisis-hits-Park-Ridge-cops-lean-on-new-mental-health-training
-0216-20160216

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PIO


                          Copyright 2016 Pioneer Press


                              243 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Should this doctor still be working at our hospital?

BYLINE: DAVE BLACKHURST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 886 words


THE work of a doctor which was described by an expert as 'negligent' is being
investigated in connection with the treatment of three patients who died at the
University Hospital of North Staffordshire.

Dr Changez Jadun has not been suspended and is still working as a diagnostic
consultant although he has been banned from carrying out certain other
treatments.

Three of his fellow consultants raised the alarm late last year when they made
formal complaints about Dr Jadun's treatment of four patients. Three of the
patients died.

But documents obtained by The Sentinel show managers at UHNS were first warned
that Dr Jadun's work might be negligent as long ago as 2009.

In July 2009 a senior consultant from outside of UHNS warned hospital managers
he had "serious reservations" about Dr Jadun's "...decision-making, risk
assessments and assessments of his own abilities".

The consultant was called in by the hospital to review 25 examples of Dr Jadun's
work in North Staffordshire. He discovered that one in four showed "procedural
complications".

In a report to hospital managers the consultant warned that: ¦ Dr Jadun's
treatment of one patient showed "... unequivocal evidence of negligence"; ¦ The
doctor's handling of a second patient "...would be found to be negligent in a
court of law"; ¦ In the case of a third patient, "...there can be no doubt that
had this case reached court, the doctor would have been found to be negligent".

The consultant reported that Dr Jadun had ignored the advice of senior
colleagues and used potentially-dangerous drugs unnecessarily. He also reported
that Dr Jadun had carried out too many risky procedures and didn't keep patients
sufficiently infor med.

The consultant added: "It isn't so much the complications that worry me, but
rather the lack of understanding that he has shown in the disease processes he
treats, his lack of insight and the apparent lack of risk assessment and
procedural planning." Despite these warnings, Dr Jadun was allowed to carry on
working at UHNS, although under some restrictions.

Dr Jadun also declined a formal offer of more training.

In September 2010, a follow-up review by two outside consultants reported
"demonstrable improvements" in Dr Jadun's work.

However, the consultants were "extremely concerned" to see a high number of
amended reports in Dr Jadun's files. They said they could not tell if the
changes to Dr Jadun's notes had been made at the time of the operations or at a
later date, to alter the outcome of their review.

The consultants also reported that Dr Jadun's working relationships with a
fellow doctor were so bad they were harming patient care.

In addition, they discovered Dr Jadun was using new devices and procedures at
"massive financial cost" to the hospital when cheap alternatives were available.
But Dr Jadun carried on working.

It was only after the latest complaints over the treatment of four patients last
November, that managers at UHNS ordered Dr Jadun to stop performing operations.

The hospital has now asked the Royal College of Radiologists to recommend an
expert to carry out an independent review into the cases.

When The Sentinel approached UHNS to ask about Dr Jadun, UHNS medical director
Robert Courteney-Harris issued a statement after a briefing with one of our
reporters on April 28. This statement is published in full (below). Despite
issuing us with the statement, The Sentinel then received a letter from the
hospital's London solicitor Hempsons, threatening to obtain an injunction to
prevent us publishing the story. Since April 29 we have fought to publish this
story.

Dr Jadun was first appointed as a radiologist at UHNS in 2003, focusing on the
diagnosis of problems in a patient's head, neck and central nervous system.

In 2007 he set-up a new specialist department at the hospital to not only
diagnose the reason for an illness, but also to use radio waves to treat illness
using keyhole surgery techniques.

Before this, North Staffordshire patients needing such specialist treatment
travelled to an established centre in Birmingham.

Some local patients are now being transferred south again while the issues in
his department are resolved Since the most recent complaints about Dr Jadun, he
has been banned from operating on patients but has been allowed to continue to
diagnose illnesses while his future is decided.

In a separate development, hundreds of patient scans on which Dr Jadun gave a
medical opinion will have to be re-examined after his manager accused him of
making his diagnoses too quickly.

Documents obtained by The Sentinel show he claimed £16,000 in out-ofhours
payments over a single Bank Holiday weekend last August, when he claimed to have
scrutinised 640 MRI and CT scans.

His payment claim was based on examining some scans at a rate of 11 every five
minutes, or 121 an hour.

His clinical director told him that in the interests of safe diagnosis, the
scans should have been examined at a maximum rate of eight every hour.

Now UHNS chief executive Julia Bridgewater has ordered an urgent audit of all
the scans.

Dr Jadun has declined to speak to The Sentinel despite many attempts to contact
him including phoning him on a number of occasions, going to his house to ask
for a comment and writing a personal letter to him.

What do you think? Email us at letters@thesentinel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2011 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 1, 2015 Monday

US Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania) Issues Solicitation
for "Zimmer Orthopedic Knee, Hip, Spine, Extremity, and Trauma "procedural
packages""

LENGTH: 735  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations Officer has issued
requirement for "Zimmer Orthopedic Knee, Hip, Spine, Extremity, and Trauma "
procedural packages""

Solicitation no. SPE2DE15R0001

Notice Type: Presolicitation
Posted Date:
June 1, 2015
Response Date:
Jul 15, 2015 3:00 pm Eastern

Description: The goal of the Manufacturer Direct Program is to establish an
alternative to manual open market purchase activity, re-engineer the business
process with automated e-commerce business solution. The objective of this
solicitation is to establish a Fixed Price (with Economic Price Adjustment)
Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contract with Zimmer US, Inc. for
their hip, knee, spine, extremity (shoulders and elbows), trauma "procedural
packages," orthobiological products, auxiliary products (such as drill bits, saw
blades, bone cement etc.) and instrumentation sets needed for implantation.
Other Zimmer Orthopedic product groups determined to be in the scope of the
contract may be solicited at a future date under this solicitation.
There are (2) two delivery methods (Just-In-Time (JIT) and Direct Vendor
Delivery (DVD)) utilized to support DLA customers' requirement for orthopedic "
procedural packages". Under the JIT delivery method, the Medical Treatment
Facilities (MTFs) will call the sales representative when a surgery is scheduled
to discuss the case, make a product selection and inform him or her of the
surgery date and time. The manufacturer's representative will transport the "
procedural package" to the designated site at the scheduled time. The
representative may be requested by the MTFs to have in their possession a number
of "back-up" components available to the physician during the entire procedure.
Under the DVD method, MTFs may order product in advance of a scheduled surgery
or purchase replacement inventory on an as needed basis. Under this method all
items are packaged for shipment to the delivery point cited on the purchase
order.
This solicitation also contains an on-site personnel requirement for the
contractor to provide advice and guidance to physician's before, during and
after implantation of the device at the request of the Medical Treatment
Facility. Technical support shall be available twenty-four (24) hours a day,
seven (7) days a week.
Market Research has revealed that there are no other manufacturers or
distributors other than Zimmer who can provide DoD hospitals with the complete
Zimmer "Procedural Package" (Zimmer Orthopedic implants, use of the
instrumentation sets, orthobiological products and the auxiliary products) at
the required time for surgery and be available on-site if needed to answer
questions on all these products. The Zimmer Sales Representatives are experts on
Zimmer's products and are a vital part of helping to ensure that the patient is
getting the necessary treatment. Only Zimmer has these capabilities.
Zimmer will have their product line loaded in the DLA Troop Support Medical
Electronic Catalog (ECAT). All Orders, Order Acknowledgements and Invoice
transactions are required to be electronic. Items will be delivered to various
Department of Defense (DoD) research centers, hospitals, and clinics, and any
federal customer participating in this program.
The term of the contract will be a one-year Base Period and four one-year
unilateral Option Periods. This procurement has an estimated value of
approximately $6.3 Million for the Base Period and the first option period (if
exercised), $6.4 million each for the second and third option periods (if
exercised), and $6.5 million for the fourth option periods (if exercised), for a
total of approximately $32 million over the five-year life of the procurement.
Solicitation SPE2DE-15-R-0001 is expected to be issued June 01, 2015 and can be
found on the DLA Internet Bid Board System (DIBBS) at
https://www.dibbs.bsm.dla.mil/. The point of contact is John R. Jackson,
DSCP-FSCB, 215-737-0850, john.r.jackson@dla.mil The solicitation will not become
available until the solicitation issue date.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia,
 Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United States

Point of Contact(s): John R. Jackson,
 Acquisition Specialist john.r.jackson@dla.mil Phone: 2157377487

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                               May 4, 2015 Monday

US Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania) Issues Solicitation
for "Zimmer Orthopedic Knee, Hip, Spine, Extremity, and Trauma "procedural
packages""

LENGTH: 735  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations Officer has issued
requirement for "Zimmer Orthopedic Knee, Hip, Spine, Extremity, and Trauma "
procedural packages""

Solicitation no. SPE2DE15R0001

Notice Type: Presolicitation
Posted Date:
May 4, 2015
Response Date:
Jul 15, 2015 3:00 pm Eastern

Description: The goal of the Manufacturer Direct Program is to establish an
alternative to manual open market purchase activity, re-engineer the business
process with automated e-

commerce business solution. The objective of this solicitation is to establish a
Fixed Price (with Economic Price Adjustment) Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite
Quantity

(IDIQ) Contract with Zimmer US, Inc. for their hip, knee, spine, extremity
(shoulders and elbows), trauma "procedural packages," orthobiological products,
auxiliary

products (such as drill bits, saw blades, bone cement etc.) and instrumentation
sets needed for implantation. Other Zimmer Orthopedic product groups determined
to be

in the scope of the contract may be solicited at a future date under this
solicitation.
There are (2) two delivery methods (Just-In-Time (JIT) and Direct Vendor
Delivery (DVD)) utilized to support DLA customers' requirement for orthopedic "
procedural

packages". Under the JIT delivery method, the Medical Treatment Facilities
(MTFs) will call the sales representative when a surgery is scheduled to discuss
the case,

make a product selection and inform him or her of the surgery date and time. The
manufacturer's representative will transport the "procedural package" to the

designated site at the scheduled time. The representative may be requested by
the MTFs to have in their possession a number of "back-up" components available
to the

physician during the entire procedure. Under the DVD method, MTFs may order
product in advance of a scheduled surgery or purchase replacement inventory on
an as needed

basis. Under this method all items are packaged for shipment to the delivery
point cited on the purchase order.
This solicitation also contains an on-site personnel requirement for the
contractor to provide advice and guidance to physician's before, during and
after implantation

of the device at the request of the Medical Treatment Facility. Technical
support shall be available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week.
Market Research has revealed that there are no other manufacturers or
distributors other than Zimmer who can provide DoD hospitals with the complete
Zimmer "Procedural

Package" (Zimmer Orthopedic implants, use of the instrumentation sets,
orthobiological products and the auxiliary products) at the required time for
surgery and be

available on-site if needed to answer questions on all these products. The
Zimmer Sales Representatives are experts on Zimmer's products and are a vital
part of

helping to ensure that the patient is getting the necessary treatment. Only
Zimmer has these capabilities.
Zimmer will have their product line loaded in the DLA Troop Support Medical
Electronic Catalog (ECAT). All Orders, Order Acknowledgements and Invoice
transactions are

required to be electronic. Items will be delivered to various Department of
Defense (DoD) research centers, hospitals, and clinics, and any federal customer

participating in this program.
The term of the contract will be a one-year Base Period and four one-year
unilateral Option Periods. This procurement has an estimated value of
approximately $6.3

Million for the Base Period and the first option period (if exercised), $6.4
million each for the second and third option periods (if exercised), and $6.5
million for

the fourth option periods (if exercised), for a total of approximately $32
million over the five-year life of the procurement.
Solicitation SPE2DE-15-R-0001 is expected to be issued June 01, 2015 and can be
found on the DLA Internet Bid Board System (DIBBS) at
https://www.dibbs.bsm.dla.mil/.

The point of contact is John R. Jackson, DSCP-FSCB, 215-737-0850,
john.r.jackson@dla.mil The solicitation will not become available until the
solicitation issue date.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia,
 Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United States

Point of Contact(s): John R. Jackson,
 Acquisition Specialist john.r.jackson@dla.mil Phone: 2157377487

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                            January 5, 2017 Thursday
                           Internet & Print Editions

LGH training grade lowered

BYLINE: Tamara McDonald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 377 words


A training accreditation downgrade at the Launceston General Hospital will
render it a "pretty unattractive" destination for trainees, says LGH Medical
Staff Association chairman Dr Scott Parkes.

The hospital's accreditation for adult internal medicine training was downgraded
from a level three to a level two by the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians, sparking concerns that recruitment difficulties will now be
worsened.

Dr Parkes said this would lessen the hospital's chances of attracting trainees,
who will now train at the LGH for two years, rather than completing a three-year
module.

"Our registrars are the ... heart-and-soul of the hospital," Dr Parkes said.

The Tasmanian Health Service is appealing the decision "on the basis that it was
based on incorrect information," a THS spokesman said.

He said the "decision by the college's accreditors does not impact patient care
or safety at the LGH, and relates only to the training of physicians".

"The THS is confident its appeal will be upheld and this decision will be
overturned," the spokesman said.

Dr Parkes said the decision was the result of the college's belief that the
hospital was not equipped to provide both clinical care and adequate teaching
training.

The training was for physicians who were procedural and non-procedural
specialists in general medicine and some specialties, Dr Parkes said.

He said the downgrade would lead to retention issues, decreased registrars and
an increased reliance on expensive locums.

"It's far from ideal because you're getting an itinerant workforce that really
don't have the commitment to the hospital and the community," he said.

Dr Parkes said the college felt the hospital did not have sufficient staffing in
some disciplines for training, particularly endocrinology.

Health Minister Michael Ferguson in December told Fairfax Tasmania an
endocrinologist was being recruited for Launceston.

Dr Parkes said the downgrade occurred after the RACP visited the hospital in
December.

Mr Ferguson said there was no link between the training accreditation downgrade
and the high-profile spate of departures from the emergency department in
mid-2016. The LGH emergency department retained its training accreditation from
the Australasian College of Emergency Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                            January 5, 2017 Thursday
                           Print & Internet Editions

LGH training grade lowered

BYLINE: Tamara McDonald

LENGTH: 377 words


A training accreditation downgrade at the Launceston General Hospital will
render it a "pretty unattractive" destination for trainees, says LGH Medical
Staff Association chairman Dr Scott Parkes.

The hospital's accreditation for adult internal medicine training was downgraded
from a level three to a level two by the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians, sparking concerns that recruitment difficulties will now be
worsened.

Dr Parkes said this would lessen the hospital's chances of attracting trainees,
who will now train at the LGH for two years, rather than completing a three-year
module.

"Our registrars are the ... heart-and-soul of the hospital," Dr Parkes said.

The Tasmanian Health Service is appealing the decision "on the basis that it was
based on incorrect information," a THS spokesman said.

He said the "decision by the college's accreditors does not impact patient care
or safety at the LGH, and relates only to the training of physicians".

"The THS is confident its appeal will be upheld and this decision will be
overturned," the spokesman said.

Dr Parkes said the decision was the result of the college's belief that the
hospital was not equipped to provide both clinical care and adequate teaching
training.

The training was for physicians who were procedural and non-procedural
specialists in general medicine and some specialties, Dr Parkes said.

He said the downgrade would lead to retention issues, decreased registrars and
an increased reliance on expensive locums.

"It's far from ideal because you're getting an itinerant workforce that really
don't have the commitment to the hospital and the community," he said.

Dr Parkes said the college felt the hospital did not have sufficient staffing in
some disciplines for training, particularly endocrinology.

Health Minister Michael Ferguson in December told Fairfax Tasmania an
endocrinologist was being recruited for Launceston.

Dr Parkes said the downgrade occurred after the RACP visited the hospital in
December.

Mr Ferguson said there was no link between the training accreditation downgrade
and the high-profile spate of departures from the emergency department in
mid-2016. The LGH emergency department retained its training accreditation from
the Australasian College of Emergency Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                            January 5, 2017 Thursday
                           Print & Internet Editions

LGH training grade lowered

BYLINE: Tamara McDonald

SECTION: REAL ESTATE

LENGTH: 377 words


A training accreditation downgrade at the Launceston General Hospital will
render it a "pretty unattractive" destination for trainees, says LGH Medical
Staff Association chairman Dr Scott Parkes.

The hospital's accreditation for adult internal medicine training was downgraded
from a level three to a level two by the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians, sparking concerns that recruitment difficulties will now be
worsened.

Dr Parkes said this would lessen the hospital's chances of attracting trainees,
who will now train at the LGH for two years, rather than completing a three-year
module.

"Our registrars are the ... heart-and-soul of the hospital," Dr Parkes said.

The Tasmanian Health Service is appealing the decision "on the basis that it was
based on incorrect information," a THS spokesman said.

He said the "decision by the college's accreditors does not impact patient care
or safety at the LGH, and relates only to the training of physicians".

"The THS is confident its appeal will be upheld and this decision will be
overturned," the spokesman said.

Dr Parkes said the decision was the result of the college's belief that the
hospital was not equipped to provide both clinical care and adequate teaching
training.

The training was for physicians who were procedural and non-procedural
specialists in general medicine and some specialties, Dr Parkes said.

He said the downgrade would lead to retention issues, decreased registrars and
an increased reliance on expensive locums.

"It's far from ideal because you're getting an itinerant workforce that really
don't have the commitment to the hospital and the community," he said.

Dr Parkes said the college felt the hospital did not have sufficient staffing in
some disciplines for training, particularly endocrinology.

Health Minister Michael Ferguson in December told Fairfax Tasmania an
endocrinologist was being recruited for Launceston.

Dr Parkes said the downgrade occurred after the RACP visited the hospital in
December.

Mr Ferguson said there was no link between the training accreditation downgrade
and the high-profile spate of departures from the emergency department in
mid-2016. The LGH emergency department retained its training accreditation from
the Australasian College of Emergency Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                            January 5, 2017 Thursday
                           Print & Internet Editions

LGH training grade lowered

BYLINE: Tamara McDonald

LENGTH: 377 words


A training accreditation downgrade at the Launceston General Hospital will
render it a "pretty unattractive" destination for trainees, says LGH Medical
Staff Association chairman Dr Scott Parkes.

The hospital's accreditation for adult internal medicine training was downgraded
from a level three to a level two by the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians, sparking concerns that recruitment difficulties will now be
worsened.

Dr Parkes said this would lessen the hospital's chances of attracting trainees,
who will now train at the LGH for two years, rather than completing a three-year
module.

"Our registrars are the ... heart-and-soul of the hospital," Dr Parkes said.

The Tasmanian Health Service is appealing the decision "on the basis that it was
based on incorrect information," a THS spokesman said.

He said the "decision by the college's accreditors does not impact patient care
or safety at the LGH, and relates only to the training of physicians".

"The THS is confident its appeal will be upheld and this decision will be
overturned," the spokesman said.

Dr Parkes said the decision was the result of the college's belief that the
hospital was not equipped to provide both clinical care and adequate teaching
training.

The training was for physicians who were procedural and non-procedural
specialists in general medicine and some specialties, Dr Parkes said.

He said the downgrade would lead to retention issues, decreased registrars and
an increased reliance on expensive locums.

"It's far from ideal because you're getting an itinerant workforce that really
don't have the commitment to the hospital and the community," he said.

Dr Parkes said the college felt the hospital did not have sufficient staffing in
some disciplines for training, particularly endocrinology.

Health Minister Michael Ferguson in December told Fairfax Tasmania an
endocrinologist was being recruited for Launceston.

Dr Parkes said the downgrade occurred after the RACP visited the hospital in
December.

Mr Ferguson said there was no link between the training accreditation downgrade
and the high-profile spate of departures from the emergency department in
mid-2016. The LGH emergency department retained its training accreditation from
the Australasian College of Emergency Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 9, 2013 Monday

New law essential for kidney patients' woes: Eknath Khadse

BYLINE: Prafulla Marpakwar

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 535 words


Opposition leader Eknath Khadse, who recently travelled to Sri Lanka for a
kidney transplant to avoid red tape back home, said a new legislation was
essential to halt the harassment of patients. Khadse, encountered several
procedural delays here though his wife was the donor.

Khadse, a chronic hypertension and diabetes patient, was diagnosed with a kidney
problem over a month back. Against the normal creatinin level of 0.7 to 1.5,
Khadse had a level of 5.5. "I was advised dialysis every alternate day. After
two rounds, I found it was very tiring and I was completely exhausted," he said.
A month and several dialysis rounds later, Khadse began to explore other
treatment options. "I was told I could lead a near-normal life if I underwent a
kidney transplant," he said.

"We found after medical examination that my wife's kidney was the best match,"
he added. But he was shocked by the procedural wrangles. "The minimum time
required to complete formalities ranged between one to three months. At times,
the state-level authorisation committee didn't meet for a month, so there was no
decision. I also learnt of several patients dying due to the failure of the
committee to take a decision," he said. Doctors advised him to perform the
procedure abroad. "I was told if all documents were in order, the transplant
could be over in less than three days," he said.

Khadse was told the procedural wrangles were owing to a Supreme Court order. "I
feel officials are misleading people. My information is that the apex court
prescribed stringent guidelines to curb the illegal kidney trade, it never
wanted transplants to be halted. The CM should bring in a legislation, may be an
ordinance, to simplify the procedure for kidney transplant and halt harassment
of genuine patients and donors," he said.

Moreover, he found that the state-run JJ Hospital didn't even have a department
of nephrology. "I am told the Centre has granted Rs 120 crore for the
modernisation of JJ Hospital. It is unfortunate that it does not have basic
facilities for kidney patients. I have taken it up with the chief minister," he
said.

But Satish Pawar, director of health services, denied kidney transplant
approvals took a long time. He said if the donor was a relative, then a decision
is taken by a committee at the hospital's level. If the donor is not a relative,
then the state-level authorisation committee decides on the issue. "It depends
on documentation. If a specific case is brought to our notice, it will be
probed," Pawar said.

* Eknath Khadse, BJP leader and leader of opposition, in the Assembly, was told
his creatinine level had increased to 5.5 against the normal value of 0.7 to 1.5

* He had the option of either regular dialysis or a kidney transplant

* His brother, nephew, wife and 100 villagers were ready to donate their kidney

* His wife Mandakini (50) finally donated her kidney, but the procedure was
performed in Sri Lanka

* The entire procedure, including documentation and transplant, was completed in
three days and he was discharged from the hospital on the fourth day

* In Mumbai, a transplant from a relative takes seven to 10 days and from other
takes 15 days to three months

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

New hospital boss left last job under cloud

BYLINE: CanWest News Service

SECTION: LIFESTYLES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 771  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER -- The new president of B.C. Children's Hospital resigned his
nine-year CEO post at a Connecticut hospital after a scathing indictment of
hospital management and policies by the state government's public health
commissioner.

Larry Gold, who succeeds the retired Sharon Toohey, was chosen by a selection
panel headed by Lynda Cranston, CEO of the Provincial Health Services Authority
(PHSA), the governing authority over B.C. Children's Hospital and Sunny Hill
Health Centre, both of which Gold will lead.

Cranston said in an interview that Gold was honest and straightforward about the
events in Connecticut and the actions he took to prevent further occurrences.

Upon his resignation, Gold was praised by his colleagues as a down-to-earth,
energetic leader, revered for his fundraising abilities and interpersonal
skills.

Gold, 55, is a social worker turned hospital executive who will be paid $238,000
a year.

In 2005, Connecticut health commissioner Dr. Robert Galvin fined Gold's former
hospital, Connecticut Children's Medical Center (CCMC), $250,000 after multiple
unannounced inspections and investigations found numerous problems. The hospital
was placed on two years' probation during which time it was ordered to fix
problems that violated state regulations.

In May 2005, Gold signed a legal "consent agreement" to do that while not
admitting to wrongdoing.

In an interview, Gold said he thought his former hospital met and even exceeded
all standards but the findings were accepted and he resigned because, with
leaders, "the buck stops here."

The problems, over the course of about two years, had to do with care lapses in
the hospital's radiology and emergency departments, security, and trauma
services. The Vancouver Sun obtained a 100-page report detailing the procedural
lapses which may have caused the deaths of three children and jeopardized other
patients' safety.

Gold is not named specifically nor accused of being responsible for the
problems. He resigned seven months later and has spent the last two years as a
consultant.

In one case cited by Galvin, a 15-year-old car accident victim died after it
took a radiologist in the emergency room an hour and a half to read a diagnostic
exam that revealed a heart injury. The boy bled internally and died before
surgery to repair his torn aorta.

Another fatality was caused by a child, visiting a patient, who wandered
unsupervised and unnoticed by hospital staff into another patient's room, picked
up a baby, dropped it and caused its death.

In another security lapse, a drug-addicted mother wrongfully removed her baby in
state custody from the hospital and emergency abduction protocols were not used.

In a case of misdiagnosis, a child with sickle cell disease died because of gaps
in emergency department diagnostic delays. The report also details numerous
other lapses including medications not being stored in locked carts, an
operation being done on the wrong side of the body, and fridges that weren't
kept cold enough.

Galvin, still the health commissioner, declined to be interviewed but had a
hospital spokesman send this e-mail statement: "During Mr. Gold's time with
CCMC, he was known as a strong advocate for the hospital and (Galvin) wishes Mr.
Gold success in his new position."

Before listing off situations in Toronto and Winnipeg where children died
because of procedural flaws and negligent care, Lynda Cranston said, "We have to
recognize there are no perfect hospitals out there."

She was reminded that a decade ago, when she was president of B.C. Children's
Hospital, she offered a tearful public apology to the parents of a
seven-year-old cancer patient who died after a doctor mistakenly injected a
chemotherapy drug into her spine, instead of her veins. It was not the first
time a drug had been incorrectly administered but previous cases had not
resulted in deaths.

At a news conference at the time, Cranston admitted the hospital was
responsible.

She said: "There are no words that can adequately communicate our apologies or
regret to this girl's family. There is nothing that can bring their child back
to them, and we are devastated by that knowledge."

Cranston said she can relate to what Gold went through and hospital leaders have
to accept the ultimate blame when things go wrong.

"That's right, I had my own experience. So I am someone who has walked through
the fire and tried to make significant changes so that we came out better at the
other end," she said.

"There are 10,000 employees at PHSA and any day of the week untoward things can
happen in a highly labour-intensive business because of the human factor," she
added.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            April 13, 1985 Saturday

DOCTORS TO CHEW OVER PEACE BID

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 189 words


Doctors to chew over peace bid SYDNEY._ The Council of Procedural Specialists
says it has prepared a point-by-point analysis of the Federal Government's plan
for ending the long-running New South Wales doctors' dispute. Its spokesman, Dr
Michael Aroney, said yesterday that the document would be presented to a special
meeting of surgeons at the University of NSW this morning. It will be publicly
released after the meeting. ""The document is set out in three columns: what we
want, what we were offered and what we received under the Australian Medical
Association peace package," he said. Dr Aroney said concrete resolutions would
probably emerge from a further meeting of surgeons within the next two weeks. He
said surgeons had not been advised of the full details of the peace package
released by the Federal Health Minister, Dr Blewett, on April 2. The Council of
Procedural Specialists had seen merely a ""skeletal" outline of the package. But
Dr Aroney made it clear that even in bare outline, the settlement proposals
would be unacceptable to the 2500 surgeons who had already resigned from NSW
public hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              253 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                             April 19, 2016 Tuesday

Interpace Diagnostics' PancraGen test assigned new current procedural
terminology code

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Product Developments

LENGTH: 256 words



HIGHLIGHT: US-based Interpace Diagnostics has announced its medicare
administrative carrier (MAC), Novitas Solutions has assigned a new molecular
current procedural terminology (CPT) code, 81479 to its PancraGen test.


US-based Interpace Diagnostics has announced its medicare administrative carrier
(MAC), Novitas Solutions has assigned a new molecular current procedural
terminology (CPT) code, 81479 to its PancraGen test.

Previously, the PancraGen test was covered under the miscellaneous chemistry
code 84999, which is used to bill a range of tests across the laboratory
industry and does not differentiate between technologies with different
features.

Interpace Diagnostics interim CEO Jack Stover said: "The CPT coding change
represents further confirmation from payers that PancraGen is a clinically
comprehensive and robust molecular test that provides novel insights to
physicians and patients dealing with this life altering disease.

"The new coding enables both Interpace Diagnostics and those hospitals that bill
Medicare directly to use a molecular code when billing for PancraGen, which
could result in incremental reimbursement above the established
Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) payment for this condition."

The new code will have a positive impact on the way claims are submitted and
remittances are received from both Medicare and commercial payers.

PancraGen is an integrated molecular pathology test to determine the risk of
cancer in pancreatic cysts by using a small sample of a thick or viscous
pancreatic cyst fluid.

According to clinical studies, PancraGen is claimed to be 90% accurate, enabling
effective risk stratification of patients.

Image: A diagnostic image of pancreatic pseudocyst. Photo: courtesy of James
Heilman, MD / Wikipedia.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            February 22, 1985 Friday

AMA DISOWNS SPECIALISTS WHO RESIGNED

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: BROWN W

LENGTH: 450 words


AMA disowns specialists who resigned From WALLACE BROWN in Canberra THE
Australian Medical Association yesterday disowned the specialist surgeons who
have resigned from the New South Wales public hospitals system over Medicare.
This dramatic development came as the medical profession split openly and
surgeons threatened to spread the dispute nationally. The AMA, in an attempt to
cool the issue, agreed to negotiate with the Prime Minister, Mr Hawke, the
Federal Health Minister, Dr Blewett, and the NSW Premier, Mr Wran. The AMA
president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, called on the procedural specialists to resume
normal services to patients and warned that otherwise people could die. But the
specialists' leader, Dr Bruce Shepherd, said last night the AMA did not speak
for his group and he would be surprised if the resignations did not proceed. Dr
Thompson said the leaders of the surgeons, Dr Bruce Shepherd and Dr Michael
Aroney, would not be invited to join the negotiating team because this would not
be productive. Dr Thompson said: ""Their belligerent and divisive posturing and
unrealistic demands have failed to achieve a resolution of the dispute. ""It is
time for constructive negotiations to begin before the potential for harm to
patients spreads to other States. ""I share the frustration and anger of the
profession regarding the damage that has been done to private practice in NSW
hospitals by actions of the NSW Government and by Medicare. ""Nevertheless, I
believe with the strongest conviction that the path down which the profession
has been proceeding will lead to disaster." He accepted the assurance of Mr
Hawke that the negotiations he proposed would be conducted in good faith. Dr
Thompson said all this would also be stated in an advertisement inserted by the
AMA in NSW daily newspapers today. Mr Hawke said after conferring with Dr
Thompson that there was now a basis for settlement of the 17-week-old dispute.
In a joint statement, Mr Hawke and Mr Wran urged the NSW surgeons to ""respond
positively to the responsible and reasonable recommendations made by Dr
Thompson". Mr Wran agreed to defer advertising for doctors to replace the
specialists until the end of next week. Dr Thompson came to Canberra to see Mr
Hawke after talks between the Federal Government and the procedural specialists
collapsed on Wednesday night. In Sydney, the NSW Labor Council directed its
affiliated unions yesterday not to provide services to doctors who refused to
treat patients in public hospitals. Earlier, a Council of Procedural
Specialists' spokesman, Dr Michael Aroney, said if the union movement acted
against the doctors, doctors would refuse to treat union officials.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              255 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         North Carolina Lawyers Weekly

                               September 17, 2007

U.S. District Court Eastern District Case Summaries: September 17, 2007

BYLINE: North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1884  words


Civil Rights

Constitutional - Due Process & Equal Protection - Contract - Fairground Concert
- Municipal - Noise Ordinance Violation

Bennett v. Monette. (Lawyers Weekly No. 07-02-1096, 12 pp.) (James C. Dever III,
J. - Order) E.D.N.C.

Even though the county noise ordinance requires permission or a court order for
enforcement on private property, since plaintiff had hired two sheriff's
deputies to provide security for his concert at the Jaycees' fairgrounds,
plaintiff had granted permission to the sheriff himself to enter the
fairgrounds.

Summary judgment for defendants.

Plaintiff leased the Craven County Fairgrounds from the local Jaycees. He held a
rap contest before rapper Fatman Scoop was scheduled to perform. Plaintiff hired
two Craven County deputy sheriffs to provide security for the event.

The defendant-sheriff received several calls about the noise and profanity
coming from the fairgrounds. At 11 p.m., the sheriff went to the fairgrounds,
noted the noise level and the size of the crowd, and shut down the contest,
sending patrons home. Plaintiff contends the sheriff thereby violated
plaintiff's constitutional rights.

Although due process generally requires an opportunity to be heard prior to the
deprivation of property interest, a pre-deprivation hearing is not always
required. Where a government must act quickly, or where it would be impractical
to provide pre-deprivation process, post-deprivation process satisfies the
requirements of the Due Process Clause.

For purposes of their summary judgment motion, defendants assume plaintiff had a
contract right stemming from his contract with the Jaycees. A mere breach of a
contractual right is not a deprivation of property without constitutional due
process of law.

The sole basis for plaintiff's procedural due process claim is that the sheriff
entered the fairgrounds without plaintiff's permission and without a court
order. The Craven County noise ordinance makes it a misdemeanor for any person
to "make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, any noise disturbance....
" The ordinance also provides, "In order to implement and enforce this article
effectively, the sheriff of the county or his deputies shall have, in addition
to any other authority vested in him, the power to conduct inspections: (1) Upon
presentation of credentials, enter and inspect any private property or place,
... at any reasonable time when granted permission by the owner, or by some
other person with apparent authority to act for the owner. When permission is
refused or cannot be obtained, a search warrant or other court order may be
sought by the officer from a court of competent jurisdiction upon showing of
probable cause to believe that a violation of this article may exist. "

The sheriff is authorized to enforce the noise ordinance. Given that plaintiff
hired two deputy sheriffs, who were present at the fairgrounds, plaintiff had
granted the sheriff permission to enter the fairgrounds. Accordingly, the
sheriff acted in accordance with the ordinance, and defendants did not violate
plaintiff's right to procedural due process.

Assuming the sheriff entered the fairgrounds without plaintiff's permission,
plaintiff's remedy is not a 42 U.S.C. 1983 procedural due process claim. Rather,
his remedy is a state tort claim for tortious interference with contract.

To violate plaintiff's right to substantive due process, the sheriff's actions
must be so arbitrary and irrational as to be incapable of avoidance by any
pre-deprivation procedural protections or of an adequate rectification by any
post-deprivation state remedies.

The sheriff had received several complaints over several hours regarding the
level of noise and profanity emanating from the fairgrounds. The complaints
alleged "extremely profane language" and that "children were unable to sleep. "
The purpose of the noise ordinance is to shield "every person" within the county
from "noise levels ... which are ... detrimental for life, health, and enjoyment
of property and that is unusually excessive and unreasonable ... and is a menace
to the public health, safety, and welfare and the comfort to the people of the
county. "

The ordinance declares as "unreasonably loud," inter alia, the use of sound
amplifiers and musical instruments between the hours of 11 p.m and 7 a.m. which
create a noise disturbance. Based on the complaints, the sheriff investigated
the noise and determined that a noise ordinance violation was in progress and
instructed officers present to begin shutting down the concert and directing
patrons to leave the premises. In light of the purpose of the ordinance, the
number of complaints, the extended time frame over which the complaints were
received, and that the sheriff enforced the ordinance after 11 p.m., the
sheriff's actions were not so arbitrary and irrational as to violate substantive
due process.

Where plaintiff forecasts no evidence that he was treated differently than
others similarly situated or that the sheriff's enforcement of the noise
ordinance was motivated by an illegal animus, plaintiff has not made out an
equal protection claim.

Even if plaintiff had established a constitutional violation, the sheriff, in
his individual capacity, would be entitled to qualified immunity because he
acted reasonably.

Even if plaintiff had established a constitutional violation, the sheriff, in
his official capacity, would be entitled to summary judgment because plaintiff
has forecast no evidence that the sheriff acted pursuant to an unconstitutional
policy or custom in enforcing the noise ordinance.

Motion granted.

Labor & Employment

Civil Rights - Color of Law - Hospital Privileges - Private Hospital - County
Involvement

Philips v. Pitt County Memorial Hospital, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No. 07-02-1095,
14 pp.) (James C. Fox, Sr.J. - Order) E.D.N.C.

Even though the county appoints many of the hospital's directors, since the
county is not involved in the hospital's day-to-day activities or staffing
decisions, the hospital's suspension of the plaintiff-doctor's privileges did
not constitute government action.

Judgment on the pleadings for defendants on plaintiff's federal law claims.
Plaintiff's state law claims are dismissed for lack of subject matter
jurisdiction.

The defendant-hospital was once owned by the county. The county sold the
hospital to private nonprofit corporation, but the county maintained some
control over the hospital. After the hospital temporarily suspended the
plaintiff-doctor's privileges, the doctor filed this suit, claiming the hospital
had violated his civil rights.

To prevail on a claim under 42 U.S.C. 1983, a plaintiff must establish that (1)
he has been deprived of a right, privilege or immunity secured by the laws or
Constitution of the U.S. and (2) the conduct complained of was committed by a
person acting under color of state law. In determining whether a defendant acted
under color of state law, a court must examine the relevant facts and
circumstances to determine whether there is a sufficiently close nexus between
the state and the challenged action of the regulated entity such that the action
of the latter may fairly be treated as that of the state itself.

A state becomes responsible for a private party's act if the private party acts
(1) in an exclusively state capacity, (2) for the state's direct benefit, or (3)
at the state's specific behest. Modaber v. Culpeper Memorial Hospital, 674 F.2d
1023 (4th Cir. 1982).

First, a private entity acts in an exclusively state capacity when it exercises
powers traditionally exclusively reserved to the state. Health care does not
involve the exercise by a private entity of powers traditionally exclusively
reserved to the state.

Second, a private entity acts for the state's direct benefit when it shares the
rewards and responsibilities of a private venture with the state. Even though a
private hospital may be within a legislative design to provide better health
care to the public and may be subject to extensive regulation, if a private
entity remains solely entitled to the profits therefrom, the hospital does not
act for the state's direct benefit.

The U.S. Supreme Court and the Fourth Circuit have expressly rejected the
argument that receipt of state and federal funding transforms a private
hospital's conduct into state action.

Nor is the regulation of the hospital by the county and various N.C. laws
indicative of state action in this case. Constitutional standards are invoked
only when it can be said that the state is responsible for the specific conduct
of which plaintiff complains.

The state laws that the doctor has identified have no relation to the hospital's
procedure in reprimanding him. County officials are not involved in the
hospital's day-to-day operation, and the doctor has not alleged that county
officials, or any government actors, were involved in the suspension of his
hospital privileges.

The court finds that there is not a nexus between the challenged actions -
defendant's suspension of the doctor's hospital privileges - and the limited
government involvement alleged to prove the basis for a finding of state action.

Third, a private entity acts at the state's specific behest when it does a
particular act which the state has directed or encouraged.

The fact that the hospital's board of trustees is appointed by the county
commissioners and the Board of Governors of the Eastern Carolina University
School of Medicine would be significant only if their involvement makes the
county capable of influencing board decisions, which the doctor has not alleged.

Nor has the doctor alleged that his suspension was the result of any specific
act, policy or practice of the county. Rather, the decision to suspend the
doctor's medical privileges was based on an internal investigation concerning
the doctor's conduct in performing his job at the hospital. This decision
ultimately turned on the medical judgments made by private parties according to
professional standards that are not established by the state and was not
dictated by any regulation or rule of the county. The court concludes that
defendants did not act at the county's, or any government entity's, specific
behest in suspending the doctor's hospital privileges.

Where the government creates a corporation by special law, for the furtherance
of government objectives, and retains for itself permanent authority to appoint
a majority of the directors of that corporation, the corporation is part of the
government for the purposes of the First Amendment. However, the hospital was
not created by special statute. The complaint does not describe facts that
indicate a sufficient level of interdependence between the county and the
hospital such that the hospital can be considered an agency or instrumentality
of the county.

The court concludes that defendants' conduct in suspending the doctor's medical
privileges is not fairly attributable to the county. Accordingly, the court
concludes that defendants did not act under color of state law in suspending the
doctor's medical privileges.

Where discrimination based on national origin is not cognizable under 42 U.S.C.
1981, and where plaintiff alleges defendants discriminated against him because
he is Egyptian, plaintiff has failed to state a state a claim under Sec. 1981.

Motion granted.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             March 7, 1985 Thursday

'CONFUSION' ON BID TO RECRUIT DOCTORS

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 346 words


"Confusion' on bid to recruit doctors SYDNEY._ Administrators at major hospitals
were surprised and confused by State Government newspaper advertisements seeking
doctors, hospital officials said yesterday. They said they did not know what the
Government meant by ""genuine" vacancies in the 25 hospitals listed in the
advertisements, and were not sure how they would deal with any applications. The
Australian Medical Association, its NSW branch and the Council of Procedural
Surgeons criticised the Government for running the advertisements. But a
spokesman for the State Health Minister, Mr Mulock, said he did not feel the
advertisements would affect negotiations with the AMA over the crippling
Medicare dispute which has led to mass resignations from the public hospital
system. The advertisements call for salaried staff specialists and visiting
medical practitioners who are resident in Australia to fill ""selected genuine
vacancies" at hospitals in the Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong areas. The AMA
federal president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, said the timing of the advertisements
was most unfortunate and had inflamed the situation. But Dr Thompson said the
AMA would continue negotiations with the Federal and State Governments today.
Council of Procedural Specialists spokesman Dr Michael Aroney said: ""The only
right thing for Dr Thompson to do is to discontinue negotiations at this time."
He said the advertisements ""may be the final trigger for other States to take
action in sympathy with NSW surgeons". In Victoria, doctors have threatened to
take industrial action from next week over the NSW Government attempt to recruit
""scab" doctors for 25 hospitals. They said yesterday they would begin a
graduated withdrawal of services from public hospitals unless the NSW Premier,
Mr Wran, withdrew the advertisements for staff specialists and visiting medical
officers for hospitals in Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong. The AMA Victorian
president, Dr Paul Nisselle, said the placement of the advertisements was
""grossly provocative and inflammatory".

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              257 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 2, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Boston Scientific Announces Initial US Commercial Performance of WATCHMAN Left
Atrial Appendage Closure Device

LENGTH: 590  words


Nov. 2 -- Boston Scientific (NYSE: BSX) announced initial U.S. commercial
performance results of the WATCHMAN Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Device
today during a late-breaking clinical trial session at the 28th Transcatheter
Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT), the annual scientific symposium of the
Cardiovascular Research Foundation, in Washington, D.C. Data demonstrated a high
rate of procedural success and low rate of complications for the device which
offers stroke risk reduction for patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation
(AF) who are seeking an alternative to long-term warfarin therapy. The study was
also published online today in the Journal of the American College of
Cardiology.

In advance of a formal national clinical registry becoming available, procedural
data were collected via WATCHMAN clinical specialists during 3,822 consecutive
LAAC procedures performed between March 2015 and May 2016 by 382 operating
physicians at 169 U.S. medical centers. In this case series, there was a 95.6%
implant success rate with a median procedure time of 50 minutes.

Half of the procedures were performed by new implanting physicians without
previous experience with the device. Nevertheless, the overall rate of
complications evaluated within these data was low at 1.63%, and compared
favorably to the clinical trial data leading to device approval, validating the
rigorous process for selecting and training new operators. Pericardial tamponade
requiring intervention was the most frequent major procedural complication,
which was seen in 1.02% of patients. In an additional 0.29% of patients, a
hemodynamically insignificant pericardial effusion was observed that did not
require intervention. Device embolization, procedure-related stroke and
mortality rates also remained low at 0.24%, 0.08% and 0.08%, respectively.

"The 'real-world' data collected from this study indicate high procedural
success, even with the large number of new implanting physicians performing
one-half of the procedures," said Vivek Reddy, M.D., co-principal investigator
and director of Cardiac Arrhythmia Services for The Mount Sinai Hospital and the
Mount Sinai Health System. "More importantly, we confirmed the safety of this
therapy as evidenced by the low rate of complications."

"This evaluation includes the largest WATCHMAN device patient population studied
to date and demonstrated low and consistent complication rates compared to those
seen in previous clinical trials," said David R. Holmes, M.D., co-principal
investigator and professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and a
consultant in the Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and the Department of
Internal Medicine at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. "This provides
important procedural insights in the absence of an official Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services registry being available to collect data immediately
following device approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in March,
2015."

The formal national registry capturing data on left atrial appendage occlusion
(LAAO) procedures - the LAAO Registry, sponsored by the American College of
Cardiology - was approved in August, 2016 by the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services. Participation in the registry is a condition of coverage as
outlined in the LAAC National Coverage Determination (NCD). The NCD was
effective February 8, 2016 and fully implemented nationwide on October 3, 2016.

For more information on the WATCHMAN Device, visit www.watchman.com.

Source: Boston Scientific

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             July 9, 2013, Tuesday

Health reform hammer

BYLINE: James D. Felsen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 602 words


MY college psychology professor Abraham Maslow noted, "If you only have a
hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail." His quote captures the essence
of the current, pejorative approach to health reform. That is unfortunate.

Media outlets recently have featured stories outlining copious, newly released
CMS data on the price of health-care services. According to Kathleen Sebelius,
secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, such release, in
conjunction with the Obama administration's fourth annual "Datapalooza"
conference, is intended to increase transparency and produce smarter consumers.

The Kaiser Health News notes, "The value of hospital charge data is hotly
disputed, because few people actually end up paying the amounts listed. Insurers
negotiate their own rates and the uninsured often get steep discounts. However,
others believe the extremely high amounts that hospitals bill, and the lack of
any logical connection to procedures' actual costs, is an illustration of the
dysfunctional health-care market." Recently, Kaiser Health News also reported
that 85 percent of "geographic" Medicare procedural care cost variation is not
because of waste, inappropriate care or other questionable conduct but local
factors that are poorly understood.

The New York Times has published a series of articles clearly inferring that the
irresponsible and inappropriate behavior and conduct of physicians and health
institutions results in greatly inflated health-care costs while delivering no
better care or outcomes than foreign industrialized nations. Its June 2, 2013,
story on colonoscopy and other procedural costs is an example.

Other than a fleeting mention that certain government restrictions on use of
anesthetic agents might contribute, clearly the inference is that money-hungry
physicians and institutions deliberately provide more costly, inappropriate and
unnecessary care than that provided in foreign countries. Absent is any
discussion of the vastly different legal liability climate or the increasing,
government-imposed, regulations and other disincentives for physicians to
maintain an "office" practice. Rather than $6,000 and up, I have little doubt
that if these factors were controlled, a colonoscopy could be provided for about
$1,000 in a physician's office.

And, as usual, the Times fails to note that differences in behavioral influences
and genetics (not the quality and access to clinical care) account for 80
percent of health status outcomes. Physicians and hospitals do not control the
increased frequency of suicide in Baby Boomer males, texting and driving in
young adults, obesity, violence, exercise, substance abuse and so forth. They
fail to mention that in one of the few legitimate comparisons tied to the
quality and access of clinical care, survival time after cancer diagnosis, the
United States leads the world by several years of survival.

Few would claim they can make sense of health-care pricing or that the
health-care market is not dysfunctional. Why then not constructively examine and
attempt to correct what has created the dysfunction, possibly including many
policies and programs created by those publishing the data? Why the media
splash? Will this really help health consumers figure out what has eluded all
the experts, stimulate coherent and fair pricing and result in prudent
purchasing? Or, is this but a defensive, political ploy to have health consumers
take up their hammers and join the administration in pounding those health
practitioner and institutional nails?

Felsen, of Great Cacapon, is a retired public health physician.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Charleston Newspapers


                              259 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             July 9, 2013, Tuesday

Health reform hammer

BYLINE: James D. Felsen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 602 words


MY college psychology professor Abraham Maslow noted, "If you only have a
hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail." His quote captures the essence
of the current, pejorative approach to health reform. That is unfortunate.

Media outlets recently have featured stories outlining copious, newly released
CMS data on the price of health-care services. According to Kathleen Sebelius,
secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, such release, in
conjunction with the Obama administration's fourth annual "Datapalooza"
conference, is intended to increase transparency and produce smarter consumers.

The Kaiser Health News notes, "The value of hospital charge data is hotly
disputed, because few people actually end up paying the amounts listed. Insurers
negotiate their own rates and the uninsured often get steep discounts. However,
others believe the extremely high amounts that hospitals bill, and the lack of
any logical connection to procedures' actual costs, is an illustration of the
dysfunctional health-care market." Recently, Kaiser Health News also reported
that 85 percent of "geographic" Medicare procedural care cost variation is not
because of waste, inappropriate care or other questionable conduct but local
factors that are poorly understood.

The New York Times has published a series of articles clearly inferring that the
irresponsible and inappropriate behavior and conduct of physicians and health
institutions results in greatly inflated health-care costs while delivering no
better care or outcomes than foreign industrialized nations. Its June 2, 2013,
story on colonoscopy and other procedural costs is an example.

Other than a fleeting mention that certain government restrictions on use of
anesthetic agents might contribute, clearly the inference is that money-hungry
physicians and institutions deliberately provide more costly, inappropriate and
unnecessary care than that provided in foreign countries. Absent is any
discussion of the vastly different legal liability climate or the increasing,
government-imposed, regulations and other disincentives for physicians to
maintain an "office" practice. Rather than $6,000 and up, I have little doubt
that if these factors were controlled, a colonoscopy could be provided for about
$1,000 in a physician's office.

And, as usual, the Times fails to note that differences in behavioral influences
and genetics (not the quality and access to clinical care) account for 80
percent of health status outcomes. Physicians and hospitals do not control the
increased frequency of suicide in Baby Boomer males, texting and driving in
young adults, obesity, violence, exercise, substance abuse and so forth. They
fail to mention that in one of the few legitimate comparisons tied to the
quality and access of clinical care, survival time after cancer diagnosis, the
United States leads the world by several years of survival.

Few would claim they can make sense of health-care pricing or that the
health-care market is not dysfunctional. Why then not constructively examine and
attempt to correct what has created the dysfunction, possibly including many
policies and programs created by those publishing the data? Why the media
splash? Will this really help health consumers figure out what has eluded all
the experts, stimulate coherent and fair pricing and result in prudent
purchasing? Or, is this but a defensive, political ploy to have health consumers
take up their hammers and join the administration in pounding those health
practitioner and institutional nails?

Felsen, of Great Cacapon, is a retired public health physician.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Charleston Newspapers


                              260 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             July 9, 2013, Tuesday

Health reform hammer

BYLINE: James D. Felsen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 602 words


MY college psychology professor Abraham Maslow noted, "If you only have a
hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail." His quote captures the essence
of the current, pejorative approach to health reform. That is unfortunate.

Media outlets recently have featured stories outlining copious, newly released
CMS data on the price of health-care services. According to Kathleen Sebelius,
secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, such release, in
conjunction with the Obama administration's fourth annual "Datapalooza"
conference, is intended to increase transparency and produce smarter consumers.

The Kaiser Health News notes, "The value of hospital charge data is hotly
disputed, because few people actually end up paying the amounts listed. Insurers
negotiate their own rates and the uninsured often get steep discounts. However,
others believe the extremely high amounts that hospitals bill, and the lack of
any logical connection to procedures' actual costs, is an illustration of the
dysfunctional health-care market." Recently, Kaiser Health News also reported
that 85 percent of "geographic" Medicare procedural care cost variation is not
because of waste, inappropriate care or other questionable conduct but local
factors that are poorly understood.

The New York Times has published a series of articles clearly inferring that the
irresponsible and inappropriate behavior and conduct of physicians and health
institutions results in greatly inflated health-care costs while delivering no
better care or outcomes than foreign industrialized nations. Its June 2, 2013,
story on colonoscopy and other procedural costs is an example.

Other than a fleeting mention that certain government restrictions on use of
anesthetic agents might contribute, clearly the inference is that money-hungry
physicians and institutions deliberately provide more costly, inappropriate and
unnecessary care than that provided in foreign countries. Absent is any
discussion of the vastly different legal liability climate or the increasing,
government-imposed, regulations and other disincentives for physicians to
maintain an "office" practice. Rather than $6,000 and up, I have little doubt
that if these factors were controlled, a colonoscopy could be provided for about
$1,000 in a physician's office.

And, as usual, the Times fails to note that differences in behavioral influences
and genetics (not the quality and access to clinical care) account for 80
percent of health status outcomes. Physicians and hospitals do not control the
increased frequency of suicide in Baby Boomer males, texting and driving in
young adults, obesity, violence, exercise, substance abuse and so forth. They
fail to mention that in one of the few legitimate comparisons tied to the
quality and access of clinical care, survival time after cancer diagnosis, the
United States leads the world by several years of survival.

Few would claim they can make sense of health-care pricing or that the
health-care market is not dysfunctional. Why then not constructively examine and
attempt to correct what has created the dysfunction, possibly including many
policies and programs created by those publishing the data? Why the media
splash? Will this really help health consumers figure out what has eluded all
the experts, stimulate coherent and fair pricing and result in prudent
purchasing? Or, is this but a defensive, political ploy to have health consumers
take up their hammers and join the administration in pounding those health
practitioner and institutional nails?

Felsen, of Great Cacapon, is a retired public health physician.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Charleston Newspapers


                              261 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             July 9, 2013, Tuesday

Health reform hammer

BYLINE: James D. Felsen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 602 words


MY college psychology professor Abraham Maslow noted, "If you only have a
hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail." His quote captures the essence
of the current, pejorative approach to health reform. That is unfortunate.

Media outlets recently have featured stories outlining copious, newly released
CMS data on the price of health-care services. According to Kathleen Sebelius,
secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, such release, in
conjunction with the Obama administration's fourth annual "Datapalooza"
conference, is intended to increase transparency and produce smarter consumers.

The Kaiser Health News notes, "The value of hospital charge data is hotly
disputed, because few people actually end up paying the amounts listed. Insurers
negotiate their own rates and the uninsured often get steep discounts. However,
others believe the extremely high amounts that hospitals bill, and the lack of
any logical connection to procedures' actual costs, is an illustration of the
dysfunctional health-care market." Recently, Kaiser Health News also reported
that 85 percent of "geographic" Medicare procedural care cost variation is not
because of waste, inappropriate care or other questionable conduct but local
factors that are poorly understood.

The New York Times has published a series of articles clearly inferring that the
irresponsible and inappropriate behavior and conduct of physicians and health
institutions results in greatly inflated health-care costs while delivering no
better care or outcomes than foreign industrialized nations. Its June 2, 2013,
story on colonoscopy and other procedural costs is an example.

Other than a fleeting mention that certain government restrictions on use of
anesthetic agents might contribute, clearly the inference is that money-hungry
physicians and institutions deliberately provide more costly, inappropriate and
unnecessary care than that provided in foreign countries. Absent is any
discussion of the vastly different legal liability climate or the increasing,
government-imposed, regulations and other disincentives for physicians to
maintain an "office" practice. Rather than $6,000 and up, I have little doubt
that if these factors were controlled, a colonoscopy could be provided for about
$1,000 in a physician's office.

And, as usual, the Times fails to note that differences in behavioral influences
and genetics (not the quality and access to clinical care) account for 80
percent of health status outcomes. Physicians and hospitals do not control the
increased frequency of suicide in Baby Boomer males, texting and driving in
young adults, obesity, violence, exercise, substance abuse and so forth. They
fail to mention that in one of the few legitimate comparisons tied to the
quality and access of clinical care, survival time after cancer diagnosis, the
United States leads the world by several years of survival.

Few would claim they can make sense of health-care pricing or that the
health-care market is not dysfunctional. Why then not constructively examine and
attempt to correct what has created the dysfunction, possibly including many
policies and programs created by those publishing the data? Why the media
splash? Will this really help health consumers figure out what has eluded all
the experts, stimulate coherent and fair pricing and result in prudent
purchasing? Or, is this but a defensive, political ploy to have health consumers
take up their hammers and join the administration in pounding those health
practitioner and institutional nails?

Felsen, of Great Cacapon, is a retired public health physician.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Charleston Newspapers


                              262 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 1993 The Catholic University Law Review
                         Catholic University Law Review

                                  WINTER, 1993

                         Catholic University Law Review

                             42 Cath. U.L. Rev. 313

LENGTH: 19181 words

COMMENT: AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA v. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION:
EXCESS BAGGAGE FOR RULES OF AGENCY PROCEDURE.

NAME: Jessica S. Schaffer

TEXT:
 [*313]  Over the past two centuries, Congress has established administrative
agencies as a means to contend with social problems and to regulate specific
activities of individuals and businesses.  n1 Today, these agencies carry out
this function using one or both of two mechanisms: rulemaking and adjudication.
n2 Statutory sources govern the procedure for rulemaking conducted by federal
agencies.  Primarily, agencies conduct rulemaking in accordance with the manner
prescribed by Congress in an agency's enabling statute.  n3 In  [*314]
addition, the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) sets forth requirements that
govern generally agency activity.  n4 Thus, absent specific Congressional
direction, the APA assures a minimum level of procedural compliance.  Congress
alone retains the authority to allow lesser procedural conformance with the APA
when it empowers a specific agency with rulemaking and adjudicatory authority.
n5

   Section 553 of the APA details the procedural requirements that federal
agencies must follow when promulgating rules.  n6 Informal rulemaking under the
APA  n7 necessitates such actions as notification of proposed rulemaking  [*315]
by publication in the Federal Register,  n8 involvement of the general public
through notice and comment,  n9 and adoption of a thirty-day waiting period
before a final rule is made effective and implemented.  n10 Designed to protect
the interests of both the regulated members of the general public  n11 and the
government entity responsible for the regulation of a particular activity, the
APA attempts to strike a balance permitting efficient and effective regulation
while also protecting due process and such other basic concepts of fairness that
a nonrepresentative governmental body might suggest.  n12

    [*316]  Certain types of agency activity, however, relax the tension between
agency efficiency and public participation and justify the inclusion in the APA
of specific exemptions to the procedural requirements of § 553.  n13 For
example, an agency may promulgate interpretations, statements of policy, and
procedural rules without notice and comment according to § 553(b)(A) of the APA.
n14 These types of rules differ from "substantive" -- or "legislative" --
[*317]  rules  n15 that have the force of law, effectively imposing new
obligations and duties or altering the behavior or status of those within the
purview of the proposed rule.  n16 Commentators and courts generally refer to
the "substantive-procedural" dichotomy when discussing procedural rules, but use
the terms "legislative" and "non-legislative" in the context of the APA
exemptions for interpretative rules and general statements of policy.  n17 In
considering the exemptions,  n18 Congress viewed the need for encouraging agency
activity as greater than the need for public participation.  n19 The APA,
however, provides no further elaboration on the scope of the terms  [*318]
"interpretative" or "procedural," and the task of distinguishing the legislative
rule from the non-legislative rule or the substantive rule from the procedural
rule has, in the course of litigation, fallen on the judiciary.  n20

   The exemption for rules of "agency organization, procedure, or practice"
under § 553(b)(A) of the APA and the inherent ambiguity surrounding the
substantive-procedural distinction are currently the subject of considerable
controversy.  In its recent decision Air Transport Association of America v.
Department of Transportation,  n21 the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia struggled with the task of defining "procedural." The Air
Transport case illustrates well the courts' inability to reach an acceptable
approach for defining the scope of the § 553(b)(A) exemption and for carving out
the court's role in reviewing agency action.  n22

   This Comment examines the notice-and-comment exemption for agency rules of
procedure under § 553(b)(A) of the APA.  In light of the ambiguity posed by the
statutory language and its legislative history, this Comment reviews the
prevailing judicial interpretations governing the scope of the exemption,
including the approaches most recently presented by the majority and dissenting
opinions in Air Transport. Next, this Comment analyzes the different judicial
approaches, evaluating their underlying rationale and identifying their
significance on the rules at issue in the Air Transport case and on rules of
procedure generally.  This Comment then proposes an alternative response to the
issue of defining the term "procedural" based on the cases surveyed and on
analogous policies governing a recent court interpretation of the exemption
under § 553(b)(A) for interpretative rules.  In conclusion, this Comment
proposes that the approach articulated by the court in Air Transport is
sufficiently deficient to render its future prominence unlikely,  [*319]
leaving the position advocated by Judge Silberman in the Air Transport dissent
to prevail.

   I.  VARIED APPROACHES TO ADDRESSING THE SCOPE OF THE EXEMPTION FOR RULES OF
AGENCY ORGANIZATION, PROCEDURE, OR PRACTICE

   The APA represents the culmination of efforts by the executive and
legislative branches of the federal government, as well as private interests, to
reform the structure of administrative agencies.  n23 Congress sought primarily
to introduce uniformity and to secure fairness and administrative impartiality
in light of an increasing dependence on federal agency adjudications.  n24 The
Supreme Court of the United States, which had the opportunity to review the
history and purposes of the APA shortly after its enactment,  n25 characterized
the APA as a "formula upon which opposing social and political forces have come
to rest."  n26

   The legislative history of the APA elaborates on the reasons behind the
congressional action prescribing notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures in §
553.  n27 First, the requirements of a proposed rule's publication and
involvement of the public serve to inform and educate the agency, promoting
reasoned decisionmaking by agencies that conduct rulemaking activities.  n28
Second, inviting an exchange between the public and the administrative agencies
was designed to introduce safeguards to offset the lack of agency accountability
inherent in the administrative scheme.  n29 As the D.C. Circuit recently
acknowledged, "by mandating 'openness, explanation, and [*320]  participatory
democracy' in the rulemaking process, these procedures assure the legitimacy of
administrative norms."  n30

   The legislative history of the APA, however, provides little insight into the
envisioned application of the exemption for interpretative rules, rules of
procedure, and general statements of policy under § 553.  n31 It nonetheless
reveals that the objective of Congress in enacting § 553(b)(A) was to encourage
agency promulgation of certain types of rules and to defer to the agency's
judgment where public input might impede the effectiveness of the administrative
process.  n32 Congress believed that the availability of judicial review
relieved it of the obligation to impose additional procedural burdens where it
regarded public participation as ineffective and unnecessary.  n33

   The ambiguity that courts have encountered when interpreting the exemption
provisions in § 553(b)(A) stems from the substantive-procedural distinction
alluded to by Congress in its legislative history.  n34 Yet the real catalyst
for the controversy surrounding the distinction can be found in Vermont Yankee
Nuclear Power Corp. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, in which the Supreme
Court expressed disapproval of courts' imposing on agencies their view of
acceptable administrative procedures where the APA has delineated minimum
compliance standards.  n35 Vermont Yankee mandated a clear distinction between
the legal bounds of statutory construction, a traditional  [*321]  function of
the judiciary,  n36 and the impermissible practice of demanding additional
procedures beyond those required in the APA.  n37 Complying with the mandate of
Vermont Yankee, however, posed substantial difficulties for courts interpreting
the scope of the exemption under § 553(b)(A), due largely to the inherent
vagueness of the substantive-procedural distinction.  n38

   The ambiguity resulting from form the statutory requirements of § 553(b) f§
553(b)(A), compounded by the uncertainty over the applicability of the Supreme
Court's decision in Vermont Yankee, has produced a variety of judicial judical
approaches for determining whether notice and comment is properly required for
rules characterized as procedural.  In order for agencies to take advantage of
the express authority to circumvent the "cumbersome and time-consuming
mechanisms of public input,"  n39 agencies must first assess which of the
judicial approaches a court is likely to rely upon and which might ultimately
prevail.  These approaches include:  n40 (1) the "substantial impact" test, the
approach most consistently used in adjudicating § 553(b)(A) applicability and
articulated most recently in United States Department of Labor v. Kast Metals
Corp.;  n41 (2) the deviation from the substantial impact test proposed in
Batterton v. Marshall;  n42 (3) the "encod[ing] a substantive value judgment"
inquiry formulated in American Hospital Association v. Bowen;  n43 and finally
(4) the dichotomy presented in Air Transport Association of America v.
Department of Transportation by the majority and dissenting  [*322]  opinions --
the majority identifying "the right to avail oneself of an administrative
adjudication"  n44 as crucial; the dissent advancing the inquiry of whether the
rulemaking "purports to direct, control, or condition the behavior of those
institutions or individuals subject to regulation by the authorizing statute."
n45

   A.  The Substantial Impact Test: United States Department of Labor v. Kast
Metals Corp.

   The substantial impact test, first articulated in 1968 in National Motor
Freight Traffic Association v. United States,  n46 recognizes the need for
notice and comment where agency regulations have a substantial impact on
designated industries or individuals.  n47 As explained in United States
Department of Labor v. Kast Metals Corp., a regulation that "modifies
substantive rights and interests" must withstand the scrutiny and proposed
alternatives of public input.  n48 Because rules with a substantial impact are
at most only "nominally procedural," invocation of the exemption under §
553(b)(A) for rules of procedure is inappropriate.  n49

   Kast Metals presents a recent and thorough illustration of the substantial
impact test.  n50 In that case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit overturned the district court's determination that the challenged
regulation issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
n51 required notice and comment because it altered the likelihood and frequency
of inspection for employers.  n52 Notwithstanding the conspicuous absence of
notice and comment, the court in Kast Metals upheld the validity of the OSHA
inspection warrant issued to Kast Metals Corporation and ruled that the OSHA
regulation setting forth a new administrative scheme  [*323]  by which the
agency selects employers for routine safety and health inspection was procedural
within the meaning of the APA.  n53 In reversing the lower court's decision,
however, the court of appeals disagreed with the lower court's application of
the facts, but sustained the lower court's use of the substantial impact test.
n54

   Agency regulations that require a departure from previous practice are, on
the other hand, particularly vulnerable under the substantial impact test.  n55
The Kast Metals court, as an example, cited a previous OSHA rule that eliminated
an employer's right to a pre-issuance challenge of an inspection warrant in
favor of ex parte warrant proceedings.  n56 The "180-degree shift in agency
practice" that the rule represented constituted a "substantial impact,"
mandating notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures.  n57 The court concluded,
however, that the OSHA instruction delineating selection for safety inspection
"casts not the stone of substantial impact."  n58 A change in inspection
methodology without the attendant substantial impact is insufficient to warrant
notice and comment.  n59

    [*324]  Recognizing the difficulties that accompany the substance-procedure
distinction,  n60 the court stated that "the substantial impact test is the
primary means by which courts look beyond the label 'procedural' to determine
whether a rule is of the type Congress thought appropriate for public
participation."  n61 However, the court in Kast Metals did not rely on the
substantial impact test without evaluating emerging viewpoints that question its
validity or even reject it outright.  n62

   The Kast Metals court began by addressing the conclusion of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit that Vermont Yankee precludes imposing
notice-and-comment requirements for reasons of substantial impact alone.  n63
The Ninth Circuit in Rivera v. Becerra ruled that the substantial impact
approach prevented courts from complying with Vermont Yankee because the inquiry
presents courts with a subtle invitation to substitute their views of the
appropriate level of procedural protection in agency rulemaking.  n64 Rejecting
the reasoning of the Ninth Circuit, the court in Kast Metals asserted that
Vermont Yankee does not apply to the purely legal question of determining
compliance with APA notice-and-comment procedures.  n65 The court concluded that
Vermont Yankee speaks to court action imposing additional procedural
requirements upon agencies above and beyond those required by the APA once the
initial determination of APA compliance has been settled.  n66 The court in Kast
Metals thus separated the threshold question of § 553 applicability from the
concerns voiced in Vermont  [*325]  Yankee. The issue before the court in Kast
Metals -- whether OSHA, in promulgating the inspection instructions, had
fulfilled its requirements under the APA of providing notice and comment -- was
therefore a legal task and well within the province of the courts.  n67 Falling
outside the scope of the Supreme Court's edict in Vermont Yankee, the
substantial impact test remains the appropriate legal test for determining the
procedural nature of an administrative rule.  n68

   The court in Kast Metals continued by distinguishing its case from the
decision of the D.C. Circuit in Cabais v. Egger,  n69 which explicitly rejected
the substantial impact test for the purposes of determining the interpretative
nature of a rule in evaluating the need for notice and comment under §
553(b)(A).  n70 Noting the Cabais court's express intention to limit its holding
to interpretative rules under § 553(b)(A),  n71 the court in Kast Metals adhered
instead to the subsequent D.C. Circuit decision Lamoille Valley Railroad Co. v.
ICC.  n72 Lamoille Valley demonstrated the D.C. Circuit's continued intention to
rely on the substantial impact test for determining the procedural nature of a
rule.  n73 That decision thus dispelled any ambiguity as to the applicability of
Cabais to procedural rules and indicated that the substantial impact test,
although rejected for interpretative rules, was still alive and well for
determining the exempt status of procedural rules.  n74

   The underlying grounds for adhering to the well-established, if somewhat
unsatisfactory,  n75 substantial impact test persisted, and the desire to act in
[*326]  conformance with congressional intent served to uphold the substantial
impact test once again.  n76 The Kast Metals court, in imposing the substantial
impact test, was aware of the competing interests at stake and attempted to
secure fairness and accuracy without permitting agencies to resort casually to
expedited rulemaking in reliance on one of the available exemptions.  n77 In
Kast Metals, however, the court found that the OSHA instruction had "no
cognizable impact, substantial or otherwise, on any right or interest of Kast."
n78 To require notice and comment for the OSHA regulation would vitiate
Congress' intent and, in effect, eliminate the exemption for rules of procedure,
for, as the court recognized,"[a]ll agency rules will in some way affect those
within the agency's grasp."  n79

   B.  Looking for an Alternative: Batterton v. Marshall

   The D.C. Circuit's recognition in Kast Metals that the substantial impact
test is not entirely satisfactory as a mechanism for evaluating the substantive-
procedural distinction  n80 is typical of many decisions exploring the scope of
the exemption under § 553(b)(A).  n81 Procedural rules, no matter how
inconsequential,  [*327]  inevitably affect private parties within their scope
in some manner.  n82 In addition, the notion that the substantial impact test
served to remove some procedural rules from the scope of the exemption raised
the question of the test's validity under Vermont Yankee.  n83 Batterton v.
Marshall  n84 addressed these concerns and established a shift in emphasis,
moving away from the substantial impact inquiry and focusing instead on the
future weight of the challenged rule or regulation.  n85

   In Batterton, the state of Maryland challenged a rulemaking by the Department
of Labor (DOL) that modified the method for calculating unemployment rates.  n86
The results of these calculations provided the basis for the allocation of funds
under the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act (CETA), a federally-funded
program that monitored job training and placement guidance.  n87 The new method,
termed the "Balance of State" procedure, used as its source data derived from
monthly Census Bureau surveys of sample households, ultimately adjusting the
figures to meet the statistics of the entire state.  n88 In contrast, the
"Handbook" method, the procedure employed previously by DOL to determine
Maryland's need for aid, relied on the reports of state employment security
agencies.  n89 When the change in  [*328]  methodology produced a significant
reduction of CETA funds, Maryland filed suit in federal district court seeking
declaratory and injunctive relief.  n90

   In its review of the lower court's decision,  n91 the Batterton court held
that the agency's change in statistical methodology did not qualify for
exemption from § 553 notice-and-comment procedures.  n92 Concluding that the
change was "hardly a 'routine correction or refinement,'" the court stated that
the challenged rulemaking "bears all the earmarks of conclusive agency action,
governing the rights and interests of the public."  n93 Accordingly, any future
DOL action designed to alter the means by which CETA disbursements are allocated
must be implemented following the notice-and-comment procedures prescribed by
the APA.  n94

   Rather than evaluating the agency's procedures in light of the substantial
impact created by DOL's action, the Batterton court approached the issue by
considering the "legal status and effect" of the challenged rulemaking in future
judicial and administrative proceedings.  n95 The court regarded this
characterization of agency action as crucial to a proper evaluation of the
applicability of the exemption from notice and comment under § 553(b)(A).  n96
The goals that Congress sought to achieve by imposing the requirements of notice
and comment on agencies embarking on the task of  [*329]  rulemaking provided
the Batterton court with the basis for its approach.  n97 Distinguishing between
the "legislative" and "non-legislative" nature of agency action permits
reviewing courts to determine whether Congress intended the exemption to apply.
n98 Where an agency is contemplating regulatory provisions that it intends to be
legally binding on all affected parties, the protective features of advance
notice and public comment are mandated.  n99 In contrast, agency actions issued
without such protective features command less deference, serving merely to
notify the public of the agency's policies and understanding of the laws, and to
organize better the agency's daily operations.  n100

   In addressing the exemption for procedural rules under § 553(b)(A), the court
in Batterton nevertheless employed language that distinctly resembled the
"substantial impact" test.  n101 The court concluded that since the
newly-adopted statistical methodology changed the "one undefined variable in the
statutory fund allocation formula," it is governed by the standards for informal
rulemaking as defined in § 553.  n102 The consequences of DOL's action
effectively removed this arguably procedural rule from the scope of the
exemption.

   The Batterton court completed its analysis with a discussion of the court's
authority to review agency action in light of recent claims that Vermont Yankee
precludes courts from imposing procedures beyond those articulated in the APA.
n103 Consistent with its treatment of Vermont Yankee in Kast Metals, the court
rejected the arguments advanced by DOL and held that the warning issued by the
Supreme Court in Vermont Yankee was directed at courts confronted with the issue
of whether sufficient procedures accompanied the rulemaking process when agency
compliance with APA requirements had already been established.  n104 Because the
claim against DOL raised the threshold issue of whether the agency had complied
with the notice-and-comment procedures detailed in § 553 of the APA, Vermont
Yankee  [*330]  simply did not apply.  n105 The court concluded that construing
the statutory exemption from notice-and-comment requirements to determine the
procedural sufficiency under the APA of DOL's changed statistical methodology is
an entirely appropriate function of the court.  n106 Furthermore, by asserting
that it did not rely on the substantial impact test, the court did not need to
address DOL's contention that the substantial impact test suggests possible
inappropriate judicial intervention.  n107

   C.  Identifying Rules that "Encode a Substantive Value Judgment": American
Hospital Association v. Bowen

   As conceded by the D.C. Circuit in Batterton, the substantial impact test
continued to enjoy significant support despite its inadequacies.  n108 Yet,
courts still contended with the problem of determining the degree of substantial
impact permitted under the exemption for procedural rules and Vermont Yankee.
n109 Seeking a more satisfactory approach to defining the scope of the
exemptions in § 553(b)(A), American Hospital Association v. Bowen  n110 followed
Batterton's lead: "The gradual move away from looking solely into the
substantiality of the impact reflects a candid recognition that even
unambiguously procedural measures affect parties to some degree."  n111 Drawing
from Batterton, the court in American Hospital emphasized the effect of a rule
on the rights and obligations of the regulated public as Congress established in
an agency's enabling statute and distinguished these rights and obligations from
the incidental effects that any change in agency regulations may produce,
regardless of their substantiality.  n112 Thus, the more pointed question posed
by the court in American Hospital was "whether the agency action also encodes a
substantive value judgment or puts a stamp of approval  [*331]  or disapproval
on a given type of behavior."  n113 Under American Hospital, therefore, the
substantial impact test has a second prong.  In the event that a court finds
that an agency's action causes a substantial impact, the court must further
determine whether that substantial impact is directly associated with the
activities, rights, or obligations that Congress intended to regulate in
establishing the agency and its powers.

   In American Hospital, the court contemplated an array of rules implementing
the peer review organization (PRO) program established by Congress in its 1982
amendment to the Medicare Act,  n114 including three documents that defined the
procedures for the private review contractors.  n115 These documents, by which
the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) detailed such measures as
notification of hospitals, random hospital admission reviews, and rigid scrutiny
for areas susceptible to abuse,  n116 were designed to provide the PROs with
guidelines for conducting their reviews and to draw attention to situations in
which HHS expected review to be the most productive and effective.  n117

   The court in American Hospital rejected the American Hospital Association's
(AHA) claim that HHS had promulgated directives implementing the 1982 amendment
to the Medicare Act without the notice and comment required  [*332]  under § 553
of the APA.  n118 Premising its decision upon the policy goals behind affording
notice and comment, the court sought to further preserve the narrow scope of the
exemptions and require agencies to follow notice-and-comment procedures in all
but the clearest instances in which the exemptions apply.  n119 Yet, the
challenged regulations in American Hospital presented the court with precisely
such an instance: the HHS directives constituted "classic procedural rules,
exempt under that distinctive prong of § 553."  n120

   The "encoding a substantive value judgment" language espoused in American
Hospital sustained Batterton's emphasis on preserving the procedural
classification, a classification that Congress deliberately created.  n121 By
focusing only on the interests that are ultimately at stake, namely those
established by Congress in an agency's enabling statute,  n122 the court was
able to limit the overinclusiveness of the substantial impact test and give
effect to the intended purpose of the procedural rule exemption.

   The impetus for reworking the substantial impact test was derived in large
part from the 1978 Supreme Court decision in Vermont Yankee.  n123 Courts and
litigants continued to struggle with Vermont Yankee's applicability to court
determinations concerning the scope of the exemptions under § 553.  n124  [*333]
The Supreme Court, in the following year, considered the fine line between a
court's obligation to insist on full compliance with APA procedures and a
court's impermissible intrusion when it substitutes what it believes to be
adequate procedures.  n125 Articulating a standard by which a court could
recognize when it is either disrupting or maintaining this "balance,"  n126
however, became troublesome in light of the ambiguity in defining the term "
procedural." In American Hospital, the court revealed its intention to define
procedural rules as those that "do not themselves alter the rights or interests
of parties, although [they] may alter the manner in which parties present
themselves or their viewpoints to the agency."  n127

   D.  One Step Forward or Two Steps Back: Air Transport Association of America
v. Department of Transportation

1.  The Right to Avail Oneself of an Administrative Adjudication

   The Batterton and American Hospital courts were guided by Vermont Yankee and
the desire to preserve the express exemption for rules of procedure.  These
objectives, however, necessarily infringed upon the court's ability to provide
procedural protections where it viewed the need for public participation as
paramount.  Attempting to regain a foothold over this area, the D.C. Circuit
formulated yet another approach to resolving the issue of the scope of the
exemption under § 553(b)(A) in Air Transport Association of America v.
Department of Transportation.  n128 Inquiring whether the challenged Rules of
Practice "substantially affect civil penalty defendants' 'right to avail
[themselves] of an administrative adjudication,'"  n129 the court reasserted its
authority to review the scope of the exemption and invalidated the challenged
regulatory action for inadequate procedural compliance.  n130

    [*334]  Judge Edwards, writing for the majority in Air Transport,
invalidated rules promulgated without notice and comment by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA).  n131 The regulations at issue in Air Transport  n132
provided for the manner in which the FAA was to prosecute violations of the
Federal Aviation Act under the expanded enforcement authority granted by
Congress in its Civil Penalty Assessment Demonstration Program legislation.
n133 As the agency explained, the Rules of Practice embodied "the procedures
utilized to enforce the FAA's substantive aviation safety regulations in the
smaller civil penalty cases."  n134 The regulations served to bring its existing
procedural rules into conformance with the more formal, trial-like procedures of
notice and hearing under § 554 of the APA, which Congress explicitly required
for all civil penalty actions.  n135 No longer required to submit findings to
the United States Attorney for prosecution of civil penalty  [*335]  actions
under $ 50,000,  n136 the FAA published the Rules of Practice in their final
form and for immediate adoption on September 7, 1988, announcing the inadequacy
of its existing rules and the temporary nature of the enforcement authority as
grounds for proceeding without the notice-and-comment period.  n137 Governing
such aspects of the civil penalty action as filing of the complaint, service of
documents, discovery, evidence, record, and appeals, the Rules of Practice
encompass the necessary and available agency procedures once a party charged
with a violation has requested a hearing.  n138

   Representing the interests of private airlines, the Air Transport Association
of America (Air Transport or Association) challenged the Rules of Practice
following notice of final agency action in the Federal Register.  n139 Air
Transport claimed that the rules imposed a significant hardship on its members
currently engaged in litigating actions before the FAA.  n140 Citing numerous
instances where the Rules favor the agency, the Association argued that no
equivalent beneficial features were afforded to parties defending  [*336]
against cited violations.  n141 In the words of the Association, the Rules of
Practice "create[d] unparalleled bias in favor of the agency in litigation of
penalty cases."  n142 Contending that the interests of the public require
procedural conformance with § 553, the Association argued that the burdens that
the rules impose on defending parties would subject airlines to a greater
likelihood of an increased penalty assessment, resulting in sufficient prejudice
to warrant the imposition of public participation through notice-and-comment
procedures.  n143 Thus, in addition to substantive claims that the rules
violated due process rights and the FAA's enabling statute, the Association
sought to compel compliance with the required notice-and-comment procedures of §
553.  n144 The agency defended its action by characterizing the Rules of
Practice as procedural and by advancing its post-promulgation consideration of
industry comment.  n145

   The court in Air Transport recognized the inadequacies of a substantive-
procedural distinction  n146 and adhered to a line of cases employing a
"functional analysis" instead.  n147 Focusing on the fact that the challenged
procedures implicate the defendant's rights in a civil penalty hearing, the
court  [*337]  held that "[t]he Penalty Rules . . . affect the entire range of
adjudicatory rights guaranteed by the due process clause, the APA and [the
Demonstration Program] -- matters far too important to be withdrawn from public
deliberation."  n148 The majority relied heavily on prior law requiring notice
and comment for agency action that disrupts the availability of administrative
hearings and cited the court's holding in National Motor Freight Traffic
Association v. United States as controlling.  n149 The nature of the rules alone
and their potential consequences provide the relevant inquiry for determining
whether the exemption from informal rulemaking procedures under § 553(b)(A)
applies.  n150 The court thus narrowly construed the exemption for rules of
procedure, removing from its scope all rules that pertain to a party's right to
an administrative hearing.  n151

   The court in Air Transport reasoned that because the FAA Rules of Practice
were directed at the administrative hearings in which the agency imposes civil
penalties for aviation safety violations,  n152 courts must use particular care
in discerning the validity of the challenged rulemaking.  n153 An agency can
easily manipulate procedures such as the Rules of Practice, leaving the
defendant in a vulnerable position.  n154 Considering this potential for bias,
the court explained that "the FAA made discretionary -- indeed, in many cases,
highly contentious -- choices concerning what process civil penalty defendants
are due."  n155 Interpreting American Hospital to preclude this type of
administrative action without the procedural precautions of public
participation, the court likened the FAA regulations to those that "encode[] a
substantive value judgment."  n156 The court did, however, recognize the
exemption for procedural rules as a valuable means of accomplishing
organizational matters within an agency, but limited the use of the exemption to
"housekeeping measure[s]."  n157

    [*338]  The Air Transport formulation sought to put an end to the
uncertainty left unaddressed by Vermont Yankee and to reaffirm the court's
function of review over administrative agencies, in particular when a
defendant's adjudicatory rights are implicated.  n158 In response to the
dissenting view in Air Transport, which advocated the procedural nature of the
penalty rules, the court noted only briefly that reliance on Vermont Yankee is
misplaced where the issue is confined to determining compliance with the APA.
n159 Furthermore, congressional intent can only be properly observed when courts
scrutinize the procedural adequacy of regulatory activity that affects the
rights of the regulated public, unlike the more arbitrary procedural-substantive
distinction, which focuses on "classes of rights."  n160 In other words, the
majority contends that looking at the degree of substantial impact is altogether
inappropriate and that only internal agency procedures of no conceivable
interest to the public fall within the ambit of the exemption for rules of
agency organization, procedure, or practice.  The Air Transport court's
rejection of the substantive-procedural distinction represents a significant
departure from previous case law, which generally acknowledged the  [*339]
difficulties inherent in the substantive-procedural distinction, but
nevertheless adhered consistently to its basic mandate.  n161

2.  The Primary Conduct Test

   In sharp contrast, Judge Silberman's dissenting opinion admonished the
majority for dispensing with the statutory mandate to distinguish between
substantive and procedural rules.  n162 To effectuate congressional intent,
Judge Silberman suggested that the penalty rules be upheld because they bear on
the procedures to be followed in civil penalty hearings rather than on aviation
safety directly.  n163 The dissent further reasoned that the Supreme Court in
Vermont Yankee clearly cautioned reviewing courts against imposing procedural
protections in addition to those required under the APA.  n164

   The dissent found force in the contention that courts are not at leisure to
disregard the substantive-procedural distinction upon which the APA exemption
rests.  n165 "Congress . . . made that difference critical, and we are therefore
obliged to implement a viable distinction between 'procedural' rules and those
that are substantive."  n166 The viable distinction that Judge Silberman
formulated assigns to the term "substantive" all rules that affect primary
conduct and designates all those at the periphery as "procedural."  n167
Accordingly, the inquiry must be whether "a given regulation  [*340]  purports
to direct, control, or condition the behavior of those institutions or
individuals subject to regulation by the authorizing statute" thereby rendering
it substantive in nature and subject to notice-and-comment rulemaking
procedures.  n168 As for the FAA Rules of Practice, these exemplify "by ample
measure" the type of rules that a court should classify as procedural and
therefore sustain, even if promulgated without the notice and comment delineated
in § 553.  n169

   Judge Silberman, relying on American Hospital, conceded that agency activity
may not always fall neatly into the categories of "substantive" or "procedural."
n170 The decision in American Hospital managed to isolate successfully the
procedural nature of the challenged rulemaking even though the PRO directives
were likely to cause hospitals to experience increased costs and treat certain
medical procedures with reluctance.  n171 Only rulemaking activity that
implicates directly the subject matter of the congressional act -- here, the
safety standards prescribed by Congress in the Federal Aviation Act and its
amendments -- must fall within the substantive arena obligating careful
collaboration with interested members of the public.  n172 The dissent concluded
that enforcement schemes and systems for adjudicating claims should remain in
the procedural arena and should not be removed merely because regulated parties
seek to protect the status quo.  n173 Judge Silberman criticized the majority
for its concern with sorting out the "important" rules for purposes of
determining the applicability of notice and comment.  Congress by its exemption
deemed the informal rulemaking procedures unnecessary for certain rules, not
because of their lack of importance, but because agency effectiveness and
efficiency superseded the need for procedural protections.  n174

    [*341]  II.  THE EFFECT OF THE AIR TRANSPORT RULING ON THE EXEMPTION FOR
RULES OF AGENCY ORGANIZATION, PROCEDURE, OR PRACTICE

   The Air Transport decision left in its wake considerable uncertainty as to
the appropriate method for determining the scope of § 553(b)(A).  n175 The
decision imposes an even greater task on agencies which must now consider the
validity of conflicting approaches if they wish to determine whether the
notice-and-comment requirements of § 553 apply.  n176 Agencies, in an attempt to
avoid the consequences of judicial review and the potential invalidation of
their rulemaking, will likely promulgate procedural rules with the full panoply
of prescribed procedures under the APA.  n177 This reaction is contrary to
Congressional intent, which by explicit exemptions sought to encourage agency
action in certain areas where the need for notice and comment was considered to
be dispensable.  n178

   Judge Silberman aptly characterized the source of the ambiguity surrounding
the exemption for rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice in his
description of agency rulemaking as a "continuum" on which some rules clearly
find themselves at either the substantive or the procedural end.  n179 This
approach categorizes as "substantive" those rules that directly affect the
activity over which Congress granted the agency regulatory authority, in direct
contrast to "procedural" rules, which govern subsidiary agency activity such as
the enforcement or adjudication of claims.  n180 However, as the Rules of
Practice challenged in Air Transport demonstrate, many  [*342]  rules do not fit
at either end of the continuum, and, because of their contentious nature, fall
into an ambiguous area where the two characteristics overlap.  n181 While none
of the judicial approaches conclusively resolves the ambiguity surrounding
procedural rules, the approach articulated in American Hospital, excluding from
the notice-and-comment exemption those rules which "also encode[] a substantive
value judgment," proposes the more reasonable solution to defining the scope of
§ 553(b)(A).  n182

   The substantial impact test, as the precursor to the American Hospital
formulation, remains a valuable source of insight for making sense of the
exemption under § 553(b)(A) and the substantive-procedural distinction which
governs that exemption for rules of procedure.  n183 While the substantial
impact test remains important to the substantive-procedural distinction, it has
not managed to escape entirely unscathed.  "[T]he continued viability of the
'substantial impact' test, as it simply articulates one of several criteria for
evaluating claims of exemption from § 553" was recognized by the D.C. Circuit in
Batterton.  n184 Yet the Batterton court relied on an alternative method for
making sense of the substantive-procedural distinction, looking rather to the
judicial weight to be accorded agency action under the exemption.  n185 By
classifying rules as legislative and non-legislative, the Batterton court
emphasized "the legal force of the agency action in future proceedings."  n186
Notice-and-comment procedures elevate legislative rules and make them less
susceptible to criticism and legal action.  n187 Only if promulgated in a manner
that a court deems "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise
not in accordance with law" will the notice-and-comment regulation be set aside.
n188 On the other hand, non-legislative rules, such as rules of procedure,
gather force over time, acquiring precedential value only upon surviving
judicial scrutiny, and at the outset "carry no more weight on judicial  [*343]
review than their inherent persuasiveness commands."  n189 The Batterton court
was thus able to resolve some of the problems of the substantial impact test
raised since Vermont Yankee.  n190

   Additional decisions revealed the courts' reluctance to rely on the
substantial impact test.  The Ninth Circuit rejected the test as the appropriate
inquiry governing issues of exemption for rules of procedure,  n191 but the D.C.
Circuit's decision in Cabais had a more lasting effect when it discarded the
test as the method for ascertaining a rule's interpretative status.  n192 An
interpretative rule announces "what the administrative officer thinks the
statute or regulation means."  n193 Courts do not evaluate these interpretative
rules under § 553(b)(A) according to the substantial impact of the agency
interpretation, but rather according to an agency's intent to issue a
legislative rule and the presence of "gaps" requiring interstitial rulemaking in
conjunction with notice and comment.  n194

   The D.C. Circuit abandoned the substantial impact test in the context of
interpretative rules based on its recognition that, by their very nature, such
rules may "vitally affect private interests."  n195 In Cabais, the court
justified its decision to forego notice and comment, even in the presence of a
substantial impact, by stating that "strict adherence to the letter of the APA
without  [*344]  reference to 'elementary fairness'" is paramount where Congress
expressly designated interpretative rules for expedited rulemaking.  n196 The
alternative methods for obtaining relief tend to mitigate the harshness of the
rule espoused by the Cabais court.  n197 Injured parties, the court explained,
can seek judicial relief from the adverse effects of interpretative rules in
related enforcement proceedings.  n198 Furthermore, courts in such enforcement
proceedings generally do not grant the deference that accompanies
notice-and-comment rulemaking to interpretative rules where an agency has opted
to forego public input in favor of immediate promulgation and accelerated
effectiveness.  n199 These reasons provided ample justification for the Cabais
court to adopt the more lenient test for interpretative rules, notwithstanding
the precedent that supports the substantial impact test.

   The courts, however, were not inclined to follow the same approach for rules
of agency procedure.  n200 Lamoille Valley, a subsequent decision by the D.C.
Circuit, continued to rely on the substantial impact test for analyzing the
substantive-procedural distinction.  n201 Following that decision, other courts
reasserted the substantial impact test as a strong influence in cases concerning
rules of agency procedure.  n202 The "encod[ing] a substantive value judgment"
language of American Hospital basically preserved the substantial impact test,
although it broadened the inquiry to avoid losing the exemption entirely.  n203
For as the court in that case recognized, under the  [*345]  substantial impact
test, procedural rules will likely not qualify for the exemption under §
553(b)(A) because of their inevitable impact.  n204 The American Hospital test,
like the decision in Cabais rejecting the substantial impact test for
interpretative rules, rested upon the notion that rules under the exemption are
likely to affect substantially the interests of private parties.  n205

   The American Hospital decision illustrates the D.C. Circuit's move away from
the substantial impact test.  n206 Concluding that the claims of the challenging
party were not legitimate where the concern for a greater likelihood of
discovering excessive reimbursements was exactly that which the Medicare
amendment sought to achieve, the court brought the HHS documents within the
scope of the exemption for procedural rules despite the substantial impact that
the complaining hospitals anticipated.  n207 But only the broadened inquiry of
whether the challenged procedural rule "also encodes a substantive value
judgment or puts a stamp of approval or disapproval on a given type of behavior"
serves to bring the PRO manuals within the scope of the exemption, since it was
undisputed that hospitals inside the PRO territories would perceive the effect
of heightened scrutiny under the modified enforcement scheme.  n208 The American
Hospital formulation thus effectively limited the substantial impact test and
its potential reach, placing the procedural directives promulgated by HHS within
the express exemption that Congress deemed appropriate.

   Like the PRO directives in American Hospital, the FAA Rules of Practice
challenged in Air Transport speak to the procedures accompanying the FAA's
enforcement scheme.  Whereas American Hospital dealt with rules governing the
investigatory and supervisory aspects of enforcement,  n209 the Air Transport
rules provide the procedures for the hearing stage of a civil penalty action.
The FAA Rules of Practice do not alter the standards of safety compliance, and
thus indirectly the behavior of the member airlines of the Air Transport
Association, the crucial "substantive value judgment"  [*346]  called for in
American Hospital.  n210 As suggested by the court in Cabais, the Air Transport
Association has other means of seeking redress.  n211 Judicial review after an
administrative adjudication concerning specific violations of the Federal
Aviation Act or its enabling regulations provides disgruntled parties with the
valuable safeguard needed to protect against inadequacies resulting from
abbreviated rulemaking.  n212 Furthermore, rules promulgated without notice and
comment are not entitled to special deference from reviewing courts.  n213 These
alternative protections served as justification for abandoning the substantial
impact test for interpretative rules and should be equally significant in the
context of procedural rules.

   For these reasons, the FAA Rules of Practice would likely survive the
American Hospital inquiry, a result contrary to the Air Transport decision
itself.  n214 While the Air Transport case continues to carry precedential
value,  n215 the methodology it uses to determine the procedural weight of the
Rules of Practice is sufficiently flawed to render future prominence unlikely.
The significantly narrower construction of § 553(b)(A) formulated by the Air
Transport majority, focusing on whether the rules "substantially affect civil
penalty defendants' 'right to avail [themselves] of an administrative
adjudication,'"  n216 rests on an early articulation of the D.C. Circuit in
National Motor Freight. In National Motor Freight, the decision by the
Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) to resolve the claims of reparations for
past illegal rates by means of informal settlement had "palpable effects" upon
other industry members and embodied precisely the type of action that would
benefit from the information gathered in a notice-and-comment type rulemaking.
n217 Yet, the agency action in National Motor Freight differed  [*347]
significantly from the action in Air Transport, and one must carefully consider
Judge Edward's complete reliance on that decision.  n218

   While both decisions concern the adjudicatory rights of regulated parties,
the court in National Motor Freight justified its decision to invalidate the
rulemaking largely on the absence of any Congressional direction to establish
the challenged informal settlement procedures.  n219 The legislative act that
prompted the ICC rulemaking specified the need for a judicial remedy for
aggrieved parties and expressly restricted the agency from initiating
prosecutorial action.  n220 By contrast, the FAA was "under . . . injunction
from Congress" to promulgate the Rules of Practice.  n221 The Civil Penalty
Assessment Demonstration Program explicitly required the FAA to render all
penalty assessments "only after notice and opportunity for a hearing on the
record in accordance with [§ ]554" of the APA.  n222 Courts have generally
distinguished between rules whereby "an agency is merely explicating Congress'
desires from those . . . in which [an] agency is adding substantive content of
its own."  n223 The established authority by which the FAA promulgated the Rules
of Practice and the specifically prescribed objective  [*348]  that these were
designed to meet, only detract from the significance accorded National Motor
Freight by the majority opinion.  n224

   Perhaps more troubling is the effort of the majority in Air Transport to
establish different levels of scrutiny for determining the applicability of the
exemption based on the type of procedural rule that is being questioned.
Recognizing the continued validity of the American Hospital decision, the court
in Air Transport commented that "the public has no legitimate interest in
influencing an agency's 'discretionary deployment of enforcement resources,' . .
. a classic 'internal' matter essential to how an agency constitutes itself."
n225 The court stated that, similar to the enforcement directives in American
Hospital, agency rules that somehow particularize the manner in which private
parties apply for benefits also qualify as internal agency operations exempt
from notice and comment.  n226 Thus, the Air Transport court reasoned that the
decision by the D.C. Circuit to sustain the abbreviated rulemaking procedures
contested in Neighborhood TV Co. v. FCC  n227 was not inconsistent with its
decision.  n228 In Neighborhood TV, the rules concerned interim measures
governing the processing of license applications while the agency, the Federal
Communications Commission, contemplated a change in policy concerning low power
television stations.  n229 Although the interim procedures mandated a processing
freeze for certain applications,  n230 they "did not affect any component of a
party's statutory or constitutional right to avail himself of an administrative
adjudication."  n231 However, the Air Transport court was unable to demonstrate
adequately its proposed distinction between a rulemaking that implicates
enforcement strategies or benefit application procedures and a rulemaking that
alters a party's adjudicatory rights.  As Batterton revealed, the Department of
Labor's adoption of a new methodology for calculating unemployment rates can
have impermissible consequences on the benefits received.  n232 Air Transport's
"bright line test" focusing on rules that encumber adjudicatory rights is
inconsistent  [*349]  with the language of the exemption provision of § 553,
which alludes to no such interpretation.  n233 Whereas the Rules of Practice in
Air Transport represent such rules, affecting the manner in which administrative
civil penalty trials themselves are brought, they no more than other enforcement
practices or disbursement schemes suggest the importance of notice-and-comment
procedures, no matter how appealing the assurance of fundamental fairness and
thoughtful deliberation derived from public participation may be.  n234 Neither
the language of the APA nor the judicial interpretations that have followed
support this ambitious effort to separate rules that detail procedures for an
administrative adjudication from agency action that governs enforcement schemes,
license applications, or rate calculations.

   The dissenting opinion in Air Transport revealed an approach that is far more
consistent with the judicial trend of retreating from the substantial impact
test and moving in the direction of furthering congressional intent concerning
the promulgation of procedural rules.  n235 The "substantial impact" that Judge
Silberman proposed as appropriate for notice-and-comment rulemaking is the
impact perceived from any rule that affects the conduct of private parties as
contemplated by the authorizing statute and its regulations.  n236 The standard
recommended by Judge Silberman does not validate the Association's argument that
the rules infringe on basic notions of fairness and due process rights.  This
issue is appropriately addressed as "an entirely separate matter which can be
raised in a concrete setting."  n237 Imposing one's views on whether procedural
rulemaking would be more satisfactory  [*350]  if accompanied by notice and
comment is entirely inappropriate where Congress has addressed the matter.  n238

   Judge Silberman's dissent demonstrates an attempt to formulate the American
Hospital inquiry in different terms.  The objective of this formulation is to
articulate more clearly what is at the core of the substantive-procedural
distinction: exposing regulation that affects primary conduct to the procedural
safeguards of notice and comment.  The dissent underscores the deficiencies of
the majority opinion and remains faithful to congressional intent by allowing
the exemption to accommodate more than simply the most "insignificant rules."
n239

   III.  COMMENT: TO WHAT EXTENT SHOULD THE COURTS PERMIT AGENCIES TO PROMULGATE
PROCEDURAL RULES WITHOUT NOTICE AND COMMENT AS CONTEMPLATED IN § 553(b)(A) OF
THE APA?

   The reasons that prompted the D.C. Circuit in Cabais to abandon the
longstanding substantial impact test for interpretative rules suggest that rules
of procedure might also benefit from a similar upheaval.  n240 Citing Vermont
Yankee, the Cabais court concluded that the substantial impact test was
insufficiently accurate to distinguish properly between interpretative and
legislative rulemaking for purposes of determining the applicability of the
exemption under § 553(b)(A).  n241 As in Batterton, the court recognized the
test as "one of several criteria" which comprise the exemption inquiry, but
explicitly rejected its validity as the primary means for settling the issue of
that exemption's scope because of its tendency towards overinclusiveness.  n242
Interpretative rules will invariably render explanations that private parties
will find undesirable and intolerable for the burdens that they impose.  n243
Curiously enough, the court in Cabais noted that the substantial impact test may
still be applicable to statements of general policy under § 553(b)(A) and agency
action governed by "good cause" under § 553(b)(B), but refrained from making any
comment concerning the procedural rule exemption.  n244 Ultimately, what guided
the Cabais court in its decision was "strict adherence to the letter of the
APA," the availability of alternative judicial remedies  [*351]  for aggrieved
parties, and the judicial weight that courts will assign to abbreviated
administrative rulemaking.  n245

   These considerations have led courts to question previous adherence to the
substantial impact test for the purpose of evaluating the substantive-procedural
distinction.  As illustrated by the American Hospital decision, courts
successfully contend with the broad reach of the substantial impact test by
inquiring further whether the agency action affects interests beyond the scope
of the enabling act and its regulations.  n246 The Batterton court noted the
inadequacies of the substantial impact test and instead relied on the judicial
deference that notice-and-comment rulemaking invokes in contrast to abbreviated
procedures.  n247 Finally, the Air Transport dissent recognized the failing of
the courts in imposing the significant burdens of notice and comment where
alternative avenues for redress provide adequate relief.  n248

   The role of the challenged agency regulation to the enabling statute is also
significant in the determination of the exemption's applicability.  Disregarded
by the Air Transport court, this criterion seeks to establish whether the
authorizing congressional act suggested a need for the agency action.  As the
dissent in Air Transport recognized, Congress specifically called for
administrative adjudications in accordance with § 554 of the APA, thereby
requiring the FAA to implement rules in order to comply with that standard.
n249 Unlike the factual circumstances in National Motor Freight, which provided
no such congressional backing,  n250 the Demonstration Program in Air Transport
gave the court no reason to doubt the authority supporting the Rules of
Practice.  n251 Additionally, the Air Transport rules did not constitute
gap-filling measures, rising to the level of substantive rulemaking, for
Congress nowhere, either explicitly or implicitly, mandated that the agency
employ its expertise in detailing specific statutory provisions.  n252

   The considerations that guided the Cabais court in its decision for
interpretative rules are equally relevant and insightful when considering
procedural rules.  Congress, in creating the exemption, established that the
promulgation of procedural rules should be governed by different concerns which
supersede the benefits of public participation.  n253 Encouraging agency  [*352]
action and thereby promoting efficiency and effectiveness were the objectives
that Congress sought to achieve.  n254 Courts should be less reluctant to
recognize the validity of procedural rules and should permit the corresponding
exemption to coexist with notice-and-comment rulemaking where alternative
safeguards exist and the agency is acting pursuant to congressional mandate.

   IV.  CONCLUSION

   Past decisions addressing the exemption for rules of agency organization,
procedure, or practice demonstrate the elusiveness of a bright line test that
allows for easy characterization of rulemaking activity and defines in clear
terms the scope of the exemption under § 553(b)(A) of the APA.  Because of the
explicit congressional mandate to exempt such rules, courts must address the
ambiguity of the exemption rather than simply adopt the position that rules of
procedure, because of the inherent impact on members of the general public, be
accompanied by notice and opportunity for comment.  n255 Air Transport portrays
the "idiosyncratic" nature of past court decisions that confront the
substantive-procedural distinction for rules of procedure under § 553.  n256 The
Air Transport court's efforts to arrive at a "facile semantic distinction,"
n257 however, stand on shaky ground.  Largely ignoring the significant
observations made over the past decade in decisions interpreting the exemption
provision, the court in Air Transport imposed strict notice-and-comment
compliance for procedural rules such as the FAA Rules of Practice.

   Agencies presently embarking on rulemaking under the exemption of § 553(b)(A)
must anticipate the likelihood of increased scrutiny where adjudicatory
procedures are involved and a party's right to an administrative hearing is
implicated.  While the imposition of notice-and-comment procedures in such
instances arguably represents the judicially engrafted procedures that Vermont
Yankee so firmly criticized, it will ultimately only serve  [*353]  to impede
the efficient and effective operation of administrative agencies.  Agencies
wishing to avoid preliminary procedural challenges have no choice but to engage
in notice-and-comment procedures -- and the accompanying expense and
inconvenience -- in order to secure the judicial deference that such legislative
rules command.  There are many reasons why an agency may choose to adopt
procedures for public participation,  n258 but the explicit exemption in §
553(b)(A) should prevent courts from making that judgment on behalf of agencies
and narrowing the scope of the exemption's intended application.

   When an agency promulgates procedural rules in direct response to
Congressional legislation, the presence of alternative safeguards should caution
against imposing notice-and-comment procedures.  The Rules of Practice in Air
Transport present no exigent circumstances that might warrant the more stringent
approach taken by that court.  As revealed in the Air Transport dissent, the
tenuous reasoning on which the majority decision rests provides little basis for
abandoning the approach articulated in American Hospital. Both practical in its
application and faithful to Congressional intent, the American Hospital inquiry
and its focus on the impact of procedural rules on the ultimate rights and
obligations as established by Congress poses the more appealing solution to the
elusive substantive-procedural distinction.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Administrative LawAgency RulemakingInformal RulemakingAdministrative LawAgency
RulemakingRule Application & InterpretationGeneral OverviewLabor & Employment
LawOccupational Safety & HealthAdministrative ProceedingsRulemaking

FOOTNOTES:




n1  The first administrative agencies, established by congressional act in 1789,
provided pensions for soldiers wounded in the war and decided the amount of
duties payable on imports.  KENNETH C. DAVIS, 2 ADMINISTRATIVE LAW TREATISE §
1:7, at 17 (2d ed. 1978); see also BERNARD SCHWARTZ, ADMINISTRATIVE LAW § 1.10,
at 20-22 (2d ed. 1984) (discussing the origins of administrative agencies in the
United States).  It was not until the establishment of the Interstate Commerce
Commission in 1887, however, that Congress began to confer upon administrative
agencies broad regulatory powers.  SCHWARTZ, supra, at 21-22 (recognizing this
date as "the beginning of our administrative law").




n2  At the outset of administrative regulation, agencies relied on adjudication
to issue regulatory standards and policy determinations.  RICHARD J. PIERCE,
JR., SIDNEY A. SHAPIORO & PAUL R. VERKUIL, ADMINISTRATIVE LAW AND PROCESS 30-32
(1985) (attributing the success of this "fourth branch of government" to the
reliance on an adversary hearing system and the availability of judicial
review).  Agencies acted in their quasi-judicial function to determine the
rights and obligations of specific parties to an action brought by the agency in
an adversarial setting.  Retrospective in nature, adjudication is governed by
due process principles and is binding only on the parties to the action.  In
contrast, rulemaking developed out of the need for agencies to regulate
effectively on a national scale without relying solely on limited enforcement
resources.  By promulgating rules, the agency acts prospectively, announcing
administrative determinations of general applicability.  For a basic discussion
of the distinction between rulemaking and adjudication, compare Bi-Metallic Inv.
Co. v. State Bd. of Equalization, 239 U.S. 441 (1915) with Londoner v. City &
County of Denver, 210 U.S. 373 (1908). See also TOM C. CLARK, U.S. DEP'T OF
JUSTICE, ATTORNEY GENERAL'S MANUAL ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT (1947)
[hereinafter ATTORNEY GENERAL'S MANUAL], reprinted in GARY J. EDLES & JEROME
NELSON, FEDERAL REGULATORY PROCESS: AGENCY PRACTICES & PROCEDURES 393, 407 (2d
ed. 1989) (discussing the "dichotomy" created by rulemaking and adjudication).




n3  The "enabling" or "authorizing" statute, enacted by Congress, serves many
functions.  The statute authorizes the creation of an agency and provides a
statement of the agency's general purpose.  Congress circumscribes the agency's
scope of regulatory power in an enabling statute and defines the manner in which
an agency may issue guidelines, orders, and rules.  In addition, an enabling
statute establishes the nature of the relationship between an agency and other
branches of government and provides certain controls over agency action through
judicial review, Congressional oversight, and executive scrutiny.  See generally
ARTHUR E. BONFIELD & MICHAEL ASIMOW, STATE AND FEDERAL ADMINISTRATIVE LAW § 7.2,
at 422-23 (1989) (discussing the relationship between administrative agencies
and the elected branch of government that defines the scope of the agency's
authority).




n4  Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. §§ 551-559, 701-706, 1305, 3105,
3344, 5362, 7521 (1988) (originally enacted as Administrative Procedure Act,
Pub. L. No. 79-404, 60 Stat. 237 (1946)). Codification of the APA occurred in
1966.  Act of Sept. 6, 1966, Pub. L. No. 89-554, 80 Stat. 378. With the
exception of minor changes in terminology and the assignment of new section
numbers, the substance of the APA has remained largely intact.  See William H.
Allen, The Durability of the Administrative Procedure Act, 72 VA. L. REV. 235,
235 nn.4-5 (1986) (commenting on the purpose of codification and the confusion
which the renumbering of the sections introduced).




n5  While agencies may and often do employ procedures in addition to those
required by the APA, the procedures may not fall below the statutory minima
established by the APA.  ERNEST GELLHORN & RONALD M. LEVIN, ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
AND PROCESS 322 (3d ed. 1990).




n6  See generally 5 U.S.C. § 553. Other sections of the APA concern, for
example, adjudication, id. §§ 554, 556-57, license applications, id. § 558, and
judicial review of agency action.  Id. §§ 701-706.  The APA does not, however,
prescribe the appropriate procedures for state agencies.  State administrative
bodies are governed by the statutory scheme enacted by a state's legislature.
In addition, the Model State Administrative Procedure Act (MSAPA), originally
adopted by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws in
1946 and revised in 1961 and again in 1981, has provided the states with a
successful reference point since a number of states have adopted this act either
in its entirety or in substantial part.  MODEL STATE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
ACT, 1981 Act, 15 U.L.A. 1 (1990) (original version at 9C U.L.A. 179 (1957);
1961 Act at 15 U.L.A. 137 (1990)).  See Arthur E. Bonfield, State Administrative
Policy Formulation and the Choice of Lawmaking Methodology, 42 ADMIN. L. REV.
121, 123 n.5, 135 n.37 (1990) (stating that most states enacted APAs based on
the 1961 MSAPA).  See generally ARTHUR E. BONFIELD, STATE ADMINISTRATIVE
RULEMAKING 12-16 n.20 (1986) (reviewing the 1946, 1961, and 1981 versions of the
Model State Administrative Procedure Act and listing the states that have
enacted an APA based to some degree on the original MSAPA or its 1961 revision).




n7  Informal rulemaking refers to agency action conducted in compliance with
procedures as specified in § 553 of the APA.  That section details the
procedures for public participation in the rulemaking process through notice and
comment.  See infra note 13.  Formal rulemaking, on the other hand, involves
procedures typically reserved for adjudication.  The language "on the record
after opportunity for an agency hearing" in an agency's authorizing statute
automatically invokes §§ 556 and 557 of the APA, replacing public participation
through notice and comment with the increased opportunities for participation
afforded in an administrative hearing.  Although formal rulemaking is
infrequently used, it has been criticized as "vary[ing] from unnecessarily drawn
out proceedings to virtual disasters." Robert W. Hamilton, Procedures for the
Adoption of Rules of General Applicability: The Need for Procedural Innovation
in Administrative Rulemaking, 60 CAL. L. REV. 1276, 1287 (1972); see also PETER
L. STRAUSS, AN INTRODUCTION TO ADMINISTRATIVE JUSTICE IN THE UNITED STATES
155-59 (1989) (describing the courts' reluctance to require formal rulemaking
where such proceedings are "notoriously inconvenient . . . given the frequent
diffuseness of the issues presented and the large number of parties").  See also
United States v. Florida East Coast Ry., 410 U.S. 224 (1973), for an
introductory discussion on the applicability of formal rulemaking.  To
accommodate increasing agency activity with the demand for greater public
participation without having to resort to the delays and complications of formal
rulemaking, legislators and courts have, over the past two decades, begun to
explore alternative measures, developing procedures known as "hybrid rulemaking"
that combine elements from both ends of the spectrum.  GELLHORN & LEVIN, supra
note 5, at 329-32, 335-36.




n8  See 5 U.S.C. § 553(b).  The Federal Register is a daily governmental
publication by which the executive branch informs the public of a wide variety
of agency activities, including an agency's intention to change a rule or issue
a new rule through a proposed rulemaking.  Rules in final form are then
published in the Code of Federal Regulations.  See generally OFFICE OF THE FED.
REGISTER, NAT'L ARCHIVES & RECORDS ADMIN., THE FEDERAL REGISTER: WHAT IT IS AND
HOW TO USE IT (Robert D. Fox & Ernie Sowada, eds., 1985).




n9  5 U.S.C. § 553(c).




n10  Id. § 553(d).




n11  Agency rulemaking rarely affects all members of society.  Rather, the
regulations, standards, and rules that an agency issues are generally targeted
to a specific group of individuals or businesses engaged in a particular
activity.  For example, the regulations promulgated by the United States
Department of Interior detailing federal supervision of state regulatory
programs under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977
potentially affect citizens' groups, coal mine operators, representatives of the
coal industry, and state regulatory agencies.  See National Wildlife Fed'n v.
Hodel, 839 F.2d 694, 702-03 (D.C. Cir. 1988) (concluding that petitioners had
standing to challenge revised regulations as issued by the Secretary).  Rules
frequently affect individuals indirectly, and their scope may not always be
readily apparent.  See, e.g., Air Line Pilots Ass'n v. Quesada, 276 F.2d 892 (2d
Cir. 1960) (holding that the agency action imposing mandatory retirement for
airline pilots over the age of 60 potentially affected 18,000 licensed pilots
under the age of 60 and future airline pilots, not only pilots currently falling
within that category).




n12  National Ass'n of Home Health Agencies v. Schweiker, 690 F.2d 932, 949
(D.C. Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 1205 (1983). In Schweiker, the D.C.
Circuit cited two main reasons for the impetus behind the § 553 procedural
requirements: "First, 'to reintroduce public participation and fairness to
affected parties after governmental authority has been delegated to
unrepresentative agencies.' And second, to 'assure[] that the agency will have
before it the facts and information relevant to a particular administrative
problem, as well as suggestions for alternative solutions.'" Id. (footnote
omitted) (quoting Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 703 (D.C. Cir. 1980) and
Guardian Fed. Sav. & Loan Ass'n v. Federal Sav. & Loan Ins. Corp., 589 F.2d 658,
662 (D.C. Cir. 1978)); see also United States Dep't of Labor v. Kast Metals
Corp., 744 F.2d 1145, 1151-52 (5th Cir. 1984) (considering the legislative
purposes behind the exemptions of § 553 rulemaking procedures).




n13  The text of § 553 provides in relevant part:

   (b) General notice of proposed rule making shall be published in the Federal
Register, unless persons subject thereto are named and either personally served
or otherwise have actual notice thereof in accordance with law.  The notice
shall include --

   (1) a statement of the time, place, and nature nautre of public rule making
proceedings;

   (2) reference to the legal authority under which the rule is proposed; and

   (3) either the terms or substance of the proposed rule or a description of
the subjects and issues involved.

   Except when notice or hearing is required by statute, this subsection does
not apply --

   (A) to interpretative rules, general statements of policy, or rules of agency
organization, procedure, or practice; or

   (B) when the agency for good cause finds (and incorporates the finding and a
brief statement of reasons therefor in the rules issued) that notice and public
procedure thereon are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public
interest.

   (c) After notice required by this section, the agency shall give interested
persons an opportunity to participate in the rule making through submission of
written data, views, or arguments with or without opportunity for oral
presentation.  After consideration of the relevant matter presented, the agency
shall incorporate in the rules adopted a concise general statement of their
basis and purpose.  When rules are required by statute to be made on the record
after opportunity for an agency hearing, sections 556 and 557 of this title
apply instead of this subsection.

   (d) The required publication or service of a substantive rule shall be made
not less than 30 days before its effective date, except --

   (1) a substantive rule which grants or recognizes an exemption or relieves a
restriction;

   (2) interpretative rules and statements of policy; or

   (3) as otherwise provided by the agency for good cause found and published
with the rule.

   (e) Each agency shall give an interested person the right to petition for the
issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule.
5 U.S.C. § 553.




n14  See supra note 13.  Section 553(b)(A) refers only to exempting these rules
from "notice," but "comment" under § 553(c) is invoked only when notice is
mandated.  That is, the introductory phrase to section 553(c) "[a]fter notice
required by this section" makes specific reference to the general notice
provision under section 553(b), establishing notice as a prerequisite to
comment.  See Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1153 n.16; Pickus v. United States Bd. of
Parole, 507 F.2d 1107, 1112 n.9 (D.C. Cir. 1974).




n15  GELLHORN & LEVIN, supra note 5, at 315-20.




n16  See American Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037, 1045 (D.C. Cir. 1987).
The court here distinguished legislative rules from non-binding agency action,
the latter of which "carr[ies] no more weight on judicial review than [its]
inherent persuasiveness commands." Id. (quoting Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d
694, 702 (D.C. Cir. 1980)). While the APA does not define the term
"substantive," courts have relied on the interpretation provided in the Attorney
General's Manual on the APA recognizing as such all rules "issued by an agency
pursuant to statutory authority and which implement the statute." ATTORNEY
GENERAL'S MANUAL, supra note 2, reprinted in EDLES & NELSON, at 423 n.3.  Thus,
a clear example of a substantive rulemaking would be the issuance of a
regulation by an agency where Congress has mandated such action but deferred to
the agency's expertise for precise formulation.  As both the APA and its
legislative history are silent on the matter of distinguishing between
"substantive" and "procedural" rules, courts have attributed much weight to the
definition in the Manual.  See, e.g., Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U.S. 281, 302
n.31 (1979) (citing favorably the interpretation of the Attorney General's
Manual).  The Supreme Court's reliance on the Manual in Vermont Yankee Nuclear
Power Corp. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 435 U.S. 519, 546
(1978), further attests to the Manual's usefulness.  In Vermont Yankee, the
Manual provided confirmation of Congress' intent that only agencies, not courts,
may confer additional rulemaking procedures when deemed necessary.  Id. Issued
by the Justice Department following enactment of the APA, the Manual contains
perhaps the closest approximation of congressional intent because of that
agency's considerable participation in the legislative process.  Id.




n17  See BENJAMIN W. MINTZ & NANCY G. MILLER, A GUIDE TO FEDERAL AGENCY
RULEMAKING 49-50, 52-54 & n.62 (2d ed. 1991).  Some courts, however, recognize
the terms "substantive" and "legislative" as interchangeable.  See, e.g., Gibson
Wine Co. v. Snyder, 194 F.2d 329, 331 (D.C. Cir. 1952).




n18  Section 553 also provides for situations in which time constraints and
other concerns necessitate abbreviated rulemaking.  For example, an exemption
from the requirement that substantive rules be issued subject to a 30-day
postponement of effective date is granted in subsection (d) for emergency
rulemaking or for rules which relieve a restriction and therefore require no
public adjustment period.  5 U.S.C. § 553(d); see supra note 13.  While this
exemption applies only to a specific requirement under § 553, others remove
certain agency activity from § 553 applicability altogether.  Such are the
exemptions under § 553(a)(1) for agency activity that concerns "a military or
foreign affairs function of the United States" and under § 553(a)(2) for
"matter[s] relating to agency management or personnel or to public property,
loans, grants, benefits, or contracts." 5 U.S.C. § 553(a).




n19  Guardian Fed. Sav. & Loan Ass'n v. Federal Sav. & Loan Ins. Corp., 589 F.2d
658, 662 (D.C. Cir. 1978) (citing "effectiveness, efficiency, expedition and
reduction in expense" as the basic reasons behind the exceptions to § 553
procedures); see also American Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1045, 1047 (D.C.
Cir. 1987) (explaining that the exemptions were designed to permit agencies to
operate with freedom from costly and time consuming procedures).




n20  The legislative history is equally unrevealing.  See infra notes 31 and
160.




n21  900 F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir. 1990), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991).




n22  Ultimate resolution of the notice-and-comment issue beleaguering rules of
procedure, however, was never achieved in Air Transport. A troubled history
followed the divided Court of Appeals decision.  The Supreme Court granted the
government's petition for certiorari.  111 S. Ct. 669, vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944
(1991). The association, however, filed a motion with the court indicating that
neither it nor its members were interested in pursuing its challenge.  ATA
Supplemental Brief at 11, Air Transp. Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900
F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir. 1990) (No. 89-1195).  Consequently, the Supreme Court
vacated the lower court's order and remanded the case for determination of the
issue of mootness.  900 F.2d 369, vacated, 111 S. Ct 944, and dismissed as moot,
933 F.2d 1043 (D.C. Cir. 1991) (per curiam).  In a separate concurrence, Judge
Silberman revealed his impatience with the course that the case had taken,
reprimanding Air Transport for its "misrepresentations to us, or, in effect, a
confession of error to the Supreme Court after certiorari was granted." Id. at
1043-44 (Silberman, J., concurring).  The issue of ripeness had been argued
before the Court of Appeals at the outset of the litigation, and the court found
in favor of Air Transport holding that the procedural challenge to the rule was
a purely legal issue that presented no reason for delaying judicial review.  900
F.2d at 374.




n23  Wong Yang Sung v. McGrath, 339 U.S. 33, 36-42 (1950); see also DAVIS, supra
note 1, § 1:7, at 24 (stating that "[t]he major effects of the Act were to
satisfy the political will for reform, to improve and strengthen the
administrative process, and to preserve the basic limits upon judicial review").




n24  Wong Yang Sung, 339 U.S. at 36-42.




n25  Id.




n26  Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U.S. 302, 313 (1979) (quoting Wong Yang Sung,
339 U.S. at 40).




n27  SENATE COMM. ON THE JUDICIARY, 79th Cong., 2d Sess., S. Doc. No. 248 (Comm.
Print 1945), reprinted in LEGISLATIVE HISTORY OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
ACT at 18-20 (1946); see also Peter J. Henning, Note, An Analysis of the General
Statement of Policy Exception to Notice and Comment Procedures, 73 GEO. L.J.
1007, 1012 (1985) (articulating the policies that support notice and comment as
(1) "allow[ing] the agency to test a proposal before the parties directly
affected by a rule" and (2) "afford[ing] safeguards to private interests").




n28  S. DOC. NO. 248, supra note 27, at 19-20.




n29  Id. In Aiken v. Obledo, 442 F. Supp. 628 (E.D. Cal. 1977), the court
emphasized this objective stating that "[t]he interchange of ideas between the
government and its citizenry provides a broader base for intelligent
decision-making and promotes greater responsiveness to the needs of the people."
Id. at 651.




n30  Air Transport Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d 369, 375
(1990) (quoting Weyerhaeuser Co. v. Costle, 590 F.2d 1011, 1027 (D.C. Cir.
1978)), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991).




n31  See S. DOC. NO. 248, supra note 27, at 18.




n32  Id. at 18-19.




n33  Id. In suggesting the clarification of the word "substantive," the
Committee noted that "strictly speaking, it should be unnecessary to provide . .
. that procedural or organizational rules are exempted; but the exemption was
specified out of an abundance of caution lest it be thought by those unversed in
administrative law definitions that they might be included in the notice
requirement." Id. at 19.




n34  See supra text accompanying note 16.




n35  435 U.S. 519 (1978). In Vermont Yankee, the D.C. Circuit ruled that
compliance with APA procedures was insufficient in the rulemaking proceedings
initiated by the Atomic Energy Commission.  Specifically, the rulemaking at
issue in Vermont Yankee sought to address the question of what consideration was
due to both the environmental effects incident to fuel reprocessing and the
disposal of wastes required as a result of that reprocessing.  The Supreme Court
rejected the lower court's mandate for "a more 'sensitive' application of [the]
devices employed" in the rulemaking proceeding.  Id. at 542. Citing the
legislative history of the APA and the Attorney General's Manual, the Court
emphatically renounced the interference of the lower court in determining the
necessity of additional procedures in administrative rulemaking.  Under the APA,
deference should be accorded to the Commission's deliberate decision not to make
discovery or cross-examination available to the parties in interest.  Only in
"extremely compelling circumstances" might judicially- engrafted procedures be
warranted.  Id. at 543. The Court remanded the decision to assure compliance
with the APA along with the message not to "stray beyond the judicial province
to explore the procedural format or to impose upon the agency its own notion of
which procedures are 'best.'" Id. t at 549.




n36  The Supreme Court in Wong Yang Sung emphasized that it is the
responsibility of the courts "regardless of their views of the wisdom or policy
of the [APA] to construe this remedial legislation to eliminate, so far as its
text permits, the practices it condemns." Wong Yang Sung v. McGrath, 339 U.S.
33, 45 (1950).




n37  Vermont Yankee, 435 U.S. at 542-43.




n38  See, e.g., Air Transport Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d
369 (D.C. Cir. 1990), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991); American Hosp. Ass'n v.
Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037 (D.C. Cir. 1987); United States Dep't of Labor v. Kast
Metals Corp., 744 F.2d 1145 (5th Cir. 1984); Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694
(D.C. Cir. 1980).




n39  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1152.




n40  Not considered here is the view adopted by the Ninth Circuit, which in 1983
rejected the substantial impact test, adhering fast to the explicit
acknowledgment of Congress that certain rules were to be exempt from statutory
procedures notwithstanding their substantive character.  Rivera v. Becerra, 714
F.2d 887, 891 (9th Cir. 1983), cert. denied, 465 U.S. 1099 (1984); Southern Cal.
Edison Co. v. FERC, 770 F.2d 779, 783 (9th Cir. 1985). Following the recent
departure by the D.C. Circuit in Cabais v. Egger, 690 F.2d 234, 238 (D.C. Cir.
1982), whereby the court rejected the substantial impact test for interpretative
rules, the Ninth Circuit held that the rules issued by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission governing the approval of interim rates were properly
promulgated without notice and comment as "technical regulation of the form of
agency action and proceedings." Southern Cal. Edison Co., 770 F.2d at 783
(quoting Pickus v. United States Bd. of Parole, 507 F.2d 1107, 1113 (D.C. Cir.
1974)).




n41  744 F.2d 1145 (5th Cir. 1984).




n42  648 F.2d 694 (D.C. Cir. 1980).




n43  834 F.2d 1037, 1047 (D.C. Cir. 1987).




n44  900 F.2d 369, 378 (D.C. Cir. 1990) (emphasis omitted), vacated, 111 S. Ct.
669 (1991).




n45  Id. at 382 (Silberman, J., dissenting).




n46  268 F. Supp. 90, 97 (D.D.C. 1967) (three-judge court), aff'd per curiam,
393 U.S. 18 (1968).




n47  United States Dep't of Labor v. Kast Metals Corp., 744 F.2d 1145, 1153 (5th
Cir. 1984) (quoting Brown Express, Inc. v. United States, 607 F.2d 695, 702 (5th
Cir. 1979)).




n48  Id.




n49  Id.




n50  744 F.2d 1145 (5th Cir. 1984).




n51  The Occupational Safety and Health Administration was established pursuant
to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSH Act), Pub. L. No. 91-596,
84 Stat. 1592 (codified as amended at 29 U.S.C. 651-678 (1988 & Supp. II 1990)).
Its responsibilities include developing and issuing safety and health
regulations for workers in the United States, conducting investigations and
inspections to promote and ensure compliance with the OSH Act, and enforcing the
OSH Act and the regulations promulgated by OSHA through the issuance of
citations and penalties.  OFFICE OF THE FEDERAL REGISTER, NATL'L ARCHIVES &
RECORDS ADMIN., THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT MANUAL 418 (1991).




n52  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1147-48.




n53  Id. The agency implemented the change because it sought a more objective
and efficient selection methodology.  Id. at 1147. The challenged regulation,
OSHA instruction CPL 2.25B, selected employers for health inspections by ranking
employers according to both the number of hazardous substances involved and data
concerning potential employee exposure to those substances.  Id. at 1147-48 n.1.
On the other hand, selection for safety inspections under CPL 2.25B rests on the
agency's assessment of a company's lost workdays due to injury or illness in
light of national averages.  Id.




n54  Id. at 1153. The court in Kast Metals first established that the OSHA
regulation was, in fact, a rule and thus subject to APA procedural guidelines.
Id. at 1149-51. Applying the substantial impact test, the court held that the
OSHA regulation governing the method of selecting employers for on-site
inspections did not sufficiently affect the rights and interests of Kast Metals
Corporation to render it invalid for promulgation without notice and comment.
Id. at 1154-56.




n55  Id. at 1154-56.




n56  Id. at 1155 (citing Donovan v. Huffines Steel Co., 645 F.2d 288 (5th Cir.
1981), aff'g mem. 488 F. Supp. 995 (N.D. Tex. 1979)).




n57  Id. at 1156.




n58  Id. at 1153.  Throughout the opinion, Judge Goldberg lends his wit to the
discussion of the applicability of § 553(b)(A) to the OSHA regulation.  Id. at
1145 passim. Rejecting the company's contention that notice and comment should
be required where OSHA is merely engaging in a "rational version of
eenie-meenie-minie-moe," the opinion sets the tone for other disgruntled
employers bringing similar actions.  Id. at 1155.  In its final utterance, the
court states: "[l]et the die be Kast." Id. at 1156.




n59  Id. at 1156.  The Kast Metals court cautions against too readily finding a
substantial impact in agency-issued regulations.  Id. The court held that every
agency "proclamation" does not require notice and comment.  Id. "Words such as
'rule,' 'impact,' 'procedure,' et cetera, must contain within their syllables an
alphabetical concatenation: the application of practicality and reasonableness,
and the actual on-the-site effect upon the agency as well as upon the employer
of whatever has been promulgated." Id.




n60  Id. at 1152-53.  "[T]he distinction between a rule of procedure and one of
substance is not black and white." Id. at 1152 (citing Avoyelles Sportsmen's
League, Inc. v. Marsh, 715 F.2d 897, 909 (5th Cir. 1983) and Batterton v.
Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 702-03 nn. 37-38 (D.C. Cir. 1980)).




n61  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1153. The court is cognizant of both the problems
presented by the substantive-procedural distinction, which it readily
acknowledges "def[ies] ready application," as well as the deficiencies of the
substantial impact test which "represent[], albeit imperfectly, the judicial
attempt to pour content into [its] use." Id. at 1154 n.19.




n62  Id. at 1154 n.19.




n63  Id. (citing Rivera v. Becerra, 714 F.2d 887 (9th Cir. 1983), cert. denied,
465 U.S. 1099 (1984)).




n64  Id. The Rivera court posited that Vermont Yankee clearly admonished
reviewing courts from "engraft[ing] 'their own notions of proper procedures upon
agencies' beyond the requirements of section 553." Rivera, 714 F.2d at 891
(quoting Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. Natural Resources Defense
Council, 435 U.S. 519, 525 (1978)).




n65  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1154 n.19.




n66  Id.  Compare Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 708-10 (D.C. Cir. 1980)
(distinguishing Vermont Yankee because it presented no question as to whether
the agency employed the statutory minima as prescribed by the APA) with
Association of Nat'l Advertisers v. FTC, 617 F.2d 611, 636 (D.C. Cir. 1979)
(interpreting Vermont Yankee as requiring courts to afford agencies "breathing
room to comply with the congressional mandate to work their will within the law,
to experiment and to innovate in the public interest in an effort, among other
things, to relieve the three constitutional branches of some of the more mundane
chores of government" (footnote omitted)).  See also supra note 35.




n67  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1154 n.19.




n68  Id. (stating that the substantial impact test was "no more than the rubric
under which courts construe the terms of the APA").




n69  690 F.2d 234 (D.C. Cir. 1982).




n70  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1154 n.19 (citing Cabais, 690 F.2d at 238).
Although many cases do not reflect a clear distinction among the exemptions
found in § 553(b)(A), the analysis employed for determining the exempt status of
each of the three types of rules -- (1) interpretative rules, (2) general
statements of policy, and (3) rules of agency organization, procedure, or
practice -- has, in general, developed independently.  See GELLHORN & LEVIN,
supra note 5, at 317; see, e.g., Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694 (D.C. Cir.
1980) (evaluating agency rulemaking under each of the three possible
exemptions); American Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037 (D.C. Cir. 1987)
(same).  Cabais illustrates that the evaluation of a rule can differ
substantially depending on the type of rule being considered under § 553(b)(A).
Cabais, 690 F.2d at 238.




n71  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1154 n.19 (citing Cabais, 690 F.2d at 237-38).




n72  711 F.2d 295 (D.C. Cir. 1983).




n73  Id. at 328. Without addressing its recent departure in Cabais, the court in
Lamoille Valley articulated the appropriate test as whether a rule "'jeopardizes
the rights and interests of parties.'" Id. (quoting Batterton, 648 F.2d at 708).




n74  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1154 n.19 (citing Lamoille Valley, 711 F.2d at
328); see also infra text accompanying notes 195-204.




n75  The Kast Metals court, in discussing the available approaches to defining "
procedural," alluded to the difficulties underlying the substantial impact test.
Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1154 n.19. In rejecting the claims of the Kast Metals
Corporation, the court addressed the potential reach of the substantial impact
inquiry and conceded that "[a]ll agency rules will in some way affect those
within the agency's grasp." Id. at 1156. In contending with this ambiguous area
of the substantial impact test, the Kast Metals court resorted to an examination
of the purposes that underlie the APA exemptions.  The court characterized the
substantive effect of the OSHA instruction as "derivative" and insufficient to
warrant impeding administrative activity by imposing additional rulemaking
proceedings.  Id. "Administrative agencies should not be straightjacketed by
rulemaking proceedings so as to thwart the exercise of congressional wisdom."
Id. at 1156 n.22.




n76  Id. at 1151-53. The court is aware of the "tension" between agency
efficiency and public participation, but seeks to accommodate congressional
intent to permit abbreviated rulemaking procedures where the rules "do not merit
the administrative burdens of public input proceedings." Id. at 1153; see
Batterton, 648 F.2d at 707 n.73 ("To reach the opposite conclusion would be to
hamstring agencies in their efforts to improve their internal procedures
regarding the way they conduct their business, and rob them of virtually all
flexibility in dealing with increasing workloads." (quoting Hall v. EEOC, 456 F.
Supp. 695, 702 (N.D. Cal. 1978)).




n77  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1156; see National Ass'n of Home Health Agencies
v. Schweiker, 690 F.2d 932, 949 (D.C. Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 1205
(1983) (cautioning courts against freely recognizing exemptions from
notice-and-comment requirements).  Congress addressed this issue stating that
"[n]one of [the] exceptions . . . is to be taken as encouraging agencies not to
adopt voluntary public rule making procedures where useful to the agency or
beneficial to the public." REPORT OF THE SENATE JUDICIARY COMM. ON THE
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT, S. REP. NO. 752, 79th Cong., 1st Sess. 13 (1945),
reprinted in S. DOC. NO. 248, 79th Cong., 2d Sess. 199 (1946) (quoted in
Batterton, 648 F.2d at 701 n.28).




n78  Kast Metals, 744 F.2d at 1154.




n79  Id. at 1156. The regulation at issue in Kast Metals was held to represent
only a minor impact on employers; rather, "[t]he substantive effect of CPL 2.25B
is purely derivative: the source of the employers' woes is the OSH Act itself."
Id.




n80  See supra note 75 and accompanying text.




n81  American Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037, 1047 (D.C. Cir. 1987)
(recognizing that "even unambiguously procedural measures affect parties to some
degree"); Neighborhood TV Co. v. FCC, 742 F.2d 629, 638 (D.C. Cir. 1984)
(acknowledging that "all procedural requirements may and do occasionally affect
substantive rights"); Rivera v. Becerra, 714 F.2d 887, 890-91 (9th Cir. 1983)
(rejecting substantial impact test for purposes of determining applicability of
exemption under the APA); Cabais v. Egger, 690 F.2d 234, 237 (D.C. Cir. 1982)
(rejecting substantial impact test as a means for distinguishing between
interpretative and legislative rules).




n82  Courts generally sought to limit the potential reach of the substantial
impact test.  As one court remarked, a case "which at first blush seems to
relate purely to a matter of mechanics, is identified as one that is not free
from difficulty, and calls for judgment." Guardian Fed. Sav. & Loan v. Federal
Sav. & Loan Ins. Corp., 589 F.2d 658, 668 (D.C. Cir. 1978). Substantial impact,
therefore, does not automatically call for notice-and-comment procedures.  Id.;
see also Bowen, 834 F.2d at 1046 ("[T]he mere fact that a rule may have a
substantial impact 'does not transform it into a legislative rule.'").




n83  Courts viewed it as their task to remove procedural rules from the reach of
the exemption under § 553(b)(A) when a substantial impact warranted
notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures.  See, e.g., Aiken v. Obledo, 442 F.
Supp. 628, 649-50 (E.D. Cal. 1977) (revealing that procedural rules with
substantial impact are governed by an "exception to the exemption" under § 553).
Judicial action of this nature was specifically rejected by the Supreme Court in
Vermont Yankee.  See supra note 35.




n84  648 F.2d 694 (D.C. Cir. 1980).




n85  Id. at 709 n.83.




n86  Id. at 696.




n87  The Comprehensive Employment and Training Act, Pub. L. No. 95-524, 92 Stat.
1909 (codified as amended at 29 U.S.C. §§ 801-999 (1988)) (repealed 1982).




n88  Batterton, 648 F.2d at 698.




n89  Id. at 697.




n90  Id. at 699. In addition to the allegation that DOL's rulemaking violated
the prescribed notice-and-comment procedures under the APA, the state also
claimed that the agency failed to meet publication requirements under CETA and
the Freedom of Information Act and that the "Balance of State" method was
arbitrary and capricious.  Id.




n91  The court of appeals reversed the district court's decision, which upheld
the agency determination on various grounds including that the changed
methodology was not a rule as contemplated by the APA.  Id. at 699.




n92  Id. at 711. Although the court found that the issue concerning the specific
reduction of CETA funds had been rendered moot where the funds had already been
spent and where the state had in fact received additional discretionary DOL
funds in excess of the claimed reduction, it was nevertheless able to proceed
because Maryland's stated relief was in the form of protection from similar
modifications in the future.  Id. at 699.




n93  Id. at 710.




n94  Id. at 711.




n95  Id. at 700. The court expressly distinguished its analysis from that of the
substantial impact test, stating that the "'substantial impact' analysis does
not conclude the determination of the legal force of the agency action in future
proceedings while assigning the classification of 'legislative rule' does." Id.
at 709 n.83. Although the court in Batterton focused primarily on the legal
effect of an agency's activity, it noted that the substantial impact test
remains a well-established approach for determining the applicability of the
exemption under § 553(b)(A) for rules of procedure: "[W]e find no reason to
doubt the continued viability of the 'substantial impact' test, as it simply
articulates one of several criteria for evaluating claims of exemption from §
553." Id.




n96  Id. at 699-700. The characterization of agency determinations according to
their legal effect contends nicely with the difficulties inherent in the
substantive-procedural distinction brought about by agency activity that
typically embodies a variety of functions and purposes.  Id. at 702-03. The
Batterton court illustrated its point, stating that "[a]gencies give advice,
enter contracts, stimulate inventions . . . approve rates . . . alleviate
burdens, allocate funds, and issue statements guiding the exercise of such
functions.  Particular actions combine the qualities of interpretative rules,
policies, internal procedures, and legislative rules." Id. at 703.




n97  Id. at 700-04.




n98  Id. at 704.




n99  Id. at 701-02.




n100  Id. at 702 ("Such actions . . . express the agency's intended course of
action, its tentative view of the meaning of a particular statutory term, or
internal house-keeping measures organizing agency activities.  They do not,
however, foreclose alternate courses of action or conclusively affect rights of
private parties.").




n101  The court stated that "where the agency action trenches on substantial
private rights and interests" and "jeopardizes [those] rights and interest[s],"
such action falls outside of the scope of the exemption for rules of agency
organization, procedure, or practice.  Id. at 708.




n102  Id.




n103  Id. at 708-09.




n104  Id. at 709; see also supra text accompanying notes 65-68.




n105  Id.




n106  Id.




n107  Id. at 709 n.83 (referencing DOL's statement that "the 'substantial
impact' test may put a court in the posture of appearing to require procedures
beyond those mandated by statute . . . and in that fashion deviate from the
implications of Vermont Yankee").




n108  See supra note 95.




n109  See supra text accompanying notes 63-68 and 103-07.




n110  834 F.2d 1037 (D.C. Cir. 1987), cited with approval in Reeder v. FCC, 865
F.2d 1298, 1305 (D.C. Cir. 1989) (per curiam).




n111  American Hosp., 834 F.2d at 1047; see also Batterton, 648 F.2d at 707 ("As
Professor Freund explained decades ago, 'even office hours . . . necessarily
require conformity on the part of the public.'" (quoting ERNST FREUND,
ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OVER PERSONS AND PROPERTY 213 (1928))).




n112  American Hosp., 834 F.2d at 1047. Quoting from Batterton, the court
revealed its approach: "A useful articulation of the exemption's critical
feature is that it covers agency actions that do not themselves alter the rights
or interests of parties, although it may alter the manner in which parties
present themselves or their viewpoints to the agency." Id. (quoting Batterton,
648 F.2d at 707).




n113  Id. (emphasis added).




n114  Peer Review Improvement Act of 1982, Pub. L. No. 97-248, § 143, 96 Stat.
382 (1982) (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320c to 1320c-22 (1988)).  This
provision was enacted to establish a system that effectively monitors the
medical care provided to Medicare recipients and the corresponding
reimbursements obtained by the medical providers.




n115  American Hosp., 834 F.2d at 1049-1052. The court ruled that three of the
directives were procedural and thus exempt from notice and comment under §
553(b)(A).  The first of these directives, PRO Manual IM85-2, established a
general enforcement plan for the peer review organizations (PROs) that monitor
health care providers participating in the Medicare program.  Id. at 1049. The
70-page document provided for such enforcement standards as requiring PROs to
review at least 5% of all hospital admissions, 100% of all medical procedures
susceptible to abuse (e.g., unnecessary admissions), and to give notice to
hospitals and parties of the reviews being conducted.  Id. The second procedural
directive was PRO Manual IM85-3, which regulated the manner and level of
scrutiny that a PRO must devote to reviewing determinations that a patient is no
longer eligible for Medicare.  Id. at 1051. Finally, PRO Program Directive No. 2
established the terms that must be included in the agreement between hospitals
and their respective PRO.  Id. The other documents issued by HHS in connection
with its plan to implement the 1982 Amendment and reviewed by the court in
American Hospital were the Request for Proposals (soliciting proposals from
organizations seeking to become PROs) as well as the actual contracts that were
to govern the relationship between HHS and the private organizations.  Id. at
1052-57. The court exempted these documents from notice and comment as well,
characterizing them as general policy statements.  Id. The dissent praised the
majority opinion but objected to the court's refusal to require
notice-and-comment procedures for the contract's stated numerical objectives
which the court also identified as general statements of policy.  Id. at 1058
(Mikva, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).




n116  Id. at 1049 (referring to PRO Manual IM85-2).




n117  Id. at 1050.




n118  Id. at 1057.




n119  Id. at 1044-45. The court in American Hospital proceeded by analyzing the
challenged directives as possibly invoking the exemption for (1) interpretative
rules, (2) statements of general policy, and (3) rules of agency organization,
procedure or practice.  Id. at 1045-48. It reversed the district court ruling in
part because that court failed to consider "the more relevant exemption . . .
for procedural rules." Id. at 1052.




n120  Id. at 1050.




n121  Batterton's move away from the substantial impact test reflected a need to
limit that test because of the view that courts tend to require notice and
comment where a substantial impact was deemed to exist.  Recognizing that
procedural rules were likely to create some form of burden on private parties
and therefore possibly a substantial impact, the Batterton court feared that
this approach might interfere with Congress' express exemption for procedural
rules.  Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 707 (D.C. Cir. 1980) (explaining
Congress' specification for agency efficiency in promulgating procedural rules
but recognizing that "many merely internal agency practices affect parties
outside the agency -- often in significant ways"); see also supra note 82 and
accompanying text.




n122  See Neighborhood TV Co. v. FCC, 742 F.2d 629, 637 (D.C. Cir. 1984)
(holding that the rules designed to govern interim applications for translator
licenses pending rulemaking proceedings were procedural notwithstanding the
incidental effects of a processing freeze and modified tiered approach to
selecting applications for consideration); see also Kessler v. FCC, 326 F.2d
673, 680 (D.C. Cir. 1963) ("procedural rules are those dealing with the method
of operation utilized by the Commission in the dispatch of its business").




n123  Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. Natural Resources Defense Council,
435 U.S. 519 (1978); see also supra note 35.




n124  See Rivera v. Becerra, 714 F.2d 887, 890 (9th Cir. 1983) (rejecting the
substantial impact test in light of Congress' express exemption in § 553 and the
Supreme Court's mandate in Vermont Yankee), cert. denied, 465 U.S. 1099 (1984);
Cabais v. Egger, 690 F.2d 234, 237 (D.C. Cir. 1982) (interpreting Vermont Yankee
to prohibit courts from imposing notice and comment based on substantial impact
alone).  But see Air Transp. Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d
369, 378 n.13 (D.C. Cir. 1990) (noting that Vermont Yankee is incorrectly
invoked by the dissent because it presupposes compliance with § 553 and its
exemption), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991); Association of Nat'l Advertisers v.
FTC, 617 F.2d 611, 629 & n.20 (D.C. Cir. 1979) (dismissing plaintiffs' claim
that the substantial impact test is no longer valid under Vermont Yankee).  See
generally DAVIS, supra note 1, § 6:35-6:39, at 216 (questioning the "sweeping
dictum" of Vermont Yankee in light of subsequent Supreme Court decisions that
impose procedural requirements in addition to APA procedures).




n125  Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U.S. 281, 313 (1979).




n126  Id.




n127  American Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037, 1047 (D.C. Cir. 1987)
(quoting Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 707 (D.C. Cir. 1980)); see also
Neighborhood TV Co. v. FCC, 742 F.2d 629, 637 (D.C. Cir. 1984) (relying on the
same language in its examination of the substantive-procedural distinction).




n128  900 F.2d 369, 372 (D.C. Cir. 1990), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991).




n129  Id. (quoting National Motor Freight Traffic Ass'n v. United States, 268 F.
Supp. 90, 96 (D.D.C. 1967), aff'd, 393 U.S. 18 (1968)).




n130  See infra text accompanying notes 158-61.




n131  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 381.




n132  53 Fed. Reg. 34646-65, 34656 (Sept. 7, 1988) (codified at 14 C.F.R. Part
13, Subpart G).




n133  Airport and Airway Safety and Capacity Expansion Act of 1987, Pub. L. No.
100-223, Title II, § 204(g) 101 Stat. 1486, 1520-21 (December 30, 1987)
(codified as amended at 49 U.S.C. § 1475 (1988 & Supp. II 1990)) (amending the
Federal Aviation Act of 1958, 49 U.S.C. §§ 1301-1557).  Increasing the
enforcement power of the FAA under the Federal Aviation Act, the Act enabled the
agency to assess civil penalties and to conduct administrative adjudications for
violations of the Federal Aviation Act as well as rules, regulations, and orders
issued by the FAA.  49 U.S.C. § 1475(a).  Civil penalty actions in excess of $
50,000, however, would remain in the hands of the United States Attorney for
prosecution in United States district courts.  Id. at § 1475(c).  The amendment
required the agency to establish a Civil Penalty Assessment Demonstration
Program to monitor the amendment's effectiveness over a two-year period and to
report its findings to Congress within that time.  Pub. L. No. 100-223, §
204(i)(2) (1987) (uncodified).  Subsequent to the enactment, the FAA promulgated
the Rules of Practice for FAA Civil Penalty Actions which articulate the
detailed procedures for civil penalty adjudications.  Rules of Practice for FAA
Civil Penalty Actions, 14 C.F.R. § 13 (1988).  Congress determined the
appropriate level of formality governing such proceedings in the 1987
legislation which prescribed a hearing on the record as established in § 554 of
the APA.  The Air Transport Association challenged these Rules of Practice in
the Air Transport case, and the Court of Appeals as a result held them invalid
in its review of the final rule.




n134  Brief for the Respondents at 3, Air Transport, 900 F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir.
1990) (No. 89-1195) (emphasis omitted).




n135  Section 1475(d)(1) provides that "[a] civil penalty may be assessed under
this section only after notice and opportunity for a hearing on the record in
accordance with section 554 [of the APA]." 49 U.S.C. § 1475(d)(1).  The
legislative history reveals the purposes behind this requirement:

   First, the requirement is intended to advise the FAA of the appropriate level
of procedural formality and attention to the rights of those assessed civil
penalties under this demonstration program.  Secondly, this requirement is
intended to provide reasonable assurance to the potential subjects of such civil
penalties that their due process rights are not compromised.
Brief for Petitioner at 20, Air Transport, 900 F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir. 1990) (No.
89-1195) (quoting H.R. CONF. REP. NO. 484, 100th Cong., 1st Sess. 81 (1987),
reprinted in 1987 U.S.C.C.A.N. 2656).




n136  As reported by the Department of Transportation, the Civil Penalty
Assessment Demonstration Program:

   gives the FAA statutory authority which will better enable [it] to prosecute
airlines which cut corners on maintenance, to prosecute general aviation pilots
who fly through restricted areas and risk not only their own lives, but more
importantly, the lives of many, many others; and to prosecute those who violate
airport security laws.

   . . . We as passengers do not see the myriad of hoses, switches, [and] other
equipment which must work perfectly for the planes to get off the ground, to
perform flawlessly in flight, and then to land safely.  This amendment provides
an incentive for airlines to ensure that these systems are maintained at the
highest of standards.
Brief for the Respondents at 5-6, Air Transport, 900 F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir. 1990)
(No. 89-1195) (quoting 133 CONG. REC. S15293-94 (daily ed. October 28, 1987)
(statement of Sen. Wilson)).




n137  53 Fed. Reg. 34653. The Civil Penalty Assessment Demonstration Program
granted the FAA increased prosecutorial power for a limited two-year period
taking effect on December 31, 1987.  49 U.S.C. § 1475(d)(4) (1988 & Supp. II
1990).




n138  53 Fed. Reg. 34655-65. Following receipt of notice of proposed civil
penalty, the individual charged has three options as to how to proceed: (1) pay
the amount of the penalty upon which the FAA will issue a civil penalty order;
(2) engage in informal settlement proceedings with the FAA; or (3) request a
hearing before an administrative law judge.  Id. at 34654-55 (codified at 14
C.F.R. § 13.16(e)-(1).




n139  Brief for Petitioner at 20, Air Transport, 900 F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir. 1990)
(No. 89-1195).  The claims of the Association were also the subject of a hearing
held before the Subcommittee on Aviation in 1989 where members of the aviation
community and experts in the field of administrative law testified concerning
the FAA Rules of Practice and the "consternation . . . over what some others
think of perhaps as a dry procedural issue." The Civil Penalty Assessment
Demonstration Program of the Federal Aviation Administration: Hearing Before the
Subcomm. on Aviation of the House Committee on Public Works and Transportation,
101st Cong., 1st Sess. 137 (1989) (statement of Robert J. Aaronson, President,
Air Transport Association of America).




n140  Brief for Petitioner at 3, Air Transport, 900 F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir. 1990)
(No. 89-1195) (citing the harmful publicity and the exorbitant costs of
defending against alleged violations as its impetus for seeking to suspend
administrative adjudications pending judicial review of the final rule).




n141  Air Transport challenged eight provisions specifically: (1) issuance of an
Order of Civil Penalty prior to a hearing under 14 C.F.R. §§ 13.16(h), 13.202
(1988); (2) lack of separation of investigatory and adjudicatory functions under
§ 13.203; (3) unequal use of formal admissions under § 13.220(1)(3); (4)
disparate use of opinion testimony under § 13.227; (5) unequal protection from
hearsay testimony under § 13.227; (6) limitation on relevant factual evidence
not directly related to the incident or violation under § 13.227; (7)
prohibition on written arguments during or after the hearing including motions
and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law under § 13.231; (8) special
accountability of administrative law judges following any reduction of civil
penalty under § 13.232.  See Brief for Petitioner at 20-43, Air Transport, 900
F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir. 1990) (No. 89-1195).




n142  Id. at 20.




n143  Id. at 46-48.  The Association analogized the Rules of Practice to the
"formalized criteria adopted by an agency to determine whether claims for relief
are meritorious" as stated in Pickus.  Id. at 47 (quoting Pickus v. United
States Bd. of Parole, 507 F.2d 1107, 1113 (D.C. Cir. 1974)).




n144  Id. at 47 (Challenging the rules on the grounds of noncompliance with due
process, APA minimum requirements, and the agency's authorizing statute, Air
Transport claimed that public participation in the form of notice and comment
was essential where "[t]he Rule was specifically designed to influence penalty
decisions").  Id.




n145  Brief for the Respondents at 45-49, Air Transport, 900 F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir.
1990) (No. 89-1195).  The FAA also submitted § 553(b)(B), exempting agency
action from notice and comment where "good cause" is indicated, as justification
for proceeding without standard rulemaking procedures.  Id. at 49; see also
supra note 13.




n146  See supra text accompanying note 33.




n147  Air Transp. Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d 369, 375-76
(D.C. Cir. 1990), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991). The "functional analysis" upon
which the Air Transport court relied focuses on the nature of the resulting
consequences of agency action, such as when opportunities are foreclosed or
entitlements jeopardized.  Id. (citing Reeder v. FCC, 865 F.2d 1298, 1305 (D.C.
Cir. 1989) (per curiam); Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 707-08 (D.C. Cir.
1980); Pickus v. United States Bd. of Parole, 507 F.2d 1107, 1113 (D.C. Cir.
1974)).




n148  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 377.




n149  900 F.2d 369 passim. The court even adopted the language of National Motor
Freight as the essential inquiry for determining § 553(b)(A) applicability.
See, e.g., id. at 372, 376-77, 381 (quoting National Motor Freight Traffic Ass'n
v. United States, 268 F. Supp. 90 (D.D.C. 1967) (three-judge court), aff'd, 393
U.S. 18 (1968)).




n150  See, e.g., id. at 377.




n151  Id. at 378.




n152  See supra note 133.




n153  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 376 (citing National Ass'n of Home Health
Agencies v. Schweiker, 690 F.2d 932, 949 (D.C. Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 459
U.S. 1205 (1983); Brown Express, Inc. v. United States, 607 F.2d 695, 702-03
(5th Cir. 1979)).




n154  The Air Transport court was careful to note in expressing its astonishment
over FAA's choices concerning the Rules of Practice that it in no way questioned
the legality of those choices.  Id. at 376 n.8.




n155  Id.




n156  Id. (construing American Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037, 1047 (D.C.
Cir. 1987)).




n157  Id. (quoting Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U.S. 281, 310 (1979)).




n158  See supra note 35.




n159  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 378 n.13. Judge Edwards noted that Vermont
Yankee and its mandate to reviewing courts to refrain from imposing procedural
requirements not listed in the APA were inapplicable where such a court has the
obligation of assessing compliance with APA requirements.  See also supra text
accompanying notes 103-04.  "Section 553 of the APA expressly directs agencies
to engage in notice and comment rulemaking; the issue in this case is whether
the FAA had any ground to disregard this procedural obligation." Air Transport,
900 F.2d at 378 n.13 (emphasis omitted).




n160  Id. at 378 (citing American Hosp., 834 F.2d at 1041, 1047). Judge Edwards
stated for the majority that "[t]he characterizations 'substantive' and '
procedural' -- no more here than elsewhere in the law -- do not guide inexorably
to the right result, nor do they really advance the inquiry very far." Id.
(quoting National Motor Freight Traffic Ass'n v. United States, 268 F. Supp. 90,
96 (D.D.C. 1967) (three-judge court), aff'd, 393 U.S. 18 (1968)). The court
further reasoned that the substantive-procedural distinction misses the point,
for the exemption under § 553 refers not only to rules of procedure, but rather,
to rules of organization, procedure, or practice collectively.  Id. But see
National Motor Freight, 268 F. Supp. at 96, for a discussion of the origin of
the substantive-procedural distinction.  In National Motor Freight, the court
traced the term "substantive" to the Attorney General's Manual on the
Administrative Procedure Act which defined that term in its discussion of the
applicability of § 553 informal rulemaking procedures:

   Substantive rules -- rules . . . issued by an agency pursuant to statutory
authority and which implement the statute, as, for example, the proxy rules
issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 14 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. . . .  Such rules have the force and effect of
law.
Id. at 97 (quoting the ATTORNEY GENERAL'S MANUAL, supra note 2, at 423 n.3); see
also Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U.S. 281, 301-03 & nn.31-32 (1979) (relying on
the Attorney General's Manual); id. at 301 ("The central distinction among
agency regulations found in the APA is that between 'substantive rules' on the
one hand and 'interpretative rules, general statements of policy, or rules of
agency organization, procedure, or practice' on the other.").




n161  See, e.g., Neighborhood TV Co. v. FCC, 742 F.2d 629, 637 (D.C. Cir. 1984)
(stating that "[c]ourts have not had an easy time deciding whether particular
agency rules were 'procedural' or 'substantive'"); United States Dep't of Labor
v. Kast Metals Corp., 744 F.2d 1145, 1152 (5th Cir. 1984) (conceding that "the
distinction between a rule of procedure and one of substance is not black and
white"); Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 701-03 (D.C. Cir. 1980) (comparing
substantive and non-binding rules while acknowledging that infinite variations
of agency activity defy neat characterization); Brown Express, Inc. v. United
States, 607 F.2d 695, 701 (5th Cir. 1979) (finding that the terms "substantive"
and "procedural" "are legal conclusions which depend upon their settings for
definition"); Aiken v. Obledo, 442 F. Supp. 628, 649 (E.D. Cal. 1977) (holding
that the collateral contact rule issued by the United States Department of
Agriculture "does not squarely fall within either the 'procedural' or the
'substantive' categories [sic]"); Pharmaceutical Mfrs. Ass'n v. Finch, 307 F.
Supp. 858, 863 (D. Del. 1970) (stating that "[a]ttempting to provide a facile
semantic distinction . . . does little to clarify whether the regulations here
involved are subject to the notice and comment provisions . . . of the [APA]").




n162  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 381 (Silberman, J., dissenting).




n163  Id. at 382 (stating that the Rules of Practice fit within the exemption
under § 553(b)(A) because they "deal with enforcement or adjudication of claims
of violations of the substantive norm but . . . do not purport to affect the
substantive norm").




n164  Id. at 383 (citing generally Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. Natural
Resources Defense Council, 435 U.S. 519 (1978)).




n165  Id. at 381.




n166  Id.




n167  Id. at 382 (citing Toilet Goods Ass'n v. Gardner, 387 U.S. 158, 164
(1967)). "Primary conduct" has also been used in contending with the
difficulties surrounding the substantive-procedural distinction embodied in the
Erie Doctrine based on the landmark case of Erie R.R. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64
(1938). Most notably, Justice Harlan employed the term "primary conduct" in his
concurring opinion in Hannah v. Plumer, 380 U.S. 460, 477 (1965) (Harlan, J.,
concurring), as a gloss on the substantive-procedural distinction.  See also
EUGENE F. SCOLES & PETER HAY, CONFLICT OF LAWS § 3-36, at 110 (1982), for a
discussion of the Erie Doctrine.  See generally John H. Ely, The Irrepressible
Myth of Erie, 87 HARV. L. REV. 693 (1974) (discussing the Erie line of cases and
attributing the continued importance of the Erie Doctrine in part to Justice
Harlan's concurrence in Hannah v. Plumer).




n168  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 382.




n169  Id. at 381.




n170  Id. at 383. See supra text accompanying notes 108-27.




n171  Id.




n172  Id. By comparison, the substantial impact test as applied in Kast Metals
looks to see only whether a given regulation "goes beyond formality and
substantially affects the rights of those over whom the agency exercises
authority." Pickus v. United States Board of Parole, 507 F.2d 1107, 1113 (D.C.
Cir. 1974); see supra text accompanying notes 46-79.




n173  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 382.




n174  Id.; see also supra notes 31-33 and accompanying text.




n175  The Air Transport decision, although subsequently vacated and dismissed,
revealed the controversy surrounding the issue and the uncertainty with which
agencies must contend.  See, e.g., Tracy C. Hauser, Survey, The Administrative
Procedure Act, Procedural Rule Exception to the Notice and Comment Requirement
-- A Survey of Cases, 5 ADMIN. L.J. AM. U. 519, 550 (1991).




n176  See supra text accompanying notes 41-45; Jeffrey S. Lubbers & Nancy G.
Miller, The APA Procedural Rule Exemption: Looking For a Way to Clear the Air, 6
ADMIN. L.J. AM. U. 481, 489-93 (1992) (responding to the Hauser Article and
arguing that Judge Silberman's "primary conduct" test represents "an improvement
on the tests that currently exist" and that agencies should voluntarily engage
in notice-and-comment procedures for procedural rules where attendant costs do
not outweigh the benefits).




n177  The court in Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694 (D.C. Cir. 1980),
suggested that simply the appearance of "fair consideration" and the desire to
reduce the amount of litigation provide a considerable incentive for using
notice-and-comment procedures.  Id. at 701 n.28.




n178  Id. at 704 (announcing that "[e]xemptions should be recognized only where
the need for public participation is overcome by good cause to suspend it, or
where the need is too small to warrant it"); see also supra text accompanying
notes 32-33.




n179  Air Transp. Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d 369, 382 (D.C.
Cir. 1990) (Silberman, J., dissenting), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991); see also
EDLES & NELSON, supra note 2, at 66-67 ("The likelihood that a regulation will
pass muster as 'procedural' is in direct proportion to its insignificance").




n180  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 382.




n181  Id.




n182  See supra text accompanying notes 108-27.




n183  Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 708-09 n.83 (D.C. Cir. 1980), cited
with approval in Cabais v. Egger, 690 F.2d 234, 237 (D.C. Cir. 1982) (evaluating
the impact of Vermont Yankee on the substantial impact test).




n184  Batterton, 648 F.2d at 708-09 n.83.




n185  See supra text accompanying notes 111-12.




n186  Batterton, 648 F.2d at 708-09 n.83 (citing Joseph v. United States Civil
Serv. Comm'n, 554 F.2d 1140, 1154 n.26 (D.C. Cir. 1977)).




n187  Guardian Fed. Sav. & Loan Ass'n v. Federal Sav. & Loan Ins. Corp., 589
F.2d 658, 662 (D.C. Cir. 1978). The court in Guardian Federal discussed the
underlying policy reasons of § 553 stating that "[p]ublic rulemaking procedures
increase the likelihood of administrative responsiveness to the needs and
concerns of those affected.  And the procedure for public participation tends to
promote acquiescence in the result even when objections remain as to substance."
Id., quoted in American Postal Workers Union v. United States Postal Serv., 707
F.2d 548, 565 (D.C. Cir. 1983), cert. denied, 465 U.S. 1100 (1984).




n188  Batterton, 648 F.2d at 702 (quoting the APA, 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A)(1976));
see generally DAVIS, supra note 1, § 6:6.




n189  Batterton, 648 F.2d at 702 (citation omitted).




n190  See supra text accompanying notes 95-107.




n191  See supra text accompanying notes 63-64.




n192  See supra text accompanying note 69.  The substantial impact test
continues to apply to general statements of policy, also exempted under section
553(b)(A) from notice-and-comment procedures.




n193  Brown Express, Inc. v. United States, 607 F.2d 695, 700 (5th Cir. 1979)
(quoting Gibson Wine Co. v. Snyder, 194 F.2d 329, 331 (D.C. Cir. 1952)). Relying
on Gibson Wine, the court in American Hospital summarized the difference between
interpretative rules which "explain ambiguous terms in legislative enactments"
and legislative rules "which create law, usually implementary to an existing
law." American Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037, 1045 (D.C. Cir. 1987).




n194  American Postal Workers Union v. United States Postal Serv., 707 F.2d 548,
559 (D.C. Cir. 1983), cert. denied, 465 U.S. 1100 (1984) (characterizing rule
which calculates retirement benefits as interpretative although it reduces
substantially the amount of benefits received by 113,000 postal workers); see
also Rivera v. Becerra, 714 F.2d 887, 891 (9th Cir. 1983) (rejecting substantial
impact test for rules interpreting pension offset rules); Cabais v. Egger, 690
F.2d 234, 237-38 (D.C. Cir. 1982) (concluding that rule requiring offset of
pension income by unemployment benefits is interpretative).  The substantial
impact test, however, did at one time predominate in the determination of
exemption for interpretative rules as a means of effectuating the goals of § 553
notice and comment.  See, e.g., Pharmaceutical Mfrs. Ass'n v. Finch, 307 F.
Supp. 858, 863 (D. Del. 1970) (invalidating retroactive regulations that
required additional evidence for the approval of marketed drug products because
of the substantial impact on pharmaceutical companies).




n195  Cabais, 690 F.2d at 237. Not all circuits have arrived at the same
conclusion as the District of Columbia Circuit.  See, e.g., American
Bancorporation v. Board of Governors of Fed. Reserve Sys., 509 F.2d 29, 33 (8th
Cir. 1974) (regarding the challenged rule's impact as the crucial inquiry in
determining its substantive or interpretative nature).




n196  Cabais, 690 F.2d at 237-38 n.6. (citing Independent Broker-Dealers Trade
Ass'n v. SEC, 442 F.2d 132, 144 (D.C. Cir. 1971), cert. denied, 404 U.S. 828
(1971)).




n197  See Cabais, 690 F.2d at 237-38 n.6; see also supra note 33 and
accompanying text.




n198  Id. For example, in the context of the FAA Rules of Practice, the FAA
argued that the issue of the validity of its rulemaking was premature.  Air
Transp. Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d 369, 374 (D.C. Cir.
1990), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991). Rather, the appropriate opportunity for
challenging the rules adheres when the agency has applied the rules in a
specific enforcement proceeding.  Id.




n199  Cabais, 690 F.2d at 237-38 n.6. Courts may defer to agencies but are not
constrained to adopt the challenged agency interpretation.  American Postal
Workers Union v. United States Postal Serv., 707 F.2d 548, 561 (D.C. Cir. 1983).




n200  See, e.g., Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 375 (substantial effect on civil
penalty defendants' rights implicates notice and comment); American Hosp. Ass'n
v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037, 1047 (D.C. Cir. 1987) (substantial impact test provides
basis for new formulation); United States Dep't of Labor v. Kast Metals Corp.,
744 F.2d 1145, 1154 n.19 (5th Cir. 1984) (substantial impact test applies to
procedural rules); Lamoille Valley R.R. v. ICC, 711 F.2d 295, 328 (D.C. Cir.
1983) (substantive consequences determine eligibility for exemption).




n201  Lamoille Valley, 711 F.2d at 328. The court stated the test without
acknowledging the Cabais decision or its reasoning.  Id. This suggests
considerable independence between interpretative rules and rules of agency
organization, procedure, or practice for the purpose of evaluating the
applicability of the exemption provision.




n202  See cases cited supra note 200.




n203  American Hosp., 834 F.2d at 1047. The American Hospital court elaborated
on the substantial impact inquiry, acknowledging the fact "that even
unambiguously procedural measures affect parties to some degree," and curbed the
tendency of the substantial impact test to impose indiscriminately notice and
comment on procedural rules.  Id.  See supra text accompanying note 113.




n204  American Hosp., 834 F.2d at 1047.




n205  Cabais v. Egger, 690 F.2d 234, 237 (D.C. Cir. 1982) ("Interpretative and
substantive rules may both vitally affect private interests. . . .").




n206  See supra text accompanying note 111.




n207  American Hosp., 834 F.2d at 1051. The court conceded that Manual IM85-2
might burden health care providers with the unconditional compliance that
increased enforcement suggests, but it went so far as to qualify that claim as
"patently illegitimate" for objecting to measures which expose violations of the
Medicare Act.  Id.




n208  See id. at 1047, 1051 (characterizing the effects of the HHS enforcement
scheme as "incidental mechanical burdens").




n209  See supra note 115 and accompanying text.




n210  In American Hospital, the "incidental inconveniences" imposed by the first
PRO Manual constituted minor burdens that do not justify the imposition of
notice-and-comment procedures.  American Hosp., 834 F.2d at 1051. Similarly, the
PRO Manual IM85-3 and the Program Directive No. 2 "neither change[] the standard
of PRO review, nor impose[] anything greater than incidental mechanical burdens
on regulated hospitals." Id.




n211  See supra text accompanying notes 197-99.




n212  Judicial review of final decisions and orders of penalty assessment issued
by the FAA is contemplated in the Demonstration Program itself.  See 14 C.F.R. §
13.235 (1992).




n213  As stated by the Batterton court in its comparison of legislative rules
with their counterpart, "non-binding agency statements carry no more weight on
judicial review than their inherent persuasiveness commands." Batterton v.
Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 702 (D.C. Cir. 1980) (citing General Elec. Co. v.
Gilbert, 429 U.S. 125, 141 (1976)).




n214  See supra text accompanying note 130.




n215  See Hauser, supra note 175, at 550.




n216  Air Transp. Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d 369, 372 (D.C.
Cir. 1990), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991) (citing National Motor Freight Ass'n
v. United States, 268 F. Supp. 90 (D.D.C. 1967) (three-judge court), aff'd, 393
U.S. 18 (1968)); see supra notes 146-51 and accompanying text.




n217  National Motor Freight, 268 F. Supp. at 96.




n218  Judge Silberman in his dissent questioned the majority's reliance on the
"old and now discredited district court case." Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 383
(Silberman, J., dissenting).  Furthermore, National Motor Freight received only
a summary affirmation by the Supreme Court, rendering its reasoning suspect.
Id. In general, courts are less inclined to overrule a decision that has been
affirmed by an opinion that discusses the merits.  Under Anderson v. Celebrezze,
460 U.S. 780 (1983), "[a] summary disposition affirms only the judgment of the
court below, and no more may be read into our action than was essential to
sustain that judgment." Id. at 785 n.5, quoted in Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 383
(Silberman, J., dissenting); see also Edelman v. Jordan, 415 U.S. 651, 670-71
(1974) (limiting the precedential value of summary affirmances).  The dissent in
Air Transport therefore dismissed the majority's faithful alignment with the
reasoning advanced in National Motor Freight.  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 383
(Silberman, J., dissenting).




n219  National Motor Freight, 268 F. Supp. at 96 (stating that "[t]he Commission
was . . . under no injunction from Congress" to establish informal settlement
procedures).




n220  Id. at 92-93.




n221  Id. at 96. The dissent emphasized this factual distinction in discrediting
the majority's reliance on National Motor Freight.  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at
384 n.3. Judge Silberman noted this disparity between the administrative scheme
of informal settlements established in National Motor Freight and the Rules of
Practice developed by the FAA in Air Transport, but placed primary emphasis in
his decision on the dubious precedential value of the National Motor Freight
decision.  Id.




n222  49 U.S.C. § 1475(d)(1) (1988 & Supp. II 1990).  Other limitations
established by Congress in the Demonstration Program allowed the FAA to assess
civil penalties only on actions initiated after December 30, 1987, not in excess
of $ 50,000, and only for a one-and-a-half year period.  Id. at §
1475(d)(2)-(4); see also supra note 133.




n223  Tabb Lakes, Ltd. v. United States, 715 F. Supp. 726, 728 (E.D. Va. 1988)
(quoting American Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037, 1045 (D.C. Cir. 1987),
aff'd, 885 F.2d 866 (4th Cir. 1989)).




n224  See Association of Nat'l Advertisers v. FTC, 617 F.2d 611, 629 n.20 (D.C.
Cir. 1979) (Skelly, C.J., concurring in result only) (distinguishing National
Motor Freight because that procedural challenge did not involve a rule which
sought "to follow congressionally prescribed procedures" and judicial review was
"limited or non-existent").




n225  Air Transport Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d 369, 377
(D.C. Cir. 1990), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991) (quoting American Hosp., 834
F.2d at 1057 (citation omitted)).




n226  Id.




n227  742 F.2d 629, 637 (D.C. Cir. 1984).




n228  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 377.




n229  Neighborhood TV, 742 F.2d at 631-34.




n230  Id. at 632.




n231  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 377.




n232  Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 708 (D.C. Cir. 1980); see supra text
accompanying notes 91-94.




n233  See supra note 13.




n234  Elsewhere in the law, courts have had to attend to the substantive-
procedural distinction in determining the validity of rules that govern
adjudicatory matters.  In re Gailey, Inc. contemplated the definition of "
procedural" to ascertain the validity of a retroactivity provision.  In re
Gailey, Inc., 119 B.R. 504, 510 (Bankr. W.D. Pa. 1990). The court concluded that
"if it . . . merely prescribes a method for enforcing [substantive rights] or
for obtaining redress for a grievance," the provision will be upheld as
procedural.  Id.; see also Masino v. Outboard Marine Corp., 88 F.R.D. 251, 255
(E.D. Pa. 1980) (holding "majority verdict rule" to be procedural in determining
the appropriate law to be applied in diversity suit because it "prescribe[s] the
manner in which . . . rights and responsibilities may be exercised and enforced
in a court"), aff'd, 652 F.2d 330 (3d Cir.), cert. denied, 454 U.S. 655 (1981).




n235  See discussion supra part I.B-C.




n236  See Air Transp. Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d 369, 382
(D.C. Cir. 1990) (Silberman, J., dissenting), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991)
(articulating that rules with a substantial impact "purport to direct, control,
or condition the behavior" of private parties); see also supra text accompanying
note 172.




n237  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 382. Judge Silberman believes that where
aggrieved parties have an opportunity to contest the procedural validity of an
agency's action in a related adjudication initiated by the agency at a later
time, congressional intent to promote agency activity by exempting informal
rulemaking procedures must prevail over the benefits obtained from public
participation.  See also supra text accompanying notes 196-99.




n238  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 383.




n239  Id.




n240  See Cabais v. Egger, 690 F.2d 234, 237 (D.C. Cir. 1982); supra text
accompanying notes 69-74 and 191-99.




n241  Cabais, 690 F.2d at 237 (citing Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 709
n.83 (D.C. Cir. 1980)); see also supra note 35.




n242  Cabais, 690 F.2d at 237.




n243  See id.; see also supra note 195 and accompanying text.




n244  Cabais, 690 F.2d at 237.




n245  Id. at 237 n.6.




n246  See supra text accompanying notes 112-13.




n247  See supra notes 95-100 and accompanying text.




n248  See Air Transport Ass'n of Am. v. Department of Transp., 900 F.2d 369, 382
(D.C. Cir. 1990) (Silberman, J., dissenting), vacated, 111 S. Ct. 944 (1991);
see also supra text accompanying note 237.




n249  Air Transport, 900 F.2d at 384 n.3.




n250  See supra notes 218-20 and accompanying text.




n251  See supra notes 132-35, 221-22 and accompanying text.




n252  See supra text accompanying note 223; see also supra text accompanying
note 194.




n253  See supra notes 31-33 and accompanying text.




n254  See supra text accompanying note 174.




n255  The Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS) has in the past
recommended the elimination of the exemptions under § 553 in favor of public
participation, thereby allowing some procedural rules to remain exempt under §
553(a)(2) as "matters of agency management and personnel." Recommendation 69-8,
"Elimination of Certain Exemptions from the APA Rulemaking Requirements," 1
C.F.R. § 305.69-8 (1992); Recommendation 76-5, "Interpretative Rules of General
Applicability and Statements of General Policy," 1 C.F.R. § 305.76-5 (1992);
Recommendation 83-2, "The 'Good Cause' Exemption from APA Rulemaking
Requirements," 1 C.F.R. § 305.83-2 (1992).  Similarly, the states have generally
restricted exempting procedural rulemaking from statutory purposes except for
matters of internal management, an equivalent to the § 533(a)(2) provision.




n256  American Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F. 2d 1037, 1047 (D.C. Cir. 1987).




n257  Pharmaceutical Mfrs. Ass'n v. Finch, 307 F. Supp. 858, 863 (D. Del. 1970).




n258  The Batterton court in its discussion of legislative and non-legislative
rules noted the incidental benefit of "giv[ing] the public a sense of fair
consideration" in addition to that of avoiding litigation.  Batterton v.
Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 701 n.28 (D.C. Cir. 1980) (citing Guardian Fed. Sav.
Ass'n & Loan v. Federal Sav. & Loan Ins. Corp., 589 F.2d 658, 669 (D.C. Cir.
1978)).


                              263 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 23, 2003 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Time to pour oil on troubled litigation waters;
LETTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 509 words


As the contending arguments in the medical insurance/legal rights debate incline
towards hyperbole and hysteria, we have, at one extreme, the caricature of the
self-serving, pinstripe-suited, slick city lawyers hell-bent on preserving a
system that is steadily strangling the saintly, civic-minded and selfless
medical profession. At the other extreme, we have the equally inaccurate
caricature of the profiteering robber-baron insurers spinning their way to the
emasculation of long-established rights for the halt and the lame victims of
callous and negligent doctors and other shameful wrongdoers.

Having practised law in this state for a couple of decades - with the first half
almost exclusively in personal injuries litigation - and having recently emerged
from an intensive encounter with the medical profession during the course of
inpatient treatment at three separate Melbourne hospitals, some general
observations come to mind:

· First, it is the nature of things that those lawyers whose livelihoods are
dependent on the current model will protest long and loud at any threat of
change - but equally, there will be other lawyers who will be keen to embrace
the opportunities, both personally and for their clients, presented by new ways
of doing things.

· Second, as civil litigation has become increasingly preoccupied with ever more
complex formal procedures, it has become ever more the province of the
specialist litigation lawyer whose expertise depends upon mastery of the
procedural minutiae and who then becomes part of a self-perpetuating club of
procedural aficionados.

· Third, medicine is an imperfect science performed by medical practitioners who
share with their patients all the foibles and frailties of human nature; the
trouble is that most doctors are not comfortable about acknowledging this. It is
also fairly obvious that chronic, but unavoidable, funding constraints on the
health system often result in medical practitioners having to provide care at a
level well short of that which would be optional in a much better funded system.

So using our current legal system to address perceived inadequacies in our
medical system is bound to be an expensive, slow and frustrating process for all
concerned. It is little wonder that some medical practitioners seem inclined to
now throw up their hands in exasperation and declare that continuing in practice
is just too risky, hard and expensive.

I suggest we would be far better off with a court-supervised process for
subordinate judicial officers, aided by well-qualified and independent medical
practitioners drawn from a panel, to be charged with arranging and providing to
the court binding reports as to the nature and extent of injury and, in medical
negligence cases, prima facie opinions as to whether the medical treatment
complained of falls short of the required standard.

In the majority of cases, such a process could radically narrow the scope of
trial issues and thus the cost, complexity and delay of litigation.

Anthony Burke, solicitor, Burke & Associates, Armadale

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2003 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 19, 2017 Wednesday

Regulatory update: Arkansas Public Service Commission; Arkansas Electric Energy
Consumers, Inc. , has submitted ( 16-036-FR ) 183 . The General Staff of the
Arkansas Public Service Commission, Entergy Arkansas, Inc. (EAI), the Attorney
General of Arkansas (AG), Arkansas Electric Energy Consumers, Inc. (AEEC), and
the Hospitals and Higher Education Group (HHEG) submits its Joint Motion to
Adopt Procedural Schedule. SJ.

LENGTH: 656  words

DATELINE: New York



Little Rock: Arkansas Public Service Commission has issued the following
document:
1
 BEFORE THE
 ARKANSAS PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
 IN THE MATTER OF FORMULA RATE PLAN )
 FILINGS OF ENTERGY ARKANSAS, INC., ) DOCKET NO. 16-036-FR
 PURSUANT TO APSC DOCKET NO. 15-015-U )


 JOINT MOTION TO ADOPT PROCEDURAL SCHEDULE
 Comes now, the General Staff (Staff) of the Arkansas Public Service Commission
(Commission), Entergy Arkansas, Inc. (EAI), the Attorney General of Arkansas
(AG), Arkansas Electric Energy Consumers, Inc. (AEEC), and the Hospitals and
Higher Education Group (HHEG) (collectively "the Parties") and for their Joint
Motion to Adopt Procedural Schedule, state as follows:
 1. On July 7, 2017, EAI filed an Application with the Commission pursuant to
and in compliance with its Rate Schedule No. 44, Formula Rate Plan Rider (Rider
FRP), approved by the Commission in this Docket on December 16, 2016.1
 2. The Parties propose the following procedural schedule in this matter per the
Formula Rate Protocols:
 Staff/Intervenors File Errors and Objections October 4, 2017 (by noon)
 and Response to Supplemental Filing2
 (90 days before rates effective)
 EAI Response to Errors and Objections and October 19, 2017 (by noon)
 Staff/Intervenors Supplemental Filing
 (15 days from E&O filing)
 Stipulation or Settlement Filed November 1, 2017 (by noon)
 (7 days before hearing)
 1 Rider FRP was originally approved in Docket No. 15-015-U.
 2 See Order No. 10 at 3. EAI's Response to Order No. 7 and Order No. 10,
including the Supplemental Testimonies of Company witnesses Dale E. James and
Lawrence Coyle, were filed concurrently with EAI's Application. APSC FILED Time:
7/19/2017 12:25:48 PM: Recvd 7/19/2017 12:25:03 PM: Docket 16-036-FR-Doc. 183
 2
 Response to Settlement November 3, 2017 (by noon)
 (5 days before hearing)
 Hearing Dates November 8-9, 2017
 (50 days before rates effective)
 Commission Order By December 13, 2017
 (20 days before rates effective)
 EAI Revised Attachment A.1 Filed December 18, 2017 (by noon)
 (5 days after Order, if necessary)
 Staff/Intervenors Response to Revised December 21, 2017 (by noon)
 Attachment A.1
 (3 days after Attachment filing)
 EAI Requested Rate Adjustment January 2, 2018
 Effective Date
 WHEREFORE, the Parties request that the Commission adopt the procedural
 schedule proposed herein and for all other relief to which they may be
entitled.
 Respectfully submitted,
 GENERAL STAFF OF THE ARKANSAS
 PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
 By: /s/ Christina L. Baker
 Christina L. Baker (ABN 2016001)
 Bridgette Frazier (ABN 98036)
 Staff Attorneys
 1000 Center Street | P.O. Box 400
 Little Rock, Arkansas 72203
 ENTERGY ARKANSAS, INC.
 By: /s/ N. Wesley Hunt
 N. Wesley Hunt (ABN 2008135)
 Senior Counsel
 Entergy Arkansas, Inc.
 425 W. Capitol Ave., 28th Floor
 Little Rock, Arkansas 72201
 APSC FILED Time: 7/19/2017 12:25:48 PM: Recvd 7/19/2017 12:25:03 PM: Docket
16-036-FR-Doc. 183
 3
 LESLIE RUTLEDGE
 ATTORNEY GENERAL
 By: /s/ Sarah Tacker
 Sarah Tacker (ABN 2002189)
 Senior Assistant Attorney General
 Kevin Lemley (ABN 2005034)
 Assistant Attorney General
 323 Center Street, Suite 200
 Little Rock, Arkansas 72201
 ARKANSAS ELECTRIC ENERGY
 CONSUMERS, INC.
 By: /s/ Jordan B. Tinsley
 Jordan B. Tinsley (ABN 2008270)
 Counsel
 Tinsley & Youngdahl, PLLC
 300 South Spring Street, Suite 614
 Little Rock, Arkansas 72201
 HOSPITALS AND HIGHER EDUCATION
 GROUP
 By: /s/ Brandon Robinson
 Brandon Robinson (ABN 2006031)
 Counsel
 University of Arkansas System
 4301 W. Markham Slot #860
 Little Rock, Arkansas 72205
 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
 I certify that a copy of the foregoing has been delivered to all Parties of
Record
 by electronic mail via the Electronic Filing System, this 19th day of July
2017.
 /s/ Christina L. Baker
 Christina L. Baker
 APSC FILED Time: 7/19/2017 12:25:48 PM: Recvd 7/19/2017 12:25:03 PM: Docket
16-036-FR-Doc. 183
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          Maroochy Weekly (Queensland)

                               December 15, 2010

Patients to get fast-track treatment

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 501  words



HIGHLIGHT: Emergency Dept receives $520,000 makeover


NAMBOUR Hospital's emergency department waiting times should be reduced thanks
to a new fast-track area due to open next Monday.

The $520,000 project has seen the department's triage and waiting area totally
redesigned to treat high acuity patients more quickly and streamline less urgent
patients.

The department will have five fast-track assessment areas and will be staffed by
a doctor, nurse practitioner and senior nurse.

It also includes an eye treatment room, additional consultation room and two
patient bays.

Emergency department acting nurse unit manager Rob McDonald said the
redevelopment would allow medical staff to quickly assess and treat waiting room
patients.

"They can then be moved on to the next stage of care, whether that's undergoing
further tests or treatment, being admitted, going home or transferring back to
their GP," Mr McDonald said.

"Patients will always be seen on a priority basis, meaning the sickest patients
will be seen first, however, every patient who presents to the emergency
department is important."

He said better signage and a more open environment would make it easier for
staff and patients to communicate.

Mr McDonald said a dedicated paediatric unit would also be established in the
emergency department.

Decorated in bright colours, it will be staffed by nurses trained in paediatric
care.

"We recognise the need for children not to be exposed to some of the things that
happen in the emergency department, hence this separate unit," he said.

The paediatric project is funded by the hospital's health foundation, Wishlist,
and is due for completion in the New Year.

About 35,000 people attend Nambour Hospital's busy emergency department each
year, more than 9000 in the three months to September alone.

In September, 48% of category four patients were seen within the national
benchmark of 60 minutes, the average wait being 89 minutes.

About 80% of category five patients were seen within the national benchmark
guidelines of 120 minutes averaging a 72-minute wait time.

The emergency department redesign follows the opening of the $150 million 96-bed
ward block at Nambour Hospital in August.

The redevelopment included an expanded specialist outpatients clinic, acute
geriatrics, acute stroke/neurology and acute medicine, new antenatal and
paediatric clinics, relocated special care nursery and paediatric ward and a
respiratory ward.

As well as the redesigned emergency department, new works being undertaken in
the old ward block include a new 12-bed medical assessment planning unit and
expanded medical imaging, pathology and pharmacy services.

Construction of a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, a vascular procedural
suite and new dedicated endoscopy procedural unit will start next year, with
services to start from late 2011. All areas are expected to be operational by
2012.

Fast facts

$520,000 emergency department redevelopment includes:

Five assessment areas

Two patient bays

Consultation room

Eye treatment room

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMW


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            December 19, 2010 Sunday

AEP Ohio Withdraws from Resolution of 2009 Significantly Excessive Earnings Test

LENGTH: 490  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Dec. 19 -- AEP Ohio, a unit of American Electric Power (NYSE: AEP), has
withdrawn an agreement reached in late November with several parties that would
have resolved pending cases in front of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(PUCO), including the company's Significantly Excessive Earnings Test (SEET),
Fuel Adjustment Clause (FAC) audit cases, and the merger application for
Columbus Southern Power (CSP) and Ohio Power.

"After careful and thorough consideration of the effects created by the delayed
procedural schedule for the AEP Ohio SEET settlement, the company has decided to
withdraw from the agreement," said Joe Hamrock, president and chief operating
officer for AEP Ohio. "The agreement would have provided immediate value to our
customers; however, in light of the delays and lingering uncertainty regarding
implementation, we found it impractical to continue."

The agreement, signed by the Staff of the PUCO, the Ohio Manufacturing
Association (OMA), the Ohio Hospital Association (OHA), the Kroger Company,
Ormet Corporation, and AEP Ohio, included an expedited procedural schedule that
would provide for a Commission's decision by the end of 2010. This original
schedule was set in order to implement key provisions in the resolution starting
in early 2011, including changing the rate cap for CSP customers to 0 percent
from 6 percent, avoidance of $18 million in environmental costs, additional
customer savings through avoided carrying charges on fuel costs to be recovered
in future regulatory proceedings, and the customers' benefit from the sale of a
coal reserve asset owned by AEP shareholders.

Based on the objections of non-signatory parties, the Commission substantially
modified that timeline and established an open-ended procedural schedule that
more than likely will result in a decision on this agreement sometime in the
second quarter of 2011.

"AEP Ohio and the parties that contributed to this resolution felt strongly that
this agreement provided a critical balance for all parties involved, including
the State of Ohio, our customers and our investors," said Hamrock. "However,
delays in this proceeding have modified several of the provisions. Since all the
evidence has been presented, all the testimony has been heard and many of the
issues around these cases have been fully litigated before the PUCO, we now will
await the Commission's final decision."

AEP Ohio provides electricity to nearly 1.5 million customers of major AEP
subsidiaries Columbus Southern Power Company and Ohio Power Company in Ohio, and
Wheeling Power Company in the northern panhandle of West Virginia. AEP Ohio is
based in Gahanna, Ohio. The company serves all or part of 61 counties in Ohio
and two in West Virginia. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Virginia Lawyers Weekly

                              May 23, 2016 Monday

Hospitals Must Bargain with Nurses' Union

BYLINE: Deborah Elkins

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 828  words


The 4th Circuit grants enforcement of a National Labor Relations Board order
re­quiring two West Virginia hospitals to bar­gain with the duly elected
representatives of the National Nurses Organizing Com­mittee representing their
employees; nei­ther the board's lack of a quorum during a portion of these
proceedings, nor the hos­pitals' procedural objections to the order, require the
court to overturn the order.

While the unfair labor practice proceed­ings were ongoing, the U.S. Court of
Ap­peals for the District of Columbia issued its decision in NLRB v. Noel
Canning, 705 F.3d 490 (D.C. Cir. 2013), holding that the President's recess
appointment of the three board members on Jan. 2, 2012, was unlawful and the
board as then constitut­ed lacked a quorum. The hospitals filed an amended
answer citing the Noel Canning decision.

Upon confirmation of new members by the U.S. Senate, the board regained a
quo­rum on Aug. 5, 2013. Almost a year later, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed
NLRB v. Noel Canning, 134 S.Ct. 2550 (2014), al­beit on different grounds. The
hospitals again raised this decision, along with oth­er affirmative defenses,
and argued that the regional director lacked authority to approve the agreements
about the elec­tions or issue the election certifications when the board lacked
a quorum.

The board granted summary judgment to the acting general counsel, finding that
the hospitals' refusal to bargain with the union violated Sections 8(a)(1) and
(5) of the National Labor Relations Act. The board now brings an action for
enforce­ment pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 160(e).

The hospitals promptly raised before the board the Supreme Court's Noel Can­ning
decision, handed down 22 months af­ter the representation elections took place,
and, contrary to petitioner's argument, we find no waiver.

The hospitals' main argument is that the authority of the regional director
lapsed during any period in which the board lacked a quorum. We find the
hospi­tals' argument wanting in view of the def­erence under Chevron USA Inc. v.
Natural Resources Defense Council Inc., 467 U.S. 837 (1984), owed the board's
interpreta­tion of the Act regarding the authority of regional directors during
the absence of a board quorum.

Only one other appeals court, the D.C. Circuit, has addressed this precise
issue. We find that court's reasoning persuasive and agree that the board's
interpretation is imminently reasonable.

Consent agreements

The parties in this case signed Consent Election Agreements, which vested in the
regional director final authority to over­see the representation elections and
cer­tify their results, and it foreclosed board review over representation
proceedings. Agreement by contract is among the ways to relinquish the right to
plenary board review and confer on the regional director final authority over
representation pro­ceedings. The hospitals are bound by that contract just as
they are bound b other contracts.

We give deference to the board's inter­pretation and conclude the regional
direc­tor's authority to act was not abrogated during the period when the board
lacked a quorum.

The hospitals also urge the court to hold that the regional director was not
validly appointed because the acting gen­eral counsel was without authority to
act at the time of the regional director's ap­pointment. We do not find this
argument persuasive because it is the board, not the general counsel, which has
final authori­ty to appoint a regional director. And the board did, in fact,
approve the regional director. We also are bound by the board's factual finding
that the regional director's appointment became final on Dec. 22, 2011,
approximately one week before the board lost its quorum.

Turning to the merits of the dispute, the hospitals admit they refused to
bargain with the union, but contend the board erred in its decision to uphold
the results of the representation elections because the regional director should
not have over­ruled their objections to the election re­sults on procedural
grounds.

The hospitals admit they were aware that their supporting evidence for the filed
objections was to be submitted in the re­spective cases no later than Sept. 12
and 13, 2012. They admit they declined to sub­mit any evidence and made no
request for an extension of time to submit evidence. The regional director
overruled their ob­jections well after the seven-day deadline had passed. The
regional director was well within his authority to overrule the objec­tions and
rescind the hearings notices; the board's rules directed him to do so.

Application for enforcement of the board's order is granted.

NLRB v. National Nurses Organizing Committee (Agee) No. 15-1203, May 6, 2016; On
Application for Enforcement; Mi­cah P. S. Jost, NLRB, for petitioner; Kaitlin A.
Kaseta for respondents. VLW 016-2-081, 27 pp.

http://www.valawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Virginia Lawyers Weekly

                              May 16, 2016 Monday

Hospitals Must Bargain with Nurses' Union

BYLINE: Deborah Elkins

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 828  words


The 4th Circuit grants enforcement of a National Labor Relations Board order
re­quiring two West Virginia hospitals to bar­gain with the duly elected
representatives of the National Nurses Organizing Com­mittee representing their
employees; nei­ther the board's lack of a quorum during a portion of these
proceedings, nor the hos­pitals' procedural objections to the order, require the
court to overturn the order.

While the unfair labor practice proceed­ings were ongoing, the U.S. Court of
Ap­peals for the District of Columbia issued its decision in NLRB v. Noel
Canning, 705 F.3d 490 (D.C. Cir. 2013), holding that the President's recess
appointment of the three board members on Jan. 2, 2012, was unlawful and the
board as then constitut­ed lacked a quorum. The hospitals filed an amended
answer citing the Noel Canning decision.

Upon confirmation of new members by the U.S. Senate, the board regained a
quo­rum on Aug. 5, 2013. Almost a year later, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed
NLRB v. Noel Canning, 134 S.Ct. 2550 (2014), al­beit on different grounds. The
hospitals again raised this decision, along with oth­er affirmative defenses,
and argued that the regional director lacked authority to approve the agreements
about the elec­tions or issue the election certifications when the board lacked
a quorum.

The board granted summary judgment to the acting general counsel, finding that
the hospitals' refusal to bargain with the union violated Sections 8(a)(1) and
(5) of the National Labor Relations Act. The board now brings an action for
enforce­ment pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 160(e).

The hospitals promptly raised before the board the Supreme Court's Noel Can­ning
decision, handed down 22 months af­ter the representation elections took place,
and, contrary to petitioner's argument, we find no waiver.

The hospitals' main argument is that the authority of the regional director
lapsed during any period in which the board lacked a quorum. We find the
hospi­tals' argument wanting in view of the def­erence under Chevron USA Inc. v.
Natural Resources Defense Council Inc., 467 U.S. 837 (1984), owed the board's
interpreta­tion of the Act regarding the authority of regional directors during
the absence of a board quorum.

Only one other appeals court, the D.C. Circuit, has addressed this precise
issue. We find that court's reasoning persuasive and agree that the board's
interpretation is imminently reasonable.

Consent agreements

The parties in this case signed Consent Election Agreements, which vested in the
regional director final authority to over­see the representation elections and
cer­tify their results, and it foreclosed board review over representation
proceedings. Agreement by contract is among the ways to relinquish the right to
plenary board review and confer on the regional director final authority over
representation pro­ceedings. The hospitals are bound by that contract just as
they are bound b other contracts.

We give deference to the board's inter­pretation and conclude the regional
direc­tor's authority to act was not abrogated during the period when the board
lacked a quorum.

The hospitals also urge the court to hold that the regional director was not
validly appointed because the acting gen­eral counsel was without authority to
act at the time of the regional director's ap­pointment. We do not find this
argument persuasive because it is the board, not the general counsel, which has
final authori­ty to appoint a regional director. And the board did, in fact,
approve the regional director. We also are bound by the board's factual finding
that the regional director's appointment became final on Dec. 22, 2011,
approximately one week before the board lost its quorum.

Turning to the merits of the dispute, the hospitals admit they refused to
bargain with the union, but contend the board erred in its decision to uphold
the results of the representation elections because the regional director should
not have over­ruled their objections to the election re­sults on procedural
grounds.

The hospitals admit they were aware that their supporting evidence for the filed
objections was to be submitted in the re­spective cases no later than Sept. 12
and 13, 2012. They admit they declined to sub­mit any evidence and made no
request for an extension of time to submit evidence. The regional director
overruled their ob­jections well after the seven-day deadline had passed. The
regional director was well within his authority to overrule the objec­tions and
rescind the hearings notices; the board's rules directed him to do so.

Application for enforcement of the board's order is granted.

NLRB v. National Nurses Organizing Committee (Agee) No. 15-1203, May 6, 2016; On
Application for Enforcement; Mi­cah P. S. Jost, NLRB, for petitioner; Kaitlin A.
Kaseta for respondents. VLW 016-2-081, 27 pp.

http://www.valawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            December 15, 2014 Monday

Need for urgent legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect unassuming victims
underscored at seminar

LENGTH: 594  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber
Crime law  due to increasing incidents of cyber crime  against unassuming
victims including young girls and women, recommended participants of a seminar
organised to celebrate 25th anniversary of WAR, the NGO working
against exploitation of women.


     Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour
on the occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Ms Sharmila Farooqi
presided the session "Rape & Sexual Violence : Legal Reforms"
that attracted  diverse segments of people, comprising members of the
Civil Society, representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers, teachers,
human rights activists and government officials.
     Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in
the Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gang-rape, could be
reduced through "no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against
women.
     They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and
implementation of all laws recently passed for women protection and
welfare, as otherwise, they feared the violence against women will
continue, unabated.
     Participants using the forum of this seminar to push forth for some
much needed "Legal, Medical and Procedural Reforms" by the Government
urged the authorities to empower the existent Women Police Stations and
increase their numbers in every district.
     Moreover, medico- legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded
to be made  operational in all major hospitals, including those  in
private sector as Aga Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.
     Mandatory DNA testing for all rape cases was also recommended besides
provision for DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.
     They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state
prosecutors, judges, police officers, medico-legal officers and clerical
force in judiciary.
     Guest of honour Mukhtaran  Mai on the occasion pleaded for speedy
trials  to ensure prosecution of  offenders of the heinous crime.
     The Minister for  Culture and Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising
the work of NGOs like War Against Rape, reiterated the Government's
resolve to continue its work for  the welfare of women in general,
including  effort to eradicate sexual violence.
     The Seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan
who reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in
the late 1980s.
     The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &
Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh
Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint  Act, but urged
the government to focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.
     Barrister Danish Zuberi, in her address spoke about the laws relating
to rape and the reforms needed to make rape prosecution more effective.
She also suggested that cases of sexual violence, rape and incest be
covered under "Time Limit" of two years as done in terrorism cases.
     The senior lawyer said in cases of "compromise" or out of court
settlement, state should become a "Party" and continue with the
prosecution of the accused.
     Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges
in context of medico-legal and the  procedural obstructions hindering
disbursement of fair trial and justice to survivors.  Going through her
experience as a past Director in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms
in the Medico-Legal Sector.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday

New York considers med-mal caps

BYLINE: Sylvia Hsieh

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 385  words


New York is weighing tort reform measures that include capping non-economic
damages in medical malpractice cases at $250,000.

The proposal was part of recommendations sent to Governor Andrew Cuomo by a task
force on Medicaid reforms. Gov. Cuomo adopted the recommendations in his budget.

The state legislature is split over the caps: the assembly has not included the
caps in its budget, but the senate has.

New York State Bar Association president Stephen Younger said his organization
has long opposed caps and has specific concerns about the way these caps were
proposed.

"This was the hospitals and hospital unions in a room coming up with what they
wanted out of Medicaid, and malpractice doesn't have anything to do with
Medicaid. There was nobody at the table representing patient safety, and it led
to a process we think is very skewed," said Younger, a commercial litigator at
Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler in New York.

He also said the caps that apply to non-economic damages will exclude some tort
victims from the court system and discriminate against others.

"These caps are set so low that it will mean a lot of cases just won't get
brought at all. ... A homemaker or child who doesn't have an income is not going
to recover more than $250,000, whereas a wealthy Wall Street executive who has a
major earning stream will get a fairly sizeable award," Younger said.

Other tort reform measures included in the recommendations would create a
compensation fund for neurologically impaired babies and make certain procedural
changes to med-mal litigation.

Under the compensation fund, a plaintiff could still sue, but the health care
award would shift to a new state insurance fund that will only cover care that
Medicaid would otherwise cover.

As for procedural changes, one recommendation is to allow depositions of expert
witnesses, something New York currently doesn't allow, which would increase
litigation costs, Younger said.

The state bar has not taken an official position on those provisions, he added.

His organization is in negotiations with the governor's office and is "hopeful"
that at least the caps will not be in the final resolution.

If passed, Younger expects there to be legal challenges based on the lack of
process as well as constitutional challenges for violating the right to jury
trial.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Government activity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 999 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright (c) 2013 by the Tulane Law Review Association
                               Tulane Law Review

                                 December, 2013

                               Tulane Law Review

                              88 Tul. L. Rev. 397

LENGTH: 13321 words

COMMENT: The Most Dangerous Directive: The Rise of Presidential Memoranda in the
Twenty-First Century as a Legislative Shortcut

NAME: Jessica M. Stricklin*

BIO: * © 2013 Jessica M. Stricklin. J.D. candidate 2014, Tulane University Law
School; B.A. 2011, University of Wisconsin-Madison. I would like to thank
Professor Saru Matambanadzo for her insightful feedback and guidance, the
dedicated members of the Review for their careful editing and hard work, and my
amazing parents, family, and friends for all their love and support throughout
this process known as law school.

HIGHLIGHT:

   The modern president faces an increasingly divided and polarized legislature.
In the face of this legislative inertia, presidents must increasingly rely on
the executive power to institute policy change. This Comment examines the
historical expansion of the executive power through the use of presidential
directives. Recently, there has been a resurgence in the use of presidential
memoranda as a vehicle for significant policy change. This Comment will use
President Barack Obama's Hospital Visitation Memorandum to illustrate the issues
and implications of using memoranda to enact significant presidential policy
objectives with the force of law. Because memoranda lack effective procedural
safeguards that are necessary to ensure a government of separated powers, this
Comment argues that memoranda should not be used as a substitute for legislation
that affects the rights of individuals.


 TEXT:
 [*398]

   I. Introduction

 President William J. Clinton had a busy day on his third day in office: he
lifted the abortion "gag rule" prohibiting abortion counseling in publicly
funded clinics, lifted the ban on abortions at U.S. military hospitals, ended
the "Mexico City Policy" that prohibited nongovernmental organizations providing
abortion counseling from receiving aid, lifted the federal research ban on fetal
tissue from abortions, and ordered the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to
reconsider the ban on the French-made "abortion pill" RU-486. n1 President
Clinton did not have to persuade members of Congress, seek approval from
Executive Branch actors, or even notify anyone before executing these
controversial policy changes. How did President Clinton manage to reverse years
of controversial and divisive policy all before dinnertime? With the stroke of
his pen, President Clinton's use of memoranda began a new chapter in executive
lawmaking. n2

   President Clinton did not invent the memorandum; rather, the memorandum has
long been a type of unilateral presidential directive available to presidents.
n3 However, President Clinton may be credited with the memorandum's "comeback"
as a major policy tool. n4 Historically, memoranda were used to address
temporary matters or instruct agency officials on regulatory action. n5 In fact,
because executive orders have long been viewed as the most powerful of the
executive instruments, very little attention has been paid to memoranda. n6 This
Comment argues that in the modern state  [*399]  characterized by congressional
division and polarization, there is a need to scrutinize presidential memoranda
as they increasingly become vehicles for significant policy change. n7

   This Comment will examine presidential memoranda as a strategic policy-making
tool of the modern president. First, it will begin by examining the historical
expansion of the executive power through the use of unilateral presidential
directives. Second, it will examine and analyze memoranda as unilateral
presidential directives and the rise of the tool as a vehicle of executive
policy change. Last, this Comment will use President Barack Obama's Hospital
Visitation Memorandum to illustrate the issues and implications of using
memoranda to enact significant presidential policy objectives with the force of
law. Memoranda, this Comment will demonstrate, lack effective procedural
safeguards that are necessary to ensure a government of separated powers.
Because trends indicate that future presidents will continue to rely on
memoranda for presidential lawmaking, in order to preserve the separation of
powers and limit presidential lawmaking, memoranda must have the same internal
and external checks as executive orders.

   II. Presidential Directives: Unilateral Policy Making

   A. Constitutional Foundations: The Separation of Powers and the Executive
Power

 The doctrine of separation of powers is a defining feature of the United States
Constitution, reflecting the Framers' concern regarding preventing institutional
tyranny. n8 The division of power between the Executive Branch and the
legislature was one of the most debated issues throughout the Constitutional
Convention and subsequent ratification period. n9 In dividing the power between
the two branches, the Framers aimed to create an executive that was "strong
enough to counter a strong legislature, but weak enough so monarchy need not be
feared." n10 To strike this balance and avoid legislative overreaching, the
[*400]  Framers created an independent "unitary executive not elected by
Congress." n11

   Although the Framers were particularly worried about legislative overreach,
the president had the most opportunity to expand executive power. n12 The
Vesting Clause in Article II, Section 1, unambiguously vests all executive power
directly in the individual president, rather than the Executive Branch of the
national government. n13 Unlike Article I, which limits legislative powers to
those "herein granted," there is no express limit in Article II to the powers
enumerated in the text of the Constitution. n14 Because of the ambiguity
surrounding the definition of the executive power, the president and the courts
have had to define its parameters over time. n15 As a result, presidential
strength has historically fluctuated with different executive administrations
and court compositions. n16

   Open-ended executive constitutional power creates the opportunity for both
flexibility and abuse. On one hand, the president's unenumerated "implied"
powers allow flexibility over time for varying governmental contexts and
challenges unanticipated by the Framers. n17 For example, administrative
agencies have played an important role in the expansion of executive power. n18
The Framers knew the president could not personally administer all of the laws,
and the implied constitutional powers allow Congress to delegate power and
create administrative agencies to assist the president. n19 On the other hand,
by placing executive power in a single president, there is an inherent danger in
the overexpansion of executive power, embodying the tyranny the Framers feared.
n20 Implied powers present the opportunity for a unitary executive to shift the
power balance between  [*401]  the branches, undermining the separation of
powers and the Framers' intentions. n21 While the system of checks and balances
is in place to limit overexpansion of power, it functions only when each
institution exercises their checks and safeguards. n22

   The United States Supreme Court's early recognition of the legitimacy of
implied executive powers presented presidents with the opportunity to expand
greatly the scope of their power. n23 By relying on their implied powers,
presidents have utilized executive tools and unilateral directives to expand
gradually the executive power over time. n24 The unitary executive envisioned by
the Framers and embodied in the Constitution, wholly separate from the lawmaking
body, no longer exists. n25 As governments face changing contexts, "We the
People" have come to accept greater presidential policy making and power to
ensure a functioning federal government. n26 As a result, modern presidents use
the executive power to engage in presidential lawmaking, blurring the autonomous
categories delineated between the executive and the legislature in the
Constitution. n27

   B. Contextual Incentives: Presidential Lawmaking in the Modern State

 While the executive's implied constitutional powers provide the authority for
presidential lawmaking, the context of the modern state provides the catalyst
for unilateral executive action. Throughout U.S. history, presidents have often
relied on their power as a unilateral executive to accomplish their policy and
legislative goals, without any bargaining, interference, or check from the other
branches of government. n28 There are three main factors that make presidential
lawmaking attractive to the Executive Branch: (1) the constitutional  [*402]
legislative process, (2) political parties and polarization, and (3) the high
costs of checks and balances. n29

   First, the myriad of separate institutional powers and various constitutional
checks and veto points creates a convoluted and inefficient legislative process.
n30 Stakeholders may capitalize on these veto points to block new action and
policy and preserve the status quo. n31 Of course, this inefficiency is what the
Framers envisioned as a weapon to secure democracy; however, the effect is that
the constitutional safeguards create a constant "tug and pull" between Congress
and the Executive Branch in which substantial policy change is slow and complex.
n32 This "tug and pull" is compounded by the second factor, the rise of
political parties and partisanship. n33

   The modern presidency is in an era where Congress is increasingly polarized
and divided, making it extremely difficult to pass legislation. n34 Therefore,
bipartisan compromises in policy change that were more common in the
mid-twentieth century happen less often. n35 As the most recent 112th Congress
demonstrates, the legislative process may be stuck in gridlock when opposing
increasingly partisan parties control the United States Senate and the House of
Representatives. n36 The composition and partisanship of Congress has a large
effect on the success of presidential initiatives; when they fail or are likely
to fail, the president is incentivized to act unilaterally or is forced to
abandon the policy initiative altogether. n37

    [*403]  Third, there are high costs associated with checking the executive's
unilateralism and expansion of power, allowing the president to push the limits
of executive power with a low threat of repercussion. n38 For one thing,
congressional members rarely gain any political advantage by challenging
unilateral presidential action. n39 For most members of Congress, who are more
interested in pursuing legislation to benefit their constituents and their
position as a party rather than strengthening the institution itself, there is
little personal gain by taking actions back from the executive. n40 The lack of
legislative action to check the president also affects the judiciary's incentive
to intervene. n41 The Supreme Court may limit presidential unilateralism through
judicial review; however, as a court of last resort trying cases and
controversies, it is unlikely to get involved when Congress has not asserted its
own institutional checks. n42 As a result, the president may act unilaterally to
achieve policy they may not otherwise be able to achieve in the legislature, and
even when such action is met with judicial or legislative skepticism, the threat
either branch will intervene is minimal. n43

   C. Unilateral Presidential Directives: The Power of the Pen

 When presidents choose to engage in presidential lawmaking, they have many
executive tools at their disposal; the most common are the various forms of
unilateral presidential directives (UPDs). n44 Executive orders are the oldest
and most well-known types of UPDs, but other types include presidential
proclamations and memoranda. n45 In general, UPDs are distinct in form rather
than in substance. n46 These written instruments direct and govern governmental
and agency actors  [*404]  within the Executive Branch. n47 When issued validly
and legitimately, UPDs operate with the force of law. n48 This authorization, in
turn, triggers judicial recognition. n49

   The Constitution is silent on UPDs. n50 The president's authority to issue
them derives from the executive's implied powers in Article II. n51 In the
absence of constitutional or statutory definitions, historically there has been
broad disagreement about the proper scope, legal authority, and application of
UPDs. n52 This ambiguity presents the opportunity for presidents to use the
tools strategically to define policy and exert their will without the need to
bargain or compromise with the opposing party or rally congressional majorities.
n53 Additionally, by acting unilaterally, UPDs allow the president to make the
first move and wait for either Congress or the courts to respond or retaliate.
n54 In reality, the ability of either Congress or the judiciary to respond is
limited. n55

   III. Presidential Memoranda: Looks Like an Order, Acts Like an Order, Is an
Order?

   A. Memoranda in the Twenty-First Century

 Although there was no system for tracking UPDs until the twentieth century,
every president has utilized these executive tools to engage in presidential
lawmaking. n56 Since the mid-twentieth century, presidents have shifted away
from issuing routine or symbolic UPDs directing action within the executive
branch and devoted more UPDs to significant policy issues. n57 Presidents
wishing to act unilaterally to set new policy in the domestic and foreign
spheres have traditionally used executive orders, and many of the most
controversial executive  [*405]  policy decisions originated in presidential
executive orders. n58 While executive orders have been the primary executive
tool for policy change for over two centuries, they are no longer the only tool.
n59 Presidential memoranda have become an increasingly important executive
weapon in the modern president's arsenal. n60

   In the face of congressional gridlock and inertia, unilateral action may be
the only realistic vehicle for policy change in the modern state. n61 Since
President Clinton's abortion memoranda on his third day in office, presidents
have increasingly relied on memoranda, instead of executive orders, to enact
significant policy change. n62 Not only did President George W. Bush follow
President Clinton's initiative to accomplish major policy objectives through
memoranda, he expanded it. n63 The Bush Administration utilized all executive
tools at its disposal to institute unilaterally sweeping domestic and foreign
policy changes. n64 At the center of this aggressive use (and abuse) of
executive power are presidential memoranda.

   In addition to routine and symbolic memoranda, President Bush employed the
use of what Phillip Cooper deemed "quasi-memoranda" - memoranda used to
"accomplish tasks of the sort generally considered grist for an executive
order." n65 Much of the controversy surrounding President Bush's policies
centered on the fact that he issued many memoranda secretly, without public
notification. n66 One of the most controversial policies of the Bush
Administration was President Bush's secret "Torture Memo." n67 This 2002 Office
of Legal Counsel memorandum stated that the president, as Commander-in-  [*406]
Chief, had the authority to authorize the use of enhanced interrogation
techniques during the War on Terror, notwithstanding the federal statute
criminalizing torture. n68 It was not until two years later when the Torture
Memo leaked that the general public learned of its existence. n69 President
Bush's two terms provide an important snapshot of presidential memoranda and
their place within the larger debate concerning executive power: the state of
national emergency faced by President Bush following September 11, 2001,
enhanced the need for a strong executive and reliance on implied powers and
presidential lawmaking. n70 However, the terms also demonstrate the dangers of
using memoranda as a substitute for legislation. n71

   President Obama's first term suggests that memoranda may be the new normal
for presidential lawmaking. n72 In his first 100 days in office, President Obama
signed more UPDs (many of which were memoranda) than any other president had
since President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. n73 President Obama began his
presidency with a strong mandate and high public expectations for change in many
of the social policy areas he campaigned on, such as health reform and LGBT
rights. n74 As many pieces of his policy agenda were stalled or vetoed in the
legislative process, President Obama recognized the need to bypass Congress in
order to enact any policy reform. n75 The president realized, as his
predecessors before him had, that memoranda are a strategic and effective policy
shortcut.

   B. The Benefits of Memoranda

 Although the Clinton, Bush, and Obama Administrations have largely treated them
as interchangeable, memoranda are not executive orders and executive orders are
not memoranda. n76 The most fundamental difference between the two instruments
is that memoranda do not have to go through any formal procedure to take  [*407]
effect. n77 Executive orders are the only of the UPDs with a formal process for
issuance. n78 To issue an executive order, the order must (1) clearly cite the
statutory and/or constitutional authority under which the order is issued, (2)
receive approval by both the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the
Attorney General of the United States, and (3) be published in the Federal
Register. n79 Memoranda allow the president to act more unilaterally than
executive orders because they are not subjected to the same internal veto checks
by the OMB or Attorney General, and they have no formal notification
requirement. n80

   While the procedural requirements vary, executive orders and memoranda have
the same end result - they have the force and effect of law. n81 Although the
president need not state his specific statutory authority, their memorandum will
be binding as long as it is issued with a valid grant of authority. n82 As a
result, memoranda offer the benefits of executive orders, namely bypassing the
legislature to enact policy change with the force of law, but have less
procedural and administrative red tape. n83 Thus, while memoranda and executive
orders are interchangeable in effect, they have significant procedural
distinctions. n84

   Because executive orders and many memoranda operate with the force of law,
the judiciary and legislature must recognize their legal effect and, as a
result, may exercise their institutional check to challenge them. n85 In Little
v. Barreme, the Supreme Court first established its power to review executive
orders and presidential directives. n86 The Court held that statutes passed by
Congress bind the president and that presidents cannot rely on their implied
constitutional powers to disregard any statutory restrictions. n87 The most
important  [*408]  statement by the Court on presidential power came in
Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer. n88 Youngstown arose during the Korean
War when President Harry Truman issued Executive Order 10,340, which directed
the Secretary of Commerce to seize the operation of the nation's steel mills in
order to avert a workers' strike. n89 The Supreme Court invalidated the order,
holding that President Truman unconstitutionally issued the steel seizure order
because he did not have legitimate authority to do so. n90

   Youngstown is recognized for Justice Robert Jackson's tripartite analysis of
presidential power in his concurring opinion. n91 First, when the president acts
pursuant to express or implied congressional authorization, they are acting with
maximum authority and their act is only unconstitutional if the federal
government itself lacks the power. n92 Second, the president is acting in a
"zone of twilight" when Congress is silent on the act. n93 In the zone of
twilight, the president is regarded as having concurrent authority with Congress
and must rely on their independent powers as authority. n94 Last, the
president's power is at a minimum when their act is "incompatible with the
expressed or implied will of Congress." n95 President Truman's actions fell in
this third zone. n96 In this last category, courts may uphold the action only if
(1) the president had exclusive power to act and (2) the courts disable Congress
from acting on the subject. n97

   Although Justice Jackson's Youngstown criteria remain applicable today to all
presidential directives, in practice, federal courts are reluctant and generally
unwilling to intervene in presidential lawmaking. n98 In 1981, the Court applied
Justice Jackson's test in upholding President Jimmy Carter's executive order
that suspended private cases filed against Iran in federal courts. n99 In Dames
& Moore v. Regan, the Court reasoned that legislative acquiescence in executive
[*409]  action constituted congressional delegation of authority. n100 Dames is
often regarded as signaling the Court's return to executive deference. n101
Aside from President Truman's steel seizure order, federal courts have only
overturned one other executive order in history. n102

   It is difficult for private citizens to seek enforcement of the provisions of
an executive order or memorandum. n103 Courts consistently hold that in general,
presidential directives do not permit individuals to claim judicial enforcement
of the substance of the directive. n104 As added insulation from judicial review
and liability, presidents often use boilerplate language in their directives
denying the intention to create any private, enforceable right. n105 As a
result, even when an individual may have standing to sue, it is extremely
difficult and often impossible to challenge a piece of presidential lawmaking.
n106

   Congress, like the courts, may exercise its institutional powers to check and
limit presidential lawmaking. n107 One institutional defense is that Congress
may repeal or nullify the statutory authority for the directive. n108 However,
this repeal process is very difficult in practice, and Congress has only fully
overturned two executive orders since 1970. n109 If Congress does attempt to
pass new legislation to overturn or modify a directive, such legislation would
still be subject to the  [*410]  presidential veto under Article I, Section 7 of
the Constitution. n110 Alternatively, Congress may limit the effect of an order
through the power of the purse, by modifying appropriations and denying expenses
to the agency or executive actor the order concerns. n111 This economic coercion
has been the most successful way Congress has challenged orders. However, it is
only available for orders that require funding and not to stop a current
practice. n112

   In sum, there are important procedural differences between memoranda and
executive orders, but both directives have a very powerful effect: both are
vehicles to enact significant policy change with the force and effect of law
without any legislative interference. n113 Additionally, the infrequency with
which Congress and the judiciary challenge executive orders and memoranda
demonstrates the staying power of presidential lawmaking. n114 Most often, a
directive will endure until a subsequent president overturns it. n115 As a
result, presidents have used this legislative and judicial deference to their
advantage, enacting significant policy with little risk of subsequent challenge.
n116

   C. The Constitutional Dangers of Memoranda

 Memoranda today increasingly look and act like executive orders, but their
procedural differences must not be overlooked. Without the formal procedural
requirements of executive orders, memoranda are "quick and dirty" policy
shortcuts that provide an easy opportunity for exploitation. First, they are
procedurally problematic, "quick" unilateral tools lacking effective checks and
balances. Second, they are inherently "dirty" - by bypassing the legislature and
public, the president may pass a memorandum without notice or discussion. As the
modern presidents increasingly use memoranda to enact significant policy change
with the effect of law, there is a need to reexamine memoranda and the
constitutional and separation of powers dangers they raise. n117

    [*411]  First, without formal procedural requirements, memoranda lack
effective institutional checks and balances. Under Youngstown, presidents may
issue memoranda as long as they have a valid grant of authority from a
congressional act or from the Constitution itself. n118 However, unlike in
executive orders, presidents do not have to cite their specific authority when
issuing a memorandum. n119 The executive order procedural requirement to cite
the specific statutory or constitutional authority functions as a check on the
president. n120 By requiring the president to comply with Youngstown at the very
beginning of the executive order process, the check reduces the likelihood of a
later challenge to the order for lack of authority. n121 Absent this check,
memoranda provide more opportunities for presidents to cite vague, blanket
assertions of power. n122 Because the institutional checks are largely reactive,
the president may wish to hedge their bets by passing a broad memorandum and
waiting to see if there is any institutional response. n123

   Additionally, presidential memoranda do not have to be approved by any other
actor before issuance. The executive order process requires both the OMB and the
Department of Justice to sign off on the order. n124 These internal executive
checks and potential veto points are absent when memoranda do not go through the
same process as is required of executive orders. n125 Presidents may choose to
consult with agencies and executive actors in writing their memoranda, but they
are not required to do so, allowing memoranda to be completely unilateral if the
president chooses. n126 Without any formal procedural require-ments, presidents
may issue memoranda completely unchecked. This lack of internal checks is even
more problematic when considering the infrequency with which the legislature and
the judiciary exercise their institutional checks to challenge a presidential
directive. n127 Without  [*412]  effectively functioning internal and external
checks, memoranda raise fundamental constitutional separation of powers issues.
n128

   Second, memoranda are inherently undemocratic tools. Unlike executive orders,
memoranda are not governed by the Federal Register Act and do not have to be
published. n129 In fact, memoranda are not subject to any notification
requirement at all. n130 This removes the important democratic check of public
notice and transparency. n131 As a result, memoranda are largely passed out of
the public eye, allowing presidents to "hide" executive action and avoid public
attention. n132 Occasionally, presidents will choose to publish their memoranda
in the Federal Register or in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents,
but in general, the public is largely unaware of their existence. n133 The lack
of notice raises significant issues of accountability as the tool is
increasingly used for substantial policy change affecting individual rights.
n134

   IV. A Closer Look: Civil Rights Policy and the Hospital Visitation Memorandum

   A. Background: The Executive Power and Civil Rights Policy

 The antidemocratic nature of the memorandum and its procedural shortcomings may
be illustrated within the context of civil rights policy. Under the separation
of powers doctrine, the president may not affect individual rights unless
Congress delegates this authority. n135 Without such delegation, UPDs are only
supposed to "direct" agencies to take action. n136 However, as this Comment has
discussed, the substance of executive orders and memoranda often goes beyond the
Executive Branch to create policy with the force of legislation. n137 The civil
rights movement provides important examples of presidents using  [*413]
executive directives to make "laws" significantly altering and expanding
individual rights and freedoms. n138

   Presidential initiatives were crucial to broadening the scope of civil rights
policies, often initiating the process of legislation that prohibited
discrimination on the basis of race, religion, national origin, and gender. n139
Presidents often pulled the trigger in the face of congressional inaction by
issuing controversial executive orders expanding the protections for different
groups, beginning a civil rights dialogue that ultimately would end with
congressional legislation and recognition by the courts. n140 Executive action
led to the most important civil rights legislation, the Civil Rights Act of 1964
and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which prohibit discrimination and segregation
on the basis of race, color, religion, and national origin. n141

   Since the end of the twentieth century, there has been a push to expand the
civil rights protections to LGBT individuals. n142 Much like the congressional
inertia faced during the civil rights movement, very little federal legislation
has passed protecting the rights of LGBT individuals on the basis of their
sexual orientation or gender identity. n143 In Executive Order 13,087, President
Clinton expanded a prior executive order prohibiting employment discrimination
in federal agencies by adding sexual orientation as a protected class. n144 The
order received considerable congressional criticism, but ultimately survived
congressional nullification attempts. n145 Like President Clinton, President
Obama focused on expanding LGBT protections through unilateral directives. n146
During his first term, the president successfully  [*414]  issued several
memoranda focused on ending sexual orientation discrimination. n147

   Thus, historically, many of the most important civil rights protections began
as executive actions, primarily without any congressional involvement. n148
These protections clearly extend beyond agency direction to create and protect
the rights of different categories of people. n149 By circumventing public
deliberation and congressional participation, civil rights directives illustrate
just how powerful a tool unilateral executive action can be to affect the
private rights of individual citizens. n150

   B. The Hospital Visitation Memorandum

 On April 15, 2010, President Obama issued a memorandum to Secretary of Health
and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services on the subject of "Respecting the Rights of Hospital Patients to
Receive Visitors and to Designate Surrogate Decision Makers for Medical
Emergencies" (the Hospital Visitation Memorandum). n151 In the Memorandum, the
president acknowledged the unique struggle faced by gay and lesbian  [*415]
Americans who are barred from seeing their partners and making medical decisions
on their behalf in medical emergencies. n152 The advisory Memorandum instructed
the department to take three steps toward ensuring that patients may receive
equal treatment during their hospital stays. n153 First, the Memorandum requires
the initiation of rulemaking to ensure that hospitals participating in Medicaid
and/or Medicare respect the rights of patients to designate visitors. n154 The
Memorandum decrees that hospitals may not deny visitation privileges based on
"race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, or disability." n155 Second, the Memorandum requires that all
Medicaid/Medicare hospitals guarantee that all patients' advance directives are
respected and that representatives have the opportunity to make informed
decisions for medical care on their behalf. n156 Last, the Memorandum directs
the Department of Health and Human Services to make additional recommendations
to the president to address hospital visitation, medical decision making, and
health issues affecting LGBT families. n157

   President Obama's Memorandum is codified in two sections of the Code of
Federal Regulations, sections 482.13 and 485.635, which became effective on
January 18, 2011. n158 The rule applies both to hospitals and critical access
hospitals participating in Medicare and/or Medicaid and requires facilities to
have written policies and procedures regarding visitation rights of patients.
n159 The new rule enumerates the rights of patients (or their representatives,
as allowed under state law) and requires hospitals to ensure such rights as
Conditions of Participation in Medicare/Medicaid. n160 Such patient rights
include (1) the right to be informed, (2) the right to participate in the plan
of care, (3) the right to make informed decisions regarding  [*416]  care, (4)
the right to formulate advance directives and have staff comply with them, and
(5) the right to have a family member or representative of their choosing be
notified upon admission. n161 Because the majority of hospitals in the United
States participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, the effect of the
Memorandum ensured a broad protection from discrimination for LGBT individuals
and their families. n162

   C. Analysis: The Hospital Visitation Memorandum and the Executive Power

 The Hospital Visitation Memorandum illustrates both the power and the limits of
using presidential memoranda as an alternative to legislation. First, the
Memorandum demonstrates the need for procedural safeguards to check the
president's use of the executive power to issue memoranda. n163 Formal procedure
ensures presidents are checked and held publicly accountable for their
memoranda. Second, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum illustrates the limits of
UPDs as a substitute for legislation. While memoranda are quick policy tools
that allow the president to expand their executive power greatly, substantive
policy change, especially change affecting individual rights, must be left to
the legislature.

   First, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum demonstrates the importance of
functioning procedural safeguards as a check on the president. n164 Without any
formal procedural requirement, presidents may issue memoranda however they
choose. The Hospital Visitation Memorandum is a unique example because President
Obama adhered to many of the procedural requirements of executive orders: he
directed an executive agency, cited the agency's statutory authority to
implement his rule, and had the new rule published in the Federal Register. n165
As a result, many of the internal checks on executive power were functioning as
the Memorandum passed through multiple executive actors and the Department of
Health and Human Services before becoming legally binding. n166

   Similar to ensuring that the internal procedural safeguards were functioning,
President Obama increased his own accountability for the  [*417]  Memorandum by
following the notification requirement of executive orders. n167 In his effort
to increase government transparency and participation, the majority of President
Obama's memoranda instruct that they are to be published in the Federal
Register. n168 Consistent with this practice, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum
was published in the Federal Register and subject to the notice and comment
rulemaking process. n169 In addition to the notification and added transparency
of enacting the Memorandum, the codification process was extremely
participatory: over 7600 comments were submitted and responded to prior to
issuing the final rule. n170 Thus, while issued unilaterally, the transparent
procedure of the Hospital Visitation Memorandum democratized the directive by
notifying the public and allowing participation in the details of the final
rule. n171

   Although President Obama adhered to many of the procedural requirements of
executive orders, he was under no obligation to do so. n172 By cherry-picking to
comply with most of the procedural requirements of executive orders, but not
all, President Obama reintroduced many procedural safeguards to the memorandum
process that would otherwise be absent. n173 However, neither President Obama
nor any other future president is bound by this practice. While the Hospital
Visitation Memorandum illustrates that "something is always better than
nothing," until all memoranda must follow the same procedural requirements as
executive orders, it will be in the president's discretion whether or not
internal checks and democratic safeguards are functioning. n174

   Second, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum illustrates the outer
constitutional limits of using memoranda to initiate significant policy change
affecting individual rights. On its face, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum
appears less controversial than many of the civil rights directives of past
presidents because it does not boldly order the desegregation of schools or
prohibit segregation in the military. To the contrary, the Memorandum speaks
generally to the rights of all  [*418]  hospital patients to receive visitors
and designate surrogate decision makers. n175 Despite this all-encompassing
language, much like the controversial civil rights legislation of presidents
past, the Memorandum appears to recognize a new individual protection for LGBT
individuals.

   The Hospital Visitation Memorandum represents a return to using executive
initiatives to trigger legislative civil rights change. n176 Despite its caveat
that it does not create any enforceable legal right, the Memorandum effectively
legislates new protections for a class of individuals. By inserting the
discrimination provision within the conditions for participation in Medicare and
Medicaid, the Memorandum binds the large majority of hospitals to recognize a
new individual protection for LGBT individuals and their families. n177 Thus,
like many of the presidential directives prohibiting discrimination in specific
contexts, such as schools and the military, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum
ensures that hospitals do not discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation.
n178

   The Hospital Visitation Memorandum differs in one significant way from past
presidential directives prohibiting discrimination: previous civil rights
directives initiated legislation, rather than serving as the legislation itself.
n179 Unlike the civil rights era directives that were later codified in the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum is not a trigger
for legislative action but attempts to be a substitute for it. n180 Although
there has been a push over the last fifty years for LGBT protections, sexual
orientation remains absent from the Civil Rights Act and very little proequality
congressional legislation has passed with respect to LGBT individuals. n181 By
affecting the private rights of individuals without congressional delegation,
the Hospital Visitation Memorandum poses  [*419]  Youngstown concerns about
separation of powers by attempting to act as a substitute for legislation. n182

   The unenforceability of the Memorandum also demonstrates why Congress must
enact policy change affecting private individual rights. n183 As is found in
most memoranda, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum contains boilerplate language
denying the intention to create an enforceable right. n184 Thus, while the
Memorandum ostensibly recognizes a new private right for LGBT individuals, this
right is hollow - individuals discriminated against on the basis of sexual
orientation have no right of action. n185 The unenforceability implicates the
importance of the creation of congressional legislation to supplement or
initiate civil rights policies substantially affecting the rights of
individuals. n186

   V. Conclusion

 The modern presidency is in a new era of lawmaking. Presidents have greatly
expanded the executive power beyond the enumerated powers in Article II, and the
American people have come to accept greater presidential policy making. In the
modern state characterized by legislative inertia and expanding political
polarization, presidents must increasingly rely on the executive power to
accomplish their legislative goals and to institute policy change. n187 While
executive orders have long been recognized as a procedural shortcut around
Congress, presidential memoranda are even quicker. n188 Without any formal
procedural requirements, memoranda lack important procedural safeguards that are
necessary to preserve the separation of powers. Thus, as a policy tool,
memoranda offer presidents the best of both worlds. The president is able to
enact policy with the binding legal effect of executive orders, while
circumventing both Congress and the procedural red tape required by executive
orders. n189

   The Hospital Visitation Memorandum illustrates the need to reexamine and
scrutinize the use of presidential memoranda in the  [*420]  modern state. Most
critically, the Memorandum demonstrates how powerful a weapon memoranda can be -
like past civil rights directives, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum appears to
create a new protection for LGBT individuals. However, while past directives
triggered civil rights legislation, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum appears
to be a substitute for legislation. Because the Memorandum affects the private
rights of individuals without congressional participation and delegation, there
are no external checks on this unilateral use of executive power. While
memoranda and directives have historically played an important role in civil
rights protections, they lack the procedural external checks and enforceability
of legislation.

   Additionally, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum demonstrates the need for
memoranda to have the same procedural requirements as executive orders. As
presidential memoranda increasingly look and act like executive orders, they
must have the same internal checks and balances. The Bush Torture Memo provides
an example of passing controversial policy without any procedure at all. The
American disapproval of President Bush was not based on the amount of power he
possessed, but how he exercised his authority, largely out of the legislative
and public eye. n190 If the Torture Memo exemplifies the procedural shortcomings
of memoranda, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum may provide insight into the
solution: by following most of the procedural requirements of executive orders,
including going through multiple actors and notice and comment rulemaking, the
Memorandum was passed with functioning internal procedural safeguards.

   Although President Obama addressed many of the constitutional issues raised
by memoranda in practice, this is not a permanent solution binding on future
presidents. If the last three administrations are any indication, memoranda will
continue to be an important presidential policy tool in the future. Memoranda
must have effective internal and external procedural safeguards if they are to
be legally binding and constitutionally sound. Because historically the
legislature and judiciary are unlikely to intervene in presidential lawmaking,
it is especially critical that memoranda enacting significant policy change have
effective internal checks and provide notice to the public. Moreover, although
memoranda are a quick tool for presidents to enact policy in the face of a
gridlocked Congress, they are not a substitute  [*421]  for all legislation. To
ensure that private rights are protected and enforced, civil rights memoranda
and memoranda affecting individual rights must be a supplement, not a
substitute, for legislation. Although the executive power today looks much
different than what the Framers envisioned, the president should not be able to
"opt out" of checks and balances.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Administrative LawSeparation of PowersLegislative ControlsImplicit Delegation of
AuthorityConstitutional LawCongressional Duties & PowersGeneral
OverviewGovernmentsFederal GovernmentExecutive Offices

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Phillip J. Cooper, The Law: Presidential Memoranda and Executive Orders: Of
Patchwork Quilts, Trump Cards, and Shell Games, 31 Presidential Stud. Q. 126,
126 (2001), available at http://www.jstor.org/stable/27552170; Memorandum on
Abortions in Military Hospitals, 29 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 88 (Jan. 22, 1993);
Memorandum on Importation of RU-486, 29 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 89 (Jan. 22,
1993); Memorandum on the Mexico City Policy, 29 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 88 (Jan.
22, 1993); Memorandum on the Title X "Gag Rule," 29 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 87
(Jan. 22, 1993).





n2.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 126-27.





n3.  Id. at 127.





n4.  Id.





n5.  Kenneth R. Mayer, With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and
Presidential Power 35 (2001).





n6.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127.





n7.  Id. at 127-28; An Update on Political Polarization Through the 112th
Congress, Voteview Blog (Jan. 16, 2013), http://voteview.com/blog/?p=726.





n8.  Abner S. Greene, Checks and Balances in an Era of Presidential Lawmaking,
61 U. Chi. L. Rev. 123, 148-49 (1994).





n9.  See Thomas J. Cleary, A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing: The Unilateral Executive
and the Separation of Powers, 6 Pierce L. Rev. 265, 267-68 (2007).





n10.  Greene, supra note 8, at 148.





n11.  Id.





n12.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 273; see The Federalist No. 51, at 257-58 (James
Madison) (Lawrence Goldman ed., 2008) ("In republican government, the
legislative authority necessarily predominates... . As the weight of the
legislative authority requires that it should be thus divided, the weakness of
the executive may require, on the other hand, that it should be fortified.").





n13.  U.S. Const. art. II, § 1, cl. 1; Gary Lawson, The Rise and Rise of the
Administrative State, 107 Harv. L. Rev. 1231, 1242-43 (1994).





n14.  See U.S. Const. art. I, § 1; id. art. II; Cleary, supra note 9, at 285.





n15.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 274.





n16.  Id.





n17.  Id.





n18.  Lawson, supra note 13, at 1242.





n19.  Id.





n20.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 276; see also Martin S. Flaherty, The Most
Dangerous Branch, 105 Yale L.J. 1725, 1727-32 (1996) (arguing that the Executive
Branch long ago replaced the legislature as the most threatening branch to the
separation of powers).





n21.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 276.





n22.  William J. Olson & Alan Woll, Executive Orders and National Emergencies:
How Presidents Have Come To "Run the Country" by Usurping Legislative Power,
Policy Analysis (Cato Inst., Wash. D.C.), Oct. 28, 1999, at 2,
http://www.cato.org/sites/cato.org/ files/pubs/pdf/pa358.pdf; see Lawson, supra
note 13.





n23.  See In re Debs, 158 U.S. 564, 599 (1895) ("While it is a government of
enumerated powers, it has within the limits of those powers all the attributes
of sovereignty ... ."); In re Neagle, 135 U.S. 1, 59 (1890) (upholding the
executive's power to take action not explicitly authorized by the Constitution
or by statute).





n24.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 286-87.





n25.  Greene, supra note 8, at 134-35; see Lawson, supra note 13, at 1241-46
(arguing that the unitary executive is dead).





n26.  Greene, supra note 8, at 134-35.





n27.  Id.





n28.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 4.





n29.  Richard E. Matland & Andrea L. Walker, Obama and Social Policy:
Acclamation or Alienation Among Women, Minorities, and Gays?, in Transforming
America: Barack Obama in the White House 189, 189-90 (Steven E. Schier ed.,
2011).





n30.  Id.





n31.  Lawrence R. Jacobs & Desmond King, Varieties of Obamaism: Structure,
Agency, and the Obama Presidency, in Obama at the Crossroads 3, 19 (Lawrence R.
Jacobs & Desmond King eds., 2012). For example, the 112th Congress demonstrates
the challenges and legislative impasse in a divided government. Many of
President Obama's policy initiatives, including energy and climate change,
financial reform, and health care, were predictably stalled, compromised, or
defeated by the Republican majority in House of Representatives. Id. at 18-20.





n32.  Neal Devins, Presidential Unilateralism and Political Polarization: Why
Today's Congress Lacks the Will and the Way To Stop Presidential Initiatives, 45
Willamette L. Rev. 395, 396 (2009).





n33.  Id. at 409-10.





n34.  Id. at 410.





n35.  Suzanne Mettler, Reconstituting the Submerged State: The Challenges of
Social Policy Reform in the Obama Era, in Obama at the Crossroads, supra note
31, at 71, 74.





n36.  Jacobs & King, supra note 31, at 18. The most recent DW-NOMINATE figures,
the industry standard of measuring ideology in the House and Senate, reveal that
polarization is at an all-time high in Congress, exceeding levels in the
nineteenth century. An Update on Political Polarization Through the 112th
Congress, supra note 7.





n37.  Devins, supra note 32, at 410.





n38.  Id. at 413-14.





n39.  Id.





n40.  Id.





n41.  Id. at 413; see, e.g., Sanchez-Espinoza v. Reagan, 770 F.2d 202, 211 (D.C.
Cir. 1985) (Ginsburg, J., concurring) ("Congress has formidable weapons at its
disposal - the power of the purse and investigative resources far beyond those
available in the Third Branch... . "If the Congress chooses not to confront the
President, it is not our task to do so.'" (quoting Goldwater v. Carter, 444 U.S.
996, 998 (1979) (Powell, J., concurring))).





n42.  Devins, supra note 32, at 413; see Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. (1 Cranch)
137 (1803).





n43.  Graham G. Dodds, Unilateral Directives, in The Obama Presidency: A
Preliminary Assessment 343, 343 (Robert P. Watson et al. eds., 2012).





n44.  Id. at 343-44.





n45.  Id.





n46.  Vanessa K. Burrows, Cong. Research Serv., RS20846, Executive Orders:
Issuance and Revocation 1 (2010).





n47.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 344.





n48.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n49.  Id.





n50.  Id.





n51.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 344.





n52.  Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 9.





n53.  William G. Howell, Power Without Persuasion: The Politics of Direct
Presidential Action 15 (2003).





n54.  Id. at 14.





n55.  See Mayer, supra note 5, at 59.





n56.  Id. at 34; see Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 11-18 (outlining how
individual presidents have used executive orders to affect policy).





n57.  Adam L. Warber, Executive Orders and the Modern Presidency: Legislating
from the Oval Office 60 (2006).





n58.  Howell, supra note 53, at 6-7. President Roosevelt's 1942 order during
WWII to create Japanese internment camps is the most notable of such orders,
invading the rights of over 100,000 U.S. citizens. Other examples include
President Abraham Lincoln's suspension of habeas corpus, President Truman's 1948
executive order abolishing racial discrimination in the armed forces and, most
recently, President Obama's executive order regarding federal funding for
abortion under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Burrows, supra
note 46, at 2 & n.11.





n59.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n60.  Id.





n61.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 358-59.





n62.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n63.  See Christopher S. Kelley, Rhetoric and Reality? Unilateralism and the
Obama Administration, 93 Soc. Sci. Q. 1146, 1146-47 (2012).





n64.  See Michael P. Allen, George W. Bush and the Nature of Executive
Authority: The Role of Courts in a Time of Constitutional Change, 72 Brook. L.
Rev. 871, 895-96 (2007).





n65.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 139.





n66.  Kelley, supra note 63, at 1147.





n67.  Dawn E. Johnsen, What's a President To Do? Interpreting the Constitution
in the Wake of Bush Administration Abuses, 88 B.U. L. Rev. 395, 403 (2008).





n68.  Jay S. Bybee, Memorandum for Alberto R. Gonzales, Counsel to the
President: Re: Standards of Conduct for Interrogation Under 18 U.S.C.§§2340
-2340A, U.S. Dep't of Justice (Aug. 1, 2002),
http://www.justice.gov/olc/docs/memo-gonzales-aug2002.pdf.





n69.  Johnsen, supra note 67, at 403-04.





n70.  Allen, supra note 64, at 874-78.





n71.  Id.





n72.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 358.





n73.  Id.





n74.  Mettler, supra note 35, at 72; Mathew S. Nosanchuk, The Endurance Test:
Executive Power and the Civil Rights of LGBT Americans, 5 Alb. Gov't L. Rev.
440, 444 (2012).





n75.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 446.





n76.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n77.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 128.





n78.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1. The proper format and process was
established in Executive Orders 11,030 and 11,354. Mayer, supra note 5, at 60.





n79.  1 C.F.R. §§19.1-.2 (2013). Presidents may skip this formal process without
penalty, often doing so when under time pressure in the beginning or end of
their term. Mayer, supra note 5, at 60-61.





n80.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 138-40.





n81.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n82.  Id.





n83.  See Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n84.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n85.  Id.





n86.  6 U.S. (2 Cranch) 170 (1804).





n87.  Id. at 170 ("A commander of a ship of war of the United States, in obeying
his instructions from the President of the United States, acts at his peril. If
those instructions are not strictly warranted by law he is answerable in damages
to any person injured by their execution.").





n88.  343 U.S. 579 (1952).





n89.  Id. at 583.





n90.  Id. at 585, 587-89.





n91.  Id. at 635-37 (Jackson, J., concurring).





n92.  Id.





n93.  Id. at 637.





n94.  Id.





n95.  Id.





n96.  Id.





n97.  Id. at 637-38.





n98.  Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 9.





n99.  Dames & Moore v. Regan, 453 U.S. 654, 674 (1981).





n100.  Id.





n101.  Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 18.





n102.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 3-4; see Chamber of Commerce of U.S. v. Reich,
74 F.3d 1322 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (holding that President Clinton's executive order
was regulatory in nature, in violation of the National Labor Relations Act).





n103.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 59.





n104.  Id.; see, e.g., Zhang v. Slattery, 55 F.3d 732, 747-48 (2d Cir. 1995)
("Only when executive orders have "specific foundation in Congressional action'
are they "judicially enforceable in private civil suits.'" (quoting In re
Surface Mining Regulation Litig., 627 F.2d 1346, 1357 (D.C. Cir. 1980)));
Facchiano Constr. Co. v. U.S. Dep't of Labor, 987 F.2d 206, 210 (3d Cir. 1993)
("Generally, there is no private right of action to enforce obligations imposed
on executive branch officials by executive orders."); Indep. Meat Packers Ass'n
v. Butz, 526 F.2d 228, 235-36 (8th Cir. 1975) (holding that an executive order
broadly stating policy objectives of the Agricultural Marketing Act was
"intended primarily as a managerial tool for implementing the President's
personal economic policies and not as a legal framework enforceable by private
civil action").





n105.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 59-60.





n106.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 137.





n107.  Devins, supra note 32, at 395.





n108.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 3-4. Prior to 1983, Congress often responded
to executive orders through the use of the legislative veto. Mayer, supra note
5, at 27. This trend changed in 1983 when the Supreme Court held that one-house
legislative vetoes were unconstitutional and Congress needed to use the normal
legislative process to overturn executive action. INS v. Chadha, 462 U.S. 919,
921-22 (1983).





n109.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 27-28. Between 1973 and 1997, over 1,400
executive orders were issued. Id. Of these, there were only thirty-six attempts
to reverse orders legislatively and only one was successful. Id.





n110.  Warber, supra note 57, at 108.





n111.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 4-5.





n112.  See id.





n113.  Id. at 1-2.





n114.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 469. Between 1936 and 1995, there were 5,392
executive orders issued by presidents. Of these, only 3.8% were reformed by
Congress. Warber, supra note 57, at 39, 119-20.





n115.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 469.





n116.  Id.





n117.  See Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-31.





n118.  343 U.S. 579, 585 (1952).





n119.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 2.





n120.  Id.





n121.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 136-37.





n122.  Id. For example, "By the authority vested in me as President by the
Constitution and laws of the United States of America." Id. (quoting Federal
Actions To Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income
Populations, Exec. Order No. 12,898, 3 C.F.R. 859 (1995) (internal quotation
marks omitted)); see Memorandum on Engaging in Public Health Research on the
Causes and Prevention of Gun Violence, 2013 Daily Comp. Pres. Doc. 21 (Jan. 16,
2013).





n123.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 359.





n124.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 60.





n125.  See id. at 60-61.





n126.  See id. at 61.





n127.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 469.





n128.  See Cleary, supra note 9, at 286-89.





n129.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 128, 138.





n130.  Id. at 138.





n131.  Id.





n132.  Id.





n133.  Id.





n134.  Id. at 127-28.





n135.  See Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n136.  Id.





n137.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 5.





n138.  Id. at 35, 184; see, e.g., Exec. Order No. 10,730, 22 Fed. Reg. 7628
(Sept. 24, 1957) (authorizing the Secretary of Defense to federalize the
Arkansas National Guard in response to Little Rock's defiance of the
desegregation order).





n139.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 5, 184-85.





n140.  Id. Kenneth Mayer presents a detailed chronology of the history of civil
rights and the executive power, arguing that executive action can spark national
dialogue and draw Congress and the courts to the consensus. Id. at 217.





n141.  Id. at 184-85; Voting Rights Act of 1965, Pub. L. No. 89-110, 79 Stat.
437; Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352, 78 Stat. 241. For example,
President Truman's order desegregating the military and President Dwight
Eisenhower's order desegregating public schools began as executive orders and
were later incorporated in the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Mayer, supra note 5, at
192, 194.





n142.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 441.





n143.  Id. at 442.





n144.  Id.; Exec. Order No. 13,087, 3 C.F.R. 191 (1999).





n145.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 214-15.





n146.  Id.; Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 445-46.





n147.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 445-46. President Obama and Executive Branch
departments issued memoranda and directives on the subjects of expanding federal
benefits for same-sex partners, eliminating discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation and gender identity in housing programs, school district
obligations with respect to bullying in schools, lifting the HIV travel ban,
eliminating passport barriers for transgender individuals, and changing familial
definitions for LGBT families in housing and development programs. See, e.g.,
Equal Access to Housing in HUD Programs Regardless of Sexual Orientation or
Gender Identity, 77 Fed. Reg. 5662 (Feb. 3, 2012) (to be codified in scattered
sections of 24 C.F.R.); Medical Examination of Aliens, 42 C.F.R. pt. 34 (2010)
(removing HIV from the definition of communicable disease of public health
significance); Memorandum of June 17, 2009: Federal Benefits and
Non-Discrimination, 74 Fed. Reg. 29,393 (June 22, 2009); Fiscal Year 2010
Transformation Initiative: Homeless Families Demonstration Small Grant Research
Program, Dep't of Housing & Urban Dev., http://archives.hud.gov/funding/2010/
homelessfamnofa.pdf; Guidance Targeting Harassment Outlines Local and Federal
Responsibility, U.S. Dep't of Educ. (Oct. 26, 2010),
http://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/guidance-targeting-harassment-outlines-loc
al-and-federal-responsibility.





n148.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 446.





n149.  See id. at 441-42.





n150.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 214-15.





n151.  Memorandum on Respecting the Rights of Hospital Patients To Receive
Visitors and To Designate Surrogate Decision Makers for Medical Emergencies,
2010 Daily Comp. Pres. Doc. 267 (Apr. 15, 2010) [hereinafter Presidential
Memorandum on Hospital Visitation] ("For all of these Americans, the failure to
have their wishes respected concerning who may visit them or make medical
decisions on their behalf has real consequences... . All too often, people are
made to suffer or even to pass away alone, denied the comfort of companionship
in their final moments while a loved one is left worrying and pacing down the
hall.").





n152.  Id. The Memorandum was issued in response to the case Langbehn v. Public
Health Trust, in which Janice Langbehn sued a Florida hospital after the
hospital denied her and her children visitation rights to Langbehn's life
partner Lisa Marie Pond. See 661 F. Supp. 2d 1326, 1331-32 (S.D. Fla. 2009). The
hospital refused to recognize Langbehn's power of attorney or provide
information on Pond's medical condition, stating that they were "in an "anti-gay
city and state.'" Id. at 1332. Acknowledging the hospital's lack of sensitivity,
the court ultimately dismissed the case for lack of relief under Florida law.
Id. at 1333.





n153.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151.





n154.  Id.





n155.  Id.





n156.  Id.





n157.  Id.





n158.  A. Nicole Kwapisz, Note, In Times of Medical Crisis: Inadequacy of Legal
Remedies Available to Sexual Minorities, 14 Scholar 447, 467 (2011).





n159.  42 C.F.R. §§482.13, 485.635 (2012).





n160.  Id. § 482.13.





n161.  Id.





n162.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 355.





n163.  See Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 1.





n164.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1-2.





n165.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151.





n166.  Id.





n167.  See 1 C.F.R. § 19.2 (2013).





n168.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 351-52. In addition to having most memoranda
published in the Federal Register, all memoranda appear on the White House Web
site. Id. at 352.





n169.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151.





n170.  Fay A. Rozovsky, Complying with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services Visitation Rule, J. Health Care Compliance, Mar.-Apr. 2011, at 15, 16.





n171.  See Cooper, supra note 1, at 138.





n172.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n173.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n174.  See Burrows, supra note 46, at 2; Mayer, supra note 5, at 60-61.





n175.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151 ("For all
of these Americans, the failure to have their wishes respected concerning who
may visit them or make medical decisions on their behalf has real consequences."
(emphasis added)).





n176.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 184-87.





n177.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151.





n178.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 192-94; Presidential Memorandum on Hospital
Visitation, supra note 151; see, e.g., Exec. Order No. 10,730, 22 Fed. Reg. 7628
(Sept. 24, 1957) (authorizing the Secretary of Defense to federalize the
Arkansas National Guard in response to Little Rock's defiance of the
desegregation order); Exec. Order No. 9981, 13 Fed. Reg. 4313 (July 26, 1948)
(ordering equal treatment in the armed services without regard to race, color,
religion, or national origin).





n179.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 192-94.





n180.  See id. at 195.





n181.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 442; see Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L.
No. 88-352, § 410, 78 Stat. 241, 249.





n182.  See Burrows, supra note 46, at 1-20.





n183.  See Meredith Fileff, Comment, Hospital Visitation: The Forgotten Gay
Rights Struggle, 45 J. Marshall L. Rev. 939, 957-61 (2012).





n184.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 59-60; Presidential Memorandum on Hospital
Visitation, supra note 151.





n185.  Fileff, supra note 183, at 957-58.





n186.  Id.





n187.  Greene, supra note 8, at 134-35.





n188.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n189.  Id. at 138-40.





n190.  Devins, supra note 32, at 414.


                              272 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               SUNDAY MAIL (QLD)

                             April 28, 1985 Sunday

SURGEONS VOTE 'NO'

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 148 words


Surgeons vote "no' SYDNEY._ Rebel surgeons in New South Wales plan to return to
the public hospital system to perform elective surgery on the disadvantaged and
pensioners at no cost.

A Council of Procedural Specialists spokesman, Dr David McNicoll, said yesterday
the council's executive would announce details of the plan in the next few days.

Dr McNicoll said the plan followed the overwhelming rejection yesterday of the
Federal Government's $166 million ""peace package" of changes to Medicare.

The 470 surgeons at a meeting at the University of New South Wales were asked to
complete a questionnaire with three options _ withdrawing their resignations and
going back to work; continuing with their resignations but providing normal
services in hospitals pending further negotiations; or continuing with their
resignations and performing only emergency surgery, as now.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              273 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

ACC Publishes Lifelong Learning Competencies For General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The ACC has published new lifelong learning competencies for general
cardiologists, defining the knowledge, skills and behaviors expected throughout
the span of their careers, while also identifying certain aspects of
cardiovascular medicine that exceed core expectations. The document, published
Feb. 19 in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, aims to ensure the
highest levels of quality and service for patients, and complements the Core
Cardiology Training Statement (COCATS 4), released in March 2015. Together the
documents cover the spectrum of a practicing cardiologist from training through
their career.





 The competencies are organized using the six competency domains developed by
the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and American Board of
Medical Specialties, and endorsed by the American Board of Internal Medicine.
These include medical knowledge, patient care and procedural skill,
systems-based practice, practice-based learning and improvement, interpersonal
and communication skills, and professionalism. The document also includes
leadership and administrative competencies such as organizational skills,
professional identity, interaction with governmental and health care systems,
and personal balance. A key feature is adherence to appropriate use and
guideline-driven criteria for patient care and resource utilization.



 Assessment tools are available for physicians to expand lifelong learning and
maintain competency, as well as to assess their professional needs for education
and performance improvement. The tools include certified continuing medical
education activities relevant to an individual's practice, review of practice or
hospital data, performance assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated
self-reflection. For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment
tools may include registry or hospital data, appropriate use criteria and
metrics developed by national organizations.



 "These lifelong learning competencies serve as the underpinning of all ACC
education activities and are a mechanism for needs assessment and personalized
or focused education for physicians," says Eric S. Williams, MD, MACC, chair of
the writing committee.



 In a recent article in Cardiology magazine, Williams and Jonathan L. Halperin,
MD, FACC, note that "what makes this document truly unique is that it attempts
to define those competencies that every cardiologist should maintain no matter
what their career focus, while identifying those skills or activities that
reflect a more specific practice focus."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

ACC Publishes Lifelong Learning Competencies For General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The ACC has published new lifelong learning competencies for general
cardiologists, defining the knowledge, skills and behaviors expected throughout
the span of their careers, while also identifying certain aspects of
cardiovascular medicine that exceed core expectations. The document, published
Feb. 19 in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, aims to ensure the
highest levels of quality and service for patients, and complements the Core
Cardiology Training Statement (COCATS 4), released in March 2015. Together the
documents cover the spectrum of a practicing cardiologist from training through
their career.





 The competencies are organized using the six competency domains developed by
the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and American Board of
Medical Specialties, and endorsed by the American Board of Internal Medicine.
These include medical knowledge, patient care and procedural skill,
systems-based practice, practice-based learning and improvement, interpersonal
and communication skills, and professionalism. The document also includes
leadership and administrative competencies such as organizational skills,
professional identity, interaction with governmental and health care systems,
and personal balance. A key feature is adherence to appropriate use and
guideline-driven criteria for patient care and resource utilization.



 Assessment tools are available for physicians to expand lifelong learning and
maintain competency, as well as to assess their professional needs for education
and performance improvement. The tools include certified continuing medical
education activities relevant to an individual's practice, review of practice or
hospital data, performance assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated
self-reflection. For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment
tools may include registry or hospital data, appropriate use criteria and
metrics developed by national organizations.



 "These lifelong learning competencies serve as the underpinning of all ACC
education activities and are a mechanism for needs assessment and personalized
or focused education for physicians," says Eric S. Williams, MD, MACC, chair of
the writing committee.



 In a recent article in Cardiology magazine, Williams and Jonathan L. Halperin,
MD, FACC, note that "what makes this document truly unique is that it attempts
to define those competencies that every cardiologist should maintain no matter
what their career focus, while identifying those skills or activities that
reflect a more specific practice focus."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

ACC Publishes Lifelong Learning Competencies For General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The ACC has published new lifelong learning competencies for general
cardiologists, defining the knowledge, skills and behaviors expected throughout
the span of their careers, while also identifying certain aspects of
cardiovascular medicine that exceed core expectations. The document, published
Feb. 19 in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, aims to ensure the
highest levels of quality and service for patients, and complements the Core
Cardiology Training Statement (COCATS 4), released in March 2015. Together the
documents cover the spectrum of a practicing cardiologist from training through
their career.





 The competencies are organized using the six competency domains developed by
the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and American Board of
Medical Specialties, and endorsed by the American Board of Internal Medicine.
These include medical knowledge, patient care and procedural skill,
systems-based practice, practice-based learning and improvement, interpersonal
and communication skills, and professionalism. The document also includes
leadership and administrative competencies such as organizational skills,
professional identity, interaction with governmental and health care systems,
and personal balance. A key feature is adherence to appropriate use and
guideline-driven criteria for patient care and resource utilization.



 Assessment tools are available for physicians to expand lifelong learning and
maintain competency, as well as to assess their professional needs for education
and performance improvement. The tools include certified continuing medical
education activities relevant to an individual's practice, review of practice or
hospital data, performance assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated
self-reflection. For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment
tools may include registry or hospital data, appropriate use criteria and
metrics developed by national organizations.



 "These lifelong learning competencies serve as the underpinning of all ACC
education activities and are a mechanism for needs assessment and personalized
or focused education for physicians," says Eric S. Williams, MD, MACC, chair of
the writing committee.



 In a recent article in Cardiology magazine, Williams and Jonathan L. Halperin,
MD, FACC, note that "what makes this document truly unique is that it attempts
to define those competencies that every cardiologist should maintain no matter
what their career focus, while identifying those skills or activities that
reflect a more specific practice focus."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

ACC Publishes Lifelong Learning Competencies For General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The ACC has published new lifelong learning competencies for general
cardiologists, defining the knowledge, skills and behaviors expected throughout
the span of their careers, while also identifying certain aspects of
cardiovascular medicine that exceed core expectations. The document, published
Feb. 19 in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, aims to ensure the
highest levels of quality and service for patients, and complements the Core
Cardiology Training Statement (COCATS 4), released in March 2015. Together the
documents cover the spectrum of a practicing cardiologist from training through
their career.





 The competencies are organized using the six competency domains developed by
the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and American Board of
Medical Specialties, and endorsed by the American Board of Internal Medicine.
These include medical knowledge, patient care and procedural skill,
systems-based practice, practice-based learning and improvement, interpersonal
and communication skills, and professionalism. The document also includes
leadership and administrative competencies such as organizational skills,
professional identity, interaction with governmental and health care systems,
and personal balance. A key feature is adherence to appropriate use and
guideline-driven criteria for patient care and resource utilization.



 Assessment tools are available for physicians to expand lifelong learning and
maintain competency, as well as to assess their professional needs for education
and performance improvement. The tools include certified continuing medical
education activities relevant to an individual's practice, review of practice or
hospital data, performance assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated
self-reflection. For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment
tools may include registry or hospital data, appropriate use criteria and
metrics developed by national organizations.



 "These lifelong learning competencies serve as the underpinning of all ACC
education activities and are a mechanism for needs assessment and personalized
or focused education for physicians," says Eric S. Williams, MD, MACC, chair of
the writing committee.



 In a recent article in Cardiology magazine, Williams and Jonathan L. Halperin,
MD, FACC, note that "what makes this document truly unique is that it attempts
to define those competencies that every cardiologist should maintain no matter
what their career focus, while identifying those skills or activities that
reflect a more specific practice focus."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 2, 2015 Wednesday

Botched op: AIIMS panel's report quashed

BYLINE: Durgesh Nandan Jha

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 387 words


NEW DELHI: The Delhi Medical Council has rejected AIIMS committee's report that
gave a clean chit to its doctors on an incident involving the death of a patient
during a live surgery led by a Japanese expert.

Girish Tyagi, the registrar of DMC, told TOI on Tuesday that the council has
asked the institute to provide all the details, CD of the procedure and proof of
permission sought by the foreign faculty.

"We cannot depend on the report of a committee constituted by AIIMS itself. The
institute authorities have been asked to provide all the relevant details which
will be looked into by our committee to reach a conclusion on whether there were
any procedural lapses or negligence in the case," said Tyagi.

On July 31, Dr Goro Honda from Japan's Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious
Diseases Center, performed a laparoscopic liver resection at a workshop,

hosted jointly by AIIMS and the Army Research & Referral Hospital, New Delhi, at
AIIMS. Over a hundred surgeons watched him perform the surgery, which involved
the removal of the liver or a portion of it through three or four keyhole-sized
incisions in the stomach.

Honda's patient, 62-year-old Shobha Ram, suffered massive bleeding during the
procedure. It has been alleged that despite suggestions that the team resort to
an open surgery, doctors continued with the laparoscopic technique, relenting
only after seven hours of surgery. The live video feed to the audience was
terminated and the patient shifted to the ICU, where he died 90 minutes later.

Later, AIIMS clarified bleeding is a known complication of the procedure. "The
patient had a detailed preoperative assessment for feasibility of removing the
tumour surgically. During the course of the surgery there was bleeding, which is
a known complication of the procedure. The procedure was converted to an open
one and all measures were taken to control the bleeding. Unfortunately, because
of the underlying liver disease he did not do well and died," the institute
said.

Dr Amit Gupta, the hospital spokesperson, said there was no procedural lapse.
"We have nothing to hide. The matter has been examined by a committee that had
external experts from PGI, Chandigarh, and SGPGI, Lucknow. If the DMC wants, we
will provide the details to them for perusal too," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD.)

                             April 4, 2000, Tuesday

BYLINE: By Peter Geier; Daily Record Legal Affairs Writer

SECTION: Pg. 1Amid

LENGTH: 627 words


A defamation lawsuit brought by a former public school cross-country coach
against students and their parents for accusing him of sexual misconduct will
get a second wind, the Court of Special Appeals held yesterday.     The appeals
court reversed a Montgomery County Circuit Court dismissal of the case, saying
the students' accusations were not absolutely protected from a lawsuit because
adverse administrative actions were taken against Christopher A. Flynn, a former
Walt Whitman High School teacher and coach, without his consent and without
adequate procedural safeguards.     The case "is certainly a matter of public
interest," said Richard E. Schimel, the attorney for the students and their
parents. "We'll go back and conduct discovery and litigate the case on the
defeses of truth and qualified privilege."    Schimel said he had not seen the
court's opinion and declined further comment.     In not accepting the students'
contention that they are absolutely immune from suit because Flynn could have
pursued a grievance or administrative complaint, the court held that procedural
safeguards were available to him only on appeal after he had been sanctioned.
   "In fact, having procedural protections available after adverse action has
already been taken not only fails to ferret out malicious lies, but is actually
less likely to discourage false accusations," Judge Andrew L. Sonner wrote for
the court.     "Although the lower court dismissed the case by relying on
Imperial v. Drapeau, the issue of whether absolute immunity bars a defamation
claim when a knowingly false complaint is made to a public school system about a
public school teacher appears to be one of first impression in Maryland," Sonner
said.      Imperial stems from a case in which emergency medical technician
Wayne A. Drapeau made a judgment call on the scene to transport a patient of Dr.
Roland Imperial to the nearest hospital rather than a more distant hospital
ordered by the doctor.     Because of Drapeau's action, Imperial wrote "unsworn
letters" to Gov. Parris N. Glendening and Rep. Constance A. Morella, R-Md.,
calling for an investigation of the technician's alleged incompetence and
"unethical and illegal" actions.     Drapeau sued Imperial for defamation. The
trial court ruled in favor of the doctor, holding that the letters were "either
absolutely or conditionally privileged;" that is, protected from legal action, a
holding ultimately upheld by the Court of Appeals.     However, the Court of
Special Appeals in the Flynn case did not find the same "procedural safeguards"
in place in the Montgomery County Public School regulation governing the
sanctioning of professional personnel.     "We're not a party to this particular
case," said Brian J. Porter, communications director for the Montgomery County
Public School system, "so it would be inappropriate for us to comment."    Flynn
has been a Montgomery County public school teacher since 1989, and was the coach
of a co-ed high cross-country team from 1990 until 1998, when his alleged
misconduct was brought to the attention of the school principal and other
Montgomery County school system officials.     He was suspended with pay from
January through May 1998 while the county schools' Department of Personnel
Services investigated the students' allegations against him, after which Flynn
was assigned a nonteaching position.     In July 1998, Flynn was reprimanded
"for actions that showed differential and unequal treatment of girls on the
cross country team," Sonner said. Flynn was transferred to another county school
and no longer coaches sports teams.     Neither Flynn nor his attorney, Richard
L. Swick, could be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 The Daily Record Co.


                              279 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan: Need for urgent legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect unassuming
victims underscored at seminar

LENGTH: 611  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 16 -- There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber

Crime law due to increasing incidents of cyber crime against unassuming

victims including young girls and women, recommended participants of a seminar
organised to celebrate 25th anniversary of WAR, the NGO working

against exploitation of women.

Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour

on the occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Ms Sharmila Farooqi
presided the session "Rape & Sexual Violence : Legal Reforms"

that attracted diverse segments of people, comprising members of the

Civil Society, representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers, teachers,

human rights activists and government officials.

Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in

the Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gang-rape, could be

reduced through "no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against
women.

They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and

implementation of all laws recently passed for women protection and

welfare, as otherwise, they feared the violence against women will

continue, unabated.

Participants using the forum of this seminar to push forth for some

much needed "Legal, Medical and Procedural Reforms" by the Government

urged the authorities to empower the existent Women Police Stations and

increase their numbers in every district.

Moreover, medico- legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded

to be made operational in all major hospitals, including those in

private sector as Aga Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.

Mandatory DNA testing for all rape cases was also recommended besides

provision for DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.

They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state

prosecutors, judges, police officers, medico-legal officers and clerical

force in judiciary.

Guest of honour Mukhtaran Mai on the occasion pleaded for speedy

trials to ensure prosecution of offenders of the heinous crime.

The Minister for Culture and Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising

the work of NGOs like War Against Rape, reiterated the Government's

resolve to continue its work for the welfare of women in general,

including effort to eradicate sexual violence.

The Seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan

who reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in

the late 1980s.

The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &

Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh

Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint Act, but urged

the government to focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.

Barrister Danish Zuberi, in her address spoke about the laws relating

to rape and the reforms needed to make rape prosecution more effective.

She also suggested that cases of sexual violence, rape and incest be

covered under "Time Limit" of two years as done in terrorism cases.

The senior lawyer said in cases of "compromise" or out of court

settlement, state should become a "Party" and continue with the

prosecution of the accused.

Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges

in context of medico-legal and the procedural obstructions hindering

disbursement of fair trial and justice to survivors. Going through her
experience as a past Director in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms

in the Medico-Legal Sector

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright (c) 1996 Hofstra Law Review
                               Hofstra Law Review

                                  Spring, 1996

                             24 Hofstra L. Rev. 845

LENGTH: 8591 words

COMMENT: SWEET WITHOUT THE BITTER?  n1 THE ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFER OF CIVILLY
COMMITTED PSYCHIATRIC PATIENTS IN NEW YORK: SAVASTANO V. NURNBERG  n2

NAME:  Daniel A. Rosen *

BIO:



   * I wish to thank Professor Michael L. Perlin of New York Law School, Dennis
Feld, Esq., and Elliott Raines, Esq., for their constructive criticism, abundant
resources, and advice. Deepest appreciation to Hon. Maxine K. Duberstein, who
gave me the opportunity to see the "special term" at work. Finally, thank you to
Christine A. Cirillo, whose patience, assistance, and understanding have been a
constant source of strength.

 TEXT:
 [*845]


   I. Introduction

 Three involuntarily committed patients were to be transferred from Queens
Hospital Center, a general hospital containing acute care psychiatric
facilities, to Creedmoor Psychiatric Center, a state-operated psychiatric
hospital.  n3 Dr. H. George Nurnberg, director of the Department of Psychiatry
at Queens Hospital Center, determined at a hearing that the patients satisfied
the administrative criteria for transfer to a long-term ward at Creedmoor.  n4

    The patients objected to this transfer.  n5 They alleged that this decision
violated their constitutionally protected liberty interest in avoiding transfer
to a long-term psychiatric hospital, and that the aforementioned administrative
hearing denied them due process of law [*846]  in violation of State and Federal
Constitutions.  n6 The New York Supreme Court of Queens County concluded that
the statutory and administrative authority under which the patients were to be
transferred violated the Due Process Clauses of the State and Federal
Constitutions.  n7

    Dr. Nurnberg appealed to the Appellate Division, Second Department.  n8 The
Second Department reversed the judgment and dismissed the action, holding that
the aforementioned authority did not violate the Due Process provisions of the
State and Federal Constitutions.  n9

    The New York Court of Appeals affirmed.  n10 The court, which assumed,
arguendo, that such a transfer implicated a constitutionally protected liberty
interest, held that the administrative hearing prior to transfer satisfied the
requirements of procedural due process.  n11 However, the court also held that
the patient could have judicial recourse by instituting an article 78 proceeding
prior to transfer, which offers the possibility of injunctive relief.  n12

    This Comment argues that transfer from a short-term, acute care hospital to
a long-term psychiatric facility  n13 implicates a constitutionally protected
liberty interest, and that the aforementioned statutory and regulatory scheme
provides inadequate procedural protection for the opposing patient.  n14 No de
jure negation of this liberty interest exists upon confinement in a psychiatric
hospital.  n15 Additionally, this Comment argues that the holding in Savastano
in no way serves the constitutional interest in judicial economy and efficiency
and often has the de facto effect of actually hampering these goals.  n16

    Part II establishes that, through the creation of an elaborate [*847]
mandatory statutory and regulatory scheme, New York has created a
constitutionally protected liberty interest for a patient who opposes transfer.
Although a patient surrenders some rights when involuntarily hospitalized, Part
III maintains that no general de jure negation of liberty interests exists upon
confinement.

    Part IV documents the markedly increased stigma and "transfer trauma"
associated with a transfer from a short-term general care facility to a
long-term psychiatric hospital. Although such stigma alone does not create a
liberty interest, this Part reveals that the law mandates adequate procedural
protection when stigma is a factor.

    Having established that transfer implicates a constitutionally protected
liberty interest, or at the least, the need for adequate procedural protection,
Part V argues that the administrative hearing currently in use is violative of
procedural due process. Additionally, regardless of the constitutional
arguments, the de facto result of Savastano has created the potential for
additional fiscal and administrative burdens. Finally, the transfer regulations
implemented by the New York Office of Mental Health are ultra vires, in that
they serve to abrogate psychiatric patients' rights when its enabling statutes
were promulgated with the express purpose of increasing patients' rights. Part
VI concludes by offering two possible solutions to these infirmities.


   II. State-Created Liberty Interest  n17

 By requiring specific substantive predicates prior to transfer  n18 through
mandatory language in the relevant statutes and regulations, New York has
created a protected liberty interest in avoiding transfer to a [*848]
state-operated psychiatric hospital.  n19 For example, the Office of Mental
Health uses the following mandatory language in its regulation regarding
transfer: "No request for the transfer of an objecting patient shall be made by
the sending hospital until such patient has been given an opportunity to appeal
such request to the sending hospital's director."  n20 Additionally, the
regulation requires that the director or his designee shall consider numerous
criteria when deciding on the issue of transfer, the requisite legal standard
being the best interests of the patient.  n21

    Although this director or his designee has a waiver right in regard to this
regulatory criteria,  n22 this waiver is limited in nature and has no impact
upon the mandatory effect of the regulation.  n23 Additionally, while the
director or his designee has the right to waive consideration of two enumerated
criteria, these criteria relate solely to jurisdictional issues and are in
addition to the elements regarding the "best interests" standard.  n24

    Another method by which New York has created a liberty interest [*849]  is
by instilling in the civilly committed psychiatric patient a reasonable
"expectation that adverse actions will not be taken ... except upon the
occurrence of specified behavior."  n25 The New York Mental Hygiene Law requires
that a patient receive care suited to his needs and with respect for "dignity
and personal integrity."  n26

    Additionally, a civilly committed patient has a right to an individualized
treatment plan, as well as the right to participate in its creation and
implementation.  n27 It is unlikely that such an administrative transfer can be
argued as being outside the bounds of such a treatment plan. Therefore, the
decision to transfer is clearly subsumed within the aforementioned liberty
interest in treatment participation guaranteed by the Mental Hygiene Law.  n28
Commitment itself is the strongest example of an impact upon a treatment plan,
and clearly implicates a patient's liberty interest.  n29 In addition to
commitment, other areas of the Mental Hygiene Law relating to a course of
treatment have been held to implicate a patient's liberty interest.  n30

   III. No De Jure Negation of Liberty Interests

 The decision of the New York Court of Appeals in Savastano implies that the
involuntary psychiatric patient surrenders a multitude of rights when committed.
n31 This loss of rights is said to come under the "penumbra of commitment,"
which does require procedural due process.  n32 Such a holding ignores the
authority under which such commitments may be carried out, and discards the
"best interests" analysis found throughout the Mental Hygiene Law.  n33

    "Involuntary confinement deprives a person of physical liberty to the extent
necessary to carry out a prescribed function of the parens patriae or police
power. It does not have the legal effect of taking away any [*850]  other
rights."  n34 A patient may not be committed to the hospital solely for the
purpose of treatment.  n35 In addition to the "need of treatment" requirement,
there must be a showing that the patient poses a danger to himself, society, or
both.  n36 In this context, the parens patriae power is concerned with
protecting the patient from himself and the police power is concerned with
protecting society from the patient.  n37 Once this patient has been committed
to a psychiatric hospital, both of these powers have effectively been carried
out. Any further action on the part of the hospital is beyond this immediate
power of commitment.

    New York has long recognized a patient's right to self-determination -
including involuntary psychiatric care - and the New York Court of Appeals has
held that this self-determination must be adequately protected by procedural due
process.  n38 In Rivers v. Katz, the court of appeals found that the due process
clause of the state constitution provides involuntarily committed patients a
fundamental right to refuse medication.  n39 Although the Rivers case dealt with
involuntary medica-  [*851]  tion - as opposed to involuntary transfer in
Savastano - both decisions implicate the due process guarantee of a patient's
self-determination in the course of a treatment plan.  n40 Additionally, the
regulations regarding both involuntary medication and transfer use similar
language in regard to noncompliance.  n41

    New York has defended its administrative procedures by analogizing civilly
committed patients to prisoners, who have no liberty interests. Although
prisoners have no "liberty interest is [sic] choosing the place of his or her
confinement,"  n42 any comparison between prisoners' rights and the rights of
the civilly committed is bound to be faulty. "The considerations underlying our
penal system are vastly different from those regarding our responsibility, care
and concern for the mentally ill."  n43 The language of United States Supreme
Court decisions speaks in terms of convictions, not civil commitments, as
removing the liberty interest of a prisoner regarding transfer from one facility
to another.  n44

    For civil commitment of psychiatric patients to be constitutional, treatment
must be the goal of such commitment, not mere custodial confinement.  n45
Commitment must not be punitive in nature, and any deprivation in liberty must
be narrowly tailored to the purpose of [*852]  confinement.  n46 Wholesale
derogation of fundamental constitutional rights is permissible only if such
derogation is related to therapeutic, not punitive goals.  n47

   IV. Stigma Requires Procedural Protection  n48

 Although not necessarily implicating a liberty interest by itself, the
increased stigma associated with a transfer from a general hospital to a state
psychiatric hospital requires adequate procedural protection.  n49 The stigma
associated with treatment in a psychiatric hospital is not open to dispute and
courts readily take judicial notice of its existence.  n50

    In Savastano, the court of appeals entirely failed to discuss stigma. The
appellate division recognized that stigma was inherent in an involuntary
commitment, but failed to acknowledge any increase in stigma resulting from a
transfer to a chronic-care state psychiatric facility.  n51 Although the Mental
Hygiene Law explicitly requires patients'  [*853]  clinical records to remain
confidential,  n52 the appellate division ignored the de facto realities
regarding this confidentiality in dismissing its relevance to an increase in
stigma upon involuntary transfer.  n53 While "stigma is...absent when
confidentiality is maintained,"  n54 true confidentiality regarding the location
of a psychiatric patient is not adequately protected.  n55

    The increase in stigma regarding the location of the patient is not
difficult to identify. If a patient were in the psychiatric ward of a general
hospital, this hospitalization does not carry the inference that treatment is
for a psychiatric illness. This is not generally the case when a patient is
transferred to a state psychiatric hospital:



   The cases of the patient-plaintiffs herein are illustrative. All were
patients at Queens Hospital Center, a general hospital providing general
inpatient medical services not limited to psychiatric care... Relation of the
fact that they were patients [there] does not, by itself, convey the information
that they were confined for treatment of mental illness. However, Queens
Hospital Center sought to transfer them to Creedmoor Psychiatric Center, a State
facility operated...exclusively for the treatment of mental illness. Had the
transfers to Creedmoor been carried out, anyone informed that the individuals
were Creedmoor Psychiatric Center patients would know that they were treated for
mental illness. The name alone broadcasts that information ...  n56



    The court of appeals in Savastano failed to consider the trauma [*854]
associated with a transfer from one psychiatric hospital to another.  n57 "While
transfer may be viewed by professionals as a routine procedure, the patient and
his family often experience transfer as a stressful and intimidating event and
as an ongoing crisis that may take weeks or evenmonths to resolve. The transfer
process requires special understanding and special management."  n58 At the very
least, this trauma requires that patients receive procedural protection against
the concomitant stigma upon transfer.

   V. Hearing Is Constitutionally Inadequate

 Thus, a constitutionally protected liberty interest exists on the issue of
transfer from a short-term general hospital to a long-term psychiatric hospital.
n59 Additionally, the stigmatizing consequences of such a transfer mandate
adequate procedural protection, regardless of whether or not a liberty interest
is implicated.  n60 This Part argues that the administrative framework, which
must be followed prior to such a transfer, is constitutionally inadequate and
procedurally unfair.  n61

    An objecting patient is entitled to an appeal of the decision to transfer
him or her to a long-term care psychiatric facility.  n62 This appeal is heard
by the director of the sending hospital or his designee.  n63 Thus, the person
conducting the hearing and the person seeking the transfer are [*855]  likely to
be either the same person or co-workers.  n64 In fact, this was the situation in
Savastano.  n65 This hearing may be conducted without regard to the rules of
evidence, the ability of the patient to cross-examine witnesses, and without the
necessity of keeping a record.  n66 The hearing officer must review the
patient's clinical history, give the opportunity for the patient to voice
objection, and consider enumerated criteria for transfer.  n67

    To determine whether or not this procedural framework meets the requirements
of procedural due process, the appropriate inquiry is into the private interest
that will be affected, the risk of erroneous deprivation of that interest, and
the government's interest in the proceeding.  n68 This "accuracy-oriented"
approach is known as the three part Mathews analysis, and is the current model
employed by the United States Supreme Court in determining "what process is
due."  n69  [*856]

    The private interest affected has been established as a liberty interest.
n70 At the very least, the stigma and "transfer trauma" associated with such a
transfer also mandates adequate procedural protection.  n71 At most, New York
has created a constitutionally protected liberty interest regarding such a
transfer.  n72

    The court of appeals in Savastano downplayed the risk of erroneous
deprivation.  n73 The court characterized the decision regarding transfer as
being primarily medical in nature, and thus better left to medical
professionals.  n74

    There are numerous problems with this characterization. A cursory analysis
of the elements, which merit consideration prior to transfer, reveals that they
are essentially non-clinical in nature.  n75 Examples of some of these factors
are proximity of family and friends to the sending hospital, availability of
services, and bed capacity.  n76 These criteria require no clinical expertise or
skill and do not need to be "left to those who have expertise in that field."
n77

    Even if one accepted the court of appeals' characterization of the transfer
decision as being primarily medical in nature, the regulation in question in no
way guarantees that the person hearing the appeal will be  [*857]  a medical
professional.  n78 Not only does the statute speak of a designee of the hospital
director - who may or may not be a medical professional - but it also fails to
specify whether the director himself need be medically trained.  n79

    The question arises as to the impartiality of the factfinder in such a
proceeding. The United States Supreme Court has generally required such
impartiality.  n80 An impartial factfinder "helps to guarantee that life,
liberty, or property will not be taken on the basis of an erroneous or distorted
conception of the facts or the law."  n81 As stated previously, the factfinder
in such a hearing may be party to the dispute, and as such, may have a
constitutionally impermissible conflict of interest.  n82 Additionally, as
stated by the trial court in Savastano, the pressure to relieve overcrowding in
city and municipal hospitals may also adversely affect the impartiality of the
factfinder:



   The mere fact that the transfer might be motivated by the desire or necessity
to alleviate overcrowding to meet the demand for inpatient treatment in
acute-care psychiatric facilities is a conflict which prevents the director of
the transferring facility from deciding the issues in an unbiased and impartial
manner. Under present rules, this same director may apply for an order of
transfer and thereafter may be called upon to review his own decision should
objection be raised.  n83



    As part of the Mathews analysis regarding erroneous deprivation of liberty,
n84 the court of appeals in Savastano opined that "any potential for undue
influence [regarding the transfer decision] is offset by the receiving
facility's right to refuse any transfer [that] it finds inappropriate."  n85
Yet, this right of refusal does not carry with it the right of the [*858]
objecting patient to be heard, and thus fails to ameliorate the constitutional
infirmities of the initial transfer hearing.  n86 The United States Supreme
Court has stated that even when the interest under consideration is "not one of
great consequence,"  n87 minimal due process requires some right to be heard.
n88

    In addition to this "right of refusal" vested in the receiving hospital, the
court of appeals stated that any possibility of erroneous liberty deprivation
would be offset by the availability of an article 78 proceeding subsequent to
the transfer.  n89 Yet, this so-called remedy also fails to cure the
constitutional infirmities of the administrative transfer hearing. An article 78
proceeding is essentially a writ of mandamus to review, which places the burden
on the patient to show that the administrative determination was arbitrary and
capricious.  n90 This procedure falls short of the constitutional guarantee of
an impartial factfinder determining whether or not transfer to a long-term state
psychiatric center is appropriate.  n91

    The court of appeals summarily dismissed the due process importance of a
patient's ability to cross-examine witnesses.  n92 In support of this position,
the court quoted Basciano v. Herkimer:  n93 "The value of cross-examination to
discredit a professional medical opinion at best is limited."  n94 Yet, as
stated previously, the enumerated factors considered concerning transfer contain
mostly non-clinical components.  n95 Absent the medical characterization
espoused in Basciano, this transfer determination falls short of due process
requirements. When decisions involve questions of fact, due process requires an
opportunity [*859]  to confront and cross-examine witnesses.  n96



   The inability to cross-examine the facility's witnesses prevents a patient's
attorney from eliciting such pertinent information as the witnesses' familiarity
with the patient, what information the witnesses relied upon in forming their
opinions, and the extent to which any administrative considerations such as bed
space or budgetary concerns may have influenced a decision to recommend
transfer, all of which touch upon the reliability of the testimony of any
witness in the administrative proceeding.  n97



    The final element of the Mathews analysis involves the state's interest in
the transfer, taking into account the requisite "fiscal and administrative
burdens that [a judicial hearing] would entail."  n98 The court of appeals in
Savastano concluded that "significant administrative and fiscal burdens...would
result from the necessity of holding a prior judicial hearing each time an
involuntary patient objects to being transferred to a State institution."  n99
This conclusion is empirically wrong. The effect of denying the right to a
judicial hearing has been to hamper, not help, the goals of economy and
efficiency.

    In order to meet the current requirements for the administrative hearing,
the hospital must produce a physician as a witness.  n100 This would not change
if the hearings were conducted in front of a judge.  n101 The hospital director
or his designee already must sacrifice his or her time to conduct such a
hearing.  n102 Therefore, it is unlikely that the fiscal and administrative cost
will increase much, if at all, if the hearing [*860]  is instead conducted by a
judge.

    This argument is bolstered by the fact that "special terms" are in place
which hold weekly calendars to review cases involving the Mental Hygiene Law.
These "special terms" consist of judges and clerks who are thoroughly familiar
with this area of the law and are able to move cases through quickly and
efficiently.  n103 Therefore, they provide a "ready solution" to the
constitutional infirmities inherent in the current administrative transfer
framework.

    Arguing in support of this premise, the appellant in Savastano stated that
"since the special terms presently hold and historically have held regular
weekly calendars to deal with mental health matters such as commitment and
medication hearings, transfer hearings can continue to be incorporated into said
calendars (as is presently the case)."  n104 Although judges had long
incorporated transfer hearings into the Mental Hygiene calendar, the
"unfortunate effect" of Savastano has been to bifurcate this hearing, even when
it would clearly be in the interest of judicial economy and efficiency to
incorporate.  n105

    Historically, hospitals have sought transfer in concert with receiving a
court-ordered, six-month retention.  n106 A patient is guaranteed the right
[*861]  to a judicial hearing when such a commitment is sought.  n107 Although
prior to Savastano the hearings on commitment and transfer would have been
condensed into one judicial proceeding, this does not represent current
practice.  n108 After the retention hearing, the relevant parties must return to
the hospital for a transfer hearing. The expenditure of legal and medical
professional time is greatly increased under such a scenario, and defeats the
underlying purpose of the third part of the Mathews analysis.

    The final consideration which must be given to New York's interest in
economy and efficiency concerns the aforementioned "remedy" of an article 78
proceeding.  n109 The substitution of an article 78 proceeding for a Mental
Hygiene Law article 9 hearing has the effect of hampering the goals of economy
and efficiency, as does the failure to condense commitment and transfer hearings
into one proceeding.  n110 The amount of paperwork and pre-hearing court
involvement in an article 9 hearing is minimal.  n111 An article 78 proceeding,
on the other hand, is much more complex. It involves, inter alia, notice of
petition, supporting affidavits, and motion papers.  n112 Most importantly, the
date for such a hearing "cannot be set for earlier than the 20th day after
service."  n113 It is questionable that the use of a relatively complex article
78 proceeding in lieu of a relatively simple article 9 hearing on the issue of
transfer will advance an economy-efficiency objective.

    Consideration also must be given to the scope of the Office of Mental Health
regulations for administrative psychiatric transfer. These [*862]  regulations -
in particular 29 NYCRR 517.4 - are ultra vires  n114 because they go beyond the
legislature's declared purpose of article 9 to bolster the rights of psychiatric
patients, not further abrogation of these rights.  n115

    Prior to 1964, the only way that an involuntary psychiatric patient could be
transferred against his will was by certification from the court.  n116 Article
9 was created with the express purpose of increasing patients' rights,  n117 and
statements concurrent with its passage reinforce this notion.  n118 It is clear
that the passage of article 9 was understood to be a step in the right direction
for increasing the rights of psychiatric patients.

   VI. Conclusion

 The opinion of the New York Court of Appeals in Savastano  n119 provides
inadequate procedural protection for a patient contesting transfer.
Additionally, it fails to prevent the diversion of scarce resources from the
care and treatment of mentally ill patients.  n120

    The New York Legislature should mandate a judicial determination on the
issue of transfer. The sending hospital should be required to prove, by clear
and convincing evidence,  n121 that transfer is in the best [*863]  interests of
the patient. Despite the court's characterization, the special terms created to
deal solely with the Mental Hygiene Law are more than able to condense transfer
proceedings into current calendars economically,  n122 while at the same time
ensuring the procedural due process denied to patients by the current
administrative proceeding.

    Although judicial determination on the issue of transfer would be the most
economical solution to the current regulatory infirmities, another option would
be to amend 14 NYCRR 517.4 to provide for a hearing before an impartial
administrative officer.  n123 "A hearing officer who is employed by the
institution or the Office of Mental Health cannot but feel, rightly or wrongly,
that his/her career might be affected by decisions which overturn administrative
decisions in a situation of overcrowded short-term facilities."  n124 The right
to present evidence, cross-examine witnesses, and have a record made of the
proceedings should also be required.  n125 As with other administrative
proceedings,  n126 strict conformity to the rules of evidence would not be
required. This "administrative  [*864]  solution" would solve the infirmities of
the present system without "unduly burdening the transfer process."  n127



Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawTreatmentIncompetent, Minor & Mentally Disabled
PatientsInstitutionalizationPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental Health
ServicesCommitmentInstitutional Transfers for AdultsPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial ServicesInstitutionalized IndividualsConfinement Conditions

FOOTNOTES:




n1. " Where the grant of a substantive right is inextricably intertwined with
the limitations on the procedures which are to be employed in determining that
right, a litigant...must take the bitter with the sweet." Arnett v. Kennedy, 416
U.S. 134, 153-54 (1974) (plurality opinion), overruled by Cleveland Bd. of Educ.
v. Loudermill, 470 U.S. 532, 540-41 (1985).




n2.  529 N.Y.S.2d 403 (Sup. Ct. 1987), rev'd, 548 N.Y.S.2d 555 (App. Div. 1989),
aff'd, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990). See generally 1Michael L. Perlin, Mental
Disability Law: Civil and Criminal 3.67, at 403-06 (1989 & Supp. 1995)
(outlining the limited jurisprudence associated with the transfer of civil
committees).




n3.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 422 (N.Y. 1990).




n4.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 548 N.Y.S.2d 555, 559 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569
N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990); see N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 29.11 (McKinney 1988); N.Y.
Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4 (1995) (requiring merely an informal
administrative hearing prior to such a transfer with no right of patient to call
witnesses or cross-examine and no adherence to the rules of evidence).




n5.  Savastano, 529 N.Y.S.2d at 403.




n6.  Id. at 404.




n7.  Id. at 410.




n8.  Savastano, 548 N.Y.S.2d 555.




n9.  Id. at 556.




n10.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 422 (N.Y. 1990).




n11.  Id. at 424.




n12.  N.Y. Civ. Prac. L. & R. 7805 (McKinney 1994 & Supp. 1995). Article 78 of
the CPLR provides for judicial review of administrative determinations.
Savastano, 569 N.E.2d at 423-24; see infra notes 97-99 and accompanying text.




n13.  Although the New York Mental Hygiene Law technically allows commitment
directly into long-term psychiatric facilities, in practice this is the clear
exception rather than the rule. See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.37 (McKinney
1988). In New York City, for example, the vast majority of all initial
commitments are made into short-term city hospitals. Telephone Interview with
Elliott Raines, Esq., Law Secretary to Hon. Maxine K. Duberstein, Supreme Court,
Kings County, N.Y. (Oct. 25, 1995).




n14.  See infra parts II-IV.




n15.  See infra parts II-IV.




n16.  See infra part V.




n17.  In Savastano, the court of appeals did not even consider whether or not
transfer implicates a constitutionally protected liberty interest. The court
assumed, in arguendo, that such an interest was implicated and proceeded to the
procedural due process analysis. Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 424
(N.Y. 1990).

   Liberty interests have been found, independent of state law, regarding both
the inter-hospital and intra-hospital transfer of civil committees in certain
circumstances. See, e.g., Eubanks v. Clarke, 434 F. Supp. 1022, 1029 (E.D. Pa.
1977) (holding that transfer to a more secure hospital implicates a patient's
liberty interest and invokes procedural due process protections); see also
Christy v. Hammel, 87 F.R.D. 381, 390 (M.D. Pa. 1980) (holding that transfer to
a secure section of the same hospital "triggered the plaintiff's liberty
interest under the Due Process Clause").




n18.  See Logan v. Zimmerman Brush Co., 455 U.S. 422, 432 (1982) (holding that
since ""minimum [procedural] requirements [are] a matter of federal law, they
are not diminished by the fact that the State may have specified its own
procedures that it may deem adequate for determining the preconditions to
adverse official action'" (alterations in original) (quoting Vitek v. Jones, 445
U.S. 480, 491 (1980))).




n19.  N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 29.11 (McKinney 1988); N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs.
tit. 14, 517.4 (1995); see Hewitt v. Helms, 459 U.S. 460, 472 (1983) (holding
"that the repeated use of explicitly mandatory language in connection with
requiring specific substantive predicates demands a conclusion that the State
has created a protected liberty interest"); see also Joseph P. Messina, Comment,
Kentucky Department of Corrections v. Thompson: The Demise of Protected Liberty
Interests Under the Due Process Clause, 17 New Eng. J. on Crim. & Civ.
Confinement 233, 252 (1991) (stating that "a statute...using what the Court
recognizes as mandatory language (such as "shall' or "must') would almost
certainly, in light of precedent, create a protected liberty interest"); Leon
Friedman, New Developments in Civil Rights Litigation and Trends in Section 1983
Actions, in 1 Section 1983 Civil Rights Litigation and Attorneys' Fees 317, 396
(Practicing Law Institute ed., 1995) (noting that "shall" or "will" language in
rules regarding hearings has the effect of creating a liberty interest).

   It is of no significance that the mandatory language "alleged" to create a
liberty interest in Savastano is in a regulation, as opposed to a statute. In
Hewitt, it was mandatory regulatory language, not statutory language, that the
United States Supreme Court held created a liberty interest regarding an
administrative hearing. 459 U.S. at 472 (holding that the mandatory language
contained in regulations promulgated by the State Bureau of Corrections created
a constitutionally protected liberty interest).




n20.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995).




n21.  Id. 517.4(c)(3)(i), (d)(1) (stating, inter alia, that the following
factors shall be considered in order to serve the best interests of the patient,
prior to transfer: (a) the proximity of the hospital to the patient's
significant others and (b) the ability of the sending and/or the receiving
hospital to provide adequate treatment by evaluating such factors as bed
capacity and overcrowding).




n22.  See id. 517.4(d)(2)(ii) (stating that "a patient to be transferred from a
municipal or general hospital in New York City to a hospital operated by the
Office of Mental Health must satisfy [additional] requirements, unless waived by
the commissioner or a designee thereof").




n23.  Id.




n24.  Id. 517.4(c)(3), (d)(1) (discussing a number of the mandatory best
interests elements); id. 517.4(d)(2)(ii) (dealing only with the transfer of New
York City patients to state hospitals).




n25.  Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480, 491 (1980) (holding that a state has created
a liberty interest under such circumstances).




n26.  N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 33.03(a) (McKinney 1988).




n27.  Id. 33.02(a)(11).




n28.  See, e.g., In re K.K.B., 609 P.2d 747, 752 (Okla. 1980) ("If the law
recognizes the right of an individual to make decisions about...life out of
respect for the dignity and autonomy of the individual, that interest is no less
significant when the individual is mentally or physically ill.").




n29.  Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418 (1979).




n30.  See, e.g., Rivers v. Katz, 495 N.E.2d 337, 341 (N.Y. 1986) (holding that
the power to involuntarily medicate implicates a patient's liberty interest).




n31.  See Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n32.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.27, 9.31, 9.33 (McKinney 1988).




n33.  Id.




n34.  Appellant's Reply Brief at 8, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y.
1990) (No. 2771/87); see, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 29.03 (McKinney 1988)
(stating that commitment shall not "be construed or deemed to be a determination
or finding that such person is incompetent or is unable adequately to conduct
his personal or business affairs").




n35.  Zinermon v. Burch, 494 U.S. 113, 134 (1990); O'Connor v. Donaldson, 422
U.S. 563, 574 (1975); see John Parry, Involuntary Civil Commitment in the 90s: A
Constitutional Perspective, 18 Mental & Physical Disability L. Rep. 320, 324
(1994) ("The first Supreme Court decision to address dangerousness was O'Connor
v. Donaldson, which introduced the notion that dangerousness is a major
justification for civil commitment. Later, in Zinermon v. Burch, a majority of
the justices agreed that dangerousness is a constitutional requirement for civil
commitment." (footnotes omitted)).

   Many members of the medical and legal community believe that need of
treatment alone is, or should be, the requisite standard for the establishment
or maintenance of involuntary commitment. The following is a statement by the
chairman of psychiatry and psychology at a Long Island hospital: "It's not a
question of civil liberties, unless you are talking about the liberty to be
psychotic, and that is not among one's basic rights ...." David Firestone, For
Their Own Good? With Public Pressure Mounting to Get the Mentally Ill Off the
Streets, Lawyers Say They Don't Always Get a Fair Hearing, Newsday, May 31, 1989
at 8. Yet, the decisions in Zinermon and O'Connor do just this; psychosis
without dangerousness is constitutionally insufficient for involuntary civil
commitment.




n36.  Zinermon, 494 U.S. at 134; O'Connor, 422 U.S. at 575; see also Foucha v.
Louisiana, 112 S. Ct. 1780, 1788 (1992) (restating that dangerousness is
required to confine a mental patient, and that the state cannot place the burden
on the patient to show lack of dangerousness); Parry, supra note 35, at 327.




n37.  See Black's Law Dictionary 1114, 1156-57 (6th ed. 1990); see generally
Bruce A. Arrigo, Paternalism, Civil Commitment and Illness Politics: Assessing
the Current Debate and Outlining a Future Direction, 7 J.L. & Health 131
(1992-93).




n38.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 33.02(a)(11) (McKinney 1988) (providing
that patients have a right to participate in the creation of the treatment
plan); Fosmire v. Nicoleau, 551 N.E.2d 77, 80-81 (N.Y. 1990); Rivers v. Katz,
495 N.E.2d 337, 341 (N.Y. 1986).




n39.  Rivers, 495 N.E.2d at 340-41.




n40.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990); Rivers, 495 N.E.2d at
341.




n41.  See N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(1) (transfer); id.
527.8(c)(3) (psychotropic medication).




n42.  Respondent's Brief at 23, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y.
1990) (No. 2771/87); see Montanye v. Haymes, 427 U.S. 236, 242 (1976).




n43.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 529 N.Y.S.2d 403, 408 (Sup. Ct. 1987), rev'd, 548
N.Y.S.2d 555 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990) (stating that
"we do not agree...that a transfer does not implicate due process protections"
and rejecting the comparisons made to criminal transfers).




n44.  See, e.g., Meachum v. Fano, 427 U.S. 215, 224 (1976) (holding that a
"conviction[, not an involuntary commitment,] has sufficiently extinguished the
defendant's liberty interest to empower the State to confine him in any of its
prisons"). But cf. Eubanks v. Clarke, 434 F. Supp 1022, 1029 (E.D. Pa. 1977)
(holding that transfer of a civil committee to a more secure hospital does
invoke a patient's liberty interest).

   "One student author has suggested that, in cases involving mental patients,
the Eubanks approach "seems more appropriate than that in Meachum and
Montayne.'" 1 Perlin, supra note 2, at 403 n.1107 (quoting Note, 51 Temp. L.Q.
357, 371 (1978)).




n45.  O'Connor v. Donaldson, 422 U.S. 563, 575-76 (1975).




n46.  See Washington v. Harper, 494 U.S. 210, 223 (1990); see also Kesselbrenner
v. Anonymous, 305 N.E.2d 903, 905 (N.Y. 1973) (holding that "to subject a person
to a greater deprivation of personal liberty than necessary to achieve the
purpose for which he is being confined [for psychiatric purposes] is, it is
clear, violative of due process").




n47.  See Harper, 494 U.S. at 223 (stating that civil commitment must be viewed
as presenting "other circumstances" and cannot be permitted to have the same
adverse impact on a person's liberty interests as a criminal conviction).




n48.  See, e.g., Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 631 (1979) (stating that "the
right to be free from wrongful incarceration, physical intrusion, and
stigmatization has significance for the individual surely as great as the right
to an abortion" (Brennan, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)).




n49.  Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480, 494 (1980) (stating that "the stigmatizing
consequences of a transfer to a mental hospital for involuntary psychiatric
treatment...constitute the kind of deprivations of liberty that requires
procedural protections").




n50.  See, e.g., Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418, 425-26 (1979).



   It is indisputable that involuntary commitment to a mental hospital...can
engender adverse social consequences to the individual. Whether we label this
phenomena "stigma" or choose to call it something else is less important than
that we recognize that it can occur and that it can have a very significant
impact on the individual.



   Id.




n51.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 548 N.Y.S.2d 555, 561 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569
N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).

   The stigmatization associated with mental illness is not limited solely to
the need for psychiatric treatment. Societal perception of "stand alone"
psychiatric facilities carries with it a unique, additional brand of stigma. See
Ed Struzik, MDs Buoys Grey Nuns Supporters, Edmonton J., Apr. 18, 1994, at B1
("Dr. Lorne Warneke, head of psychiatry for the Grey Nuns, said the trend in
psychiatry is to move away from the kind of large institution that is being
proposed for Mill Woods... The large institution enhances the stigma associated
with psychiatric illness."); Marybeth Burke, Hospitals Seize New Opportunities
in State Privatization Efforts, Hospitals, Apr. 5, 1992, at 50, 51 ("The
privatization process will allow clients to be treated in their own communities
in normal settings, offsetting the stigma that is often associated with
facilities geared solely to the mentally ill.").




n52.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 33.13(c) (McKinney 1988) (mandating that
patients' psychiatric records are not public records).




n53.  See Savastano, 548 N.Y.S.2d at 561.




n54.  M. Gregg Bloche & Francine Cournos, Mental Health Policy for the 1990s:
Tinkering in the Interstices, 15 J. Health Pol. Pol'y & L. 387, 392 (1990); see
also Edwin J. Mikkelsen, Mental Illness, 269 J. Am. Med. Ass'n 417 (1993)
(reviewing Paul J. Fink & Allan Tasman, Stigma and Mental Illness (1992)).




n55.  See N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 33.02 (McKinney 1988) (providing that contacts
with outsiders such as friends and employers must be maintained, without stating
that they are subject to the confidentiality requirements of the Mental Hygiene
Law).




n56.  Appellant's Brief at 17, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990)
(No. 2771/87). The stigmatization associated with institutions such as Creedmoor
has found description outside of the arguments proffered by appellants in
Savastano. See, e.g., The Creedmoor Experiment: Vacation as Therapy, Newsday,
Feb. 6, 1983, at 11 (stating that "the physical image of Creedmoor itself is
ominous - a towering medical building of dreary beige brick and wire enclosed
windows looming near the Grand Central Parkway in Queens Village, like
everyone's nightmare of what a mental hospital looks like"); see also Outdoor
Sculptures to Soften Creedmoor's Image, New York Daily News, Nov. 7, 1979, at
14-15 (describing that "for generations of Queens residents, the Creedmoor
Psychiatric Center in Queens Village has been a place of mysterious
foreboding").




n57.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n58.  Shugar et al., Moving Experiences: A Model for Inpatient Transfer Based on
Interviews with Patients and Their Families, 37:10 Hosp. and Community
Psychiatry 1035 (Oct. 1986).

   Avoidance of transfer trauma may be subject to greater procedural protection
than stigma upon transfer requires; the issue of whether or not transfer trauma
may give rise to a constitutionally protected liberty interest was answered in
the affirmative by the Second Circuit. Yaretsky v. Blum, 629 F.2d 817 (2d Cir.
1980), rev'd on other grounds, 457 U.S. 991 (1982) (reversing based on the issue
of state action, and never reaching the liberty interest issue of transfer
trauma).




n59.  See supra notes 17-58 and accompanying text.




n60.  See supra notes 48-58 and accompanying text.




n61.  See Henry J. Friendly, Some Kind of Hearing, 123 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1267,
1278-94 (1975) (enumerating the following factors, "roughly in the order of
priority," that have been considered to be elements of a fair hearing: (1) an
unbiased tribunal; (2) notice of the proposed action and the grounds asserted
for it; (3) an opportunity to propose reasons why the proposed action should not
be taken; (4) the right to call witnesses; (5) to know the evidence against one;
(6) to have decision based only on the evidence presented; (7) counsel; (8) the
making of a record; (9) a statement of reasons; (10) public attendance; and (11)
judicial review).




n62.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. and Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995) (providing that
"no request for the transfer of an objecting patient shall be made by the
sending hospital until such patient has been given an opportunity to appeal such
request to the sending hospital's director").




n63.  Id. 517.4(c)(3)(i).




n64.  See id.




n65.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 529 N.Y.S.2d 403, 409 (Sup. Ct. 1987), rev'd, 548
N.Y.S.2d 555 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n66.  N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 29.11 (McKinney 1988); N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs.
tit. 14, 517.4 (1995).




n67.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4 (1995).




n68.  Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335 (1976). The "Mathews approach,"
employed by the New York Court of Appeals in Savastano, received much academic
criticism. See, e.g., Laurence H. Tribe, American Constitutional Law 718 (2d ed.
1988). The Eldridge



   Court's unwillingness to consider values beyond accuracy of result in the
context of a utilitarian balancing test when deciding what process is due, and
the Court's grant of a strong presumption of constitutionality to statutory
procedural provisions, amount to a serious abdication of traditional notions of
judicial responsibility under the due process clauses.

Id.



   At a minimum, procedural due process contemplates some kind of hearing - an
opportunity to join issue, through the presentation of evidence to a decision
maker who is then obliged to reach a reasoned determination on the basis of the
submissions. Underlying this conception [in Mathews] is the vital interest in
promoting an accurate decision, in assuring that facts have been correctly
established and properly characterized in conformity with the applicable legal
standard ...

   ...

   [Yet, f]undamental to the concept of procedural due process is the right to a
reasoned explanation of government conduct....It is crucial that this value be
seen as distinct from the concern about administrative accuracy - the interest
in correcting wrong decisions. Obviously, the two are related....I would insist
that the respect for individual autonomy that is at the foundation of procedural
due process imposes a distinct obligation upon the government to explain fully
its adverse status decision.



   Robert L. Rabin, Job Security and Due Process: Monitoring Administrative
Discretion Through a Reasons Requirement, 44 U. Chi. L. Rev. 60, 76-78 (1976).




n69.  Mathews, 424 U.S. at 335; see Cleveland Bd. of Educ. v. Loudermill, 470
U.S. 532, 541 (1985) (stating that "the right to due process "is conferred, not
by legislative grace, but by constitutional guarantee'...once it is determined
that the due process clause applies, "the question remains what process is due'"
(quoting Arnett v. Kennedy, 416 U.S. 134, 167 (1974), and Morrissey v. Brewer,
408 U.S. 471, 481 (1972), respectively)).




n70.  See supra notes 17-58 and accompanying text.




n71.  See supra notes 48-58 and accompanying text.




n72.  See supra notes 17-30 and accompanying text.




n73.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 424 (N.Y. 1990).




n74.  Id.




n75.  See N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995).




n76.  Id.




n77.  Savastano, 569 N.E.2d at 424 (citing Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 607
(1979)). The patient's right to a judicial hearing regarding the initial
transfer determination has found support in recent decisions. See, e.g., In re
Jerome G., 607 N.Y.S.2d 709, 710 (App. Div. 1994).

   The "so-called" medical-legal distinction has been the subject of much
academic criticism. See, e.g., Jerry L. Mashaw, Due Process in the
Administrative State 111 (1985). Mashaw argues that the Parham court did not
believe that a minor needed a hearing prior to commitment to a mental
institution,



   apparently in substantial part, because a hearing would provide little
additional protection from error....Yet, somehow, when in Vitek the question was
whether a prisoner should have a hearing prior to being transferred to a mental
hospital, the suggestion that psychiatric judgment was involved elicited the
following judicial response: "The medical nature of the inquiry... does not
justify dispensing with due process requirements. It is precisely the subtleties
and nuances of psychiatric diagnoses that justify the requirement of adversary
hearings."



   Id. (quoting Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480, 495 (1980)).




n78.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3)(i) (1995) (providing that
the hospital's director, unit chiefs, supervisors or psychiatrists are
appropriate parties to hear the appeal).




n79.  Id.




n80.  Marshall v. Jerrico, Inc., 446 U.S. 238, 242 (1980).




n81.  Id.




n82.  United Retail & Wholesale Employees Teamsters Union Local No. 115 v. Yahn
& Mc Donnell, Inc., 787 F.2d 128, 138 (1986), aff'd per curiam, 481 U.S. 735
(1987) (stating that although there is a presumption of factfinder impartiality,
all that need be shown to rebut the presumption is a "possible temptation" or an
"underlying incentive" to manifest bias). The temptation is evident in this
situation. See supra notes 62-67 and accompanying text.




n83.  Savastano v Nurnberg, 529 N.Y.S.2d 403, 409 (Sup. Ct. 1987), rev'd, 548
N.Y.S.2d 555 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n84.  Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335 (1976).




n85.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 425 (N.Y. 1990). But see Parratt v.
Taylor, 451 U.S. 527, 539 (1981) (holding that absent "the necessity of quick
action by the State or the impracticality of providing any meaningful
predeprivation process," a post-deprivation hearing would be constitutionally
inadequate).




n86.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(g)(iv) (1995) (providing that
"if the receiving hospital determines that the patient is not appropriate for
admission, the order of transfer...may be canceled"). The regulation fails to
provide for any patient input into the decision.




n87.  Hewitt v. Helms, 459 U.S. 460, 473 (1983).




n88.  Id. at 472 (stating that in order to satisfy procedural due process,
respondent was entitled to offer any "statement respondent wished to submit").




n89.  Savastano, 569 N.E.2d at 423-24 (stating that "a patient who is
dissatisfied with a transfer determination may challenge it by commencing an
article 78 proceeding").




n90.  See N.Y. Civ. Prac. L. & R. 7803 (McKinney 1994 & Supp. 1995); David D.
Siegel, New York Practice 870-97 (2d ed. 1991).




n91.  See supra notes 80-81 and accompanying text.




n92.  See Savastano, 569 N.E.2d at 425.




n93.  605 F.2d 605 (2d Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 442 U.S. 929 (1979).




n94.  Id. at 611.




n95.  See supra notes 75-77 and accompanying text.




n96.  See, e.g., Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480, 494-95 (1980) (holding that there
is a right to confront and cross-examine witnesses prior to a transfer from a
penitentiary to a psychiatric institution).




n97.  Appellant's Brief at 34, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990)
(No. 2771/87). In Savastano, the court of appeals downplayed the impact of
institutional pressures such as overcrowding on the proceeding's impartiality.
The court stated that "such concerns are relevant to decisions regarding
treatment, inasmuch as overcrowding has a direct impact on the level and quality
of hospital services." 569 N.E.2d at 425. Yet, as stated previously,
overcrowding is but one of many factors which must be considered in a transfer
proceeding.




n98.  Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335 (1976).




n99.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 425 (N.Y. 1990) (concluding from
the holding in Parham that permitting such a judicial hearing would "accomplish
little else than the diversion of scarce resources from the care and treatment
of mentally ill patients").




n100.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995).




n101.  See, e.g., In re Jerome G., 607 N.Y.S.2d 709, 710-11 (App. Div. 1994)
(stating that when a judge entertains a transfer hearing, the same requisite
elements must be established).




n102.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995) (providing that
"no request for the transfer of an objecting patient shall be made by the
sending hospital until such patient has been given an opportunity to appeal such
request to the sending hospital's director").




n103.  For example, the New York Supreme Court of Kings County utilizes a fixed
staff of clerks and a judge who has expertise in the Mental Hygiene Law and
criminal commitments. This part of the court is extremely specialized and
efficient, issuing on average one thousand mental hygiene warrants, inter alia,
per annum. Telephone Interview with Elliott Raines, Law Secretary to Hon. Maxine
K. Duberstein, Supreme Court, Kings County (Oct. 25, 1995).




n104.  Brief for Appellant at 35, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y.
1990) (No. 2771/87).




n105.  Although Savastano does not prevent a judge from entertaining a hearing
on transfer if he or she so wishes, the personal experience of this author with
the Mental Hygiene Part is that judges generally refuse to do so when the issue
is presented, even when economy and efficiency would clearly be the result. It
should be noted that the New York Court of Appeals has emphasized that a central
aim of judicial discretion is the promotion of economy and efficiency. See,
e.g., Kane v. Parry, 364 N.E.2d 846 (N.Y. 1977). For a defense of the "judge's
position," see infra note 108.

   Even for those judges who do not explicitly refuse to entertain transfer
hearings, the current practice is that the transfer issue is rarely, if ever,
raised by the hospital at a commitment hearing subsequent to Savastano.
Westchester County is the only jurisdiction in which transfer hearings are
currently tried in court. Telephone Interview with Dennis B. Feld, Assistant
Director of Mental Hygiene Legal Service, 2d Dep't. (Jan. 23, 1995).




n106.  See N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.33(b) (McKinney 1988) (providing that the
first period of retention requiring court authorization not to exceed six
months); Interview with Elliott Raines, Law Secretary to Hon. Maxine K.
Duberstein, Supreme Court, Kings County (Jan. 22, 1994) ("Hospitals, prior to
the Savastano decision, traditionally sought, and continue to administratively
seek, transfer orders in concert with their six-month orders of retention. This
is so because this was now for the "long haul,' and the city hospitals want to
free up beds.").




n107.  N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.33(c) (McKinney 1988) ("Upon the demand of the
patient or of anyone on his behalf...the court shall, or may on its own motion,
fix a date for the hearing....").




n108.  See supra note 105. An additional point should be made: judges who refuse
to entertain transfer hearings have legitimate reasons for doing so. Prior to
the decision in Savastano, transfer hearings were regularly heard in the courts.
It was the Office of Mental Health that chose to appeal the Supreme Court,
Queens County's ruling to the New York Court of Appeals to ensure that the
administrative hearing be declared constitutional. Now, after all the time and
expense that went into the appeals process, the feeling is that it is
inappropriate for the same agency to attempt to bifurcate the transfer issue in
court. The sentiment is "be careful what you ask for, because you may just get
it." Telephone Interview with Elliott Raines, Law Secretary to Hon. Maxine K.
Duberstein, Supreme Court, Kings County (Oct. 25, 1995).




n109.  See supra notes 89-91 and accompanying text.




n110.  Id.




n111.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.31(c) (McKinney 1988) (mandating that
the court must "fix the date of such hearing at a time not later than five days
from the date such notice is received by the court").




n112.  See Siegel, supra note 90, at 890-92.




n113.  Id. at 890.




n114.  See Black's Law Dictionary 1522 (6th ed. 1990) (defining ultra vires as
an "act...which is beyond powers conferred...by law").




n115.  See infra notes 116-18 and accompanying text.




n116.  See N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 81(2), (3), (5) (repealed 1963).




n117.  The revamping of the Mental Hygiene Law was the work of the Special
Committee of the Bar of the City of New York. See, e.g., Special Committee to
Study Commitment Procedures of the Association of the Bar of the City of New
York & Cornell Law School, Mental Illness and Due Process: Report and
Recommendations on Admission to Mental Hospitals Under New York Law, at 14
(1962) (stating that the purpose of revamping this area of the law is to ensure
that "any person hospitalized against his will is entitled to watchful
protection of his rights, because he is a citizen first and a mental patient
second").




n118.  The revamped statutory scheme "preserves due process safeguards of every
person who is admitted to a psychiatric facility for care and treatment." 1964
N.Y. Rules 1968 (statement of Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, upon approving the
statutory change).

   Executive statements and those of the drafters are not the only evidence of
the "rights bolstering purpose" in the revamping. See, e.g., Proceedings of the
Seminar of Supreme Court Justices on the Subject of Hospitalization of the
Mentally Ill, 1965, at 37 (stating that the Justices were "firmly convinced"
that patients should continue to enjoy judicial transfer determinations).




n119.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990), reargument dismissed,
575 N.E.2d 401 (N.Y. 1991).




n120.  See Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 605-06 (1979).




n121.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.31 (McKinney 1988) (mandating the clear
and convincing standard of proof for involuntary commitment); Addington v.
Texas, 441 U.S. 418, 433 (1979); Rivers v. Katz, 495 N.E.2d 337, 344 (N.Y. 1986)
(mandating the same standard for the involuntary administration of psychotropic
medication).




n122.  A hospital within the jurisdiction of a particular special term is given
a weekly calendar day on which the patients requiring hearings on commitment
and/or involuntary medication are "bussed in," or judges travel to the
institution for in-hospital proceedings. These hearings tend to be brief, and
most judges require that retention and medication hearings be condensed for a
particular patient. Condensing transfer poses little additional burden on this
procedure.

   It is interesting to note that when the issue concerns further abrogation of
patients' rights, hospitals advance similar "condensation arguments" regarding
economy and efficiency. See, e.g., In re Lesley B., 567 N.Y.S.2d 999, 1000 (Sup.
Ct. 1991) ("The hospital maintains that the proceedings pursuant to 9.13
[conversion from voluntary to involuntary status] and 9.33 [involuntary
retention] should be consolidated and such consolidation is not prohibited by
statute. Furthermore, the hospital argues that such consolidation is in the
interest of judicial economy....").




n123.  It must be remembered that the fear of the "courts being flooded with
transfer determinations" is unfounded. It is in a relatively small number of
cases that the decision to transfer is contested.




n124.  Brief of the American Orthopsychiatric Association and National
Federation of Societies for Clinical Social Work as Amici Curiae at 38,
Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n125.  See supra note 61 and accompanying text.




n126.  See generally Jay Carlisle, Getting a Full Bite of the Apple: When Should
the Doctrine of Issue Preclusion Make an Administrative or Arbitral
Determination Binding in a Court of Law?, 55 Fordham L. Rev. 63 (1986)
(describing the general inapplicability of formal rules of evidence for
administrative hearings).




n127.  See supra note 123. But see supra note 121.


                              281 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            October 15, 2010 Friday
                                  1st Edition

Tees Trust sees rise in harmful incidents...even n as deaths fall;
Patient care priority for health staff

BYLINE: SARAH JUDD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 746 words


A HOSPITAL trust has seen harmful incidents such as patient accidents, treatment
and medication errors increase by more than 11% in the last year.

However, figures released by the National Patient Safety Agency show the number
of deaths resulting from serious incidents in Teesside hospitals fell in the
last year.

Hospitals must report serious incidents to the National Reporting and Learning
System (NRLS) of the Patient Safety Agency, including patient accidents,
treatment or procedural errors, problems relating to access, admission, transfer
or discharge and medication errors.

Problems with infrastructure such as staffing or issues with hospital
facilities, equipment, documentation, consent, communication, confidentiality,
clinical assessment and patient care, must also be reported. Out of 1,783
incidents North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation Trust reported to the NRLS
between October 1, 2008 and March 31, 2009, 601 resulted in patients being
harmed, including 24 deaths. A year later, 668 out of the 1,728 incidents it
reported resulted in patients being harmed -11.3% up on the previous year - but
only one death was reported.

Sue Smith, director of nursing and patient safety at North Tees said: "Patient
safety is our main concern so we encourage our staff to report all incidents
that put patients at risk, no matter how small. Learning from past experiences
is the best way to prevent them happening again.

"In 2009 we set ourselves the extremely hard target of reducing our patient
mortality ratio by 15% and we have not only achieved that target but have gone
beyond it.

CARE: James University South Tees "Latest mortality data shows that where 100
patients would die in the average NHS hospital in England, only 78 would die in
ours. Mortality data is reported in monthly board reports and to our Council of
Governors."

South Tees NHS Foundation Trust reported eight deaths between October 1, 2009
and March 31, 2010 from 3,779 incidents reported in the period. However, last
year, between October 1, 2008 and March 31, 2009, 50 patients died and 4,762
incidents were reported by the larger trust, which runs James Cook University
Hospital in Middlesbrough and The Friarage in Northallerton.

South Tees assistant director of nursing and patient safety Bev Walker said:
"Patient safety is the number one priority. We encourage staff to report all
patient safety incidents - or unexpected incidents which could have caused harm
to a patient - so we can learn from them and ensure the risk of a repeated
episode is minimised."

Of the 3,779 incidents South Tees reported in the six months to March 31, 26
resulted in "severe harm" to patients, 95 patients suffered moderate harm and
613 suffered low harm. The term severe harm relates to incidents that appear to
have resulted in permanent harm, while moderate harm could include a patient
being given the wrong medication, with no ill effect.

Cook Hospital, run by NHS Trust In North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation
Trust - a "medium acute organisation" - there was one further death between
April 1, 2009 and September 30, 2009.

In the six months to March 31 this year, 16 patients suffered severe harm in the
period, 282 suffered moderate harm and 369 suffered low harm. The remaining
incidents resulted in no harm to patients.

SOUTH TEES NHS FOUNDATION TRUST LATEST figures show that of all incidents
reported by "large acute organisations" like South Tees, 12.8% related to
treatment or procedural errors, but the figure within South Tees was 14.5%.

Patient accidents accounted for 29.4% of incidents within the trust, compared to
31.8% across all large acute organisations across England and Wales between
October 1 2009 and March 31 2010.

Incidents involving medication accounted for 9.6% of incidents and issues around
clinical assessment accounted for 7%, compared with 5.5% across all similar
sized trusts.

NORTH TEES NHS FOUNDATION TRUST IN the latest figures, 44.2% of incidents at
North Tees were a result of patient accidents - almost 14% higher than similar
sized trusts in other parts of England and Wales.

However, only 7.6% of incidents in North Tees were related to treatment or
procedure, compared to 12.9% in medium trusts nationally, and 6.3% of incidents
in North Tees related to medication, compared to 10.9% in other similar sized
trusts.

Issues around clinical assessment accounted for 7.9% of incidents in North Tees,
compared to a figure of 5.1% nationally.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CARE: James Cook University Hospital, run by South Tees NHS Trust

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            January 18, 2010 Monday

Hospitals will need to change their business models in order to survive

LENGTH: 1321 words

Medical Device Daily Managing Editor

SAN FRANCISCO -- After hearing in a keynote presentation from former CMS
administrator Tom Scully that the pain of healthcare reform would be delayed for
some time () and that hospitals would be the chief winners in the new healthcare
bill, it was an interesting contrast to hear Chas Roades, chief research officer
of the performance improvement firm Advisory Board (Washington) discuss what he
sees as the potentially bleak times ahead for the hospital industry in the
coming years during a late afternoon presentation, particularly with the
prospect of a jobless economy.

Roades said a survey done by his members shows that "there's still a lot of
uncertainty as to future growth, future margins and future strategy, and a lot
of our members, particularly large multi-hospital systems, are undergoing fairly
dramatic rethinking of their strategic plans for the next five to 10 years given
the impact both of the economy and the recession through last year, and most
importantly, the impact of potential healthcare reform in just a few weeks now."

Despite the tough economy, Roades reported that many of his members, especially
in the large systems, had a relatively good year because they "pulled hard on a
lot of the key suspect levers to try and improve margin performance." Some of
these larger hospital groups reported that it was "one of their best year's
ever, in terms of market share growth and margin growth."

Looking forward to 2010 and beyond, Roades said hospitals are concerned that the
traditional surgical growth engine that they have relied upon for the past
decade or more is in jeopardy. He noted that the commercial revenue that comes
from surgical procedures accounts for roughly 30% of the hospitals profits, and
the other 70%  comes from Medicare/Medicaid patients as well as other "low pay
and no pay patients." That 30% figure subsidizes all the other investment that a
hospital wants to make. This revenue growth stream has now been muddied by the
economy and pending healthcare reforms.

"The last three or four years, cost growth has been outpacing revenue growth for
most of our members so even though they've been getting relatively good pricing
on the commercial side, costs (including for labor and technology) have just
been skyrocketing," said Roades.

Now the question becomes where will revenue growth come from in the future?
Especially with surgical volume decreasing due to increasing unemployment among
prospective formerly insured patients. Many of these patients are what Roades
called "preference-sensitive," or elective, meaning that there are non-surgical
alternatives available on both the inpatient and outpatient side that can
substitute for the more expensive surgery.

Also contributing to the lower revenues for the hospitals is the fact that the
"healthcare plans have had their thumbs on the scale as well," Roades said. He
noted that all of the major health plans have been putting in place some sort of
utilization management plan for the larger employers, "such that they can be
able to get a handle on some of these expensive procedural cases." Essentially a
patient who has been tapped as a candidate for surgery is contacted by the
insurers and is informed of potential side effects and risks associated with a
given surgical procedure. The patient is informed of non-surgical - and cheaper
- alternatives.

A second area of concern for hospitals has been the tightening of the credit
markets. The hospitals have been able until recently to take advantage of cheap
capital to invest in very expensive market share and service line growth
strategy. This represents "a lot of expensive clinical capital equipment, a lot
of facility renovation and expansion." He noted that philanthropy, another key
area of cash for hospitals, is way down. While credit at affordable rates
appears to be making a resurgence, Roades noted that a lot of hospital boards
have become "spooked," and have become  "a lot more conservative about going
back and borrowing money in order to fund growth plans, particularly if there's
going to be this volatility in the traditional procedural growth strategies that
many hospitals have pursued."

The net result of the procedural cuts and the lack of cheap capital have
resulted in a 43% decline in profitability in dollar terms for hospitals over
the past five years. Roades said that his members have now decided that
"purchased growth is no longer a viable strategy or no longer a fundamental
pillar of growth strategy." What that means, he said, "is that for most
hospitals, they'll be relying more heavily on operating income to fund future
growth strategy which means that they'll have to get much more serious about
operating efficiency in a hurry." What this means, he said, is that there
appears to be an era of austerity headed our way and a big focus on cost control
for most hospitals," which means less money for equipment purchases among other
things.

The final pillar that will impact the hospitals, according to Roades, is
healthcare reform. He said that most of his constituents aren't afraid of the
short-term implications of the pending bill, but rather, what is going to happen
with Medicare in the future. "Medicare is the 800 pound gorilla for most
hospitals," as it accounts for on average of between 40% and 50% of patient
admissions. The picture of what is likely to happen to the Medicare program over
the next five to ten years is that there's almost complete certainty that prices
will go down via payment cuts.

While it is good news that most patients coming in will now have some form of
coverage due to the mandates in the healthcare bill that should help lessen the
bad debt problem, the question will be how is coverage expansion done? The bad
news there is that much of this new coverage will come in the form of new
Medicaid patients. Medicare/Medicaid patients only pay about 60 cents on the
dollar.

Ironically, the Baby Boomers, who have helped fuel the elective procedure boom
of the last decade, are about to severely tax the system as they move into their
Medicare/Medicaid years. They become medicine consumers as opposed to surgical
consumers. "As more and more Baby Boomers move into Medicare program, they're
going to swamp hospitals with these unprofitable cases," said Roades. "Our
estimate is that 80% to 90% of all hospital growth over the next ten years is
going to come from Medicare growth," he added.

The picture that emerges is that the commercial hospital as we know it today
will go away and most hospitals will probably follow the public model. The trick
in this case, Roades said, will be to find a way to shift patients from the
acute care setting to a more efficient delivery model for the Medicare business.
This Medicare patient group often present with four or more chronic diseases in
addition to whatever condition they present with when admitted to the hospital.

To pay for this coming onslaught of elderly, one thing that will absolutely
happen over the next 10 years, according to Roades is that Congress will have to
cut Medicare rates. Additionally the care model will move away from a
fee-for-service model to a more total cost-focused payment system in which
payments are bundled.

Ultimately, the aim of the new healthcare system will be to shift patients away
from surgical sub-specialties and towards primary care physicians. This would
serve to "gate keep patients out of the expensive high end centers of care by
having some infrastructure that manages chronic disease."

"Providers will be looking to build more accountability into their organizations
and ultimately reduce costs and improve quality by reallocating and reinvesting
to keep patients out of hospitals, particularly these Medicare chronic disease
sufferers," concluded Roades.

Holland Johnson, 404-262-5540;


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2010 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            January 18, 2010 Monday

Hospitals will need to change their business models in order to survive

LENGTH: 1321 words

Medical Device Daily Managing Editor

SAN FRANCISCO -- After hearing in a keynote presentation from former CMS
administrator Tom Scully that the pain of healthcare reform would be delayed for
some time () and that hospitals would be the chief winners in the new healthcare
bill, it was an interesting contrast to hear Chas Roades, chief research officer
of the performance improvement firm Advisory Board (Washington) discuss what he
sees as the potentially bleak times ahead for the hospital industry in the
coming years during a late afternoon presentation, particularly with the
prospect of a jobless economy.

Roades said a survey done by his members shows that "there's still a lot of
uncertainty as to future growth, future margins and future strategy, and a lot
of our members, particularly large multi-hospital systems, are undergoing fairly
dramatic rethinking of their strategic plans for the next five to 10 years given
the impact both of the economy and the recession through last year, and most
importantly, the impact of potential healthcare reform in just a few weeks now."

Despite the tough economy, Roades reported that many of his members, especially
in the large systems, had a relatively good year because they "pulled hard on a
lot of the key suspect levers to try and improve margin performance." Some of
these larger hospital groups reported that it was "one of their best year's
ever, in terms of market share growth and margin growth."

Looking forward to 2010 and beyond, Roades said hospitals are concerned that the
traditional surgical growth engine that they have relied upon for the past
decade or more is in jeopardy. He noted that the commercial revenue that comes
from surgical procedures accounts for roughly 30% of the hospitals profits, and
the other 70%  comes from Medicare/Medicaid patients as well as other "low pay
and no pay patients." That 30% figure subsidizes all the other investment that a
hospital wants to make. This revenue growth stream has now been muddied by the
economy and pending healthcare reforms.

"The last three or four years, cost growth has been outpacing revenue growth for
most of our members so even though they've been getting relatively good pricing
on the commercial side, costs (including for labor and technology) have just
been skyrocketing," said Roades.

Now the question becomes where will revenue growth come from in the future?
Especially with surgical volume decreasing due to increasing unemployment among
prospective formerly insured patients. Many of these patients are what Roades
called "preference-sensitive," or elective, meaning that there are non-surgical
alternatives available on both the inpatient and outpatient side that can
substitute for the more expensive surgery.

Also contributing to the lower revenues for the hospitals is the fact that the
"healthcare plans have had their thumbs on the scale as well," Roades said. He
noted that all of the major health plans have been putting in place some sort of
utilization management plan for the larger employers, "such that they can be
able to get a handle on some of these expensive procedural cases." Essentially a
patient who has been tapped as a candidate for surgery is contacted by the
insurers and is informed of potential side effects and risks associated with a
given surgical procedure. The patient is informed of non-surgical - and cheaper
- alternatives.

A second area of concern for hospitals has been the tightening of the credit
markets. The hospitals have been able until recently to take advantage of cheap
capital to invest in very expensive market share and service line growth
strategy. This represents "a lot of expensive clinical capital equipment, a lot
of facility renovation and expansion." He noted that philanthropy, another key
area of cash for hospitals, is way down. While credit at affordable rates
appears to be making a resurgence, Roades noted that a lot of hospital boards
have become "spooked," and have become  "a lot more conservative about going
back and borrowing money in order to fund growth plans, particularly if there's
going to be this volatility in the traditional procedural growth strategies that
many hospitals have pursued."

The net result of the procedural cuts and the lack of cheap capital have
resulted in a 43% decline in profitability in dollar terms for hospitals over
the past five years. Roades said that his members have now decided that
"purchased growth is no longer a viable strategy or no longer a fundamental
pillar of growth strategy." What that means, he said, "is that for most
hospitals, they'll be relying more heavily on operating income to fund future
growth strategy which means that they'll have to get much more serious about
operating efficiency in a hurry." What this means, he said, is that there
appears to be an era of austerity headed our way and a big focus on cost control
for most hospitals," which means less money for equipment purchases among other
things.

The final pillar that will impact the hospitals, according to Roades, is
healthcare reform. He said that most of his constituents aren't afraid of the
short-term implications of the pending bill, but rather, what is going to happen
with Medicare in the future. "Medicare is the 800 pound gorilla for most
hospitals," as it accounts for on average of between 40% and 50% of patient
admissions. The picture of what is likely to happen to the Medicare program over
the next five to ten years is that there's almost complete certainty that prices
will go down via payment cuts.

While it is good news that most patients coming in will now have some form of
coverage due to the mandates in the healthcare bill that should help lessen the
bad debt problem, the question will be how is coverage expansion done? The bad
news there is that much of this new coverage will come in the form of new
Medicaid patients. Medicare/Medicaid patients only pay about 60 cents on the
dollar.

Ironically, the Baby Boomers, who have helped fuel the elective procedure boom
of the last decade, are about to severely tax the system as they move into their
Medicare/Medicaid years. They become medicine consumers as opposed to surgical
consumers. "As more and more Baby Boomers move into Medicare program, they're
going to swamp hospitals with these unprofitable cases," said Roades. "Our
estimate is that 80% to 90% of all hospital growth over the next ten years is
going to come from Medicare growth," he added.

The picture that emerges is that the commercial hospital as we know it today
will go away and most hospitals will probably follow the public model. The trick
in this case, Roades said, will be to find a way to shift patients from the
acute care setting to a more efficient delivery model for the Medicare business.
This Medicare patient group often present with four or more chronic diseases in
addition to whatever condition they present with when admitted to the hospital.

To pay for this coming onslaught of elderly, one thing that will absolutely
happen over the next 10 years, according to Roades is that Congress will have to
cut Medicare rates. Additionally the care model will move away from a
fee-for-service model to a more total cost-focused payment system in which
payments are bundled.

Ultimately, the aim of the new healthcare system will be to shift patients away
from surgical sub-specialties and towards primary care physicians. This would
serve to "gate keep patients out of the expensive high end centers of care by
having some infrastructure that manages chronic disease."

"Providers will be looking to build more accountability into their organizations
and ultimately reduce costs and improve quality by reallocating and reinvesting
to keep patients out of hospitals, particularly these Medicare chronic disease
sufferers," concluded Roades.

Holland Johnson, 404-262-5540;


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2010 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday

Applying international law to the Israel-Hamas conflict

LENGTH: 1531  words


Now that the latest Israel-Hamas conflict has come to a close--should the 12th
attempted cease-fire hold--the battlefield moves from Gaza to the court of
public opinion.
Although both sides are invoking violations of international law in the
conflict, the United Nations--by virtue of its stature--is the main vehicle
propelling such allegations. A full month before the conflict ended, the U.N. in
late July had already announced an investigation into alleged Israeli "war
crimes" in Gaza, and in mid-August the international body named the members of a
three-person panel that will conduct the probe.
How should a scrupulous application of international law treat Israel's
Operation Protective Edge and Hamas's actions in the conflict? That is no small
question, because the outcome of the U.N. investigation will be the commonly
accepted verdict on the matter.


The international humanitarian laws regulating conduct of armed conflicts are
the 1949 Geneva Conventions, along with their official commentaries. Three
additional Protocols that purport to clarify and add various provisions were
instituted in 1977. Since not all nations have ratified the Protocols--notably
including the U.S., Israel, and the U.N. non-member observer state
"Palestine"--the protocols' application falls outside the scope of the
investigative committee.


As the issue at hand pertains to the protection of civilians in wartime, the
Fourth Geneva Convention and its derivative commentaries are predominantly
pertinent.
Procedural considerations
Article 149 of the Fourth Geneva Convention institutes a procedure by which an
inquiry into a violation of the Convention is to be carried out. Any
investigation into an alleged violation must be conducted through an agreement
between the parties--either via negotiated procedures or an appointment of a
mutually agreed-upon umpire. The process to appoint an investigative
three-person panel is palpably specific.
The panel's members must be drawn from a list of eight "neutral" and "qualified"
nominees--four from each opponent. Each side appoints one member to the panel.
The third, should the parties disagree, is appointed by the International Court
of Justice. The Convention certainly prohibits one party to the conflict, or
even a third party, to unilaterally determine the members of an investigative
panel.
Severe doubt is cast on the neutrality of the Gaza probe's nominees. Commission
head and Canadian academic William Schabas, for example, has publicly stated
that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu should be indicted on the basis
of the Goldstone Report, an investigation into the 2008-9 Gaza war that was
eventually retracted by its author. Inconveniently, Ehud Olmert--not
Netanyahu--was calling the shots as Israel's prime minister during that
conflict.  The three-member panel, as currently constructed, fails to comply
with most procedural requirements of the Fourth Geneva Convention.
Legal considerations
Despite the procedural failings, it is worthwhile to ask whether the U.N.'s case
against Israel works on its merits. The shelling of Gaza hospitals, the most
damning of allegations, is also the most instructive. Hospitals are explicitly
off-limits, according to Article 18 of the Convention, and are recommended to be
"situated as far as possible from [military] objectives." A hospital
encapsulates all claims of civilian harm--it may board women, children, and the
sick or wounded.
The Convention's Articles, however, also explicitly mention the positive
obligation of all parties in the conflict to "respect" and "protect" the
hospitals. The Convention makes clear that "the presence of a protected person
may not be used to render certain points or areas immune from military
operations." Acts of "belligerents" that compel "civilians to remain... to serve
as a protective screen for the fighting troops" are considered "shocking." These
acts are condemned as "cruel and barbaric" and are deemed to fall outside the
"ruses of war."
Particularly instructive is Article 19, which overtly discontinues the
protection afforded to hospitals in the event that "they are used to commit...
acts harmful to the enemy." Examples of harmful acts include utilizing a
hospital as a military observation post, to harbor able-bodied combatants, to
store arms or ammunitions or as a center from which to coordinate fighting
troops.


Although cessation of protection must be mitigated with warnings and reasonable
time to evacuate, perpetuation of acts harmful to the enemy from a hospital is
condemned because "such acts may lessen the protective value of the Convention,"
causing the "life and security of the patients" to be "very seriously affected
by its consequences."


Application of the legal considerations
The Palestinian death toll during Operation Protective Edge surpassed 2,000,
according to the Palestinian Health Ministry, with civilians accounting for
30-50 percent of the casualties--giving rise to widespread allegations of war
crimes by Israel, whose death toll was 70. Despite that disparity and the
harrowing imagery from Gaza, it would appear that Israel is not in violation of
international humanitarian law as outlined by the Geneva Conventions.
The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) has been tasked with ending the rocket threat
emanating out of Gaza. The rocket attacks, according to the U.N., constitute a
war crime due to their professed indiscriminate nature. Although the U.N.
generally views those crimes as nominal, Hamas's exploits in Gaza are quite
dispositive. Extensive reporting from Gaza has made it apparent that Hamas has
deliberately utilized the civilian population in order either gain the
protection of the Geneva Conventions or implicate Israeli soldiers as violators
thereof.
In July, nearly 3,000 rockets were fired into Israel from among the civilian
populace, including from residential areas and hospital zones. Hamas utilizes
schools as weapons depots, mosques as fortified military outposts, and
residential homes as hideouts and launch sites. It fails to carry military
insignia into combat and uses ambulances for transportation. It appears to
skillfully use the dense construct of civilian residences as a collective
fortress from which to carry out its military objectives. Hamas insists on
civilians remaining in areas of military operations, at times through forcible
detention. Civilian casualties, the use of human shields, and the repression of
journalists comprise Hamas's documented strategy.


In failing to "respect" and "protect" the hospitals--and instead opting for
conducting military operations inside or within close proximity of hospitals
--Hamas triggered the Article 19 discontinuation of legal "protection." Rather
than situating its operations "as far as possible" from the hospitals, Hamas has
set up regional commands and media centers within them and is perpetuating acts
harmful to its enemy through rocket or gun fires. Hamas's conduct is directly
analogous to the contemplated exclusions of protected status under the
Convention.
For its part, Israel must still satisfy the mitigation requirements of the
Convention. By providing warnings--through phone calls, messages, and
pamphlets--and allowing civilians a moderate amount of time to evacuate targets
of airstrikes, the IDF has reasonably fulfilled its legal obligation. The
oft-raised objection that Gazan evacuees have nowhere to go is not contemplated
by the Convention. Displacement is not a justification to remain at a site known
to be targeted.


Implications of the legal considerations
The U.N.'s investigations of Israel are typically controversial ventures--none
more so than the 2009 Goldstone commission, a paradigm of baseless accusations
not grounded in law. The circumstances of the 2008-9 Gaza war were all but
identical to the current clash, complete with substantiation of civilian abuse
by Gaza terrorists. The Goldstone Report still concluded that there was no
evidence of such conduct, instead opting for labeling Israel as a human rights
violator.

Judge Richard Goldstone retracted his report in April 2011, admitting that
civilians were not intentionally targeted by Israel "as a matter of policy," and
that the fact that Hamas intentionally committed crimes against civilians "goes
without saying." Goldstone exposed the commission's partiality, stating that it
did not have "evidence explaining the circumstances in which we said civilians
in Gaza were targeted, because it probably would have influenced our findings
about intentionality and war crimes."
The meticulous documentation by the IDF and the foreign independent media of the
facts on the ground leaves the presently appointed three-person U.N. commission
with an opportunity. The panel is presented with a case in which it can
competently frame Hamas's terrorist tactics as illegal. Rather than poisoning
the well against Israel and Jews, an unequivocal consequence of the Goldstone
Report, the panel can prove to be on the side of the law. In doing so, it can
begin to steer the U.N. back onto the road towards credibility and to reclaiming
its authority as the arbiter in matters of human rights and international law.

 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 3, 2015 Saturday

Surgical Tech II - Surgery (Varied / On-Call)

LENGTH: 612  words

DATELINE: Lansing


National Association of Sales Professionals has issued the following job
announcement:


Surgical Tech II - Surgery (Varied / On-Call)
Job ID:  21687868
Position Title:  Surgical Tech II - Surgery (Varied / On-Call)
Company Name:  St Joseph's Westgate Medical Center
Location(s):  Glendale, Arizona, 85305, United States

Posted:  January 2, 2015
Job Function:  Other
Entry Level:  No
APPLY FOR THIS JOB
Apply URL:  http://www.ecentralmetrics.com/url/?u=91973330551%...
Save Job  Email Job  Print Job
Job Description

JOIN US NOW as we are seeking a dynamic SURGICAL TECH who is passionate about
the health and well-being of our patients to assist physicians and nurses during
surgical procedures and in preparation for surgery, deliver safe, competent
care, be responsible for maintaining the sterile field, being constantly
vigilant that the scrubbed members of the team adhere to aseptic/sterile
technique, assemble and process sterile instrument trays and equipment, expedite
the operative procedure by anticipating the needs of the surgeon, provide
procedural circulating support and perform instrument and equipment counts. This
position may cross train into procedures.

Located in Glendale, AZ, this position is critical to the success of St.
Joseph's Hospital Medical Center and requires the full understanding and active
participation in fulfilling the Mission of Dignity Health.

REQUIREMENTS:
HS Diploma/GED, two+ years surgical technologist clinical experience that
demonstrates the ability to identify and respond to advanced clinical issues and
BLS required.

Surgical Tech Program Graduate strongly preferred.
Hello humankindness
Located conveniently off the Loop 101 and Glendale Avenue in Glendale, Arizona,
St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center, a campus of St. Joseph's Hospital and
Medical Center, is the centerpiece of Dignity Health's West Valley expansion.
With a vision of Partnering with patients, physicians, employees and communities
to improve the health of all we serve; St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center is
collaborating with groups to build an organization that meets today's changing
healthcare needs.
As part of the new 35-acre medical campus, St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center
features new approaches to healthcare via its onside collaboration with Dignity
Health partners.. The Westgate team has a solid patient/physician focused style
to customer service; actively partnering with patients and physicians to plan
for the continuum of care. It is with Dignity Health's humankindness movement
that gives St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center the opportunity to open a
hospital that is based upon partnerships with patients, physicians, employees,
and the community.
With future plans to expand, St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center, a 60,000
square foot hospital, includes a 12-bed full-service emergency department, a
24-bed inpatient unit, 2 operating rooms, 2 procedural rooms, dedicated space
for diagnostic services, an ambulance bay and helipad. The campus features some
of the most innovative uses of materials to promote patient safety, patient
satisfaction and medical efficiency.

Now is the time to join Dignity Health and St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical
Center to make a difference in the West Valley community. St. Joseph's is
consistently named an outstanding place to work and one of Arizona's healthiest
employers. Come grow your career with one of Arizona's Most Admired Companies.
Look for us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.

For the health of our community ... we are proud to announce that we are a
tobacco-free campus.


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 28, 2014 Friday

Surgical Tech II - Surgery (Varied / On-Call)

LENGTH: 612  words

DATELINE: Lansing


National Association of Sales Professionals has issued the following job
announcement:


Surgical Tech II - Surgery (Varied / On-Call)
Job ID:  21376464
Position Title:  Surgical Tech II - Surgery (Varied / On-Call)
Company Name:  St Joseph's Westgate Medical Center
Location(s):  Glendale, Arizona, 85305, United States

Posted:  November 27, 2014
Job Function:  Other
Entry Level:  No
APPLY FOR THIS JOB
Apply URL:  http://www.ecentralmetrics.com/url/?u=90303175818%...
Save Job  Email Job  Print Job
Job Description

JOIN US NOW as we are seeking a dynamic SURGICAL TECH who is passionate about
the health and well-being of our patients to assist physicians and nurses during
surgical procedures and in preparation for surgery, deliver safe, competent
care, be responsible for maintaining the sterile field, being constantly
vigilant that the scrubbed members of the team adhere to aseptic/sterile
technique, assemble and process sterile instrument trays and equipment, expedite
the operative procedure by anticipating the needs of the surgeon, provide
procedural circulating support and perform instrument and equipment counts. This
position may cross train into procedures.

Located in Glendale, AZ, this position is critical to the success of St.
Joseph's Hospital Medical Center and requires the full understanding and active
participation in fulfilling the Mission of Dignity Health.

REQUIREMENTS:
HS Diploma/GED, two+ years surgical technologist clinical experience that
demonstrates the ability to identify and respond to advanced clinical issues and
BLS required.

Surgical Tech Program Graduate strongly preferred.
Hello humankindness
Located conveniently off the Loop 101 and Glendale Avenue in Glendale, Arizona,
St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center, a campus of St. Joseph's Hospital and
Medical Center, is the centerpiece of Dignity Health's West Valley expansion.
With a vision of Partnering with patients, physicians, employees and communities
to improve the health of all we serve; St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center is
collaborating with groups to build an organization that meets today's changing
healthcare needs.
As part of the new 35-acre medical campus, St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center
features new approaches to healthcare via its onside collaboration with Dignity
Health partners.. The Westgate team has a solid patient/physician focused style
to customer service; actively partnering with patients and physicians to plan
for the continuum of care. It is with Dignity Health's humankindness movement
that gives St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center the opportunity to open a
hospital that is based upon partnerships with patients, physicians, employees,
and the community.
With future plans to expand, St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center, a 60,000
square foot hospital, includes a 12-bed full-service emergency department, a
24-bed inpatient unit, 2 operating rooms, 2 procedural rooms, dedicated space
for diagnostic services, an ambulance bay and helipad. The campus features some
of the most innovative uses of materials to promote patient safety, patient
satisfaction and medical efficiency.

Now is the time to join Dignity Health and St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical
Center to make a difference in the West Valley community. St. Joseph's is
consistently named an outstanding place to work and one of Arizona's healthiest
employers. Come grow your career with one of Arizona's Most Admired Companies.
Look for us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.

For the health of our community ... we are proud to announce that we are a
tobacco-free campus.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1989, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 October, 1989

                        Vol. 22, No. 10, HOSPLW Pg. 330

LENGTH: 430 words

TITLE: CASENOTE: PATIENT DUMPING: Private action arising under COBRA limited by
state damage cap but not state procedures

AUTHOR: J.K./R.K.

TEXT:

   The United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana denied
defendant hospital's motion to dismiss plaintiff's "patient dumping" claim
finding that the consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA),
42 U.S.C. 1395dd (1986) incorporates state damage cap, but not its procedural
limitations.

   As a result of a serious accident, plaintiff's wife was taken to defendant
hospital's emergency room.  After physicians examined and treated the patient,
defendant hospital transferred her to another hospital where she died.
Plaintiff sought to recover damages under the private enforcement provisions of
COBRA, claiming defendant hospital had failed to provide his patient wife with
the appropriate medical care and stabilizing treatment required to ensure the
safety of her transfer.  COBRA was designed to deter hospitals from transferring
patients to other facilities or turning away patients who are unable to pay.
Under the COBRA private enforcement provisions, anyone who suffers personal harm
as a direct result of a hospital's violation of the act may obtain those damages
available for personal injury under the law of the state in which the hospital
is located.

   Under the state medical malpractice statute, no cause of action arises
against a health care provider until an opinion has been rendered by the state
medical review panel.  The hospital contended plaintiff's failure to file his
complaint with the medical review panel deprived the court of subject matter
jurisdiction.  Plaintiff argued COBRA establishes federal question jurisdiction
over patient dumping claims.  Defendant admitted direct conflict existed between
COBRA's strict liability standard and the state's negligence standard during the
time when the private cause of action arose.  The plain language of COBRA states
a cause of action arises at the time of plaintiff's injury.  Plaintiff asserted
Indiana's statutory limitations on medical malpractice actions, i.e., the
medical review panel and the $ 100,000 ceiling on damages, were rendered
ineffective by the COBRA preemption clause.

   The court ruled COBRA does not incorporate state procedural requirements
including the rule that plaintiff file his complaint with the medical review
panel.  However, the court stated COBRA does incorporate the state's $ 100,000
cap on damages recoverable from a single health care provider.  Aware of the
growing concern over excessive damage awards, the court noted Congress wished to
preserve the ceilings on damage awards which many states have recently enacted.

REFERENCE: Reid v. Indianapolis Osteopathic Medical Hospital, 709 F. Supp. 853
(S.D. Ind. 1989).


                              288 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     October 14, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Medtronic CoreValve Evolut R System Demonstrates Exceptional Results at One Year

LENGTH: 721  words


Oct. 14 -- Medtronic plc (NYSE: MDT) announced new one-year data showing
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) with the CoreValve Evolut R
System-the first and only next-generation recapturable, self-expanding valve
available in the U.S.-led to exceptional clinical outcomes.

Presented at the Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT) scientific
symposium, data from the Evolut R CE Study reported the lowest rate of all-cause
mortality (6.7 percent) of any TAVR study in extreme and high risk patients to
date at one-year follow-up. The one-year stroke rate was also low at 3.4
percent. The Evolut R CE Study is a prospective, single-arm, multicenter study
that enrolled 60 extreme and high risk patients at six centers in Australia, New
Zealand and the United Kingdom.

"These data show that, even in a high and extreme risk patient population, the
exceptional procedural outcomes experienced with Evolut R were maintained
through one year, which indicates that this next-generation, recapturable
technology delivers on its promise to advance TAVR outcomes for patients," said
Ganesh Manoharan, M.D., consultant cardiologist at the Royal Victoria Hospital
in Belfast, Northern Ireland and study investigator for the Evolut R CE Study
who presented the data. "The low rate of paravalvular leak and new pacemaker
implantation suggest that the ability to recapture and reposition during
deployment will play an important role in the evolution of TAVR technology."

In the data presented today, Evolut R showed strong hemodynamic performance,
which may be attributed to the valve's supra-annular design. Mean aortic
gradients (a common method for measuring the restriction of blood flow through
the aortic valve) remained low in the single digits at 7.52.7 mm Hg at one year.
With optimized valve positioning accuracy due to the device's 1:1 response and
controlled deployment, rates of moderate or severe paravalvular leak remained
low (3.4 percent at 30 days and 4.3 percent at one year). The permanent
pacemaker implantation rate was similarly low at 30 days (11.7 percent) and at
one year (15.2 percent).

These data showed no incidents of valve dysfunction, procedural death, annular
rupture, coronary occlusion, valve thrombosis, embolization, or conversion to
surgery. Transfemoral access was possible in all but one patient in a population
that included patients with smaller vessels (down to 5.0 mm).

"With the recapturable and repositionable capabilities of Evolut R, and
enhancements to both the delivery system and valve design, we set out to enhance
the key procedural outcomes that drive TAVR outcomes.  These exceptional results
clearly demonstrate that we have achieved our goal," said Rhonda Robb, vice
president and general manager of the Heart Valve Therapies business, which is
part of the Cardiac and Vascular Group at Medtronic. "The Evolut R System
represents the TAVR platform of the future. Heart teams worldwide recognize that
the clinical results from this trial are exceptional, and they are excited to
have next-generation technology that enables them to achieve these same positive
outcomes for their own patients in their own practices."

The Evolut R valve is delivered through the EnVeo(TM) R Delivery Catheter
System, which features an InLine(TM) Sheath that significantly reduces the
profile to the lowest on the market (14 Fr equivalent, less than 1/5 inch). A
smaller profile size provides a greater opportunity to treat patients with
smaller vessels through the preferred transfemoral access route, and may
minimize the risk of major vascular complications in some patients.

The 23 mm, 26 mm and 29 mm sizes of the CoreValve Evolut R transcatheter valve
and the CoreValve EnVeo R Delivery Catheter System are available in Europe and
other countries that recognize the CE mark.  The CoreValve Evolut R System was
FDA-approved for commercial use in the United States in June 2015.

In collaboration with leading clinicians, researchers and scientists worldwide,
Medtronic offers the broadest range of innovative medical technology for the
interventional and surgical treatment of cardiovascular disease and cardiac
arrhythmias. The company strives to offer products and services that deliver
clinical and economic value to healthcare consumers and providers around the
world.

Source: Medtronic

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                             March 9, 2004 Tuesday

Cost, clinical impacts of DES among topics on opening day

LENGTH: 996 words


American College of Cardiology Scientific Sessions

Cost, clinical impacts of DES among topics on opening day

By HOLLAND JOHNSON  Medical Device Daily Associate Managing Editor  NEW ORLEANS,
Louisiana - A press conference held Sunday on the opening day of the 53rd annual
scientific sessions of the American College of Cardiology (ACC; Bethesda,
Maryland) highlighted some new and innovative advances in the treatment of
coronary artery disease, the repair of leaky heart valves and the use of devices
to assist the failing heart - while also examining key questions about cost
outcomes.

Drug-eluting stents (DES) increase the cost of coronary interventions, though
not as much as might be expected, according to an analysis of data from 74
medical centers.
 The study was presented by David Marks, MD, of the Medical College of Wisconsin
(Milwaukee, Wisconsin) and was done in collaboration with the University
HealthSystem Consortium (UHC; Oak Brook, Illinois), an alliance of 87 academic
health centers in the U.S.

Using the UHC clinical database, researchers analyzed nearly 12,000 stenting
procedures, including more than 3,400 involving the use of a drug-eluting stent.
Not surprisingly, they found that procedural costs were higher in patients
treated with a DES, a device that currently costs up to $3,000.

Among those not suffering from a heart attack, for example, stenting with a
drug-eluting device cost nearly $15,000 on average vs. $13,400 for patients
treated with a bare-metal stent.

Higher procedural costs were balanced somewhat, however, by a shorter hospital
stay for the DES patients - 1.9 days on average for patients treated with a DES
vs. 2.39 days for bare-metal stent patients.

"Drug-eluting stent costs were mitigated by use in less complex or costly
patients and the creation of new cost savings to limit exposure to the greater
supply costs," said Marks.

While he noted that overall costs for all stent procedure admissions decreased
from $192 million in 1Q03 to $178 million in 2Q03, he said these savings
"partially eroded" with time in patients with acute myocardial infarction, an
off-label indication for DES use that raised overall costs for stent use to $210
million in 3Q03.

He also noted that DES adoption was not uniform across the U.S. through 3Q03,
with some centers showing a 0% adoption rate while others have more than an 80%
adoption rate. "This finding," he said, "suggests no standard of care or
consensus in the use of drug-eluting stents by [3Q03]."

It will be interesting to see how this cost analysis changes with the addition
of competition in the DES sector, a factor that is more relevant now that Boston
Scientific's (Natick, Massachusetts) Taxus Express2 stent system has been
approved in the U.S..

Also described at the press conference was a promising new technique that may
soon make it possible to avoid open-chest surgery when repairing the valve that
separates the upper and lower chambers on the left side of the heart. When the
mitral valve does not close properly, blood can leak back into the upper
chamber, or atrium, with each heartbeat, as the lower chamber, or ventricle
contracts.

Describing the new technique was investigator William Stewart, MD, associate
professor of medicine at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation (Cleveland, Ohio), who
is involved in a Phase 1 trial called EVEREST - for Endovascular Valve
Edge-to-Edge Repair Study.

The technique involves threading a dime-sized clip - developed by Evalve
(Redwood City, California), a company incubated by The Foundry (also Redwood
City) - into the heart via a catheter. The catheter is guided by a small
echocardiography probe in the patient's throat, as well as an ordinary
echocardiography transducer placed on the chest. According to the first reports
of the catheter procedure in humans, which involved 10 patients, valve function
improved in all cases.

While Stewart indicated he's not sure what the ultimate indication for this
system will be, whether it will be "used for a lot of patients who currently go
to a valve surgeon, or whether it will be patients who do not go to valve
surgery and are perhaps too risky to go to valve surgery. Heretofore, we've had
nothing to offer patients who have a leaking mitral valve and now we have
something we can offer these patients."

Many patients with heart failure who receive a left ventricular assist device
(LVAD) experience at least some improvement in heart function over time as the
heart is given a chance to rest. However, according to results of a multi-center
study, few patients improve enough to tolerate removal of the device.

The results were presented by Simon Maybaum, MD, of Columbia University (New
York) on behalf of the LVAD Working Group.

The study prospectively followed 64 patients at eight heart transplant programs.

Maybaum and his colleagues found that after one month with an LVAD, the average
ejection fraction improved from about 17% to 35% (a normal ejection fraction is
at least 50%). Additionally, the average size and weight of the heart decreased
significantly.

Despite these encouraging findings, only five of the 64 patients followed - all
of whom had sudden-onset heart failure - recovered enough to have their LVADs
removed. Patients with chronic heart failure continued to need the device. But
Maybaum noted that the addition of "novel medical therapies" might modify those
results.

Some of these therapies include concurrent cell transplantation with LVAD
support, and Maybaum said his team at Columbia is studying the use of
muscle-building drugs like clenbutorol "to promote cardiac recovery in LVAD
patients." He noted that improved therapies combined with LVAD use could "allow
some patients to avoid cardiac transplantation."

While he said that an array of devices approved for bridge to transplantation
were used in this study, the "vast majority of the devices in the study" were
HeartMate systems from Thoratec (Pleasanton, California).

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2004 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            December 15, 2014 Monday

Need for urgent legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect unassuming victims
underscored at seminar

SECTION: Vol. XXXVII No. 343

LENGTH: 583  words


There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber Crime law  due to increasing
incidents of cyber crime  against unassumingvictims including young girls and
women, recommended participants of a seminar organised to celebrate 25th
anniversary of WAR, the NGO working against exploitation of women.

Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour on the
occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Ms Sharmila Farooqi
presided the session "Rape &amp; Sexual Violence : Legal Reforms"

that attracted  diverse segments of people, comprising members of the Civil
Society, representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers, teachers, human rights
activists and government officials.

Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in the
Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gangrape, could bereduced through
"no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against women.

They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and implementation of all
laws recently passed for women protection and welfare, as otherwise, they feared
the violence against women will continue, unabated.

Participants using the forum of this seminar to push forth for some much needed
"Legal, Medical and Procedural Reforms" by the Government urged the authorities
to empower the existent Women Police Stations and increase their numbers in
every district.

Moreover, medico legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded to be made
operational in all major hospitals, including those  in private sector as Aga
Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.

Mandatory DNA testing for all rape cases was also recommended besides provision
for DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.

They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state prosecutors,
judges, police officers, medicolegal officers and clerical force in judiciary.

Guest of honour Mukhtaran  Mai on the occasion pleaded for speedy trials  to
ensure prosecution of  offenders of the heinous crime.

The Minister for  Culture and Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising the work of
NGOs like War Against Rape, reiterated the Government's resolve to continue its
work for  the welfare of women in general, including  effort to eradicate sexual
violence.

The Seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan who
reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in the late 1980s.

The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &amp;
Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh
Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint  Act, but urged the government to
focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.

Barrister Danish Zuberi, in her address spoke about the laws relating to rape
and the reforms needed to make rape prosecution more effective.  She also
suggested that cases of sexual violence, rape and incest be covered under "Time
Limit" of two years as done in terrorism cases.

The senior lawyer said in cases of "compromise" or out of court settlement,
state should become a "Party" and continue with the prosecution of the accused.

Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges in context
of medicolegal and the  procedural obstructions hindering disbursement of fair
trial and justice to survivors.  Going through her experience as a past Director
in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms in the MedicoLegal Sector.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday

MoIT moving reference against 13 PSDP projects

BYLINE:  TAHIR AMIN

SECTION: Vol. L No. 20

LENGTH: 382  words


The Ministry of Information Technology is moving a reference against thirteen
Public Sector Development Program (PSDP) information technology projects,
showing gross financial, administrative and procedural irregularities estimated
at Rs 1.2 billion to National Accountability Bureau (NAB), it is learnt.

Official sources told Business Recorder that a reference against 13 projects
executed by Pakistan Computer Bureau (PCB) and Electronic Government
Directorates (EGD) is currently lying on the table of Minister of State for IT
Anusha Rehman waiting for formal approval. The Minister is likely to give formal
approval for sending the reference to NAB soon, after which the Bureau would
thoroughly probe these cases and would fix responsibility. Sources further
revealed that about 15 officials are directly involved in the process while some
of them have already gone on long leave.

State Minister for IT had ordered to refer the internal audit reports showing
gross financial, administrative and procedural irregularities of thirteen PSDP
IT projects. Most of the projects began between 2004 and 2006 with a projected
completion period of 2 to 3 years. However, despite a lapse of more than 7
years, the projects' desired deliverables were not achieved within the defined
timelines. It had become a yearly trend of PCB/EGD to seek extension of these
projects on one pretext or another, said officials.

The projects include 'Provision of E-Services at CDA, Islamabad, 'M/o
Information Technology, Health NET Telemedicine Project for Rural/Remote Areas
in Punjab (Holy Family Hospital Rawalpindi), 'HMIS and Networking facilities at
Children Hospital, PIMS, Islamabad, E-Ennoblement of Establishment Division,
Federal Government Data Centre and Intranet, E-Services at Chief/Deputy
Commissioner's Office, E-Services of Islamabad Police, E-Office at MoIT,
E-Office Replication at Federal Ministries/Divisions, E-Services at FIA,
E-Services at Ministry of Health, E-Services at Ministry of Interior and
E-Services at Ministry of Population.

The Minister in September 2013 ordered to conduct a special audit of all the
projects of MoIT attached departments/entities to ensure transparency,
efficiency in their business processes and on-time delivery of the project
deliverables, sources maintained.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Cairns Post (Australia)

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday

Flegg promises cardiac unit;
Heartfelt plea;
SEPT 9TH HEALTH

BYLINE: Peter Michael (michaelp@tcp.newsltd.com.au)

SECTION: QUEENSLAND DECIDES ELECTION 2006; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 299  words


EMMA Bowden knows all about the cardiac care crisis in Cairns.

But not even the Coalition promise of a new $5 million procedural cardiac unit
in the city was enough to win her vote yesterday.

The visibly upset young woman interrupted a press conference outside Cairns Base
Hospital to tell how her father, 71, suffering chest pain had been stranded in
an ambulance waiting for a hospital bed for more than an hour.

"I'm angry. I'm really angry," Ms Bowden said.

"My dad is suffering an angina attack, he is in pain, he is sweating and clammy
and in need of treatment.

"But he is stuck in an ambulance because there are no beds."

Asked if a promise by Liberal leader Bruce Flegg to improve cardiac services in
Cairns would win her over she replied: "No. No way. I blame the hospital. I
still have faith in Beattie."

Led by Dr Flegg, the Coalition has sought to seduce the state's voters by
hammering the health crisis in Queensland.

But it does not appear to be working. The latest Newspoll shows Labor in front
with 58 per cent of the two-party-preferred vote, compared with the Coalition's
42 per cent.

"There is only one poll that matters and that is on September 9," Dr Flegg said
yesterday.

"Polls are not a matter of life and death unlike health services," he said.

Tagged as "hapless" after a shaky start to the election campaign, the deputy
Coalition leader yesterday shook off criticism of his unpolished performance as
he desperately sought to stay on message.

His comments came as Premier Peter Beattie yesterday admitted to his own "blonde
moment" after initially refusing to accept there was a crisis in the state's
health system.

Dr Flegg said a Coalition government would boost vital cardiac services in
Cairns by opening a procedural cardiac unit as soon as practical on being
elected to power.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TCP


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 9, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Senate Approves Slot Machine Measure;
Key Bills on Taxes, Other Issues Get Past Procedural Votes in Late-Night Session

BYLINE: John Wagner and Ovetta Wiggins; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1071 words


The Maryland Senate approved legislation last night calling for a referendum
next year on legalizing 15,000 slot machines and moved closer to passing a
comprehensive tax package to close an estimated budget shortfall of at least
$1.5 billion and raise about $400 million a year for transportation priorities.

A bill to ask voters whether to place slots at five sites in Maryland passed 31
to 15, two votes more the supermajority required for approval. Putting the issue
to a public vote was cast as a compromise to an issue that has paralyzed
Annapolis for years.

Other procedural votes forced by Republicans suggested that Democratic Senate
leaders were likely to win the votes needed today to pass other parts of a
revenue package that includes raising the sales, tobacco, corporate income and
vehicle titling taxes, as well as overhauling the state's income tax brackets.

The crush of activity on the Senate floor came as legislative leaders sought to
bring a special session called by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) to a conclusion by
next week. The House of Delegates was preparing to work into the weekend to take
up parts of the package as they passed the Senate.

The Senate agreed late last night to invest up to $50 million over five years in
the financially troubled Prince George's County hospital system if a
still-elusive agreement on a long-term solution for the system is reached by
state and county leaders or by the General Assembly.

A broader bill on health-care access being considered during the session also
moved forward in the Senate yesterday on a 31 to 16 procedural vote. The bill
would expand Medicaid eligibility for adults and provide a subsidy to some small
businesses to help them offer insurance to their employees.

The breakneck pace drew protests from Republicans and even some Democrats, who
said legislation was being muscled through the Senate without vetting by
lawmakers and the public.

"What is so special that we have to stay here all night to pass this?" Sen. E.J.
Pipkin (R-Queen Anne's) asked his colleagues.  "We've done a year's worth of
work in a day."

A plan by the Senate to apply the state sales tax to  computer services,
landscaping operations and video arcades prompted some of the fiercest debate
yesterday afternoon.

The proposal to tax the three services, expected to generate about $250 million
a year, was added to the revenue package Tuesday by Senate budget writers
without public input. They replaced several other services that O'Malley had
proposed taxing, including heath clubs and property management services.

An amendment to remove landscaping from the package failed by one vote during
afternoon debate after several senators from both parties expressed concerns
about its consequences. Sen. Delores G. Kelley (D-Baltimore County), who
proposed the amendment, said she feared the provision would hurt "someone with
one lawn mower trying to support a family."

But shortly after 10 p.m., another version of the amendment passed unanimously,
eliciting cheers from senators.

Sen. Edward J. Kasemeyer (D-Baltimore County) said he decided to offer the
amendment to bring unity to the chamber. "I think it caused far too much
division," Kasemeyer said. "Our intent wasn't to damage small businesses or
young people."

A separate amendment that sought to strip all three services from a tax bill
failed earlier in the day. Soon after, a small succession of pickup trucks
carrying lawn mowers was seen being driven around the circle that rings the
State House.

"We don't want a tax on anything," said Neal Ackerson, a construction landscaper
in Crofton. "It's going to put the small landscaper out of business."

At various points yesterday, five bills containing different parts of the
package initiated by O'Malley came to the Senate floor for debate.

All bills are likely to undergo  changes on the House floor, leaving the
differences to be worked out by conference committees.

Del. Sheila E. Hixson (D-Montgomery), chairman of the Ways and Means Committee,
said yesterday that the Senate's plan to apply the sales tax to computer
services "seems like a non-starter for us."

The measure is expected to account for the lion's share of the roughly $250
million in additional revenue anticipated from the Senate's proposal to tax
services that are currently exempt.

"Broadening the sales tax, I'm sure you're going to see different services,"
Hixson said. "Our problem with the computer services is that the only state in
the United States that's done it is Connecticut, and there are about 40 lawsuits
on it."

Much of the debate on slots yesterday focused on the locations listed in a bill
largely unchanged from O'Malley's proposal, which called for allowing five
parlors at horse-racing tracks and non-track locations in the city of Baltimore
and in Allegany, Anne Arundel, Cecil and Worcester counties.

A bid to move one of the parlors to Rosecroft Raceway in Prince George's County
was defeated 30 to 17, with unanimous opposition from the county's senators.

Republican lawmakers said the site would generate $200 million a year more for
the state than the location in Worcester County, which probably would be Ocean
Downs racetrack near Ocean City.

Sen. J. Lowell Stoltzfus (R-Somerset) also said the Eastern Shore site is
opposed by local officials and area business leaders. "There continues to be the
appearance of impropriety" regarding the site's inclusion in the bill, he said.

On two days in January, companies affiliated with the track owner, Potomac
developer William Rickman, and his family gave more than $48,000 to O'Malley's
campaign and an account run jointly by O'Malley and running mate Anthony G.
Brown. O'Malley aides strongly deny that donations influenced the bill.

Kasemeyer said the budget committee that considered the slots legislation had
taken its cue on the most "strategic" locations from O'Malley's office.

If approved by voters next November, the slots bill would generate about $650
million a year for the state, nearly $400 million a year for the parlor
operators and more than $75 million a year for enhanced payouts in horse races
-- a practice that is in place in several neighboring states.

The Senate also approved an amendment that requires a person who lives in
Maryland for three months to pay Maryland income tax. The current threshold is
six months. The change is expected to yield $58 million a year.

Staff writer Philip Rucker contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Del. Sheila E. Hixson (D) opposes some sales tax proposals.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

Need for urgent legislation on cyber crime to protect victims stressed

SECTION: Vol. 16 No. 344

LENGTH: 579  words


There is an urgent need to legislate a cyber crime law due to increasing
incidents of cyber crime against unassuming victims including young girls and
women, recommended participants of a seminar organised to celebrate 25th
anniversary of WAR, the NGO working against exploitation of women.

Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour on the
occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Sharmila Farooqi presided
the session "Rape &amp; Sexual Violence: Legal Reforms" that attracted diverse
segments of people, comprising members of the Civil Society, representatives
from NGOs, doctors, lawyers, teachers, human rights activists and government
officials.

Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in the
Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gangrape, could be reduced
through "no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against women.

They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and implementation of all
laws recently passed for women protection and welfare, as otherwise, they feared
the violence against women will continue, unabated.

Participants using the forum of this seminar to push forth for some much needed
"Legal, Medical and Procedural Reforms" by the Government urged the authorities
to empower the existent Women Police Stations and increase their numbers in
every district.

Moreover, medico legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded to be made
operational in all major hospitals, including those in private sector as Aga
Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.

Mandatory DNA testing for all rape cases was also recommended besides provision
for DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.

They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state prosecutors,
judges, police officers, medicolegal officers and clerical force in judiciary.

Guest of honour Mukhtaran Mai on the occasion pleaded for speedy trials to
ensure prosecution of offenders of the heinous crime.

The Minister for Culture and Tourism Sharmila Farooqi, praising the work of NGOs
like War Against Rape, reiterated the Government's resolve to continue its work
for the welfare of women in general, including effort to eradicate sexual
violence.

The Seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan who
reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in the late 1980s.

The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &amp;
Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh
Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint Act, but urged the government to
focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.

Barrister Danish Zuberi, in her address spoke about the laws relating to rape
and the reforms needed to make rape prosecution more effective.

She also suggested that cases of sexual violence, rape and incest be covered
under "Time Limit" of two years as done in terrorism cases.

The senior lawyer said in cases of "compromise" or out of court settlement,
state should become a "Party" and continue with the prosecution of the accused.

Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges in context
of medicolegal and the procedural obstructions hindering disbursement of fair
trial and justice to survivors. Going through her experience as a past Director
in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms in the MedicoLegal Sector.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Can Electronic Health Records Prevent Harm to Patients?

LENGTH: 846 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality has issued the following
news release:



 Health information technology (HIT) has been shown to improve patient safety,
especially with processes and applications that improve clinicians'
decisionmaking, documentation, and communication.





 But research has often looked at these applications in single institutions. A
question that remains unanswered is the impact of fully installed electronic
health records (EHR) systems used in multiple organizations. Another big
question: can EHRs go beyond improving safety-related processes to actually
preventing adverse events, such as potentially deadly hospital-acquired
infections, from reaching patients?



 A new AHRQ-funded study appearing in the February 6 issue of The Journal of
Patient Safety gives us some insight into these questions. It found that
cardiovascular, surgery, and pneumonia patients whose complete treatment was
captured in a fully electronic EHR were between 17 and 30 percent less likely to
experience in-hospital adverse events.



 The findings suggest that hospitals with EHRs can provide what advocates have
long claimed: better coordinated care from admission to discharge that reduces
the risk of harm reaching patients.



 In the study, a research team led by AHRQ investigators analyzed patient
medical record data from the 2012 and 2013 Medicare Patient Safety Monitoring
System (MPSMS). The database includes 21 hospital adverse event measures that
are considered to be bellwethers of patient safety. Researchers grouped the
measures into four categories: hospital-acquired infections, such as central
line-associated bloodstream infections; adverse drug events; general events,
such as falls and pressure ulcers; and post-procedural events, such as blood
clots.



 To assess the role of EHRs in preventing adverse events, the researchers
measured to what extent care received by patients in the 1,351 hospitals was
captured by a fully electronic EHR.  Hospital care was categorized as:



     Fully electronic, in which all physician notes, nursing assessments,
problem lists, medication lists, discharge summaries, and provider orders are
electronically generated.

     Partially electronic, in which some, but not all, of those components are
electronically generated.

     Non-electronic, in which none of these components are present.



 Amy Helwig



 Among the patients in the study sample, 347,281 exposures to adverse events
occurred.  Of these exposures, 7,820 adverse events actually took place,
resulting in a 2.25 percent occurrence rate of events for which patients were at
risk. Occurrence rates were highest among patients hospitalized for pneumonia
and lowest among patients requiring surgery.



 Thirteen percent, or 5,876 patients, received care that was captured by a fully
electronic EHR.  While these patients had lower odds of any adverse event, this
association varied by medical condition and type of adverse event.



 For example, patients hospitalized for pneumonia and exposed to a fully
electronic EHR had 35 percent lower odds of adverse drug events, 34 percent
lower odds of hospital-acquired infections, and 25 percent lower odds of general
events. Among patients hospitalized for cardiovascular surgery, a fully
electronic EHR was associated with 31 percent lower odds of post-procedural
events and 21 percent fewer general events.  Fully electronic EHRs were
associated with a 36 percent lower odds of hospital-acquired infections among
patients hospitalized for surgery.



 The findings build on the results of a 2014 study Link to Exit Disclaimer of
Pennsylvania hospitals that used patient safety data drawn from the Pennsylvania
Patient Safety Authority, into which hospitals are required to report patient
safety events. Hospitals using advanced EHRs had a 27 percent overall decline in
these events, the authors found, fueled by a 30 percent drop in events due to
medication errors. Edwin Lomotan



 Like all good research, the AHRQ study addresses some questions and raises
others.



 The findings showed a significant relationship between fully electronic EHRs
and adverse drug event rates for patients hospitalized with pneumonia, but not
for those with cardiovascular disease or needing surgery. This may be due to the
fact that certain high-alert medications, such as opioids, which are often
associated with adverse drug events, were not included in the MPSMS measures.
Also, the study did not address which safety features of EHRs had been optimized
or which applications had the greatest impact on reducing adverse events.



 As of today, most hospitals and clinicians have embraced specific EHR
applications and we continue to see implementation of more quality and safety
features.  EHRs can play a key role in preventing adverse events, and as this
study suggests, adoption of EHRs can better manage the multiple tasks that
prevent adverse events before they occur, keeping patients safer as a result.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Can Electronic Health Records Prevent Harm to Patients?

LENGTH: 846 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality has issued the following
news release:



 Health information technology (HIT) has been shown to improve patient safety,
especially with processes and applications that improve clinicians'
decisionmaking, documentation, and communication.





 But research has often looked at these applications in single institutions. A
question that remains unanswered is the impact of fully installed electronic
health records (EHR) systems used in multiple organizations. Another big
question: can EHRs go beyond improving safety-related processes to actually
preventing adverse events, such as potentially deadly hospital-acquired
infections, from reaching patients?



 A new AHRQ-funded study appearing in the February 6 issue of The Journal of
Patient Safety gives us some insight into these questions. It found that
cardiovascular, surgery, and pneumonia patients whose complete treatment was
captured in a fully electronic EHR were between 17 and 30 percent less likely to
experience in-hospital adverse events.



 The findings suggest that hospitals with EHRs can provide what advocates have
long claimed: better coordinated care from admission to discharge that reduces
the risk of harm reaching patients.



 In the study, a research team led by AHRQ investigators analyzed patient
medical record data from the 2012 and 2013 Medicare Patient Safety Monitoring
System (MPSMS). The database includes 21 hospital adverse event measures that
are considered to be bellwethers of patient safety. Researchers grouped the
measures into four categories: hospital-acquired infections, such as central
line-associated bloodstream infections; adverse drug events; general events,
such as falls and pressure ulcers; and post-procedural events, such as blood
clots.



 To assess the role of EHRs in preventing adverse events, the researchers
measured to what extent care received by patients in the 1,351 hospitals was
captured by a fully electronic EHR.  Hospital care was categorized as:



     Fully electronic, in which all physician notes, nursing assessments,
problem lists, medication lists, discharge summaries, and provider orders are
electronically generated.

     Partially electronic, in which some, but not all, of those components are
electronically generated.

     Non-electronic, in which none of these components are present.



 Amy Helwig



 Among the patients in the study sample, 347,281 exposures to adverse events
occurred.  Of these exposures, 7,820 adverse events actually took place,
resulting in a 2.25 percent occurrence rate of events for which patients were at
risk. Occurrence rates were highest among patients hospitalized for pneumonia
and lowest among patients requiring surgery.



 Thirteen percent, or 5,876 patients, received care that was captured by a fully
electronic EHR.  While these patients had lower odds of any adverse event, this
association varied by medical condition and type of adverse event.



 For example, patients hospitalized for pneumonia and exposed to a fully
electronic EHR had 35 percent lower odds of adverse drug events, 34 percent
lower odds of hospital-acquired infections, and 25 percent lower odds of general
events. Among patients hospitalized for cardiovascular surgery, a fully
electronic EHR was associated with 31 percent lower odds of post-procedural
events and 21 percent fewer general events.  Fully electronic EHRs were
associated with a 36 percent lower odds of hospital-acquired infections among
patients hospitalized for surgery.



 The findings build on the results of a 2014 study Link to Exit Disclaimer of
Pennsylvania hospitals that used patient safety data drawn from the Pennsylvania
Patient Safety Authority, into which hospitals are required to report patient
safety events. Hospitals using advanced EHRs had a 27 percent overall decline in
these events, the authors found, fueled by a 30 percent drop in events due to
medication errors. Edwin Lomotan



 Like all good research, the AHRQ study addresses some questions and raises
others.



 The findings showed a significant relationship between fully electronic EHRs
and adverse drug event rates for patients hospitalized with pneumonia, but not
for those with cardiovascular disease or needing surgery. This may be due to the
fact that certain high-alert medications, such as opioids, which are often
associated with adverse drug events, were not included in the MPSMS measures.
Also, the study did not address which safety features of EHRs had been optimized
or which applications had the greatest impact on reducing adverse events.



 As of today, most hospitals and clinicians have embraced specific EHR
applications and we continue to see implementation of more quality and safety
features.  EHRs can play a key role in preventing adverse events, and as this
study suggests, adoption of EHRs can better manage the multiple tasks that
prevent adverse events before they occur, keeping patients safer as a result.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday

International report: InspireMD reports on positive data for MGuard stent system

LENGTH: 821 words

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report

InspireMD (Tel Aviv, Israel), the developer of the MGuard mesh protective stent
system, reported another positive study, reinforcing MGuard's position in the
cardiology market.

In a preliminary evaluation by Drs. Dmitry Dratva, Yaron Almagor, Jonathan
Balkin, David Rosenmann, Mark Klutstein, Dan Tzivoni and David Meerkin from the
Department of Cardiology at Shaare Zedek Medical Center (Jerusalem, Israel), the
MGuard stent demonstrated excellent performance in a highly complex lesion
subset with limited angiographic and procedural complications, suggesting its
effectiveness in minimizing the possible embolic shower during stenting
procedure, potentially replacing thrombus aspiration and distal protection
devices in selected cases. The results of the analysis were presented at the
EuroPCR 2011, the official congress of the European Association of Percutaneous
Cardiovascular Interventions, held this month in Paris.

Distal embolization with no reflow/slow flow remains the principal complication
of stent deployment in patients during heart attack and in other
thrombus-containing lesions and degenerative vein grafts. This market segment
contributes about one-third of the total stenting procedures completed. Other
solutions in the study did not demonstrate any advantages in helping patients
from distal embolization. While distal protection has demonstrated benefits only
in vein grafts, and has no value in native vessels, the MGuard showed a benefit
for multiple thrombus-containing lesions in the study, including in the
treatment of patients during heart attacks. A commercially available mesh
covered stent (MGuard) was used as an in situ protection device.

Asher Holzer, MD, co-founder and president of InspireMD commented, "This study
further demonstrates the efficacy of the MGuard mesh protective stent system,
currently utilized in more than 500 hospitals worldwide, especially in thrombus
loaded lesions. This analysis represents another positive data point, added to
other studies which show the advantages of MGuard. This evaluation reinforces
our confidence as we continue the MASTER (MGUARD for Acute ST Elevation
Reperfusion) randomized trial, a multinational randomized controlled trial
designed to demonstrate MGuard coronary stent's advantages over standard care
for STEMI (heart attack) patients, chaired by Dr. Gregg Stone from Columbia
University."

Conclusions reached in this preliminary evaluation were that the MGuard stent
demonstrated effective performance in a highly complex lesion subset, with
limited angiographic and procedural complications, suggesting its effectiveness
for these indications.

"This analysis of our initial experience with MGuard confirms our expectations
of its performance in cases with a high risk for distal embolization," said
David Meerkin, MD, director of experimental cardiology, department of
cardiology, Shaare Zedek Medical Center. "The added value of the MGuard
Micro-Mesh for this subset of patients appears to provide a substantially better
procedural outcome. This leaves us with high expectations that the MASTER trial
will confirm the benefits of MGuard for thrombus laden lesions in a randomized
fashion."

The MGuard stent was used at operator discretion for cases considered at risk
for significant distal embolization. Data was prospectively collected in a
registry for all cases where the MGuard stent was used including patient, lesion
and procedural characteristics, as well as procedural and in hospital outcomes.
The results of a total of 82 patients (68 males) were included in this analysis
with a mean age of 61 +/-14 years.

In all but one case the MGuard stents were successfully deployed. These included
41 STEMIs, 18 SVGs, with the remaining patients having an angiographic
appearance of a thrombus laden lesion in a native coronary artery. Of these, 9
presented with stable angina. In the 63 stents in native coronaries, there were
2-LM, 28-LAD, 6-Cx and 27-RCA.

In the study, 2B3A inhibitors were used in only 20 cases (25%) and aspiration
performed in 25 cases (31%). Predilation was performed in 63 cases. Failed
passage of the stent occurred in a single case to mid RCA lesion, where it was
removed and the procedure completed successfully.

No reflow occurred in two cases (2.5%) one of which occurred prior to stent
deployment. In an additional case there was asymptomatic loss of a side branch.

Perforation of a vein graft occurred in a single case following stent
deployment. This was effectively treated with deployment of an additional MGuard
stent.

MGuard is a combination of a coronary stent merged with an embolic protection
specifically designed for Acute MI patients. The embolic protection is comprised
of an ultra-thin polymer mesh sleeve that wraps the stent. The MGuard coronary
seeks to provide permanent embolic protection, without affecting deliverability.
MGuard is CE mark approved.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2011 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1987, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                September, 1987

                         Vol. 20, No. 9, HOSPLW Pg. 161

LENGTH: 349 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: Medicare/Medicaid: State Statute Changing Rate Of Medicaid
Reimbursement Of Hospitals Violates Medicaid Regulations

TEXT:

   The Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals held that federal courts are not barred
by the eleventh amendment from enforcing a consent decree ordering that
plaintiff hospitals be reimbursed under the Medicaid program.  The court found
that Wisconsin had violated a federal consent decree when it passed a statute
changing the rate at which hospitals were reimbursed by Medicaid.  The decree
ordered the state not to deviate materially from the pre-existing state Medicaid
plan unless the state complied with the plan's procedural requirement pursuant
to federal regulations that make compliance a federal duty.  The court found the
decree to be valid and thus found that the eleventh amendment was not a bar to
enforcement.

   The state legislature passed a statute that had the effect of postponing for
three months scheduled increases in the rate hospitals were reimbursed by
Medicaid, an action the court determined was a material change in the
reimbursement plan.  The state violated Medicaid regulations because it had not
amended the plan to reflect the change, and it had not provided notice of the
new plan or offered assurances that the plan would cover the hospitals' costs.

   The court stated that the eleventh amendment has been interpreted to prevent
a federal court from entering judgment against a state.  This suit was against
the state itself, since it requested pecuniary relief from the state treasury.
Therefore, the suit was within the scope of the eleventh amendment.  However,
the court determined that the group of hospitals seeking reimbursement had an
alternative ground that avoided the eleventh amendment.  In an earlier suit the
district court had entered a consent decree that prohibited the state from
deviating from the plan then in effect without meeting the proper procedural
requirements.  The court determined that a federal court has the power to
enforce a consent decree without bar from the eleventh amendment.

   The court remanded the cause in order to enter a money judgment for the
hospitals for the fiscal years beginning when the statute was in force.

REFERENCE: (Wisconsin Hospital Association v. Rievitz, U.S. Court of Appeals,
Seventh Circuit, Nos. 86-1632, 86-1702, May 19, 1987.)


                              299 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Montana: Surgical Tech (Part Time) 10084903

LENGTH: 466  words

DATELINE: Helena


Department of Labor & Industry, The State of Montana has issued the following
job announcement:

10084903
Job Title:  Surgical Tech (Part Time)
Employer:  ST JAMES HEALTHCARE
Location:  BUTTE MT, 59701
Description:  Job Summary -This position provides intra-operative/procedural
teamwork with physicians, nurses, assistants and housekeepers in the Surgical
Services Department.

-Serves as a role model of excellent customer service by responding with
courtesy and respect to the needs of all those he/she interacts with on a daily
basis. -Exhibits flexibility and adaptability to move from department to
department as needed and/or directed to meet the patient/staffing needs of
departments. -Demonstrates behaviors consistent with organizational mission and
goals. -Follows all applicable hospital policies and procedures -Participates in
facility Quality Improvement/IOP Program -Follows policies and procedures for
infection control and facility safety in accordance with regulatory guidelines.
-Follows "Patients Rights Policy" at all times. -Establishes priorities in
organizing intra-operative/procedural care based on case type and needs of the
patient and health care team. -Implements physician preference cards based on
case type. -Aids Physician during treatment and examination of patient during
surgical and endoscopy procedures. -Demonstrates operational knowledge of
equipment, supplies and instrumentation in the operating rooms, sterile
processing, and endoscopy suites. -When not moving to another case, demonstrates
ability to assist other team members in room turnover according to AST
guidelines excluding terminal cleaning. -Decontaminates all surgical and
clinical instrumentation equipment and patient care items as directed.
-Inspects, assembles, packages, sterilizes, stores, distributes and monitors
instrumentation, equipment and patient care items according to current
regulatory standards, manufacturesâ¿¿ recommendations and departmental protocol.
-Acts as resource liaison between Sterile Processing and Surgery. -Accurately
monitors and records all statutory documents in accordance with current
regulatory standards. -Assists with inventory, ordering, and stocking of OR
supplies -Assists with transporting or assisting patients to and from OR
-Maintains awareness of comfort and safety needs of the patient. -Demonstrates
knowledge of information management as appropriate. -Completes annual position
specific competencies in timely manner. -Interacts capably with all other
departments to provide the highest level of customer service. EDUCATION and/or
EXPERIENCE -Successful completion of an accredited Surgical Technology Training
Program -One year Surgical Tech experience preferred -Certified Surgical
Technologist Certification -Current BLS Certification
Open

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Guatemalan dictator's conviction overturned

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 291  words


GUATEMALA CITY: Guatemala's Constitutional Court has struck down the 80-year
sentence given to former dictator Efrain Rios Montt as well as his conviction
for genocide and war crimes.

The 3-2 ruling annulled all proceedings that took place after the trial was
temporarily halted on April 19 due to a technicality, overturning the May 10
conviction but leaving most of the trial and testimony intact.

It was not immediately clear whether the proceedings from April 19 could be
repeated, nor whether Rios Montt, 86, would remain in prison. ``The sentence is
hereby annulled'' on an appeal from Rios Montt's lawyers, said Constitutional
Court spokesman Martin Guzman.

The court said the lawyers' claim of a procedural error during Rios Montt's
trial had standing and as such struck down the conviction and sentencing.

The court said the latter part of the trial had to be voided because it resumed
under a procedural error when the court that convicted him refused to review a
recusal put forth by defence lawyer Francisco Garcia. Rios Montt was rushed to a
military hospital a week ago after fainting in court before a hearing on
reparations for victims, his lawyer said.

Rios Montt's conviction made him the first Latin American former dictator to be
convicted of trying to exterminate an entire people, during a brief but
particularly gruesome stretch of a war that started in 1960, dragged on for 36
years and left about 200,000 people dead or missing.

Under his rule, the army carried out a scorched-earth policy against indigenous
peoples, accusing them of backing rebel forces. Rios Montt and his former
intelligence chief Jose Rodriguez were charged with ordering the army to carry
out 15 massacres that left 1771 Maya Ixil Indians dead in Quiche.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         Blackwater Herald (Queensland)

                                 April 8, 2014

Rural docs make best teachers

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 261  words



HIGHLIGHT: Idea mutually beneficial


BLACKWATER'S Dr Manu Nithianantha is positive about the future of rural
generalism.

His student mentoring under the John Flynn Placement Program has been a success
and he is encouraging other rural and remote doctors to register.

"Teaching has a funny way of forcing you to keep up with your own education and
knowledge base and, at the same time, practising it," Dr Manu said.

"The students bring us what they learn from their teachers from various
universities.

"It is extensive. It's like they teach me as much as I teach them."

Dr Manu said the feedback from his students was positive about the opportunity
to gain a massive breadth of experience when they joined him at the hospital and
his North Blackwater general practice.

"They get to do so much when they come here and the key is, they get to do both
procedural and non-procedural stuff," he said.

"Here's the reason why it is so important for rural doctors to take on more
mentoring students.

"The students will not get that experience in the big-city hospitals any more.

"Australia-wide, there is an oversupply of students so every ward has tripled in
size while the amount of experience available has remained the same."

More than 1700 medical students have registered for the JFPP, which gives them
the chance to experience placements across the country from the Pilbara region
to the Australian Antarctic Division.

"We want our students to see what rural doctors do and that the lifestyle is
great," Dr Manu said.

Doctors interested in becoming JFPP mentors can go to www.acrrm.org.au and
register by the end of June.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RBH


                    Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Duluth News-Tribune (Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 17, 2012 Friday

Grand Marais nursing home worker cited for abuse

BYLINE: John Lundy, Duluth News Tribune, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 393 words


Feb. 17--A nursing assistant at a Grand Marais nursing home was cited for abuse
for pulling two residents by the arms and speaking to one in a "disrespectful
manner," according to a state report made public on Wednesday.

The facility, Cook County North Shore Hospital and Care Center, was cited for
procedural failings in relation to the incident, according to public records
from the Minnesota Department of Health.

The employee, who

wasn't named, was suspended during an internal investigation that began June 2;
she later was fired due to "lack of respect" for residents, the report said. An
unannounced follow-up visit on Nov. 17 determined the facility had corrected its
deficiencies, it added.

Kimber Wraalstad, the facilities administrator, said no criminal charges
resulted from the incident.

According to the report:

An employee said that on May 28 the nursing assistant "lifted/dragged" a
resident into his wheelchair, and the nursing assistant's demeanor was "loud and
rough." On May 29, the same witness said she answered another resident's call
light and a female resident was "shaking from head to foot -- angry looking and
trapped" after being given a shower by the nursing assistant.

When interviewed by special investigator Jaime Greeninger, the witness also said
she observed a pile of "sopping wet" clothes on the shower room floor and saw a
"look of horror" on the resident's face as the nursing assistant was putting dry
clothes on her. The witness said she also saw the nursing assistant pull the
resident into bed by her right wrist. A bruise developed on the wrist within 30
to 45 minutes, the report said.

The nursing assistant told Greeninger the resident resisted personal care, and
that she gave her the shower while she was partially clothed because it "needed
to be done."

The facility was cited for procedural failings related to the incident,
including a delay in reporting the allegations to the state.

Another employee of the same facility was fired last year and charged with five
felony counts after being caught removing fentanyl patches from two residents
for her own use. Cook County North Shore Hospital and Care Center wasn't faulted
in its handling of that case.

___ (c)2012 the Duluth News Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) Visit the Duluth News
Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) at www.duluthnewstribune.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120217-DU-Grand-Marais-nursing-home-worker-cited-for-abuse-0217-20120217

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DU


                       Copyright 2012 Duluth News-Tribune


                              303 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1991, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1991

                         Vol. 24, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 131

LENGTH: 472 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: STAFF PRIVILEGES: Suspension of privileges may constitute
tortious interference with business relationship

AUTHOR: C.E./J.Q.

TEXT:

   The Court of Appeals of Ohio, Twelfth Appellate District, reversed and
remanded a lower court's grant of summary judgment in favor of defendant
hospital.  The court held the suspension of plaintiff physician's hospital
privileges was not contrary to the dictates of procedural due process.  However,
it decided summary judgment was improper because a genuine issue of material
fact existed concerning the elements of tortious interference with a business
relationship.

   Defendant hospital contracted for emergency room services with defendant
emergency physicians' group.  The physicians' group assigned plaintiff physician
to provide such services for the hospital.  The administrator of defendant
hospital subsequently exercised his authority, under a provision of the
hospital's bylaws, and summarily suspended plaintiff's hospital privileges.

   Plaintiff requested a hearing before the medical executive committee of
defendant hospital.  The hearing was canceled and the suspension was rescinded.
Plaintiff was then denied reappointment and reinstatement of his clinical
privileges.  Defendant physicians' group refused to assign plaintiff any further
work, claiming it was necessary to fill his former position.

   Plaintiff first argued his suspension was improper and contrary to the
dictates of procedural due process because he was never given a hearing to
determine the validity of his suspension.  However, the court noted that due
process claim ordinarily requires state action and the hospital was a private
facility.  The court followed the rule that where no state action is present, a
private hospital has broad discretion to make medical staff decisions.  The
court concluded defendant hospital did not act in an arbitrary, capricious, or
unreasonable manner; therefore, it did not commit actionable abuse of
discretion.  The court held defendant hospital's failure to grant a hearing did
not violate the medical staff bylaws, and therefore, plaintiff's claim that his
due process rights were violated was without merit.

   Plaintiff also argued summary judgment on an action for tortious interference
with a business relationship was improper.  The court noted that under the basic
principle of tortious interference, an individual who, without privilege,
induces or purposely causes a third party to discontinue a business relationship
with another, is liable to the other for the harm caused thereby.  The court
held the trial court failed to properly address the elements of privilege and
the tortious nature of the interference.  It held a genuine issue of material
fact existed as to those elements, and therefore reversed and remanded.

   A dissenting opinion stated there was no evidence defendant hospital induced
or purposely caused a third party not to perform any contract with plaintiff
physician.

REFERENCE: Wolf v. McCullough-Hyde Memorial Hosp., No. CA89-07-098 (Ohio Ct.
App., 12th Dist. Apr. 16, 1990) (1990 Ohio App. LEXIS 1449).


                              304 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly

                           November 19, 2015 Thursday

Labor - Limitations - Waiver

BYLINE: Tom Egan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 804  words


Where a plaintiff's claim under section 301 of the Labor Management Relations
Act for breach of a Collective Bargaining Agreement was dismissed under the
six-month statute of limitations for "hybrid" claims, the dismissal order must
be reversed because the six-year Massachusetts statute of limitations for
contract claims was applicable.

"Paul DeGrandis was fired from his job as a carpenter at Children's Hospital
Boston ('Hospital') in 2008. The Hospital's stated reason for firing DeGrandis
was his 'failure to meet job performance standards. ' Days short of six years
later, DeGrandis sued the Hospital, asserting that it did not have cause to fire
him. The district court dismissed his complaint. He now appeals the dismissal of
one of the counts in his complaint, a claim under section 301 of the Labor
Management Relations Act ('LMRA') for breach of a Collective Bargaining
Agreement ('CBA'). The ultimate question here is whether a six-year statute of
limitations for breach of contract or a six-month limitations period for hybrid
claims applies. The district court held that DeGrandis was required to bring a
hybrid claim, one that alleges breach of contract by the Hospital as well as
breach of the duty of fair representation by his union. We disagree and find
that DeGrandis was not required to bring a hybrid claim, so the six-year statute
of limitations applies. Accordingly, we reverse.

"At the heart of this appeal is a Memorandum of Agreement ('MOA') that
DeGrandis, the Hospital, and DeGrandis's union had entered into after a previous
grievance filed by DeGrandis in 2007. Under the plain language of the MOA, the
grievance and arbitration procedures set forth in the CBA could not be invoked
in the event that DeGrandis was terminated for 'failure to comply with the (
Hospital]'s generally applicable work standards. ' Because this MOA provision
amounts to a waiver of the typical rule that before proceeding to federal court
a plaintiff must exhaust a CBA's grievance and arbitration procedures and abide
by its finality provisions, we find that the district court erred in dismissing
DeGrandis's complaint. ...

"... Since DeGrandis was precluded by the MOA from bringing his challenge
through grievance and arbitration, the only procedural reason for closing the
courthouse doors, failure to exhaust, is simply not involved. The exhaustion
rule -- and by extension the finality rule -- could not prevent DeGrandis from
bringing his claim in federal court if there were no grievance or arbitration
procedures to exhaust in the first place. ... DeGrandis's only option for
obtaining review was to bring a claim in federal court. And that is precisely
what he did when he brought this straightforward breach of contract claim under
section 301 of the LMRA.

"... According to the Hospital, allowing DeGrandis to prosecute his claim in
federal court would amount to a 'second bite of the apple. ' But what the
Hospital fails to realize is that there are two apples on the table. The MOA was
the final resolution of DeGrandis's 2007 grievance for his then-proposed
termination; his 2008 grievance for actual termination is an entirely distinct
matter. DeGrandis is not getting a second bite at the apple; he is getting a
first bite at a new apple.

"Since DeGrandis could not under the MOA take advantage of the CBA's grievance
and arbitration procedures, for us to find that he cannot challenge his
termination in federal court would amount to giving the Hospital an unreviewable
right to fire DeGrandis for any reason so long as it claimed that it was firing
him for failure to abide by its work requirements. The MOA gives the Hospital no
such right.

"The Hospital argues that DeGrandis could bypass the CBA's finality provision
and obtain review if he brought a hybrid claim. But DeGrandis has no reason to
sue his union. We decline to adopt a rule that would require DeGrandis to
manufacture a fictitious claim against his union in order to obtain some measure
of review of the Hospital's decision. Because the waiver provision in the MOA
renders the exhaustion and finality rules inapplicable to DeGrandis's second
grievance, he faces no procedural bar to bringing his section 301 breach of
contract claim against the Hospital, and his claim is timely. "

DeGrandis v. Children's Hospital Boston (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-306-15) (13
pages) (Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a decision by Saylor, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Jennifer A. O'Brien for
the plaintiff-appellant. Katherine Y. Fergus, with whom Tracey E. Spruce was on
brief, for the defendant-appellee (Docket No. 15-1657) (Nov. 18, 2015).

Click here for the full-text opinion.



http://www.masslawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly

                           November 19, 2015 Thursday

Labor - Limitations - Waiver

BYLINE: Tom Egan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 804  words


Where a plaintiff's claim under section 301 of the Labor Management Relations
Act for breach of a Collective Bargaining Agreement was dismissed under the
six-month statute of limitations for "hybrid" claims, the dismissal order must
be reversed because the six-year Massachusetts statute of limitations for
contract claims was applicable.

"Paul DeGrandis was fired from his job as a carpenter at Children's Hospital
Boston ('Hospital') in 2008. The Hospital's stated reason for firing DeGrandis
was his 'failure to meet job performance standards. ' Days short of six years
later, DeGrandis sued the Hospital, asserting that it did not have cause to fire
him. The district court dismissed his complaint. He now appeals the dismissal of
one of the counts in his complaint, a claim under section 301 of the Labor
Management Relations Act ('LMRA') for breach of a Collective Bargaining
Agreement ('CBA'). The ultimate question here is whether a six-year statute of
limitations for breach of contract or a six-month limitations period for hybrid
claims applies. The district court held that DeGrandis was required to bring a
hybrid claim, one that alleges breach of contract by the Hospital as well as
breach of the duty of fair representation by his union. We disagree and find
that DeGrandis was not required to bring a hybrid claim, so the six-year statute
of limitations applies. Accordingly, we reverse.

"At the heart of this appeal is a Memorandum of Agreement ('MOA') that
DeGrandis, the Hospital, and DeGrandis's union had entered into after a previous
grievance filed by DeGrandis in 2007. Under the plain language of the MOA, the
grievance and arbitration procedures set forth in the CBA could not be invoked
in the event that DeGrandis was terminated for 'failure to comply with the (
Hospital]'s generally applicable work standards. ' Because this MOA provision
amounts to a waiver of the typical rule that before proceeding to federal court
a plaintiff must exhaust a CBA's grievance and arbitration procedures and abide
by its finality provisions, we find that the district court erred in dismissing
DeGrandis's complaint. ...

"... Since DeGrandis was precluded by the MOA from bringing his challenge
through grievance and arbitration, the only procedural reason for closing the
courthouse doors, failure to exhaust, is simply not involved. The exhaustion
rule -- and by extension the finality rule -- could not prevent DeGrandis from
bringing his claim in federal court if there were no grievance or arbitration
procedures to exhaust in the first place. ... DeGrandis's only option for
obtaining review was to bring a claim in federal court. And that is precisely
what he did when he brought this straightforward breach of contract claim under
section 301 of the LMRA.

"... According to the Hospital, allowing DeGrandis to prosecute his claim in
federal court would amount to a 'second bite of the apple. ' But what the
Hospital fails to realize is that there are two apples on the table. The MOA was
the final resolution of DeGrandis's 2007 grievance for his then-proposed
termination; his 2008 grievance for actual termination is an entirely distinct
matter. DeGrandis is not getting a second bite at the apple; he is getting a
first bite at a new apple.

"Since DeGrandis could not under the MOA take advantage of the CBA's grievance
and arbitration procedures, for us to find that he cannot challenge his
termination in federal court would amount to giving the Hospital an unreviewable
right to fire DeGrandis for any reason so long as it claimed that it was firing
him for failure to abide by its work requirements. The MOA gives the Hospital no
such right.

"The Hospital argues that DeGrandis could bypass the CBA's finality provision
and obtain review if he brought a hybrid claim. But DeGrandis has no reason to
sue his union. We decline to adopt a rule that would require DeGrandis to
manufacture a fictitious claim against his union in order to obtain some measure
of review of the Hospital's decision. Because the waiver provision in the MOA
renders the exhaustion and finality rules inapplicable to DeGrandis's second
grievance, he faces no procedural bar to bringing his section 301 breach of
contract claim against the Hospital, and his claim is timely. "

DeGrandis v. Children's Hospital Boston (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-306-15) (13
pages) (Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a decision by Saylor, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Jennifer A. O'Brien for
the plaintiff-appellant. Katherine Y. Fergus, with whom Tracey E. Spruce was on
brief, for the defendant-appellee (Docket No. 15-1657) (Nov. 18, 2015).

Click here for the full-text opinion.



http://www.rilawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Mail (SA)

                              July 6, 2003 Sunday

Uncertain future for rural GP practices

BYLINE: By Brad Crouch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 365 words


MURRAY Bridge GP Dr Peter Rischbieth loves his practice, the patients and the
lifestyle but has deep concerns over the future of rural practice.

As an obstetrician and anaesthetist he faces the risk of being sued long after
he retires for work done in public country hospitals.

While the Government guarantees cover for five years after retirement, he could
be exposed to a claim decades after a procedure.

Insurance issues have contributed to six of his Bridge Clinic's 12 GPs with
obstetrics skills deciding to stop delivering babies in the past seven years.

In addition, a shortage of midwives and procedural GPs and closure of the
Lameroo, Pinnaroo and Meningie obstetric service has created a situation where a
few babies have been delivered by the side of the road en route to Murray
Bridge.

Dr Rischbieth said it would be reasonable for the Health Commission to assist
more with insurance cover for procedural work done in public hospitals on rural
patients.

Dr Rischbieth explained that his practice felt they could not increase their
fees to cover the increasing costs of medical indemnity for hospital work as
many residents were from low socio-economic groups and would not turn up for
antenatal visits because of the rising costs.

"We have a very good relationship with our midwives and nursing staff at our
local hospital as well as our hospital administration but they don't have the
power to decide the insurance issue," Dr Rischbieth said.

"Rural doctors and midwives are well-trained and skilled, the outcomes in
country obstetric units are good but we have a situation where the rural doctors
and nurses are ageing and the insurance uncertainty is discouraging younger
health professionals from practising in the country.

"Doctors who are normally mild-mannered and calm are worried and saying it is
just not worth it. It will be an individual decision about whether to continue
delivering babies in country hospitals but if doctors haven't got satisfactory
insurance cover they may have to reconsider their position.

"If the insurance issue gets sorted out I'll continue but at the moment we are
all working in a very uncertain environment."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SUM

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              307 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bakersfield Californian

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday

Medical board accuses surgeon of negligence

BYLINE: Rachel Cook, The Bakersfield Californian

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 458 words


March 19--The Medical Board of California has brought an accusation against a
Bakersfield surgeon claiming he was negligent and incompetent in his care of 10
patients.

The accusation alleges that Mallik Thatipelli, a vascular surgeon, committed "an
extreme departure from the standard of care" in how he treated the patients or
documented their care. The patients are identified only by initials in the
accusation and range in age from 58 to 87.

Thatipelli's attorney Mitchell Green said the accusation arose out of an
internal review at Bakersfield Memorial Hospital. The San Francisco attorney
said other doctors at the hospital have questioned Thatipelli about his
techniques, but that there was no injury to any patient or malpractice claim.

"What the dispute is really about more than anything else is which of several
different techniques is the proper technique to diagnose someone with vascular
disease," Green said Friday.

Frank Miller, a program support analyst for the medical board, confirmed that
hospitals are required to notify the medical board of peer reviews.

"We handle (peer review reports) just like any other case we would get as a
source of a possible complaint or an investigation," Miller said.

Robin Mangarin-Scott, a spokeswoman for Mercy and Bakersfield Memorial
hospitals, said the hospital cannot comment on peer reviews.

The medical board's accusation, which was filed in February, asserts that
Thatipelli incorrectly diagnosed an 85-year-old patient and performed an
"unnecessary" diagnostic angiogram and then referred the woman for vascular
surgery, "which was also unnecessary."

In his treatment of an 87-year-old woman, the accusation argues that Thatipelli
performed procedures, including using general anesthesia, that "were
unnecessarily high risk techniques for this particular patient."

The accusation charges Thatipelli with departing from the standard of care in
several areas, including by "performing two angiographic procedures in one
setting" and in his "pre-procedural planning and procedural documentation."

"Specifically, there is either a lack of documentation or confusing
documentation," the accusation said.

Green said the issues at stake are technical ones that do not pose a great or
imminent risk to patients.

"We're expecting that we're going to prevail at the hospital hearing and that,
based on that, the medical board will withdraw these charges," he said.

Thatipelli's license was issued in February 2009, according to the medical
board. He graduated in 1989 from an Indian university, according to the board's
website.

___ (c)2013 The Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) Visit The
Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) at www.bakersfield.com Distributed
by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130319-BK-Medical-board-accuses-surgeon-of-negligence-0319-20130319

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BK


                   Copyright 2013 The Bakersfield Californian


                              308 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             August 16, 1992 Sunday
                                 Early Edition

THE LIFE AND DEATH OF RURAL HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: DENIS GREGORY

SECTION: REAL AUSTRALIA; Pg. 94

LENGTH: 2584 words


BREWARRINA in the far west of the State has the worst health figures of any town
or city in NSW. Worse than that, from today the town's 2,000 residents will be
without a doctor.

The Barwon River community easily tops the NSW list of infectious and other
diseases and its death rate is nearly double the State average.

A doctor in Bourke described the situation as absolutely desperate and said
there seemed no way anyone could get through to the State bureaucracy which had
put a limit on hospital and medical resources.

He said Brewarrina also had a high level of emergency trauma from people injured
in fights right through to obstetrics and there often wasn't time to take them
to Bourke, 100 kilometres away on a dirt road.

For 21 months Dr Malcolm Fairleigh maintained a private and hospital practice at
Brewarrina but fell victim to the long hours seven days and seven nights a week
and packed up and left.

What happens now in the town is anybody's guess but the people who live there
are under serious threat.

The Rural Doctors Association which represents general practitioners in these
smaller country towns found two relief doctors to work at Brewarrina on a roster
system for a month but that finished yesterday.

Association secretary, Dr Bruce Harris of Walgett, said Brewarrina must seek
urgent assistance from the State and Federal Health departments.

But he thought negotiations between both health authorities had bogged down
while they waited for next week's Federal Budget.

"We would implore both governments to look at Brewarrina as a case study and to
look at the mortality and morbidity figures and the moral responsibility to
inland Australia," he said.

MORAL RESPONSIBILITY

"The people of the town must also look at their own responsibilities because
this is a one hundred per cent loss of medical services in a community where 70
per cent of the people are indigenous.

"Failure to recognise Brewarrina's need would be a severe indictment on the
Australian health system."

Dr Harris said State funding to country hospitals had been reduced or left at
the same level and most hospital boards couldn't stay within their budgets
without cutting medical services.

Other country towns are in the same boat.

Yass, on the busy Hume Highway, is now down to four doctors from a previous
strength of six.

West Wyalong on the junction of the Newell and Mid Western Highways has enough
work for six doctors but is down to two and by the end of the year there could
be only one.

The stories are the same in towns like Coonabarabran, Narrandera, Temora,
Trundle, Peak Hill, Tullamore and Cobar. All are either struggling to get a
doctor or struggling to keep the ones they have.

In some cases continual clashes between the doctors and local hospital boards
have done little so solve the problem.

In Yass the local board refused to allow a new associate doctor to become a
visiting medical officer at the hospital. The Health Minister eventually
intervened but by then it was too late because the doctor had gone elsewhere.

The Regional Health Department told the people at Trundle their hospital was to
be restricted to only one nurse for each shift and suggested the kitchen staff
could help out in an emergency.

The doctor there said he wouldn't be able to carry on a hospital practice if
there wasn't enough nursing staff and would have to leave.

Protests by the community forced the department to reconsider.

Similar battles against cuts to hospital budgets were waged by communities at
Tullamore and Peak Hill.

And it is the same story in most other small towns throughout NSW.

President of the Rural Doctors Association of NSW, Dr Hal Rikard-Bell, said it
was hard enough for country towns to attract and keep doctors without them
having to continually argue with authorities for a fair deal.

WORK SKILLS

Dr Rikard-Bell, of West Wyalong in south west NSW, said there were a number of
reasons doctors preferred to stay in the big cities.

"They don't seem to want to come to the country because they haven't been taught
the skills required to go into general practice," he said.

"If you want to be a GP the Australian training system has not taught you to
take out an appendix or do a caesarian section or give an anaesthetic.

"But things will improve because rural training units have been set up in
Tamworth and Toowoomba.

"They will train GPs who want to do procedural work in the country so that our
graduates and doctors don't have to put themselves into a position where they
can't cope.

"Doctors don't want to do the wrong thing by their patients. They don't want to
spend all their life on the edge of the chair feeling anxious that patients
might come in who they can't help. And they don't like looking over their
shoulders at the lawyers who are there if they make a mistake.

"Another reason doctors won't come to the country is because the State
Government has been strapped for cash and a lot of small hospitals like mine
have been discouraging the expansion or continuation of services such as
operating theatres because

they are trying to cut costs.

"But in a lot of these little towns where they cut to a certain level to save
money, doctors have still got to do enough procedural work to remain competent
and to keep their skills up.

"If they don't then it's a big step down.

"Smaller country towns like Moree, Warren, Walgett, West Wyalong, Cootamundra,
Coonabarabran, Young and Boorowa need doctors with procedural skills.

"Towns like Warren and Walgett, that don't have a lot of routine theatre, still
need doctors who have good accident emergency skills.

"The doctor who is going to be involved in managing a multiple-victim trauma
such as a major farm accident, a wild shooting or the result of somebody running
amok with a knife is going to be the GP.

"And larger towns like West Wyalong, Young, Cowra and Moree which have districts
of around 10,000 people require doctors who can perform such tasks as
anaesthetics, surgery, obstetrics, accident emergency and cardiac and coronary
care as well as routine hospital ward work.

"West Wyalong is 160 kilometres from Wagga or two hours by ambulance so we like
to be in a position where we can offer routine surgery and routine obstetrics.

"Wagga is too far away if someone needs a caesarian section because of the
difficulty during labor and certainly an ambulance is not the place to have your
emergency.

"To that end places like West Wyalong and other towns this size with a degree of
isolation look for a team who can do these procedural things as well as their
general practice work and we need enough of them so they can share the work
load.

"West Wyalong and district has a work load equal to 10,000 people and needs six
doctors with procedural skills.

Dr Rikard-Bell said that when the State Government cuts services to save money,
country towns get to the stage where their hospitals become patch and dispatch
centres.

He said most towns could be run with one or two doctors if all the patients were
sent away.

"That is no surgery, no obstetrics, no anaesthetic. Every heart attack patient
goes home, every sick person goes and everyone with asthma goes to a hospital
where they do those things routinely," he said.

"But I think that would be far more expensive for the nation and certainly more
expensive for the people.

"We're putting statistics together now that show admitting people to a hospital
in a place like West Wyalong is much more cost effective than having them in
Wagga.

"Certainly the base hospital is a high level hospital that should be looking
after cases requiring a greater degree of expertise.

"It would be much more cost effective if hospitals in the smaller towns were
maintained so it is most important that local administrators try to keep places
like this open.

NOWHERE TO WORK

"The alternative will be that the graduates from Tamworth and Toowoomba training
units will have nowhere to work."

Dr Rikard-Bell said 10 pc of the population in country NSW lived in towns of
less than 20,000 people and in those towns 9 pc or 9,000 babies were born each
year.

If these babies were transferred and delivered in base hospitals like Wagga or
Tamworth those hospitals would have an extra 1,200 to 1,500 births a year to
cope with.

Dr Rikard-Bell said the four or five obstetricians at Wagga wouldn't be able to
handle the extra work load.

In country towns of less than 20,000 people doctors did about 30,000 general
anaesthetics a year and that sort of work load couldn't be accommodated by the
base hospitals either.

"This type of information just hasn't filtered through to the administrators,"
he said.

"If they want to come clean and say they can't afford medical services in small
country towns and want them to stop, that's a different kettle of fish.

"But they're cutting services just to save money and when the operating theatres
close because there are not enough nurses or the doctor leaves or the equipment
needs updating they won't be reopened again.

"That really worries me.

"All this does little to improve patient care in the country."

MINISTER'S FIGURES REFUTED

THE secretary of the Rural Doctors' Association, Dr Bruce Harris, refutes
figures issued by NSW Minister for Health, Ron Phillips, that show Government
policies had attracted 212 GPs and 186 specialists and consultants to rural
areas since 1987.

"Mr Phillips claims of an 80 per cent increase in the number of specialists on
the North Coast represents a population explosion around Coffs Harbour and Port
Macquarie," Dr Harris said.

"Our association is concerned about towns with less than 15,000 people that have
had no significant increase in doctor numbers."

A BITTER PILL FOR NEWCOMERS

COBAR in Western NSW spent a lot of time and money setting up to attract a
doctor but it is not been a particularly happy place for some reason.

There have been clashes with the local hospital administration which the Rural
Doctors Association believes are unnecessary and unreasonable.

The shire council rented the doctor a home and surgery and guaranteed him around
$225,000 a year but because of constant niggling by the hospital board he is
considering leaving.

Dr Rikard-Bell said why go to all that trouble to attract a doctor and then rub
him up the wrong way and have him decide to leave.

"The doctors say 'look this job's hard enough. We don't need this'.

"In West Wyalong for example we have had trouble and until my partner resigned
earlier this year they refused to let locums work as visiting medical officers.

"We go to all the trouble to get a doctor and they refuse to have them or they
say 'yes they can come but we won't pay them' and that is on a fee for service
basis.

"So if there are 10 patients there are only 10 fees no matter how many doctors."

Dr Rikard-Bell said he thought the health administrators needed to look after
their own patch a bit more.

"In medicine we seem to be arguing with the Federal Government which is trying
to tighten the screws on general practice.

"We seem to be arguing with the State Government which is having trouble funding
health throughout NSW.

"We argue with the regional administrations because they are not necessarily
looking after the small hospitals the way we would like them to and then the
local hospital administration wants to give us a serve.

"Why bother?

"And that is what my partner said and he left.

"And that is what my other partner feels and he, too is leaving. The situation
is ridiculous.

"Here we are busting our gut to get doctors to come to the country and the local
hospital board says 'no you can't have a position as a visiting medical officer
because we can't afford you.'"

Dr Rikard-Bell said it seemed the tall poppy syndrome was part of Australian
lore.

"Doctors are very difficult to deal with. They are used to talking to people who
are not listening. They are used to thinking they are right and they tell you
and when you give them an instruction they don't agree with, they ignore you.

"However the town needs them. If you don't have a medical service and a practice
and a hospital you have a big hole.

"And the towns need to look after their services. If they lose their doctor,
their dentist, their pharmacist, their solicitor and their accountant the town
becomes hollow and that really worries me.

"If this bleeding of professional staff continues and medicine is the first one
to go then what you will have is major cities like Orange, Tamworth and Wagga
and between them little hamlets with patch and dispatch facilities.

"Towns like Muswellbrook, Parkes and Cowra might be big enough to grow at the
expense of the smaller towns around them but I don't think Australians want that
empty type of country NSW.

"And if a traveller going through has an accident he wants someone there with
the routine skills to look after him.

"People deserve that."

NOBODY WANTS TO GO BUSH

THERE are lots of reasons why doctors won't go to small country towns.

Many marry professional women like lawyers and pharmacists and if they want to
continue their careers they won't go to a place where they cannot get work

Wives too, have to be happy to live in the bush where Dr Rikard-Bell believes is
the best place to practice medicine.

He describes the work as interesting, challenging and stimulating and the people
as friendly.

"The lifestyle is great but you can't do it forever.

"At age 50 the car crash at three in the morning and the heart attack at 10.30
loses its attraction.

"And you've got to be good at your work. You have to be prepared to go off to
the courses and keep up your skills. And it's hard."

Another major hurdle attracting young doctors to the country is that after doing
six years of medicine, a year or two residency and then four years in the rural
training scheme, they are looking at 10 to 12 years before they can get a
practice of their own.

So there has to be financial rewards to make the carrot at the end of the stick
worth chasing.

Young doctors are not prepared to sink a lot of money into a country town
because they are not sure whether they are going to like it or whether they can
keep up with the long on-call hours and the high anxiety that comes with having
to cope with so many aspects of medicine.

Dr Rikard-Bell believes it soon will be incumbent on most shire councils to own
the medical centre in country towns and rent it to the doctors.

He thinks councils should also provide a rented home to doctors like many places
do now including Junee, Brewarrina, Bourke and Walgett.

He said some doctors were not prepared to spend up to $200,000 for a home and a
share in a surgery when they are not sure whether they will get it back or
whether they will be there long enough to justify the expense.

Dr Rikard-Bell believes another 100 to 150 doctors are needed in small country
towns.

But he still maintains they won't go to a town where they believe they cannot
cope.

"West Wyalong is a classic example.

"When I came here in 1980 there were four partners, a full time lady associate
and Family Medicine Program trainees were coming all the time.

"In 1986 the senior partner retired and we have been advertising since then
without success. The associate stopped working last year and then the Family
Medicine Program said they didn't have any more doctors who wanted to go to the
country.

"In July this year my partner resigned to go to another job. My other partner is
leaving at the end of the year and that leaves me and whatever locums I can get
and whatever associates I can attract to come to what should be a practice of
five or six just to continue doing what we are now.

"So next year is crunch time for me, too."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Three Illus: LAST HOPE: Where once the patient was the emergency, now
the whole country hospital system is in a critical condition. THE NEED IS GREAT:
Dr Rikard-Bell "100 to 150 doctors needed in small country towns." HELPING HAND:
Some patients in Brewarrina are no sooner treated than they are back on the
streets in need of more care.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1992 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           August 11, 2004, Wednesday

Patients to know cost of hospital stay before admission

SECTION: Nation; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 858 words


KUALA LUMPUR, Tues. - Patients will soon be able to find out how much they
would have to pay for their hospital stay even before admission.

This is because doctors who examine them will not only diagnose their
illnesses but also provide a detailed classification of all the procedures
they would have to undergo and the costs to be incurred.

Hospital Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia Professor of Health Economics
and Head of the Community Health Department, Professor Dr Syed Mohamed
Aljunid, said patients would thus be better prepared for the stay,
treatment and the bill.

Hospital Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (HUKM) is the first hospital in
the country to implement a "Case-Mix" structure. The system, introduced
two years ago, includes a classification system with the costing for each
procedure done. Under this system, resources are allocated according to
the type of case treated.

Dr Syed Mohamed said HUKM kept excellent medical records and a data base
in two main areas - "International Classification of Diseases version 10"
(ICD10) and procedural classification.

"If you do not classify the procedures, then the charges will not be
very good," said Dr Syed Mohamed.

He said HUKM had 8,500 procedures and 40,500 related analyses which it
has grouped into 965 classifications.

"We manage the resources and we know exactly what is the cost of each
procedure and we know what is the outcome of the treatment given to
patients under the classification," said Dr Syed Mohamed.

During the first nine months of implementation, he said, they had
teething problems but these had been rectified and now their system was up
to international standards.

The system was presented to the Health Ministry last year but now it
would be resubmitted with HUKM giving the complete procedural
classification with costing on the cardiovascular condition and the
musculo-skeletal system.

He said they were willing to share their Case-Mix structure with other
public and private hospitals, adding that they would be coming out in
stages with a similar structure for all other diseases as they wanted to
make sure the costing for procedures was reasonable.

Asked why public hospitals had not implemented this procedural
classification, Dr Syed Mohamed said although the ministry initiated it in
1996 in 14 public and teaching hospitals in the country it was
discontinued due to lack of human resources. Moreover, there was no proper
training for staff to run the system.

Asked if private hospitals had the system, Dr Syed Mohamed said they did
not have a proper classification system but they were very interested in
it, especially clinical costing.

He said hospitals must continuously do benchmarking with others in the
same category so that they can compare the outcome indicators.

Dr Syed Mohamed also said the introduction of the Case-Mix structure in
public hospitals would also help them know whether the annual allocation
was sufficient or if they were under-funded and they can also justify with
facts if they need more funds.

"The implementation would also help hospitals to know whether they are
over-spending and if so, how to reduce cost," he added.

HUKM director Professor Datuk Dr Mohamad Abdul Razak said the objectives
of the Case-Mix system in HUKM, among others, was to facilitate the
implementation of a quality enhancement programme which at the end of the
day would ensure that patients received quality and effective treatment.

"Case-Mix output data not only can be used for financing but also can be
used to measure quality of services rendered by the hospitals. This
includes the length of stay, patients' status on discharge and adverse
events," he added.

He said this information helped in identifying differences in treatment
and problems in quality of patient care so they can be highlighted and
managed immediately.

UKM vice-chancellor Professor Datuk Dr Mohd Salleh Mohd Yasin said the
Malaysian healthcare system had been praised all over the world as a model
for the developing countries.

"If we were to maintain the efficient healthcare system we must
introduce measures of quality assurance so as to keep the system running
efficiently," he said, adding that the Case-Mix system has been proven
worldwide to introduce efficiency in the health care system.

Ministry of Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Mohamad Taha Arif, who
urged HUKM to present its Case-Mix structure, said: "Case-Mix provides
useful information on variations of the care provided, allowing health
care providers to better understand the nature of their care. With this
ability, Case-Mix can help monitor the progress of quality assurance
programmes more objectively."

He said Case-Mix can also produce information that can be used to
identify potential areas for clinical audit, input towards the development
of clinical guidelines or care pathways, for output measurement and
resource allocation.

Dr Taha said Malaysia had yet to adopt a Case-Mix system nationwide and
hoped HUKM's experience with their Case-Mix system could be shared with
other hospitals.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              310 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunday Tasmanian

                             March 19, 2006 Sunday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 628  words


Medical blame game destructive

The article by Gill Vowles (Sunday Tasmanian, February 26) which suggests that
medical negligence claims in Tasmania may become ''a flood in the next 10
years'' is worrying, not just for doctors, and requires comment.

Hobart lawyer Jo Matthews says: ''As people realise they don't have to put up
with Third World healthcare there will be a very rapid increase in litigation.''

Don't get me wrong, I will never defend negligent healthcare practices, but this
statement is offensive to Tasmanian health workers as well as to people who live
in Third World countries and have to make do with nothing like the services
available in this state.

No, the services are not perfect and much needs to be done in many areas, but
let us carefully consider what could make a positive difference.

Firstly, there does need to be a heightened sense of personal responsibility for
one's own health, a degree of self-discipline is required.

Secondly, all healthcare workers need to operate in a culture of continuous
quality improvement and audit of their practice.

Thirdly, there is a need for the governments of the day (state and federal) to
recognise the support that organisations and individuals working in this often
stressful area require.

Finally, the community in general needs to exercise in a responsible way its
power to advocate for the best affordable health and social support systems
possible.

What would be extremely destructive would be to evolve to a system where there
is no personal responsibility, where the ''blame game'' is fashionable and
ambulance-chasing lawyers and journalists serving their own purposes are king.

I am not suggesting that either Gill Vowles or Jo Matthews are in this category
but such systems exist and are profoundly antagonistic to good medical care,
which relies so much on a relationship of trust between doctors and nurses and
the patient.

Dr Frank Nicklason, Chairman, Medical Staff

Association, Royal Hobart Hospital

Redistribute cardiologists' fees

Regarding Dr Luke Galligan's letter (Sunday Tasmanian, March 12), he is
absolutely right in saying that the disparity between procedural fees and
consultation fees is a problem.

A partial solution would be for Canberra to reduce significantly all procedural
fees and to redistribute the money saved to hospital doctors and, of course, to
the GPs, who are the backbone of any health system.

Robert Cutforth, Sandy Bay

Local heroes outshine celebrity

Your story about Rebecca Gibney's ''starring'' role in the Swansea baton event
(Sunday Tasmanian, March 12) is perhaps one of the laziest pieces of journalism
I have witnessed.

Ms Gibney's role was, to say the least, minor. Rather than being cheered through
the streets by adoring locals, we were, in fact, cheering on our two local
representatives, Jim Morris and Dorothy Lord, both of whom were selected for the
honour due to their tireless service to local community -- Jim as Tasmania's
longest-serving ambulance volunteer and Dorothy for her charity work.

There was no mention of the fantastic family fun day organised by local people
and funded by local businesses.

This story could, and should, have been about the local heroes, not the puff
piece of Ms Gibney's career to date.

I'm sure she is a perfectly nice woman, a good actress and we're very happy that
she is very happy to be here, but please, spare us the celebrity nonsense.

Neal McDermott, Swansea

Shooting the messenger

Typical. An honorable man writes about the shameful bits of Tasmania's forestry
practices and he's accused of being bitter, scurrilous, prejudiced, ill-informed
and a failed local candidate (Letters, March 5).

Why is it that people are so often attacked personally when the issue they are
concerned about can't be denied?

Jeff Size, Cygnet

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            August 12, 2017 Saturday
                               Australian Edition

Biotech favourite fails to cough up the goods

BYLINE: Tim Boreham

SECTION: WEALTH; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 898  words


ResApp (RAP) 8.3c The best-performing ASX stock of 2015, ResApp, has joined the
list of biotech stocks suffering an embarrassing - and surprising - clinical
setback.

ResApp had developed an app-based algorithm that enables patients with
respiratory diseases to literally cough into their phone for a diagnosis. Given
the rise and rise of telehealth, investors soon cottoned on to the huge
potential.

After being in trading halt for seven days - always a suspicious sign - ResApp
on Wednesday released the broad results of a US clinical study across three
hospitals called SmartcoughC, involving 1245 patients aged between 29 days and
12 years.

The results were a shocker, contradicting previously positive studies carried
out at Perth's Joondalup Health Campus and Princess Margaret Hospital.

While the US study aimed at a 75 per cent effectiveness rate, the results were
as low as 35 per cent for positive diagnosis of asthma and reactive airways
disease. The results were compared with a traditional X-ray analysis, blood test
or doctor with a stethoscope.

The results for negative confirmation - confirming a patient did not have a
certain disorder - were not much better.

Two smaller Perth trials for adults and children claimed detection rates of up
to 100 per cent, with nothing below 89 per cent. An Indonesian-based trial,
funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, was equally impressive.

"These are not the results we expected given our experience in Australia," says
ResApp chief Tony Keating.

"It's obvious that a large number of tests have been affected by procedural
anomalies and we now need to go through each case one by one to fully understand
the results.

"Procedural anomalies included some patients being treated before the cough
test, contrary to instructions and training." Some cough recordings also had
unacceptable background noise and interference, including coughing by third
parties.

ResApp now aims to repeat the study with refinements, as well as launching an
adult study during the northern winter. Each trial is expected to cost between
$2.5 million and $3m.

The company is also pondering seeking a Food & Drug Administration approval
application for bronchiolitis, the only application to score passable detection
grades of between 80 per cent and 95 per cent.

ResApp's setback has parallels with the near-fatal experience of Innate
Immunotherapeutics (ASX: IIL), which held high hopes for its multiple sclerosis
drug with the backing of US investors.

The drug had already been made available to needy patients, who reported
benefits. But in June a 93-patient local trial showed "no clinically meaningful
or statistically significant differences in measures of neuromuscular function
or patient-reported outcomes".

As with Innate shares, ResApp stock was poleaxed on the day, losing 77 per cent
of its value.

ResApp shares listed via the backdoor in July 2015, with $4m raised at 2c
apiece. The stock peaked at 53c in September 2016, a 1275 per cent gain for the
smarties who picked the top.

The moral of the story for investors is that when it comes to clinical studies,
the dangers increase the more expansive the trials become. The lesson for
patients is the stethoscope-wielding doc remains the best way to diagnose
respiratory diseases, which account for the lion's share of GP visits.

Mayur Resources (not yet listed) In a variation of the coals-to-Newcastle theme,
this eclectic multi-commodity resources house plans to ship a million tonnes of
sand from Papua New Guinea to Sydney.

Don't we have a surfeit of the stuff already - and not just on Bondi Beach?
Apparently not: Mayur's sand is the high-quality, fine-grained variety valued by
cement makers, and it's in short supply in the Sydney region.

Mayur chief executive Paul Mulder says most of the construction sand is supplied
from quarries in the Newcastle region and then trucked to Sydney at great cost.

It's cheaper to ship the stuff from PNG, where the sand will be an otherwise
waste product from Mayur's proposed Orokolo Bay mineral and industrial sands
project on the southern coast.

The Singapore-incorporated, Brisbane-headquartered Mayur is in the throes of
raising up to $15.5m ahead of its September 1 ASX listing. The offer looks like
being oversubscribed ahead of its close date next Friday.

Mayur's PNG assets also include limestone, copper-gold tenements and coal
projects, as well as a planned coal-fired power station to be built near the
industrial city of Lae.

The project remains subject to a definitive feasibility study, with total capex
of just $US22m to bring the project into production.

With more than 12,000sq km of highly prospective exploration tenements available
to be drilled, Mayur is confident enough to plan trial shipments to customers in
China and Japan within 14 months.

Costed at $110m, the Lae power project involves shipping coal from Mayur's Depot
Creek project in the south of the country, which boasts the first compliant coal
resource in PNG, at 11.4 million tonnes.

The power plant, which has been granted environmental approval, remains subject
to a power purchasing agreement execution with state-owned utility PNG Power.

While approval is no Lae-down misere, Mulder seems confident the power project
will ultimately prevail because of the need for reliable low-cost electricity.

Tim Boreham is editor of The New Criterion.
Tim.boreham@independent-research.com.au

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 24, 2013 Saturday

United States Courts Opinions: United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit: 12-15237 - Nicole Maddox v. Babette Stephens, et al

LENGTH: 9270  words

DATELINE: Washington


United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit has issued the following
order:


[PUBLISH]
IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
________________________
No. 12-15237
________________________
D.C. Docket No. 1:10-cv-02742-AT
NICOLE MADDOX,
Individually and as Next of Friend of J.O., Minor Child,
Plaintiff-Appellee,
versus
BABETTE STEPHENS,
Defendant-Appellant.


________________________
Appeal from the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Georgia
_________________________
(August 21, 2013)
Before PRYOR and ANDERSON, Circuit Judges, and WALTER,* District Judge.
____________________
* Honorable Donald E. Walter, United States District Judge for the Western
District of
Louisiana, sitting by designation.
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 1 of 36
ANDERSON, Circuit Judge:
Plaintiff Nicole Maddox ("Maddox" or "mother"), individually, and as Next
of Friend of J.O., a minor child, brought suit for violations of due process
rights
under the Fourteenth Amendment pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1983, and for various
state law torts. The suit was brought against the Georgia Department of Human
Services, Division of Family & Children Services ("DFCS"), Gwinnett County
DFCS, and Appellant Babette Stephens, a social worker with Gwinnett County
DFCS ("Stephens") (collectively "Defendants").1 The only claim directly relevant

to this appeal is whether Appellant Stephens is entitled to qualified immunity
on
Maddox's substantive due process claim that Stephens violated her liberty
interests
in the care, custody, and management of her minor child ("child" or "J.O.") with

respect to Stephens' actions in preparing and implementing a safety plan that
allegedly prohibited Maddox from removing the child from the paternal
grandmother's care. The district court denied Stephens summary judgment on this

claim, holding that Stephens was not entitled to qualified immunity. Stephens
now
brings this interlocutory appeal.
After thorough review of the record, and with the benefit of oral argument,
1 Maddox also brought claims against Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Inc.,
which
are not presently before this Court.
2
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 2 of 36
we reverse the district court's denial of qualified immunity to Stephens on
Maddox's substantive due process claim and remand for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
I. FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND2
J.O. was born in early September 2008 to Maddox and Michael Olayiwola
("Mr. Olayiwola" or "father"). Maddox and Mr. Olayiwola were not married but
were living together at the time in Gwinnett County, Georgia. They also lived
with
Mr. Olayiwola's mother, Veronica Olayiwola ("Ms. Olayiwola" or "grandmother").
As the unwed mother of J.O., Maddox was the only person who had legal custody
of J.O. prior to court proceedings on February 12, 2009, pursuant to O.C.G.A. §
19-
7-25 ("Only the mother of a child born out of wedlock is entitled to custody of
the
child, unless the father legitimates the child . . . . Otherwise, the mother may

exercise all parental power over the child.").
On November 9, 2008, when J.O. was two months old, Maddox, Mr.
Olayiwola, and Ms. Olayiwola took her to Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Inc.

("Hospital"). J.O. was diagnosed with a rare, potentially life-threatening
disease
2 Many of the relevant facts are also discussed in the Discussion section infra.
On
interlocutory appeal of a district court's denial of summary judgment, denying
qualified
immunity, "we do not make credibility determinations or choose between
conflicting testimony,
but instead accept Plaintiff's version of the facts drawing all justifiable
inferences in Plaintiff's
favor." Bozeman v. Orum, 422 F.3d 1265, 1267 (11th Cir. 2005).
3
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 3 of 36
known as Kasabach-Merritt Syndrome. This is a chronic illness, and J.O. required

24-hour daily care. J.O. remained in the Hospital during many of the relevant
events and was discharged on December 10, 2008, to the father and the
grandmother.
Because both Mr. Olayiwola and Maddox worked, Ms. Olayiwola stayed
with J.O. at the Hospital on a daily basis and received training on how to care
for
J.O.'s medical needs. Maddox did not own a car and did not have a driver's
license, so she relied on Mr. Olayiwola and other family members for
transportation to the Hospital.3 Because of her work schedule and lack of
transportation, Maddox was not able to visit J.O. daily while J.O. was in the
Hospital. Ms. Olayiwola was the only family member qualified to care for the
special needs of the child while the child was in the Hospital.
On November 12, 2008, Mr. Olayiwola and Maddox had a heated verbal
argument. The argument continued as they arrived at the Hospital, and security
officers were called to the scene. Both parties were advised that any future
similar
conduct would result in both being asked to leave the Hospital. Social workers
at
the Hospital then spoke with Mr. Olayiwola and Maddox regarding the dispute.
During these meetings with the social workers, both parties made allegations of

3 Maddox worked approximately 34-36 hours per week.
4
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 4 of 36
abuse and neglect against each other. Mr. Olayiwola alleged that Maddox was
using drugs and would leave J.O. in the apartment unsupervised, and Maddox
alleged that Mr. Olayiwola was physically abusive. Because of these allegations,

the matter was referred to Gwinnett County DFCS. Stephens was the Social
Services Caseworker responsible for after-hours referrals at this time. Stephens

went to the Hospital the next day and spoke directly with Mr. and Ms. Olayiwola.

She informed Mr. Olayiwola that just being J.O.'s father did not give him any
legal
rights and explained the legitimization process. She later spoke with Maddox by

telephone, and Maddox informed her that she was now temporarily staying with her

sister in Fulton County, Georgia, after the argument.4 The matter was also
referred
to the Hospital's daytime social worker, Tonya Brailey ("Brailey").
On November 14, 2008, Stephens talked with Brailey about involving
ChildKind, a placement service for medically fragile children, in the case. On
November 19, 2008, Brailey again talked to Stephens regarding the placement with

ChildKind, but Stephens had not completed the referral and stated she would look

into it. Brailey also talked to Maddox and told her that J.O.'s medical care was

going to be intensive and that Maddox needed to be available to get training
when
4 Stephens confirmed that Mr. Olayiwola had been physically abusing Maddox, but

she did not substantiate Mr. Olayiwola's allegations of Maddox's drug use and
behavior.
5
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 5 of 36
J.O. was discharged from the Hospital. Maddox indicated that she would be
getting a car in the next few weeks, but in the meantime she could use Medicaid

transportation to make herself available for the training. The record does not
reveal
that Maddox began training to take care of J.O. at this time nor at any time
prior to
J.O.'s release from the Hospital.
On November 25, 2008, Brailey and Stephens discussed the possibility of
preparing a safety plan to avoid sending the child to a facility when J.O. was
discharged, and they planned to meet with the parents and the grandmother on
December 1. A safety plan is prepared by DFCS employees when there is an
identified risk of safety to the child. It is an agreement between DFCS and the

child's caregiver and addresses areas of concern regarding the health of the
child.
Two days later, on November 27, 2008, there was a physical altercation
involving the grandmother and Maddox at the Hospital. Maddox was expelled
from the Hospital and told not to come back or she would be charged with
criminal
trespassing. Stephens spoke with Maddox regarding this incident on the following

Monday (December 1). After speaking with Maddox, Stephens called Brailey and
asked that Maddox at least be granted supervised visitation at the Hospital.
Although Brailey said that the Hospital would consider this possibility, she
believed that the ban was "final." Although the December 1 meeting with the
6
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 6 of 36
parents and the grandmother did not occur, Brailey informed Stephens during
their
telephone calls on December 1 that J.O.'s medications had again been changed and

that there was still no expectation of a discharge date.
That same day, Stephens called Mr. Olayiwola to follow up on his efforts to
seek custody of J.O. Although she testified that it was contrary to DFCS
standard
practices, Stephens called the Gwinnett County Superior Court at Mr. Olayiwola's

request to ask about the status of his petition for legitimation and custody.
The
court informed her that the hearing likely would not be before January 2009 and

thus that Mr. Olayiwola could not be legitimated before that time. Stephens
again
explained to the father that, as a non-married father, he had to go through
court
proceedings to establish his paternity.
On December 8 and December 9, Stephens informed Brailey that DFCS
could not authorize custody or discharge to the father because the father had
not
been legitimated. Stephens also informed Brailey that, because she had recently

learned that Maddox now resided in Fulton County, she did not believe that
Gwinnett County DFCS could deprive the child and that she was transferring the
case to Fulton County DFCS.
On December 9, Brailey notified Stephens that J.O. was to be released to the
father during the upcoming week. After speaking with Hospital administration,
7
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 7 of 36
Brailey was informed that the child could be released to the father despite the
fact
that DFCS could not authorize such release. On December 10, 2008, Hospital
officials discharged J.O. to Mr. Olayiwola--knowing that Ms. Olayiwola, the only

family member qualified to care for the child, would be living with him and
providing care--because he was originally presented as the father of the child
and
because the child had not been deprived by DFCS. Neither the Hospital nor
Stephens notified Maddox that J.O. was released. Stephens assumed, after
notifying Fulton County DFCS that the child had been released, that Fulton
County
DFCS would notify Maddox.
After Stephens contacted Fulton County DFCS to advise them of J.O.'s
release, she spoke with Anne Rae ("Rae"), her supervisor, who advised her to
prepare a safety plan ("Safety Plan"). The night J.O. was released from the
Hospital, Stephens met with the grandmother at her residence and prepared the
Safety Plan. 5 While preparing the Safety Plan, Stephens was aware that Maddox
5 The district court found that the "evidence is in dispute as to when the
safety plan
was actually prepared." Doc. 115 at 20 n.26. Stephens testified in her
deposition that the Safety
Plan was prepared after J.O. was released from the Hospital at the grandmother's
apartment. By
contrast, the grandmother testified at the juvenile court proceedings that she
left the hospital with
the Safety Plan in hand. However, Maddox waived any challenge that there was a
material issue
as to this point. At the motion for summary judgment stage, Stephens prepared a
"statement of
material facts" that stated, in relevant part: "[t]hat evening, after Stephens
was advised that
[Hospital] had discharged J.O., Stephens' supervisor . . . instructed Stephens
to meet with [father
and/or grandmother] to create a document known as the 'Safety Plan.'" Doc. 79-1
at 11. In
response, Maddox "admitted" this material fact. Furthermore, in Maddox's
response to
8
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 8 of 36
was the only person with legal custody of the child. Maddox, however, was not
present for the signing of the Safety Plan.
The Safety Plan provides, in relevant part, that:
"[Grandmother] will contact Babette Stephens in the event Natural
Mother, Nicole Maddox or anyone else attempt to remove [J.O.] from
[grandmother's] care."
"[Grandmother] will also contact Gwinnett P.D. immediately if anyone
attempts to remove [J.O.] from [grandmother's] care."
"[Grandmother] will assure [J.O's] medical needs are met and follow the
home care and follow-up appointment as instructed and explained at
[J.O.'s] release from the hospital 12/10/08."
"Family will continue to cooperate with the Department during this
investigation and follow recommendations as presented."
"Family will notify Stephens and the Department of any changes in
address and phone numbers immediately."
This Safety Plan was signed by Ms. Olayiwola and Stephens. Maddox was not
notified before the preparation of this Safety Plan and did not sign the Safety
Plan.
Willa Wagner Howick, J.O.'s guardian ad litem, testified, and it is
undisputed for purposes of this appeal, that Maddox was not properly trained to

Defendants' motion for summary judgment, she stated that, "Stephens, the evening
of December
10, 2008, went to [grandmother's] apartment and prepared the safety plan, signed
only by her and
[grandmother]." Doc. 94 at 12. Maddox has admitted that Stephens prepared the
Safety Plan
after J.O. was released from the Hospital for purposes of this appeal.
Moreover, all of the documentary evidence supports that the Safety Plan was
prepared
after J.O.'s discharge and at Mr. and Ms. Olayiwola's apartment. It is doubtful
that a reasonable
jury could find, on this record, solely on the basis of the grandmother's
remarks at a hearing
focused on other matters, that the Safety Plan was actually prepared before
J.O.'s discharge.
However, we do not in any event believe that this factual issue is material to
this appeal.
9
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 9 of 36
take care of the child at the time of discharge. The only family member trained
to
care for the child at the time of discharge was the grandmother.
After Maddox called the hospital to check on J.O. and was informed that J.O.
had already been discharged, Maddox called Stephens. Maddox asked Stephens
how they could release J.O. without telling her and told Stephens that she
wanted
to go get J.O. from the grandmother's apartment. According to Maddox, Stephens
told her "you can't go over there and get her and that it will only make things

worse, that if the police are involved . . . . then [J.O.] could be taken away
from
both of the parents and that [J.O.] could be placed in a foster home."
Despite Stephens' advice, Maddox went to Mr. and Ms. Olayiwola's
apartment. Ms. Olayiwola would not open the door and called the police and
Stephens. Maddox also called the police. When the police arrived, an officer
went
inside the apartment and Ms. Olayiwola provided the officer with a copy of the
Safety Plan. The police officer then spoke with Stephens on the telephone. After

the officer talked on the phone with Stephens, Maddox was not permitted to see
the
child. After the police showed Maddox a copy of the Safety Plan--the first time

she had seen it--she left the apartment.
Nothing in the record indicates precisely what was said during the telephone
call between the police officer and Stephens. However, taking all reasonable
10
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 10 of 36
inferences in favor of Maddox, we assume that Stephens made statements on the
telephone that night--to the police, to Maddox, and to the grandmother--that led

them all to believe that Maddox should not be permitted to take J.O. away
because
Maddox was incapable of caring for the child's medical needs.
After Stephens spoke with the grandmother and the police, she drove to the
apartment but arrived after both the police and Maddox had left. While at the
apartment, Stephens talked to the grandmother, and also talked to Maddox on the

telephone. Stephens asked Maddox why she was trying to see J.O. so late at night

and why she had left. Maddox responded that she left because the police were
there.
On February 5, 2009, in response to Mr. Olayiwola's Petition for
Legitimization and Custody/Visitation, Maddox filed an Amended Answer,
Counterclaim and Motion for Immediate Change of Custody and a Response to
Plaintiff's Request for Full Custody. At a hearing that month, the Gwinnett
County
Superior Court approved Mr. Olayiwola's petition for legitimization, ordered
that
physical custody be with Mr. Olayiwola, ordered that temporary joint legal
custody
be with Mr. Olayiwola and Maddox, transferred the case to Gwinnett County
Juvenile Court, and appointed a guardian ad litem "due to the child's frail
health,
need for constant medical attention, and a pending DFCS investigation." Doc.
105-
11
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 11 of 36
4 at 1-2. After this hearing, Mad 6 dox began attending J.O.'s doctor's
appointments
and began training to provide care for J.O.
After an August 17, 2009, hearing, the juvenile court held that "the child has
been well-taken care of by the grandmother, who has undergone the training and
education." Id. at 6. The court continued that "[t]he child has continued to
progress and stay safe with the grandmother and the medical care givers believe

that the child is well-taken care of." Id. Although the court was "deeply
troubled
by the procedural history of this case," and although Maddox had "regularly and

consistently attended the out patient appointments to learn how to care for her

daughter and is continuing to learn procedures and the medication regimen," the

court granted emergency temporary custody to the grandmother because "the
grandmother is the only person involved in the child's life who is capable of
properly caring for the child at this time." Id. at 6-7.
After a September 9, 2009, hearing, the juvenile court again held that "[t]he
mother needs more parenting time to demonstrate to the Court and the medical
team that she is capable of caring for her child on her own." Doc. 105-5 at 2.
After
a November 12, 2009, hearing, the court ordered that Maddox shall have both
physical and legal custody of J.O.
6 Howick was subsequently appointed as guardian ad litem.
12
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 12 of 36
Maddox subsequently filed her complaint under § 1983 against Defendants,
claiming constitutional and state law violations. As relevant to this appeal,
Maddox alleged that Stephens violated her substantive due process rights by
interfering with her protected liberty interest in the care, custody, and
management
of her child. Maddox also alleged that Stephens' failure to follow Georgia law
and
administrative protocols constituted a procedural due process violation.
Defendants filed a motion to dismiss on September 30, 2010. On November
19, 2010, the district court granted in part and denied in part Defendants'
motion to
dismiss. As relevant to the instant appeal, the district court granted the
motion to
dismiss on Maddox's procedural due process claim against Stephens, but denied
the motion to dismiss on Maddox's substantive due process claim against
Stephens.
With regard to the procedural due process claim, the district court held that
Stephens' failure to follow those procedures was "a random and unauthorized act

of a state employee for which adequate postdeprivation process is available."
Doc.
33 at 15 (quoting Powell v. Ga. Dep't of Human Res., 114 F.3d 1074, 1081 (11th
Cir. 1997)) (internal quotation marks omitted). The district court further held
that
"Maddox may seek postdeprivation relief in the form of damages under Georgia
tort law." Id. (citing Powell, 114 F.3d at 1074). Accordingly, the district
court
13
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 13 of 36
dismissed Maddox's procedural due process claim.7 The district court did find,
however, that Maddox had adequately pled her substantive due process claim that

Stephens had unconstitutionally interfered with Maddox's constitutionally
protected liberty interest in the care, custody, and maintenance of her child;
the
district court denied Defendants' motion to dismiss on this claim. Id. at 13.
After discovery, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment. On
September 28, 2012,8 the district court entered an order granting in part and
denying in part Defendants' motion for summary judgment. As relevant to this
appeal, the district court denied Stephens summary judgment on Maddox's
substantive due process claim, finding that it could not conclude at the summary

judgment stage that Stephens was entitled to qualified immunity. Stephens timely

filed this interlocutory appeal, arguing that the district court erred by
denying her
qualified immunity on Maddox's substantive due process claim.
II. STANDARD OF REVIEW
We review de novo a district court's denial of summary judgment based on
7 Because this claim was dismissed at the motion to dismiss stage and is not
properly subject to interlocutory review, Maddox's procedural due process claim
is not properly
before us on appeal.
8 This case was originally assigned to Judge Thomas Thrash, who ruled on the
motion to dismiss proceedings. The case was then transferred to Judge Amy
Totenberg when she
was appointed to the bench in March 2011.
14
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 14 of 36
qualified immunity, applying the same legal standards as the district court.
Feliciano v. City of Miami Beach, 707 F.3d 1244, 1247 (11th Cir. 2013). Summary

judgment is appropriate if the pleadings, depositions, answers to
interrogatories,
and admissions on file, together with the affidavits, if any, show there is no
genuine
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a
matter of law. Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(a), (c); Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S.
317,
323-24, 106 S. Ct. 2548, 2553 (1986). We view the record and draw all reasonable

inferences in the light most favorable to the non-moving party. Sims v. MVM,
Inc., 704 F.3d 1327, 1330 n.2 (11th Cir. 2013).
III. DISCUSSION
A.
The Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution protects
against deprivation by state action of a constitutionally protected interest in
"life,
liberty, or property" without the due process of law. Zinermon v. Burch, 494
U.S.
113, 125, 110 S. Ct. 975, 983 (1990). The Due Process Clause provides two
different kinds of constitutional protections: procedural due process and
substantive due process. McKinney v. Pate, 20 F.3d 1550, 1555 (11th Cir. 1994)
(en banc). A violation of either of these two kinds of protection may form the
basis
for a suit under § 1983. Id.
15
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 15 of 36
The Supreme Court has held that "parents have a constitutionally protected
liberty interest in the care, custody and management of their children." Doe v.

Kearney, 329 F.3d 1286, 1293 (11th Cir. 2003) (citing Santosky v. Kramer, 455
U.S. 745, 758-59, 102 S. Ct. 1388, 1397 (1982)). This interest "is perhaps the
oldest of the fundamental liberty interests recognized by [the Supreme Court]."

Troxel v. Granville, 530 U.S. 57, 65, 120 S. Ct. 2054, 2060 (2000); see
also Quilloin v. Walcott, 434 U.S. 246, 255, 98 S. Ct. 549, 554 (1978) ("We have

recognized on numerous occasions that the relationship between parent and child
is
constitutionally protected."); Wisconsin v. Yoder, 406 U.S. 205, 232, 92 S. Ct.

1526, 1541-42 (1972) ("The history and culture of Western civilization reflect a

strong tradition of parental concern for the nurture and upbringing of their
children.
This primary role of the parents in the upbringing of their children is now
established beyond debate as an enduring American tradition."). It is undisputed
in
this case that Maddox has a liberty interest in the care, custody, and
management of
J.O. Maddox argues that Stephens violated this liberty interest, and therefore
that
she has sufficiently asserted a substantive due process violation.
However, "not every wrong committed by a state actor rises to the level of a
'constitutional tort,' sufficient to trigger a substantive due process
violation," Lee
v. Hutson, 810 F.2d 1030, 1032 (11th Cir. 1987), as "the Constitution does not
16
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 16 of 36
protect against all encroachments by the state onto the interests of
individuals,"
Robertson v. Hecksel, 420 F.3d 1254, 1262 (11th Cir. 2005). The Supreme Court
has "previously rejected claims that the Due Process Clause should be
interpreted
to impose federal duties that are analogous to those traditionally imposed by
state
tort law," Collins v. City of Harker Heights, Tex., 503 U.S. 115, 128, 112 S.
Ct.
1061, 1070 (1992), and it is clear that "[m]ere negligence does not rise to the
level
of a Fourteenth Amendment violation," Bendiburg v. Dempsey, 909 F.2d 463, 470
(11th Cir. 1990); see also Cnty. of Sacramento v. Lewis, 523 U.S. 833, 849, 118
S.
Ct. 1708, 1718 (1998) ("[L]iability for negligently inflicted harm is
categorically
beneath the threshold of constitutional due process."); Waddell v. Hendry Cnty.

Sheriff's Office, 329 F.3d 1300, 1305 (11th Cir. 2003) ("We know for certain . .
.
that a showing of negligence is insufficient to make out a constitutional due
process claim."). Instead, plaintiffs face a high bar when attempting to
establish a
substantive due process violation as "conduct by a government actor will rise to
the
level of a substantive due process violation only if the act can be
characterized as
arbitrary or conscience shocking in a constitutional sense." Waddell, 329 F.3d
at
1305. Even intentional wrongs seldom violate the Due Process Clause, id., and
"only the most egregious official conduct can be said to be 'arbitrary in the
constitutional sense,'" Cnty. of Sacramento, 523 U.S. at 846, 118 S. Ct. at 1716

17
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 17 of 36
(quoting Collins, 503 U.S. at 129, 112 S. Ct. at 1071). "Determinations of what
is
egregious conduct must not be made in the glow of hindsight; decisions made by a

government actor must be egregious--that is, shock the conscience--at the time
the government actor made the decision." Waddell, 329 F.3d at 1305. Conduct
intended to injure in some way that is unjustifiable by any government interest
is
the sort of official action most likely to rise to the conscience-shocking
level, id.,
and we must conduct an "exact analysis of circumstances before any abuse of
power is condemned as conscience shocking," Cnty. of Sacramento, 523 U.S. at
850, 118 S. Ct. at 1718-19.
Finally, the Supreme Court "has always been reluctant to expand the concept
of substantive due process because guideposts for responsible decisionmaking in

this unchartered area are scarce and open-ended." Collins, 503 U.S. at 125, 112
S.
Ct. at 1068; see also Waddell, 329 F.3d at 1304 ("We must take seriously the
Supreme Court's caution against expanding the concept of substantive due
process."). Specifically, in § 1983 cases asserting violations of parental
liberty
interests, "we are venturing into the murky area of unenumerated constitutional

rights." Robertson, 420 F.3d at 1256 (quoting McCurdy v. Dodd, 352 F.3d 820,
825 (3d Cir. 2003)). In determining whether the plaintiff has alleged an actual

deprivation of a constitutional violation, we must "tread lightly" because,
"[b]y
18
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 18 of 36
extending constitutional protection to an asserted right or liberty interest,
we, to a
great extent, place the matter outside the arena of public debate and
legislative
action. We must therefore 'exercise the utmost care whenever we are asked to
break new ground in this field,' lest the liberty protected by the Due Process
Clause
be subtly transformed into the policy preferences of the Members of this Court."

Id. (quoting Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U.S. 702, 720, 117 S. Ct. 2258, 2267-

68 (1997)).
Even if we were to find that Stephens violated Maddox's constitutional
rights, Stephens is not liable if she is protected by qualified immunity.
Qualified
immunity offers "complete protection for government officials sued in their
individual capacities if their conduct 'does not violate clearly established
statutory
or constitutional rights of which a reasonable person would have known.'"
Vinyard v. Wilson, 311 F.3d 1340, 1346 (11th Cir. 2002) (quoting Harlow v.
Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 800, 818, 102 S. Ct. 2727, 2738 (1982)). The doctrine
protects from suit "all but the plainly incompetent or one who is knowingly
violating the federal law," id. (quoting Lee v. Ferraro, 284 F.3d 1188, 1194
(11th
Cir. 2002)), and prevents public officials from being intimidated--by the threat
of
lawsuits that jeopardize the official and her family's welfare personally--from

doing their jobs, Foy v. Holston, 94 F.3d 1528, 1534 (11th Cir. 1996). It is a
19
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 19 of 36
"muscular doctrine that impacts on the reality of the workaday world as long as

judges remember that the central idea is this pragmatic one: officials can act
without fear of harassing litigation only when they can reasonably
anticipate--before they act or do not act--if their conduct will give rise to
damage
liability for them." Id. (citing Davis v. Scherer, 468 U.S. 183, 195, 104 S. Ct.
3012,
3019-20 (1984)). "If objective observers cannot predict--at the time the
official
acts--whether the act was lawful or not, and the answer must await full
adjudication in a district court years in the future, the official deserves
immunity
from liability for civil damages." Id. (citing Elder v. Holloway, 510 U.S. 510,
513-
15, 114 S. Ct. 1019, 1022 (1994)).
If the public official first shows that she was acting within the scope of her
discretionary authority--a burden undisputably met by Stephens here--the burden

shifts to the plaintiff to establish that qualified immunity is not appropriate.
Id. at
1532. To determine whether a plaintiff has met her burden, a court must both
"decide whether the facts that a plaintiff has alleged . . . make out a
violation of a
constitutional right" and "whether the right at issue was 'clearly established'
at the
time of defendant's alleged misconduct." Pearson v. Callahan, 555 U.S. 223, 232,

129 S. Ct. 808, 816 (2009). A court may undertake these two inquiries in either

order. Id. at 236, 129 S. Ct. at 818. Accordingly, we are afforded the
flexibility to
20
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 20 of 36
determine that the right allegedly violated was not clearly established without

deciding whether a constitutional violation occurred at all. See, e.g., Loftus
v.
Clark-Moore, 690 F.3d 1200, 1204 (11th Cir. 2012); Lewis v. City of West Palm
Beach, Fla., 561 F.3d 1288, 1291 (11th Cir. 2009).
A right may be clearly established for qualified immunity purposes in one of
three ways: "(1) case law with indistinguishable facts clearly establishing the

constitutional right; (2) a broad statement of principle within the
Constitution,
statute, or case law that clearly establishes a constitutional right; or (3)
conduct so
egregious that a constitutional right was clearly violated, even in the total
absence
of case law." Lewis, 561 F.3d at 1291-92 (internal citations omitted). It is
undisputed that only the third and final category is relevant to this appeal,
and thus
that Stephens is entitled to qualified immunity unless her conduct fits into
this third
category. This third category, however, is "narrow" and "encompasses those
situations where 'the official's conduct lies so obviously at the very core of
what
the [relevant constitutional provision] prohibits that the unlawfulness of the
conduct was readily apparent to the official, notwithstanding the lack of case
law.'"
Loftus, 690 F.3d at 1205 (quoting Terrell v. Smith, 668 F.3d 1244, 1257 (11th
Cir.
2012)).
"The inquiry whether a federal right is clearly established 'must be
21
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 21 of 36
undertaken in light of the specific context of the case, not as a broad general

proposition.'" Id. at 1204 (quoting Coffin v. Brandau, 642 F.3d 999, 1013 (11th

Cir. 2011) (en banc)). "The relevant, dispositive inquiry in determining whether
a
right is clearly established is whether it would be clear to a reasonable [state

official] that [her] conduct was unlawful in the situation [she] confronted."
Id.
(quoting Vinyard, 311 F.3d at 1350). "Violations of the right to family
association
are determined by a balancing of competing interests," and we have held that
"state
officials who act to investigate or protect children where there are allegations
of
abuse almost never act within the contours of 'clearly established law.'" Foy,
94
F.3d at 1537.
B.
We stress that, on appeal, only Maddox's substantive due process claim is
properly before us. And, after thorough review, we hold that, even assuming
arguendo that Maddox has established a procedural due process violation and even

assuming arguendo that Stephens violated Maddox's substantive due process
rights, Stephens is entitled to qualified immunity because the law was not
clearly
established that Stephens' actions were so conscience shocking as to violate
Maddox's liberty interest in the care, custody, and management of J.O.
The precise factual context is important to understand our holding that the
22
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 22 of 36
undisputed facts demonstrate that Stephens is entitled to qualified immunity on
this
substantive due process claim. First, a reasonable jury could not find that
Stephens
bore responsibility for the actual discharge of the child to the father and the

grandmother. Stephens told Brailey and the Hospital on December 8 and 9--two
days and one day before J.O. was discharged from the Hospital--that neither she

nor Gwinnett County DFCS could authorize the child's release to the father
because the father had not been legitimated. Brailey responded that she was
aware
of this fact, but the Hospital administration nevertheless released the child to
the
father and grandmother on December 10 despite Stephens' clear indications that
Gwinnett County DFCS could not authorize such release.
Second, it is undisputed that Stephens believed that Maddox had moved her
domicile to Fulton County in December of 2008. Accordingly, before even being
notified of J.O.'s impending release, Stephens had begun initiating proceedings
to
transfer the case to Fulton County.9 The record confirms that Cheryl D. Ward, a

Social Services Supervisor for Fulton County DFCS, received notification of this

transfer at least by December 9, one day before J.O.'s release from the
Hospital.
9 Maddox has not argued below and does not argue on appeal that Stephens should

not have transferred the case to Fulton County. In other words, Maddox does not
dispute that
Fulton County DFCS should have had primary jurisdiction and responsibility as of
the time the
child was discharged by the Hospital into the care of the father and the
grandmother.
23
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 23 of 36
The record also reveals that Stephens had informed Brailey on December 8--prior

to Stephens learning that the child was going to be discharged that week--that
the
case was being transferred to Fulton County DFCS because the mother was no
longer a resident of Gwinnett County. Brailey then spoke with Stephens on
December 10, informed her that the child was to be released, and spoke with Ward

(of Fulton County DFCS) to notify her of J.O.'s discharge. The record indicates

that Stephens and Rae believed that they were not able to authorize any
deprivation
proceedings because the mother was not residing in Gwinnett County, and
Stephens also relayed this fact to Brailey.
Third, it is undisputed that J.O. had serious medical needs and that Maddox
was not qualified to care for those needs. It is also undisputed that the
grandmother
was the only family member who was qualified to care for the medical needs of
the
child. And it is undisputed that serious risks to the health and safety of the
child
would have been posed if the child were under the sole care of Maddox. Maddox
was not qualified to care for the child's needs because she had not received the

necessary training before J.O.'s discharge from the Hospital. On this summary
judgment record, no reasonable jury could find otherwise with respect to these
facts.
Fourth, no reasonable jury could find that Stephens bore responsibility for
24
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 24 of 36
the fact that Maddox was not trained to take care of the medical needs of the
child.
A meeting had been scheduled for December 1, 2008, for Stephens, Brailey, the
parents, and the grandmother to discuss arrangements for the care of J.O. upon
her
discharge from the Hospital. 10 The evidence indicates that Maddox visited the
child on Thanksgiving Day, November 27, and that an altercation occurred
between Maddox and the grandmother. Hospital security investigated and imposed
a ban on Maddox's presence at the Hospital. The next day, Brailey talked with
Maddox and the grandmother, and advised Maddox that she would not be
permitted to visit the Hospital, and furthermore that she was not sure that the

December 1 meeting would still take place. Stephens was not involved in, and was

not even aware of, any of these events until the following Monday, December 1.
After talking with Maddox about the Thanksgiving Day incident on December 1,
Stephens contacted both Brailey and Hospital security and requested that Maddox

at least be granted supervised visits with the child. Brailey indicated that she

would check to see if anything could be done but that she believed the decision
was
final. On this summary judgment record, no reasonable jury could find that
10 On November 25, Stephens and Brailey had planned to schedule this meeting for

December 1 whereby they would prepare a safety plan with the grandmother and the
mother that
would not require the child to be placed with child care. Obviously, Stephens
and Brailey were
contemplating a consensual agreement such that the grandmother would provide the
necessary
care for the child upon her discharge from the Hospital.
25
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 25 of 36
Stephens bore responsibility for the fact that Maddox was banned from the
Hospital or for the fact that Maddox did not receive the training that would
have
been necessary for her to become qualified to care for the child's medical
needs.11
Considering these facts, the primary possible deficiency with respect to
Stephens' actions is the failure to trigger court action within seven days
following
the discharge to the father and grandmother pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-11-14.
However, Maddox's procedural due process claims are not before us because they
were dismissed at the motion to dismiss stage in this litigation. Although the
only
claim Maddox is pursuing in this appeal is a substantive due process claim, it
is
apparent that the focus of her challenge to Stephens' actions is that Stephens
failed
to follow the procedures set out in the Georgia statutes for depriving a parent
of
custodial rights. To facilitate a b 12 etter understanding of her appeal, we set
out first
11 Prior to this incident, on November 14, Brailey had advised Maddox that she
needed to begin training to take care of the child. There is no record evidence
that Stephens'
actions in any way contributed to or caused Maddox not to begin training.
Moreover, the record suggests that it was probably impossible in any event to
fully train
Maddox prior to the time the child was discharged from the Hospital. As of
February 5, 2009,
the matter of Maddox's custodial rights was under the supervision of the state
court. On that
date, Maddox filed a counterclaim in the father's previously filed
legitimization proceedings.
Significantly, although court supervision of the matter commenced in February
2009, and the
training of Maddox commenced shortly thereafter, the juvenile court could not
conclude that
Maddox was capable of caring for her child until after a hearing on November 12,
2009, where
the court awarded Maddox full legal and physical custody of J.O.
12 See, e.g., Appellee Br. at 16 ("Then in violation of [Maddox's] and J.O.'s
[Fourteenth] Amendment rights to liberty they gave custody of J.O. to [Ms.
Olayiwola] without
26
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 26 of 36
her argument that Stephens violated her procedural due process rights, followed
by
the arguments for Stephens in response, and finally we explain why the instant
facts fall far short of a clearly established substantive due process claim.
Maddox's argument in support of finding a violation of her procedural due
process rights proceeds along the following line.13 Maddox argues that, even if

Stephens bore no responsibility for the initial discharge by the Hospital of the
child
to the father and grandmother, Stephens' preparation of the Safety Plan, and her

telephone conversations with the grandmother, Maddox, and the police officer on

the night that Maddox appeared at the grandmother's residence and sought to take

the child home with her at least contributed to the continued deprivation of her

custodial right (as the only person with legal custody) to have physical custody
of
the child. Maddox argues that a reasonable jury could find that Stephens told
the
grandmother, Maddox, and the police officer in those telephone conversations
that
Maddox should not be permitted to take the child away from the grandmother
because that would pose a serious risk to the safety of the child, and that the
Safety
court authority and in violation of Georgia law, DFCS' written procedures and
Children's
Healthcare's written procedures."); id. at 22 ("Stephens then failed to seek a
unilateral emergency
care seven-day temporary placement as authorized within DFCS' procedures or seek
the
intervention of the juvenile court for a temporary placement.").
13 We express no opinion at all with respect to whether there actually was a
violation
of Maddox's procedural due process rights.
27
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 27 of 36
Plan contemplated just such a consequence. Maddox argues that, as the only
person with legal custody of the child, those actions contributed to the
temporary
deprivation of her custodial rights by preventing her from taking physical
custody
of the child. She argues that Georgia's statutory procedures clearly establish
the
procedures for depriving a mother of custody of her child. For example, O.C.G.A.

§ 15-11-14 establishes that the "Department of Human Services is authorized to
provide emergency care and supervision to any child without seeking a court
order
for a period not to exceed seven days." O.C.G.A. § 15-11-14(a). The statute then

provides that, "[u]pon the expiration of such seven-day period, if the child or

children have not been released . . . or if the department determinates that
there is
an issue of neglect, abandonment, or abuse, the department shall promptly
contact a
juvenile court intake officer or bring the child or children before the juvenile

court." Id. § 15-11-14(d). It is undisputed that Stephens was aware of these
state
procedural requirements. Thus, the argument in favor of finding a violation of
clearly established procedural due process rights is that Stephens willfully
bypassed the procedures set forth by the Georgia code and Georgia case law. In
other words, Maddox's argument is that there are issues of fact as to whether an

emergency existed, and thus whether it was appropriate under § 15-11-14 to
discharge to (or prolong the deprivation resulting from the discharge to) the
father
28
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 28 of 36
and grandmother--thus temporarily depriving her of her custodial rights--without

complying with the required notice and court action.14 And the argument
continues: even if there were an emergency and the initial discharge of the
child to
the father and grandmother was justified under § 15-11-14(a), nevertheless
Stephens' failure to trigger court action within seven days pursuant to § 15-11-

14(d) violated clearly established procedural due process rights.15
The argument against finding that Stephens violated a clearly established
procedural due process right is that the procedures do not speak clearly to the

situation here--where the grandmother has already been given custody of the
child
by a party other than the Department of Human Services--i.e., the Hospital. The

argument continues that Stephens was faced with the following situation. The
14 In non-emergency situations, Georgia has procedural requirements of court
action
and notice before the deprivation of children. See generally Watkins v. Watkins,
266 Ga. 269,
466 S.E.2d 860 (Ga. 1996); Sanchez v. Walker Cnty. Dep't of Family & Children
Servs., 237
Ga. 406, 229 S.E.2d 66 (Ga. 1976).
15 Of course, the law is well established that the mere failure to follow state

procedures does not necessarily rise to the level of a violation of federal
procedural due process
rights. See Harris v. Birmingham Bd. of Educ., 817 F.2d 1525, 1528 (11th Cir.
1987) ("[W]e
emphasize that the violation of a state statute outlining procedure does not
necessarily equate to a
due process violation under the federal constitution. If otherwise, federal
courts would have the
task of insuring strict compliance with state procedural regulations and
statutes."). Moreover,
with respect to a federal claim of a violation of federal procedural due process
rights, the
availability of state remedies can be relevant, as the district court found in
granting the motion to
dismiss Maddox's procedural due process claim. See, e.g., Powell, 114 F.3d at
1080-83.
Because we need not decide whether there was a violation of clearly established
procedural due
process rights, we do not give further consideration to such case law.
29
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 29 of 36
child was in the care of the grandmother, the only family member capable of
providing appropriate care for the child's serious medical needs. Removal of the

child from the care of the grandmother--i.e., removal by Maddox who was not
qualified to care for the child's medical needs--would pose a serious threat to
the
safety of the child. Thus, Stephens argues that it was absolutely necessary for
the
safety of the child to prepare the Safety Plan and to ensure that the child was
not
removed from the care of the grandmother.
However, the foregoing does not respond to Maddox's argument that even if
Stephens bore no responsibility for the initial discharge by the Hospital to the

father and the grandmother, nevertheless her subsequent actions prolonged the
deprivation of Maddox's custodial rights, and that Stephens was required to
trigger
court proceedings within seven days, as provided in § 15-11-14. Stephens'
response to this argument is that it was not unreasonable for her to believe
that
Fulton County should have had primary jurisdiction regarding this case and
therefore that Fulton County DFCS--and not Gwinnett County DFCS--may have
been responsible for initiating deprivation proceedings.16 In sum, Stephens
would
argue that, even assuming arguendo that § 15-11-14 applied to this situation, it
was
16 As noted above, both Stephens and Rae did not believe that Gwinnett County
should initiate deprivation proceedings because Maddox no longer resided in
Gwinnett County.
30
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 30 of 36
not clearly established that she should have triggered court action within seven

days given the unique factual context described above--i.e., that Gwinnett
County
DFCS was not involved in the release of the child to the father and the
grandmother, that the State did not take custody of the child, and that a
reasonable
official in Stephens' situation could have believed that any necessary court
action
should be initiated by Fulton County DFCS because Maddox's residence had
moved to Fulton County.17
However, as noted above, Maddox's procedural due process claim is not
before us. The arguments above are relevant only in that they reveal the facts
relevant to Maddox's substantive due process claim, and the deficiencies with
respect to Stephens' actions that Maddox argues violated her clearly established

substantive due process rights. Thus, we express no opinion at all with respect
to
any procedural due process claim because only Maddox's substantive due process
claim is properly before us in this appeal. And, for purposes of addressing
Maddox's substantive due process claim, we can assume arguendo that Stephens
17 Maddox further argues that, even if it were clear that her move to Fulton
County
meant that Fulton County DFCS, rather than Gwinnett County DFCS, had primary
jurisdiction,
O.C.G.A. § 15-11-38 permits "any person . . . who has knowledge of the facts
alleged or is
informed and believes that they are true" to trigger court action. Id. (emphasis
added). Stephens
would argue that nevertheless a reasonable official could have reasonably
believed that primary
responsibility should lie with Fulton County DFCS; additionally, she would argue
that it was not
clearly established law that Gwinnett County DFCS was required to initiate these
proceedings.
31
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 31 of 36
violated Maddox's procedural due process rights. We nevertheless hold that
Stephens is entitled to qualified immunity because she did not violate any
clearly
established substantive due process rights of which a reasonable state official
in
Stephens' shoes would have known during the pertinent time period.
We disagree with the district court that Stephens' conduct "lies so obviously
at the very core of what the [relevant constitutional provision] prohibits that
the
unlawfulness of the conduct was readily apparent to the official,
notwithstanding
the lack of case law." See Loftus, 690 F.3d at 1205. As discussed in depth
above,
in order for Maddox to show a substantive due process violation, Stephens'
actions
must be "characterized as arbitrary, or conscience shocking, in a constitutional

sense." Collins, 503 U.S. at 128, 112 S. Ct. at 1070. Although Maddox cites
Eleventh Circuit and Georgia Supreme Court cases for the proposition that
procedural requirements should be followed when the State takes custody of the
child, she has not cited any case that would make it clear to a reasonable
social
worker at the time that her actions were arbitrary or conscience shocking.
Maddox's arguments that procedural due process cases clearly established a
substantive due process violation are unpersuasive. None of the cases she cites

come even remotely close to establishing that Stephens' actions, at the time she

was making them, were so conscience shocking that it would be clear to a
32
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 32 of 36
reasonable state official that her conduct would violate Maddox's substantive
due
process rights. See Loftus, 690 F.3d at 1204. None of these cases, nor the
provisions in the Georgia code, clearly provide for a situation where a party
other
than the State (the Hospital) has already released the child to the care of a
third
party (the grandmother). As Stephens argues, she did not release the child to
the
father and the grandmother--it was the Hospital that released the child to the
grandmother. Stephens had advised the Hospital that neither she nor Gwinnett
DFCS could authorize releasing the child to the father. And, after finding out
that
the child was being discharged to the father and the grandmother, Stephens
contacted Rae and, at Rae's direction, prepared the Safety Plan to make sure
that
the child would remain safe with the only family member qualified to care for
her
special needs.
Importantly--perhaps most importantly--it is clear and undisputed that the
mother was not fit to take care of this child at any time before the discharge
or even
in the months after the discharge. Given the fact that the child was to be
released
from the Hospital, and given the fact that the grandmother was undisputably the

only family member qualified to take care of this child, we cannot hold that
Stephens' actions violated Maddox's clearly established substantive due process

rights. Looking at the substance of what happened, the temporary placement of
the
33
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 33 of 36
child with the grandmother was inevitable and it was clearly the most reasonable

placement for the time being. In fact, allowing the medically fragile child to
be
placed in the custody of an individual not qualified to care for her serious
medical
needs--here the mother--would have been unthinkable. And this Court has
previously held that "state officials who act to investigate or to protect
children
where there are allegations of abuse almost never act within the contours of
'clearly
established law.'" Foy, 94 F.3d at 1537.18 Given all of these circumstances, and

even if Stephens' actions were not "textbook perfect," id. (quoting Manzano v.
S.D. Dep't of Soc. Servs., 60 F.3d 505, 513 (8th Cir. 1995)), we must conclude
that
it would not be clear to a reasonable social worker that her conduct violated
Maddox's substantive due process rights; stated another way, a reasonable social

worker would not have been on notice that her behavior was "conscience
shocking" or "arbitrary." Even if we assume arguendo, although we expressly do
not decide, that Stephens should have triggered court action within seven days
of
December 10, 2008, and even if we assume arguendo, although we expressly do
not decide, that Stephens' actions violated Maddox's procedural due process
rights,
18 We note that Foy involved allegations of abuse while this case does not
concern
such allegations. However, because here the safety and health of the child was
similarly at issue,
we find Foy instructive as to whether a reasonable official would have known
that her conduct
violated Maddox's clearly established substantive due process rights.
34
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 34 of 36
we cannot conclude that the law was clearly established at the time of the
relevant
conduct that Stephens' actions were conscience shocking, and thus we cannot
conclude that there has been a violation of clearly established substantive due

process law. Accordingly, Ste 19 phens is entitled to qualified immunity on
Maddox's substantive due process claim.
IV. CONCLUSION
"Substantive due process is a doctrine that has been kept under tight reins,
reserved for extraordinary circumstances." Nix v. Franklin Cnty. Sch. Dist., 311

F.3d 1373, 1379 (11th Cir. 2002). Even conduct that is "untoward,"
"unfortunate,"
and "understandably upsetting" does not necessarily rise to the level of a
substantive due process violation. See Tinker v. Beasley, 429 F.3d 1324, 1329
(11th Cir. 2005) (quoting Luckes v. Cnty. of Hennepin, Minn., 415 F.3d 936, 940

(8th Cir. 2005)). Here, we simply cannot hold that a reasonable social worker
would have been on notice that her actions violated Maddox's substantive due
process rights. Accordingly, we reverse the denial of qualified immunity to
Stephens on Maddox's substantive due process claim and remand for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
19 Because we hold that there has been no violation of clearly established
substantive
due process law, we need not decide whether Stephens' behavior actually violated
Maddox's
substantive due process rights. See Pearson, 555 U.S. at 236, 129 S. Ct. at 818.

35
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 35 of 36
REVERSED AND REMANDED.
36
Case: 12-15237 Date Filed: 08/21/2013 Page: 36 of 36

For more information please visit: http://www.gpo.gov/

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 12, 2016 Saturday

Regulatory update: United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission has issued Order
regarding ( ML16204A194) ABC Cardiology Consultants, P.C.; Termination Request
Letter dtd June 13, 2016.

LENGTH: 2346  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission has issued the
following document:



 ABC CARDIOLOGY CONSULTANTS, P.C.

 June 13, 2016

 Licensing Assistance Team

 Herman C. Gist, MD.

 106 Irving St. NW, Suite 1500 North

 Washington, D.C 20010-2954

 Telephone: (202) 722-1305

 Fax: (202) 291-2909

 Division of Nuclear Materials Safety

 U.S. NRC, Region 1

 2100 Renaissance Blvd.



 King of Prussia, PA 19406

 Re: Closeout Survey j _J ,

 License Number: US NRC 08-31328-01 (J '30 '7f'J3

 ABC Cardiology Consultants, P.C.

 Dear License Reviewers:

 We are requesting the release of the areas previously utilized as the
camera/hot lab, treadmill

 room, hallway, and bathroom for unrestricted use at 106 Irving St., NW,
Washington DC. In

 accordance with the guidelines established by the NRC, dated April 1993,
"Guidelines for

 Decontamination of Facilities and Equipment Prior to Release for Unrestricted
Use," we hereby

 submit the final survey of the Nuclear Medicine Department. Ms. Shelley Sturtz
of KrugerGilbert

 Health Physics, Inc. performed a survey on April 27, 2016.

 Any questions regarding this request may be directed to the undersigned or Ms.
Shelley Sturtz of

 Kruger-Gilbert Health Physics, Inc. at ( 410) 692-9806.

 Sincerely,

 =/J-4~J:/J~

 Herman C. Gist, MD

 Manager

 Krueger--C;-ilbert Health Physics, Inc.

 111,.; il,\l.J)\\'I'\; \-HI I IU '.\11

 P.t ), Ht."lX "H~"

 J-\RliFrI.-;\-11.1 I:. \L\l<YI ,\'\:rl :~!l':':·l p .. ;H'

 April 27, 2016

 ABC Cardiology Consultants, P.C.

 106 Irving St. NW

 Suite 1500 - North Tower

 Washington DC 20010

 RE: Closeout Survey

 Attention: Dr. Herman Gist,

 On April 27, 2016, the undersigned conducted a closeout survey of the
Camera/Hot !ah, Treadmill room,

 Hallway and Bathroom for unrestricted use at I 06 Irving St. NW, Washington DC.
In accordance with the

 guidelines established by the NRC, dated April 1993, "Guidelines for
Decontamination of Facilities and

 Equipment Prior to Release for Unrestricted Use"' we hereby submit the final
survey of the Nuclear

 Medicine Department. Wipe testing and survey meter monitoring were performed as
indicated on the

 enclosed diagrams. In addition, you will find a drali letter to the NRC
requesting the release of this area

 for unrestricted use.

 As the enclosures demonstrate, the surveyed areas were free of radioactive
sources and contamination.

 Please take the following action:

 !. Have the enclosed draft letter (page 2) typed on facility letterhead, signed
by Management.

 Forward the signed letter and copy of closeout survey report to the N RC at the
address

 2. indicated on the draft.

 3. Retain one copy of the entire package in the facility's license file.

 Upon receipt of the amendments, please forward a copy to the office of
Krueger-Gilbert Health Physics,

 Inc. for our files.

 Any questions regarding this report should be directed to the undersigned.

 Sincerelv.

 ,.,.-4 /' --1 1";--::"·'o"-.. -~ .. ·--~-·-·

 ., }<:;,.),. [t,1__ J.-f.<...7 )~'...,d '_ ...; ·P :LJ {L.~>-./7. -:.j

 Shelley Sturtz, CNMT

 Health Physics Consultant

 Krueger-Gilbert Health Physics, Inc.

 SURVEY RESULTS

 Wipe tests were conducted on 100 cm square areas using absorbent paper. Wipe
test areas are indicated on

 the enclosed diagram. The wipes were counted at Krueger-Gilbert Health Physics.


 Wipe test instrument used: Ludlum Scaler Ratemeter, Model 2200, SN: 232992

 Last calibrated: February 16, 2016

 Detector efficiency: Cs-137 (662 keV) 12.5%

 Ba-133 (356 keV) 18.2%

 Co-57 (122 keV) 63.6%

 The minimal detectable activity (MDA) was determined using a worst case
efficiency of32% and

 background plus 3 standard deviations.

 MDA 3.3E-03

 All areas surveyed had exposure readings equal to the background reading of0.02
mR/hour with the

 Ludlum 14C with 44-9 probe, SN 126794, last calibrated June 1, 2015.

 Wipe test results are as follows:

 Wipe Number Wipe Area Wipe Test Result

 45-56 Camera/Hot Lab Room Less than MDA

 57-59 Hallway Less than MDA

 60-67 Treadmill Room Less than MDA

 68-71 Bathroom Less than MDA

 CAMERA ROOM HALLWAY

 48 52 56

 59

 47 51 55

 46 so 54 58

 53

 45 49 DOOR

 57

 TREADMILL ROOM BATHROOM

 63 67 70

 71

 62 66

 DOOR

 - 69

 61 65

 68

 64

 60 DOOR

 MedStar Washington

 Hospital Center

 PURPOSE

 Standard of Practice

 Surgical/Procedural Scrub Attire

 The purpose of this standard practice is to define the policy to be followed by
all WHC

 associates for the use and distribution of WHC scrub suits in surgical and
procedural areas. The

 intent of this Standard Practice is to assist with infection prevention, comply
with regulatory

 agencies, control the use, and insure adequate supply of these items.

 DEFINITIONS

 WHC scrub suits are defined as the "cotton blend" tops and pants laundered by
hospital approved

 facility to be utilized by physicians, associates and other individuals defined
within this Standard

 Practice that are worn to maintain infection prevention standards as well as to
provide protection

 in the patient care area and environment.

 Semi-restricted area - includes the peripheral support areas of the surgical
suite. It has storage

 areas for clean and sterile supplies, scrub sink areas, work areas for storage
and processing of

 instruments, and corridors leading to the restricted area of the surgical
suite. Traffic in this area is

 limited to authorized personnel and patients. Personnel are required to wear
surgical attire and

 cover all head and facial hair.

 Restricted area - includes operating rooms, procedure rooms and clean core
areas. Surgical

 attire and head/facial hair coverings are required. Masks are required where
open sterile supplies

 or scrubbed persons are located. Scrub jackets buttoned all the way are
required.

 Unrestricted area - All areas of the hospital not considered Semi-restricted or
Restricted areas,

 includes a central control point established to monitor the entrance of
patients, personnel and

 materials. Street clothes are permitted in this area, and traffic is not
limited to authorized

 personnel and patients.

 RESPONSIBILITIES

 All Staff, Managers, Department Heads and Public Safety Officers are
responsible for enforcing

 this Standard Practice with support from Senior Management.

 PROCEDURE

 Appropriate scrub attire consists of the following:

 A. Scrub suit-should be worn in all restricted and semi-restricted areas.
Supplied and

 laundered by MedStar Washington Hospital Center. A clean suit will be donned
daily and

 changed whenever it becomes soiled. Scrub suits are not to be taken home and/or
worn to

 and or from the hospital. Street clothes are not to be worn in restricted or
semi-restricted

 area.

 a. The scrub suit will consist of a two-piece matching pantsuit, with shirt
tucked in

 or fit close to body.

 b. Personal clothing may be worn underneath the scrub top provided it is
contained

 within the scrub suit. When long sleeve shirts are worn underneath the scrub
top,

 the shirt sleeve must not extend past the cuff of the scrub jacket sleeve and
the

 jacket must be buttoned up completely. Any personnel scrubbing into a case are

 not permitted to wear long sleeve shirts. Religious head coverings may be

 covered with a disposable hood.

 c. Non-scrubbed personnel will wear hospital laundered or disposable warm-up

 jackets. The warm-up jackets provided by the hospital should be buttoned or

 snapped closed when in the restricted area. The jackets are to be worn
throughout

 the day unless it becomes soiled and should be changed. Sweaters and jackets
that

 are not hospital laundered daily, are not permitted.

 B. Head/Hair coverings

 a. All head and facial hair must be covered by a bouffant or hood cover when

 entering restricted and semi-restricted areas, including ears, scalp skin, side
bums,

 and nape of neck.

 b. Skull caps and cloth caps maybe worn only when covered by a bouffant cap

 covering all hair, ears, scalp skin, side bums, and nape of neck.

 c. Beards must be covered by a beard cover provided by the hospital.

 d. Bouffant head coverings should not be removed when leaving the

 surgical/procedural areas. Only remove when soiled, upon donning street
clothes,

 or leaving the building.

 C. Shoes

 a. Need to meet OSHA safety guidelines, and have closed toes, low heels,
nonskid

 soles, without holes. It is preferred to have shoes dedicated to wear only in
the OR

 or procedural area. If shoes are worn from outside, shoe covers are required
when

 entering restricted and semi-restricted areas.

 b. Must remove shoe covers when leaving the procedural areas.

 D. Surgical Masks

 a. Surgical masks are worn in restricted areas, as described in definition, and
should

 completely cover mouth and nose. They are to be tied as to prevent venting from


 the sides of the mask. Ear loop masks should not be worn due to side venting.

 b. A new surgical mask should be donned before each procedure and discarded or

 changed when soiled or wet.

 c. Masks should not be worn hanging around neck.

 E. Eye Protection

 a. Must be worn whenever splashing, spatter, droplets of blood, body fluids, or
other

 potentially infectious materials are expected.

 b. Eye protections can be combined with mask, re-usable eye protection can be
worn

 and should be cleaned regularly with low level disinfectant.

 F. Identification Badge

 a. Should be worn daily and be visible from the outside of scrubs/scrub jacket

 b. IDs on lanyards cannot be worn in restricted areas.

 c. ID badges should be cleaned regularly with low level disinfectant.

 G. Jewelry

 a. Jewelry (i.e. watches, bracelets, necklaces) may be worn in restricted and
semirestricted

 areas only if they are covered by scrub attire.

 b. Wedding bands may be worn in restricted and semi-restricted areas. Wedding

 bands need to be removed prior to scrubbing into a procedure.

 c. Earrings may be worn in restricted and semi-restricted areas as long as they
are

 covered by approved head cover, and should conform to MWHC dress code

 policy.

 Non-OR Personnel

 Everyone who enters a semi- and/or restricted areas of the operating room suite
for a brief

 period of time an OR sterile zone without OR scrubs, must put on a disposable
jump suit( "bunny

 suit") before entering that area. This policy includes transporters, nursing
staff, unit clerks or

 administrative staff, as well as any visitors or potential donors who are
entering the procedural

 areas. The jump suit will be removed prior to leaving the semi-
restricted/restricted area.

 PATIENT USE

 Patients are not authorized to wear WHC scrub suits for any clinical
application. Patients in such

 areas as the Bum Unit, Dermatology, Rehabilitation Medicine and other units
will be provided

 with the appropriate linen pajama tops and bottoms.

 ASSOCIATE USE

 Certain associates who are temporarily assigned to a clinical area may be
authorized to use a

 WHC scrub suit. For example, Environmental Services associates and Facilities
Management

 associates may, in the performance of certain tasks, be authorized to use WHC
scrub suits during

 particular times. These WHC scrub suits are available through the distribution
system.

 OTHER SCRUB USE

 Associates who are not authorized to wear Hospital scrubs as defined above may
wear nonHospital

 scrubs in accordance with established Hospital Policy; Reference HP 402
"Workplace

 Standards for Dress and Appearance," December 15, 1998.

 Hospital issued scrubs must not leave the hospital campus. If the need arises
to leave the

 hospital campus while still on duty then you must change out of the scrubs into
your street

 clothes and change into a new pair of scrubs upon your return.

 Backpacks, briefcases, and other personal items that are not made of material
that can be

 cleaned with disinfectant wipes, cannot be taken into the semi- restricted or
restricted areas.

 These items should be wiped clean prior to entering and upon leaving the
semi-restricted and

 restricted areas. Additionally, these items may not be placed directly on the
floor.

 NRC FORM 532 U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION

 (05-2016) so"-"Eau{

 ~+~% ~ P: ~ \~~ 'j ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - RECEIPT OF CORRESPONDENCE

 "+., ......... +o'

 Name and Address of Applicant and/or Licensee Date

 I July 21, 2016 I

 License Number(s)

 ABC Cardiology Consultants, P.C. I 08-31328-01 I

 ATTN: Herman C. Gist, M.D., Owner/President Mail Control Number(s)

 106 Irving St., NW#1500 North I 591473 I Washington, DC 20010

 Licensing and/or Technical Reviewer or Branch

 Janice Nguyen

 This is to acknowledge receipt of your: [{] Letter and/or D Application Dated:
06/13/2016

 The initial processing, which included an administrative review, has been
performed.

 D Amendment [{] Termination D New License D Renewal

 [{] There were no administrative omissions identified during our initial
review.

 D This is to acknowledge receipt of your application for renewal of the
material(s) license identified

 above. Your application is deemed timely filed, and accordingly, the license
will not expire until final

 action has been taken by this office.

 D Your application for a new NRC license did not include your taxpayer
identification number. Please

 complete and submit NRC Form 531, Request for Taxpayer Identification Number,
located at the

 following link: !Jttp_;/lwww._r1r_<;.,g_Qvfre~d i ng-rm/
doc-coJle_~Jiq_os/formsLnr~~:u,pdf

 Follow the instructions on the form for submission.

 D The following administrative omissions have been identified:

 Your application has been assigned the above listed MAIL CONTROL NUMBER. When
calling to inquire about this

 action, please refer to this control number. Your application has been
forwarded to a technical reviewer. Please

 note that the technical review, which is normally completed within 180 days for
a renewal application (90 days for all

 other requests), may identify additional omissions or require additional
information. If you have any questions

 concerning the processing of your application, our contact information is
listed below:

 Region I

 U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission

 Division of Nuclear Materials Safety

 2100 Renaissance Boulevard, Suite 100

 King of Prussia, PA 19406-2713

 (610) 337-5260, (610) 337-5313,

 (610) 337-5398, or (610) 337-5239

 NRC FORM 532 (05-2016)



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 30, 2004 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Make Medicare's billions work for the sick, not for the doctors

BYLINE: John Ferguson. Dr John Ferguson is a Newcastle-based physician.

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Opinion; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 811 words


A wrong-headed funding regime is keeping doctors out of general practice and
rural areas, writes John Ferguson.

LONG gone are the days when doctors specialised in areas of medicine that
sparked their interest. Now, they specialise in whatever makes the most money.
According to the recent annual workforce survey conducted by the Royal
Australasian College of Physicians, more trainee doctors are specialising in the
top five procedural specialties of cardiology, gastroenterology, neurology,
rheumatology and respiratory/sleep medicine.

Why? Because Medicare pays doctors more for sticking things into patients than
for taking a history, examining, and prescribing.

Why? No reason, it just does.

This has left a critical shortage of specialists in geriatric, general and
rehabilitation medicine to deal with the increasing number of elderly people.

One can closely correlate a specialty's average Medicare income with the number
of trainees entering that discipline - the market principle is clearly at work.

These five procedural areas account for 53 per cent of specialists in the Royal
Australasian College of Physicians. Strength in numbers results in the creation
of even more training posts for these specialties, and greater political clout.
So the inadequate recruitment of specialists in other fields is unlikely to be
redressed if left to the college of physicians and the Health Insurance
Commission, which manages Medicare.

Rural and outer-metropolitan areas are crying out for more health-care services
and doctors, especially general practitioners but also specialist surgeons and
physicians.

One of the key factors in whether medical practitioners move out of the big
cities is Medicare, which basically provides doctors in private practice with
public income wherever they work. To avoid the inconvenience - and long hours -
of rural practice, most doctors take the easier option of working in the city.

Medicare is structured so that it is almost impossible to target its funding to
regions on the basis of need: Medicare funds largely go to where the doctors
themselves are, which leads to a gross imbalance between the per capita income
flowing to rural areas compared with cities.

This occurs despite the poorer health and treatment outcomes of many rural
residents, some of which relates to poorer availability of services.

A related issue is the way public hospitals use Medicare to generate income for
privately referred outpatient care. The most adept at doing this are the larger
city hospitals. This process channels even more Medicare funds away from rural
areas of need.

Some hospitals have extensive business infrastructures designed to ensure that,
whenever possible, patient consultations and procedures are billed to Medicare.
Generally this can be done for patients referred for review by a hospital
specialist, including laboratory investigations by pathologists.

As a hospital specialist, I am expected to play my part by seeing privately
referred outpatients. The carrot is that my salary gets topped up with a small
proportion of the bills that go to Medicare in my name. The hospital takes the
rest of the income as a facility charge.

It's a system that benefits the hospital specialist and the state Health
Department, but not the Federal Government; the cost of my salary is subsidised
by Medicare, so I am cheaper to employ and the state receives revenue from the
Federal Government.

This dysfunctional state-federal divide produces a wasteful bureaucracy and
removes transparency from the allocation of health funds. We deserve better
value for the increasingly vast sum of public money - $8.1 billion and rising -
that Medicare consumes.

The Medicare system fails to target spending to areas of need, is impossible to
audit effectively and is open to manipulation by the states, medical
institutions and unscrupulous doctors. A large part of the doctor "shortage" is
a result of the poor distribution of available staff and trainees due to the way
Medicare pays for health care.

The Health Insurance Commission is unable to cap expenditure - it rewards
activity, and doctors in hospitals and outside have no difficulty in producing
and justifying such activity. More efficient mechanisms for financing health
care exist and these should be considered urgently.

For example, assessing medical workforce needs and removing the financial
incentives that drive decisions about postgraduate medical careers would be a
start. Then, ensure that the process of public health funding itself is not a
major driver of medical activity such as patient consultations, pathology and
procedures.

Federal health funding should be targeted to services based on population and
needs, and not directly to doctors. The funding process must be easier to audit
than Medicare and health care should be funded through a single state or federal
mechanism, but not both.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                              July 9, 2010 Friday

Aged care home frees up space

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 324  words


THE old aged care home on the Nambour General Hospital grounds will be
transformed to house administration staff and in turn free up space in the main
building for new services.

Health Minister Paul Lucas made the announcement yesterday at the official
opening of a new $13.4 million State Government-run aged care home in Jack
Street, Nambour.

Mr Lucas met with residents, spoke with their families and cuddled Dascha, the
pets-for-therapy guest.

The new 45-bed high care home was finished in December, except for sewerage and
stormwater works.

Residents made the transition from the old aged care home at Nambour hospital,
known as Hibiscus House, in April.

Mr Lucas said the Government originally intended to redevelop Hibiscus House and
keep it as an aged care home.

However, after a planning review it was agreed a greenfield option would provide
the best long-term solution.

"This is a win, win for both aged care residents and also the general Sunshine
Coast community who will benefit from the roll-out of the additional medical
services in the redeveloped space," Mr Lucas said.

"These services include a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, a vascular
procedural suite and a new dedicated endoscopy procedural unit.

"The cardiac catheterisation lab will be the only one between Brisbane and
Townsville."

Member for Nicklin Peter Wellington campaigned for the Government to keep
control of the new aged care home, fearing that costs would soar and staff cuts
would be made if it went private.

In 2008, Mr Wellington scouted out the 11-hectare site in Jack Street with
Queensland Health District CEO Kevin Hegarty.

A short time later Queensland Health purchased the land, and Evans Harch Pty Ltd
began construction of the nursing home in February, 2009.

Families and residents were included in the allocation of rooms where it was
appropriate.

Their care requirements and preferences were also taken into consideration.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Whittlesea Leader (Australia)

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Caring leads to win

BYLINE: Laura Jolly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 266  words


THE last thing Mernda's Kelly Leiper wanted to be when she grew up was a nurse.

But fortunately for her patients, she changed her mind.

Ms Leiper was named Graduate Nurse of the Year at the HESTA Australian Nursing
Awards last week.

The Royal Melbourne Hospital nurse was recognised for her dedication to
improving service to elderly patients, which has led to procedural changes to
reduce patient infection and trauma.

``I fell into nursing after high school, but it was never planned,'' Ms Leiper
said.

``Before that, I thought the last thing in the world I wanted to be was a
nurse.''

Ms Leiper said her decision to work in aged-care nursing was simply a matter of
following her passion.

``(Some people) think it's a waste of my skills at the start of my career,'' she
said. ``I don't understand that thinking. Aged care is my passion. There is so
much in the field that we can improve on, so much more we can do.''

Ms Leiper, while only in her first year of nursing since graduating from
university, is already driving change.

After attending a catheter care in-service at another hospital in her own time,
she addressed a forum with her colleagues about what she had learned, driving
procedural change in her ward.

``It can be pretty unpleasant for the patients and after attending the
in-service I identified some aspects of the process that we could be doing
better,'' she said.

The award is open to registered nurses who have excelled in their graduate year.

It included a $5000 prize comprising travel and education grants, which Ms
Leiper said would help her planned postgraduate studies in gerontology.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WPV


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Wellington Times

                                December 4, 2011

Rural health service gets helping hand

SECTION: NEWS - RURAL

LENGTH: 399  words


The Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine (ACRRM) has enthusiastically
welcomed an announcement by the NSW government that it plans to introduce a new
rural generalist training pathway in 2013.

College president, Professor Richard Murray, said the government's decision was
a great Christmas present for rural and remote NSW communities, including
Wellington.

"There is no question that with strong government support and cooperation this
pathway will deliver a more stable medical workforce for the bush," he said.

The rural generalist pathway provides a supported career path to become a
specialist GP with the extended range of skills and knowledge required to work
across primary care and hospital settings, as well as training to provide
life-saving procedural skills like obstetrics, surgery or anaesthetics.

The rural generalist pathway joins up a number of existing training and support
measures.

It assists doctors throughout their entire training pathway - from the time they
graduate from medical school, through to their junior doctor years and then the
four years of extended specialist generalist training.

Professional, family and employment related needs of the doctor are all
carefully considered and supported as part of the process.

"The NSW government's support is critical because of the vital role that
generalist rural doctors play in caring for patients in country hospitals,"
Professor Murray said.

NSW is the most recent state government to see merit in establishing and
supporting a rural generalist program.

Queensland has been running a successful program for a number of years and the
first graduates are now in independent rural practice.

The Northern Territory government is also introducing the program and Victoria
will commence a rural generalist program in 2012.

"We saw the quality and numbers of applications for 'super-generalist'
procedural rural GP training turn on a dime when the Queensland government
introduced the Rural Generalist Program in 2007," said Professor Murray.

"There are many medical graduates who seek an expansive generalist medical
career, doctors who do not want to be confined to a discreet area of medical
practice. This pathway can be the answer for them."

ACRRM is looking forward to working with the government and other key
stakeholders as part of the working group to establish the program for its first
intake in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                           January 20, 2011 Thursday

Shaw Media, ABC to Co-Produce Canadian Medical Procedural

BYLINE: Etan Vlessing

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 179  words


TORONTO - Canadian broadcaster Shaw Media on Thursday said it will co-produce
the homegrown medical procedural Combat Hospital with ABC.

Confirmation of the American deal for the Canadian-U.K. drama means production
on the now untitled series from Sienna Films, Artists Studios and Lookout Point
can go ahead.

There's no word on casting. Shaw Media is set to announce Monday a veteran
director attached to the Canadian medical drama.

Shaw Media's cable drama channel Showcase will air the 13-part series about a
military medical facility in Afghanistan where doctors and nurses treat
coalition troops and Afghan civilians next summer.

ABC and Global Television, Shaw Media's conventional TV network, earlier
collaborated on Rookie Blue, a Canadian cop drama from Entertainment One now in
its second season.

Executive producers on the homegrown drama are Julie Sereny and Jennifer Kawaja
for Sienna Films; Gub Neal, Justin Thompson-Glover and Patrick Irwin for Artists
Studios.

Carrie Stein at 3 Arts Entertainment and Simon Vaughan at Lookout Point are
heading up international sales.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2011 VNU Business Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Advocate (Burnie)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

Room for smooth ride to operating table

BYLINE: Baz Ruddick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 257 words


A comfortable, pleasant and 'fit for purpose' environment for pre-admission to
surgery is now on the cards for the North-West Regional Hospital.

With $720,000 set aside in the state budget for the project, the new facility
will provide a place where pre-anaesthetic and procedural assessment can be
carried out, Director of Medical Services Dr Robert Pegram said.

"It is very important in elective surgery to minimise any risks and make the
safest journey for the patient," Dr Pegram said.

"That means a good pre-anaesthetic and pre-procedural assessment."

While the current facility "does the job", Dr Pegram said the hospital does not
have facility that best practice would require as it is not designed
specifically for the purpose.

"If you are having surgery you are feeling very anxious and you have a lot of
questions, so it needs to be done in a very sensitive way and be planned
properly," he said.

Dr Pegram said the facility that is planned will have a good waiting area, a
pleasant environment and separate consulting rooms for privacy.

"The whole surgical journey will be more comfortable, better planned and as good
as anywhere else."

The hospital currently does about 4000 to 4,500 operations a year.

Currently out to tender, Dr Pegram said they hope to have the new pre-admission
clinic open within a year.

Health Minister Michael Ferguson said an additional eight beds have been
allocated for the North-West Regional Hospital, which include four emergency
department short stay beds and four surgical beds for elective surgery patients.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

Seminar underscores need for legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect victims

LENGTH: 443  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber
Crime law  due to incidents against unassuming victims , recommended
participants of a seminar organised to celebrate 25th anniversary of WAR, the
NGO working against women.


     Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour
on the occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Sharmila Farooqi
presided the session that attracted  diverse segments of people, comprising
members of the Civil Society, representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers,
teachers, human rights activists.
     Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in
the Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gang-rape, could be
reduced through "no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against
women.
     They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and
implementation of all laws recently passed for women protection and
welfare.
     Participants urged to empower the existent Women Police Stations and
increase their numbers in every district.
     Moreover, medico- legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded
to be made  operational in all major hospitals, including those  in
private sector as Aga Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.
     Mandatory DNA testing for all cases was also recommended besides
provision for DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.
     They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state
prosecutors, judges, police officers, medico-legal officers and clerical
force in judiciary.
     Guest of honour Mukhtaran Mai pleaded for speedy
trials  to ensure prosecution of  offenders of the heinous crime.
     The Minister for  Culture and Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising
the work of NGOs , reiterated the Government's
resolve to continue its work for  the welfare of women.
     The seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan
who reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in
the late 1980s.
     The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &
Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh
Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint  Act, but urged
the government to focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.
     Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges
in context of medico-legal and the  procedural obstructions hindering
disbursement of fair trial and justice to survivors.  Going through her
experience as a past Director in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms
in the Medico-Legal Sector.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

Regulatory update: The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio; OHIO EDISON COMPANY,
has submitted (14-1297-EL-SSO ) Reply in Support of Joint Motions to Reopen the
Hearing Record and to Establish a Procedural Schedule electronically filed by
Madeline Fleisher on behalf of Environmental Law and Policy Center and Ohio
Environmental Council and Environmental Defense Fund and Buckeye Association of
School Administrators and Constellation NewEnergy, Inc. and Electric Power
Supply Association and Exelon

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbus: The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio has issued the following
document:



 BEFORE

 THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO

 In the Matter of the Application of Ohio Edison

 Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating

 Company, and The Toledo Edison Company for

 Authority to Provide for a Standard Service

 Offer Pursuant to R.C. 4928.143 in the Form of

 an Electric Security Plan.



 )

 )

 )

 )

 )

 )

 Case No. 14-1297-EL-SSO

 REPLY OF BUCKEYE ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS,

 CONSTELLATION NEWENERGY INC.,

 ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY ASSOCIATION,

 ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND,

 ENVIRONMENTAL LAW AND POLICY CENTER,

 EXELON GENERATION COMPANY LLC,

 INTERSTATE GAS SUPPLY, INC.,

 NORTHEAST OHIO PUBLIC ENERGY COUNCIL,

 OHIO ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL BUSINESS OFFICIALS DBA POWER4SCHOOLS,

 OHIO CONSUMERS' COUNSEL, OHIO ENVIRONMENTAL COUNCIL,

 OHIO HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION,

 OHIO MANUFACTURERS' ASSOCIATION ENERGY GROUP,

 OHIO SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION,

 OHIO SCHOOLS COUNCIL,

 PJM POWER PROVIDERS GROUP,

 RETAIL ENERGY SUPPLY ASSOCIATION

 AND

 SIERRA CLUB

 IN SUPPORT OF JOINT MOTIONS TO REOPEN THE HEARING RECORD AND TO

 ESTABLISH A PROCEDURAL SCHEDULE

 I. INTRODUCTION

 On December 2, 2015, the Ohio Edison Company, the Cleveland Electric
Illuminating

 Company, and the Toledo Edison Company (collectively,
&ldquo;FirstEnergy&rdquo;) filed a Memorandum

 Contra the December 1, 2015 Motion by Buckeye Association of School
Administrators,

 Constellation NewEnergy Inc., the Electric Power Supply Association, Exelon
Generation

 Company LLC, Interstate Gas Supply, Inc., Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council,
Ohio2

 Association of School Business Officials, Ohio Consumers' Counsel, Ohio
Hospital Association,

 Ohio Manufacturers' Association Energy Group, Ohio School Boards Association,
Ohio Schools

 Council, PJM Power Providers Group, Retail Energy Supply Association, and
Sierra Club

 (collectively, &ldquo;Joint Movants&rdquo;). The Joint Movants represent a wide
array of residential and

 commercial customers, power providers, marketers, and organizations that will
be impacted by

 the outcome of this proceeding and that impact could be felt for the next eight
years.

 The Joint Movants requested that the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(&ldquo;Commission&rdquo;)

 reopen the record in this proceeding and set a procedural schedule allowing
adequate discovery

 and hearing in response to a new Third Supplemental Stipulation filed on
December 1, 2015.1

 The Commission should grant that Motion so that it has before it adequate
information

 upon which to base its decision in this precedential case where billions of
dollars could be

 charged to FirstEnergy customers. Joint Movants have shown good cause for
granting their

 Motion, which proposes a reasonable procedural schedule which will not unduly
delay the

 PUCO's consideration of this matter.

 II. ARGUMENT

 The Third Supplemental Stipulation is 21 pages long, including 11 full pages of


 substantive provisions that contain wholly new or greatly expanded subject
areas such as

 renewable energy, grid modernization, energy efficiency and carbon reduction
planning, and

 potential alterations to FirstEnergy's base distribution rates. Even the
extensions of previously

 contemplated Electric Security Plan (&ldquo;ESP&rdquo;) provisions such as the
Delivery Capital Recovery

 1 The Environmental Law & Policy Center, Ohio Environmental Council, and
Environmental

 Defense Fund (&ldquo;Environmental Intervenors&rdquo;) filed a separate motion
to set a procedural schedule

 on December 2, 2015. The Environmental Intervenors join the Joint Movants in
opposing the

 schedule proposed by FirstEnergy, but reserve the right to file a separate
reply in the event that

 FirstEnergy files an additional memorandum contra the Environmental
Intervenors' Motion that

 raises independent issues.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 12, 2003 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Doctors at a premium in the litigation era

BYLINE: Ruth Pollard and Ben Wyld

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words


Sixteen months after Australia's largest medical defence organisation collapsed,
the true cost is only now emerging. Ruth Pollard and Ben Wyld report.

At Westmead Hospital, obstetrician Andrew Pesce is worried. "Ten years ago," he
says, "there were 15 of us providing obstetrics and gynecological services at
Westmead to people in the area. There are now seven.

"I now turn away more patients . . . than I look after. Our specialty is dying
the way that we practise has been corrupted by the expense of the litigation and
the psychological impact that it has on the practitioners."

General surgeons, neurosurgeons and others paint the same bleak picture. Doctors
will keep quitting the profession because their insurance premiums remain way
too high despite Federal Government subsidies, significant state law reform and
Canberra's action to prop up United Medical Protection since the insurer went
into provisional liquidation last year.

Without Government subsidies, obstetricians face annual premiums of up to
$140,000.

Dr Pesce, spokesman for the National Association of Specialist Obstetricians and
Gynecologists, says 45 of the nation's 700 practising obstetricians left
obstetric practice in 2001.

"That is about six to seven per cent of the workforce. Last year it was even
higher than that, and there is no indication it is going to get any better."

One casualty of the crisis is Moree obstetrician and general practitioner Maxine
Percival, who stopped doing private procedural obstetrics in May last year.

Dr Percival, who would have faced a premium of $20,000 this year if she had
maintained her procedural insurance, now only practises obstetrics for the local
public hospital. She said a loss of confidence in UMP forced her to give up her
procedural work.

"In obstetrics, litigation can be launched 25 years after the procedure," Dr
Percival said. "I don't know if UMP or their subsidiary will be around next
year, let alone in 25 years' time."

The Government stepped into the indemnity crisis after UMP went into provisional
liquidation with unfunded liabilities of $460 million. UMP had about 30,000
members, or two-thirds of the country's doctors. The Government rescue package
is estimated to be worth $260 million over four years.

Dr Percival says that for women in Moree, who don't want to be admitted to the
district hospital as a public patient, the alternative is a three-hour trip to
the nearest obstetrician in Tamworth.

"For towns that are relatively isolated, you can't put pregnant women in the
back of an ambulance and transfer them three hours away, hoping they get there
without having their baby."

Dr Pesce said Federal Government subsidies had helped to make medical indemnity
more affordable for obstetricians but the pressures, both financial and legal,
continued to bite.

The president of the NSW Neurosurgical Association, Dr Warwick Stening , had
warned last year that 10 of the state's 30 neurosurgeons would resign if the
medical indemnity crisis continued. In a move to reduce medical misadventure,
cut premiums and thereby halt the exodus, neurosurgeons launched a project to
identify and measure risk in the hospital system and to manage better the risk
of neurosurgical procedures. Working with NSW Health, the risk-management model
will be rolled out in the next year .

"We are still a long way from solving the problem, but this is a positive step
that we have taken which will allow us to identify problems before an
unfavourable outcome occurs," Dr Stening said. "All we can do is to start to
reduce the number of claims by reducing the number of adverse incidents."

Dr Stening said the NSW Government's Health Care Liability Act of 2001 and the
Civil Liability Act of 2002, along with Federal Government subsidies, had helped
ease the financial pressure on neurosurgeons.

But that was not to say, he said, that a special new levy imposed on doctors in
case of a claim against them would not hurt the rest of the medical profession.

A recent survey of 750 general surgeons aged over 55 has found that one in five
intends to retire in the near future. Nearly 100 per cent of them nominate
medical indemnity as the reason.

Many experts are placing their hopes on the establishment of a federally
administered fund for the catastrophically injured. This would help cut medical
indemnity premiums. Yet after 10 months of meetings, progress on achieving such
a fund is no closer.

Dr Pesce said: "The Government has made great effort to improve the situation .
. . we now need substantial reform of the remaining uncapped liabilities that
doctors face, and that is for the long-term care costs for the catastrophically
injured."

The Assistant Treasurer, Helen Coonan, said the long-term scheme was definitely
on the national agenda. "You cannot contemplate a proper system of professional
standards for doctors . . . without having regard for the long-term care needs
of those catastrophically injured by medical negligence."

It was November 2001 when a court handed down a decision that would send
shockwaves through the medical fraternity. Sydney woman Calandre Simpson, who
suffers from cerebral palsy, was awarded $14.2 million after she successfully
sued the doctor who botched her delivery.

It was almost twice the previous highest award, and it highlighted the
vulnerability of both the country's medical insurance industry, and individual
doctors. The payout has since been reduced to just under $11 million on appeal.

The tort law reforms put in place by the federal and state governments since the
collapse of UMP, six months after the Simpson decision, have hit consumers hard,
according to the senior health policy officer for the Australian Consumers
Association, Martyn Goddard.

They would simply deliver increasing wealth to insurance companies and do
nothing to lower the cost of premiums, Mr Goddard said. "The real cause of the
bulk of indemnity rises wasn't a sudden increase in litigation there has been no
such increase it was changes to the structure of the global reinsurance market."

The Federal Government clearly needed to intervene in the medical reinsurance
market, he said. "They are doing the opposite, which is trying to reduce
premiums by subsidies and by limiting patients' rights."

COUNTING THE COST

Michael Fearnside

Neurosurgeon, Westmead Hospital

Age 57

INDEMNITY COSTS

2003/04 premiums $61,000*

UMP** call $12,000 over five years

IBNR*** levy $16,000 this year

* receives government subsidy of $21,000

**United Medical Protection Ltd

***Incurred but not reported. New levy for potential claims

"You have two options, either increase your fees or scale back your practise to
decrease premiums ... I don't feel it's right to put the fees up."

Duncan MacKinnon (right)

Procedural GP anaesthetist, Bega District Hospital and private day surgery
centre

Age 43

INDEMNITY COSTS

2003/04 premiums $15,400*

UMP call $2300 over five years

IBNR levy $2000 to $3000 this year

* receives subsidy of $8000

"In a small rural centre you can't stop doing something because it's just
ethically unacceptable to withdraw service ... I want to look after patients and
be involved in the community, [but] these issues of indemnity and litigation are
just really deeply upsetting."

TURNING POINTS

* Nov 01 Calandre Simpson awarded a record $14.2m following a botched forceps
delivery. Award later cut by $3m.

* Dec 01 NSW Government announces it will take on the medical indemnity cover of
doctors working in public hospitals.

* Apr 02 UMP placed in provisional liquidation.

* May 02 Federal Government steps in to guarantee claims until June 30. Doctors
warn of strike action and mass resignations.

* May 03 Federal Government says it will cover malpractice awards above insured
levels and ensure retiring doctors faced only modest premiums.

* Aug 03 Federal Government announces IBNR levy to be charged to UMP members to
cover the cost of its potential-claims package.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREE ILLUS: ``You can't put pregnant women in the back of an ambulance
and transfer them three hours away'' . . . Dr Percival at Moree Hospital. Photo:
Paul Mathews Photo: John Leach Photo: Edwina Pickles

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2003 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 1998 Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review
                        Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review

                                  April, 1998

                            31 Loy. L.A. L. Rev. 937

LENGTH: 3472 words

SYMPOSIUM ON MENTAL DISABILITY LAW: ADVOCACY FOR THE MENTAL HEALTH NEEDS OF
CHILDREN IN CALIFORNIA

NAME: James Preis *

BIO:



   * Executive Director of Mental Health and Advocacy Services, Inc., Los
Angeles, California, 1979 to present; Adjunct Associate Professor of Psychiatry
and Behavioral Sciences, UCLA. James Pries served as counsel in litigation on
behalf of children with mental disabilities, including T.L. v. Belshe, a class
action case in California that challenged the State's failure to provide
expanding health coverage to MediCal eligible children, as required by the Early
Periodic Diagnoses and Treatment statute.

 TEXT:
 [*937]  My address today concerns how advocacy on behalf of children in
California has evolved from focusing on procedural due process issues - such as
commitment hearings and other protections from unwanted institutionalization -
to a focus on developing a right to individualized treatment in less restrictive
community alternatives.

   Early cases such as In re Roger S.  n1 established due process protections
for children prior to their placement in public hospitals. In the early 1980s,
child advocates spent their efforts extending Roger S. protections into private
psychiatric facilities. At that time most psychiatric care was not in the public
mental health system. Most care was in private psychiatric hospitals funded by
insurance policies that provided very generous psychiatric inpatient benefits.
Private insurance fueled the harm as there was tremendous abuse of the
hospitalization of children who were not very disabled, but rather whose parents
had significant insurance policies.

   Advocacy efforts in private psychiatric hospitals culminated in 1989 with the
passage of due process protections for minors whose parents had placed them in
private psychiatric hospitals.  n2 The legislative process, however, led to
watered-down provisions which did not provide children with the level of
protection provided in public facilities under Roger S.

   Concurrently in the early 1980s, attorneys in my agency, Mental Health
Advocacy Services, began representing minors in dependency court who were
identified as seriously emotionally disturbed. Our  [*938]  goal was to keep
these children out of state institutions. Early on we discovered that procedural
protections alone were insufficient to accomplish that goal. What ultimately
determined whether a particular child would be hospitalized was what
alternatives were available. On an individual basis, we struggled to identify
alternative services available in the community. The availability of these
alternatives, and not procedural due process arguments, was determinative of
whether or not our client was placed in a less restrictive setting.

   Discussing the right to the least drastic means or the least restrictive
alternatives does not mean very much if alternative services are not available.
We have seen California statutes reflect this dilemma. These statutes condition
the requirement of treatment in the least restrictive alternative by adding the
word "available." Available is an ugly word in this area and in this context. It
means that if there is something out there that you can show is less restrictive
than being locked up in a psychiatric hospital, then the child will be placed in
the less restrictive setting. If those alternatives do not exist, which they
seldom do, the child will be placed in an unnecessarily restrictive hospital
because it is the best option available. Procedural due process that only
focuses on choosing between available options does not adequately protect the
child.

   As a way of protecting minors' due process rights, the challenge for our
advocacy must be to move from the focus on due process procedures to the
establishment of real alternatives to highly restrictive placements of minors.
It is interesting that the lack of alternatives cannot be attributed to a lack
of agreement that such alternatives are preferable to institutional care. In the
area of children's mental health in the last ten or fifteen years, it has not
been difficult to convince mental health professionals that children fare much
better outside of institutions than they do within the traditional psychiatric
hospital setting.

   As early as 1984, the Natural Institute of Mental Health started the Child
and Adolescent Service System Program (CASSP). CASSP became the standard bearer
for a set of principles that now have been adopted throughout the United States.
These principles recognize that for children with serious disorders, who are
unable to live at home without additional support, there is a need to provide
services in the community that wrap around the family. The term often used to
describe these services is "systems-of-care." They bring together - in an
interagency, coordinated fashion - services for children that wrap around the
child and focus on the family to support the  [*939]  child's strengths. These
services must be available at whatever level of intensity is necessary to keep
the child in the home, in school, safe, and out of the criminal justice system.
These fundamental principles have been adopted throughout the United States.

   There is a theoretical consensus: Children should not be warehoused in
psychiatric facilities. Yet today, advocates still find it necessary to threaten
legal action to keep children from being warehoused in these restrictive
facilities. I ask why, despite a theoretical consensus embracing
systems-of-care, these services are still not available to most of the children
who need them? In discussing this question, I will go back a few years in terms
of our agency's own litigation, strategies, and development.

   Six years ago a group of us - including Mental Health Advocacy Services,
Protection and Advocacy, Inc., National Health Law Program, and the American
Civil Liberties Union of Southern California - looked at the issues generated by
our representation of seriously emotionally disturbed children in dependency
court. Specifically, we looked at issues around the placement of dependent
children in highly restrictive settings. These restrictive facilities included
state hospitals and, what we call in California, RCL-14 Facilities (Residential
Care Level 14) and RCL-13.  n3 We were interested in developing a strategy to
move our clients from these highly restrictive programs to systems-of-care and
wrap-around services in the community.

   The question then became why, despite the clinical consensus in support of
these services, they remained unavailable to our clients. As in all
institutional and least restrictive alternative litigation, the first obvious
answer was that there were not enough resources in the children's community
mental health system. Our initial litigation, therefore, needed to create
additional mental health resources.

   In developing a litigation strategy, we had an extremely strong federal
mandate, Early Periodic Screening Diagnosis and Treatment  n4 (EPSDT). The EPSDT
entitlement was the result of a 1989 amendment to the Federal Medicaid Act.  n5
The EPSDT mandate provides that eligible children are entitled to receive,
through the state's Medicaid system, any treatment listed in the Medicaid Act
that is  [*940]  medically necessary, even if it is not available to adults in
the state.  n6 Medical necessity is defined very broadly to include any
treatment or service necessary to ameliorate a mental or physical condition,
defect, or disease.  n7

   Although the Medicaid Act was amended in 1989 to include the EPSDT mandate,
it was not adopted in California. I believe that state officials looked at the
federal law and decided it was too expensive to implement. So they waited to be
sued before taking any action. To force the state to implement full EPSDT
services for children, a lawsuit had to be constructed.  n8 Once the lawsuit was
filed, the state did not litigate aggressively. It would have been difficult for
them to do so. Therefore, the case was settled and regulations were developed.

   There was an assumption that the current services, which were already part of
the state plan, were adequate to serve the needs of the children of the state.
The real focus of the litigation was on the diagnosis and treatment part of
EPSDT. The litigation resulted in regulations that were structured so that
services outside the state plan would be provided through Supplemental EPSDT
Treatment Authorization Requests.

   Part of the MediCal plan in California included a program called Short-Doyle
MediCal. Short-Doyle MediCal is the part of the MediCal system that funds county
mental health services. Short-Doyle MediCal funds are distributed to counties in
a capped amount, which effectively limits the amount of MediCal available for
mental health services. Under the EPSDT mandate this cap on services is illegal.
n9

   After the litigation a meeting occurred between the Department of Health
Services - which is the single state agency responsible for  [*941]  Medicaid -
and the Department of Mental Health. At that meeting they agreed there were not
enough services for MediCal eligible children in the county mental health
system. However, it was unclear what the actual need was.

   The Department of Health Services agreed to augment funding for the counties
by providing additional dollars for children's mental health services. They
pledged to reimburse any additional spending that was beyond the annual amount
spent in 1994-1995, the base year of the litigation. Therefore, as a result of
the litigation, counties can now spend as much money on children's mental health
as is needed and the state will reimburse the Medicaid matching share out of the
state general fund. The federal government's share automatically will match the
state Medicaid share. This means that when asked to provide community mental
health services, counties can no longer respond: "we do not have enough
resources."

   Today, counties in California can provide as many mental health services as
are necessary for MediCal eligible children and do not have to worry about not
having enough money. This is our current reality in California. Our problems
should be solved. Now we should be able to provide children with alternatives to
restrictive institutions. However, we still are not providing these
alternatives. That is the frustration of children's advocates today. Even though
there is unlimited funding for children's mental health services in California,
children are still confined in high level institutions. There are few
wrap-around services. There are no therapeutic foster-care homes. There are only
limited systems-of-care services. The most seriously emotionally disturbed
children still do not have individualized treatment plans.

   Today there is unlimited money. If money is no longer the problem, why are
there so many children still without appropriate services? The problem is the
system itself. When we set out to increase resources in the mental health system
and when we won the EPSDT litigation, the response of the mental health
community was: "Great! You got us all this money. There is a new funding source.
We can build new programs." However, the decision of the EPSDT case was not
grounded on the mental health system's entitlement to money. Rather, it was
based on children's individual entitlements to services.

   An individual entitlement to services seems to be what is lost. The response
of the system is to create programs and then to try and fit the children into
them. We need systems-of-care. A system-of-  [*942]  care cannot start with a
program. It must start with an individual child. We must start by assessing what
the individual child needs and from there develop the appropriate services.

   We are now at a stage where new litigation is necessary, not to seek to
increase resources, but to enforce the entitlement for the assessment and
individualization of services for children. This type of litigation will be
based on the EPSDT mandate and the integration mandate of the Americans with
Disabilities Act  n10 (ADA). There is some irony in this. Prior to these federal
mandates, the mental health community in California fought to increase resources
in order to provide individualized services. Here we are in 1997, with unlimited
funding, and we are still in the position of arguing for individual services.

   In thinking about this future litigation and reviewing previous cases, we
look back to the Willie M.  n11 case, which was brought in 1979 in North
Carolina. The Willie M. decision relied on different legal theories. Instead of
the EPSDT mandate and the ADA, Willie M. included traditional civil rights and
due process theories. However, the case settled and those theories were never
tested in court.

   The settlement in Willie M. is exactly what we are seeking today in
California.  n12 The settlement required that each child who was a member of the
class would be assessed and provided services in a no-eject, no-reject mental
health system.  n13 The class was defined as those children who were the most
difficult to serve in the mental health system of North Carolina. Under this
system each child received what he or she needed. According to the consent
decree, if the services did not exist, the child had to be provided with an
available alternative that was as close to that service as possible and only for
the period of time that it took to create the needed service.  n14 As you look
at North Carolina today, this was an extremely powerful order that has pushed
the state far ahead of almost all other states in terms of individualized
services for children. These services minimize the institutionalization and
maximize the availability of less restrictive alternatives. Twenty years later
we hope to achieve similar results in California.

   The foundation of our litigation strategy is the EPSDT mandate,  [*943]
which unfortunately has been under attack in Congress in recent years.
Obviously, the longer that EPSDT remains a federal mandate, the more likely it
becomes that California will achieve a system of providing for the individual
mental health needs of children similar to the results achieved in Willie M.
n15 Unfortunately, if Congress takes away the statutory entitlement, it is
unlikely that the arguments made in Willie M. will be upheld by the courts
today. We need the EPSDT mandate to survive long enough for us to obtain
creative relief through successful litigation. This relief would require
providing services based on individual assessments and those services "wrapped"
around each child.

   What our experience has shown is that without accountability to individual
children, money is not enough. Because the system has been underresourced for so
long and in so many different areas, it has been hard to prove that we need to
do more than just increase resources to provide adequate mental health services
to children. We have demonstrated this to be the case. Currently, there is
plenty of money to provide adequate service, but the will is not there.

   There are still immense bureaucratic barriers, and clearly this is where we
must focus our attention. Our advocacy efforts, other than litigation, are also
focused on the same issue: working with the bureaucracies to try to get them to
individualize their services. It is not all done through litigation. Litigation
is the last resort. We have established the funding source for the bureaucracy.
The statute is there.  n16 The entitlement is there. However, the effect is like
kicking a brick wall. Every time we talk about services for a particular set of
individuals, the response is: "Well, we are developing a new program." The
mental health bureaucracy has never really developed a mechanism for effectively
responding to the needs of children on an individual basis.

   One of the major bureaucratic barriers to individualized services for
children is the lack of interagency collaboration. Cooperation between different
agencies is one of the fundamental principles in systems-of-care. Everybody
agrees. However, in practice interagency cooperation has come to mean that every
agency serving children will  [*944]  develop its own interagency cooperative.
As a result, child welfare departments have a program called Family
Preservation. The Department of Mental Health has something similar called
Systems of Care. The Department of Probation in Los Angeles has its own
interagency program called Mary C., which is a demonstration project to help
children who are at risk of ending up in the juvenile justice system. In
addition, schools have their Healthy Start programs.

   Each initiative requires all the other agencies participate. However, while
each agency discusses cooperation, they are only talking about it within their
own sphere. For example, there are a lot of discussions at the Los Angeles
County Department of Children and Family Services about developing cooperative
interagency efforts. There are similar discussions at the Department of Mental
Health. Unfortunately, they are not talking effectively with each other, even
though they are talking about the same things.

   Clearly, litigation is undesirable if children can receive the wrap-around
services they need without requiring a lawsuit. However, because the
bureaucratic barriers that separate services for children are so ingrained in
the system, it is likely that real change will require a court order to force
individual bureaucracies to truly cooperate. I think it is beyond the capacity
of the bureaucracies to do this on their own. A major component of any
litigation, seeking to force individualized services for children in
non-institutionalized settings, is that it must also address interagency
cooperation. Without interagency cooperation children's total service needs will
remain unmet.

   In conclusion, advocates for children's rights in the mental health system
must now focus on the creative use of legislative mandates. Advocates must
utilize legislative mandates to fashion judicial remedies that will break down
the bureaucratic barriers that currently result in a failure to provide adequate
mental health services that keep children out of institutions.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsLocal GovernmentsFinancePublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental
Health ServicesChildren's Outpatient ServicesPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
ServicesMentally Ill & Mentally Retarded IndividualsAdvocacy & Protection

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  19 Cal. 3d 921, 569 P.2d 1286, 141 Cal. Rptr. 298 (1977).




n2.  See Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code 6002.10, .15, .20, .25, .30 (West Supp. 1998).




n3.  These facilities are very restrictive non-hospital, but still
institutional, kinds of settings. Often, they are used as a placement for
dependent children who the court does not have the power to place in a
psychiatric hospital.




n4.  42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)(4)(B), (r) (Supp. 1997).




n5.  See id. (Supp. 1997).




n6.  See id. (Supp. 1997).




n7.  See id. 1396d(r)(5) (Supp. 1997).




n8.  In formulating the lawsuit, we considered that the EPSDT mandate required
not just diagnosis and treatment, which was the care we were seeking, but also
screening and assessment. Early periodic screens were required to include
behavioral and developmental components, which at that time they did not. At the
early stages of the EPSDT litigation, we included claims that addressed a lack
of behavioral screening for children. However, these claims were abandoned when
adult consumers of mental health services objected. They expressed an extremely
strong belief that screening children for a mental disorder was a way of
medicalizing social problems. This was at a time when the Federal Center for
Mental Health had a director who thought all juvenile delinquency was the result
of mental disorders. Primarily, we were interested in developing alternatives
for children in hospitals. Therefore, we did not pursue the issue of screening
children for behavioral problems.




n9.  See id. (Supp. 1997).




n10.  42 U.S.C. 12101(b) (1995).




n11.  657 F.2d 55 (4th Cir. 1981).




n12.  See id. at 57-59.




n13.  See id.




n14.  See id. at 58.




n15.  The parties worked out a comprehensive settlement in which they agreed to
the scope of the class, plaintiffs' rights, the scope of North Carolina's
obligations, and the basic outline of the remedy to be awarded. The settlement
further outlined the procedures for identifying, notifying, and evaluating
potential class members for administrative review. See id. at 57.




n16.  See 42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)(4)(B) (Supp. 1997).


                              324 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                             July 31, 2014 Thursday

eZono launches eZGuide adaptive needle recognition

SECTION: DIAGNOSIS; Product Launches / Expansions

LENGTH: 333 words



HIGHLIGHT: eZono, a Germany-based developer of tablet ultrasound systems, has
introduced eZGuide Adaptive Needle Recognition (eZGuide ANR), which allows
clinicians to use their needle of choice with the help of a magnetic detection
technology.


eZono, a Germany-based developer of tablet ultrasound systems, has introduced
eZGuide Adaptive Needle Recognition (eZGuide ANR), which allows clinicians to
use their needle of choice with the help of a magnetic detection technology.

By automatically calibrating the eZono 4000 systems, eZGuide ANR helps
clinicians use their needle of choice with eZGuide Navigation Technology.

The eZGuide ANR features an automatic on-screen needle information system that
provides complete picture of the trajectory and penetration capabilities of the
needle to help clinicians before starting an invasive procedure.

The system allows the clinician to increase the safety and efficiency for each
procedure, the company said.

eZono CEO Graham Cox said: "eZGuide ANR is a major step forward for procedural
guidance.

"Our challenge up until now has been in managing the needle optimisation
process.

"We want to enable clinicians and hospitals to have flexibility for their choice
of needle to perform procedures and still offer precision guidance from our
system.

"With the introduction of eZGuide ANR technology, we have not only streamlined
this needle selection process, but we have also included an improved feature
set, which will display the capabilities of each needle before it is used on the
patient.

"This puts the clinician much more in control by having all the information on
the needle guidance, provided ahead of time."

Current procedural ultrasound technologies are products focused more on
diagnostics than procedures, which frequently need expensive add-on equipment
and dedicated consumables which lock hospitals into expensive contracts.

The company intends to upgrade all eZono 4000 users to eZGuide Adaptive Needle
Recognition, free of charge, expanding the clinical utility of the eZono 4000
system.

The company said that image quality improvements, user interface improvements
and DICOM compatibility are also included in the upgrade.

Image: Screenshot of eZono 4000 with eZGuide. Photo: courtesy of eZono AG.

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             April 29, 1985 Monday

DOCTORS' POLL RAISES WRAN'S HOPES

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 145 words


CORRECTIONS Doctors' poll raises Wran's hopes SYDNEY._ The New South Wales
Premier, Mr Wran, bolstered by preliminary results of a nationwide doctors'
poll, was confident yesterday there would be a substantial resumption of work by
doctors throughout the State. Mr Wran said yesterday that most procedural
specialists in the State were either going back to work or were already working
in public hospitals. Yesterday, a meeting of the Council of Procedural
Specialists overwhelmingly rejected the Federal Government's $166 million
package of changes to Medicare. Mr Wran said those at the meeting who remained
opposed to Medicare were offside with the Government, the public and the
majority of their colleagues. Mr Wran quoted a survey by the Australian Medical
Association which he claimed showed 78 percent of members in favor of ending
industrial action.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              326 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           February 16, 1985 Saturday

SPECIALISTS SET TO REJECT PLAN

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 118 words


Specialists set to reject plan SYDNEY._ A meeting of the Council of Procedural
Specialists in Sydney today will almost certainly reject a moratorium on
resignations from New South Wales public hospitals, according to the council
president, Dr Bruce Shepherd. Presidents of three specialist medical colleges
made a joint call on Wednesday for a four-week moratorium on resignations and an
immediate start to negotiations with the Federal and NSW Governments. The
Australian Medical Association president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, gave his full
support to the colleges' proposal yesterday. He said he was ready to throw the
full resources of the AMA into negotiations with the Federal and NSW
Governments.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              327 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily Balochistan Express

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Seminar underscores need for legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect victims

LENGTH: 433  words


There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber Crime law  due to incidents against
unassuming victims , recommended participants of a seminar organised to
celebrate 25th anniversary of WAR, the NGO working against women.

Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour on the
occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Sharmila Farooqi presided
the session that attracted  diverse segments of people, comprising members of
the Civil Society, representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers, teachers, human
rights activists.

Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in the
Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gangrape, could be reduced
through "no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against women.

They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and implementation of all
laws recently passed for women protection and welfare.

Participants urged to empower the existent Women Police Stations and increase
their numbers in every district.

Moreover, medico legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded to be made
operational in all major hospitals, including those  in private sector as Aga
Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.

Mandatory DNA testing for all cases was also recommended besides provision for
DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.

They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state prosecutors,
judges, police officers, medicolegal officers and clerical force in judiciary.

Guest of honour Mukhtaran Mai pleaded for speedy trials  to ensure prosecution
of  offenders of the heinous crime.

The Minister for  Culture and Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising the work of
NGOs , reiterated the Government's resolve to continue its work for  the welfare
of women.

The seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan who
reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in the late 1980s.

The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &amp;
Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh
Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint  Act, but urged the government to
focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.

Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges in context
of medicolegal and the  procedural obstructions hindering disbursement of fair
trial and justice to survivors.  Going through her experience as a past Director
in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms

in the MedicoLegal Sector.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Daily Balochistan Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                           February 19, 2011 Saturday

'The reason I get up in the morning is simple... I enjoy my job'

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 42

LENGTH: 913  words



HIGHLIGHT: making a difference to his community in his own inimitable way


AFTER 20 years on the job, Richard Heath is used to being bailed up in
supermarket aisles.

Giving out medical advice between the canned tomatoes and pasta shells is all
part of being one of the few remaining procedural general practitioners on the
Sunshine Coast.

The 52-year-old's talents stretch from obstetrics to general anaesthetics and
minor surgery.

When the average waiting time at the Coast's biggest public hospital emergency
department is eight hours, being multi-skilled means being in demand.

He has more than 45,000 patient records in the Noosa Health Centre's database.
This means he has cared, at some time, for about 65% of the district's
population, and their visiting friends and families.

Prior to his arrival in 1991, Dr Heath was a medical superintendent at a Broome
hospital in Western Australia.

He could have had his pick of positions across Australia.

But a love for the "good old fashioned GP practice" attracted him to this small
corner of the world.

"Noosa for me is all about the interesting people and the diverse work," he
said.

"You never know who or what is going to walk through the door.

"This morning, for example, I saw an office worker with a drug problem.

"Then I treated a baby with tummy pain."

After two years in local practice, he became Noosa Triathlon's race medical
director.

A role not to be taken on lightly, there are an average of 20,000 spectators and
8000 competitors.

"Covering this event takes a lot of preparation and help from my staff," he
said.

"It is an extreme sport and people have died. You can't mess around."

A professional approach to elite sport paved the way for Dr Heath to secure a
position as a treating doctor at the Mooloolaba, Sydney and Hamburg triathlons.

As word spread of his on-the-ground triage and medical management skills, Dr
Heath was recruited for the Woodford Folk Festival in 2003 and then the Gympie
Muster in 2005.

He was also instrumental in the establishment of the Noosa After Hours Medical
Centre in 1993 and the associated medical retrieval service.

"That's been my professional highlight in Noosa so far," he said.

"I truly believe we saved many, many lives during the nearly six years that the
after hours clinic was open because of the improved access to medical care it
gave the community.

"The clinic saw more than 85,000 people. There were 42 doctors from the district
who worked a roster to ensure it was staffed."

The centre is now located at Noosa Private Hospital and continues to be a
success despite recently losing government funding.

The paperwork and red tape to maintain procedural credentials is often
mountainous, with compulsory training every three years to update his skills.

But Dr Heath reckons in the end, it was all worth it.

"The reason why I keep getting up in the morning is simple really ... I enjoy my
job," he said.

"I like caring for people."

Although he is gruff and a little rough around the edges, it is not hard to
believe his passion.

Dr Heath said health services seemed to have come a full circle on the Coast.

"When I first moved here, people were dying on Main Beach because there was no
hospital in the area," he said.

"Now instead of having no hospitals, they are over crowded and on bypass.

"The ambulance officers are run off their feet.

"Provisions for after hours care are not good."

Mr Heath said he believed the Coast had sufficient health infrastructure, but
said it was being used inefficiently.

"Queensland Health has more bureaucrats than doctors and nurses," he said.

"There is too much red tape.

As a member of the committee looking at e-health reforms, Dr Heath looks forward
to the advances in the health industry.

"Noosa Health was one of the first private practices in Australia to complete a
virtual amalgamation of medical records," he said.

"Recently, one of my patients was over in Russia having difficulty explaining
the history of his gut ache.

"I was able to email over his records and within minutes the issue was sorted
out."

Dr Heath said ultimately technology would also benefit patients through shorter
waiting times.

"If your gynie checks are all up-to-date and you're healthy, there is no reason
why you should come in every single time and sit around for 20 minutes just
because you need a new script for the pill," he said.

"This morning we sent out 10 to 15 electronically encrypted prescriptions."

In hasn't all been peaches and cream for the good doctor, however.

In 2001, he was piloting a twin-engine Cessna when it crashed 80 metres short of
the runway at Sunshine Coast Airport, just moments after take off.

The crash left him and passenger Gerry Geltch with serious injuries.

It wasn't the first time he had crashed a light aircraft, either.

He was charged with operating the plane in a careless or reckless manner and
banned from flying for three years.

"I would say that period of my life was the worst," he said.

His Noosa patients still occasionally remind him to make sure there's "fuel in
the tanks", but their banter is in jest.

And he is now back flying thanks to their encouragement.

Dr Heath said every day since that accident he wakes up at dawn.

"Just so I can see the sunrise. I know I'm lucky to be alive," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                           February 19, 2011 Saturday

'The reason I get up in the morning is simple... I enjoy my job'

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 42

LENGTH: 913  words



HIGHLIGHT: making a difference to his community in his own inimitable way


AFTER 20 years on the job, Richard Heath is used to being bailed up in
supermarket aisles.

Giving out medical advice between the canned tomatoes and pasta shells is all
part of being one of the few remaining procedural general practitioners on the
Sunshine Coast.

The 52-year-old's talents stretch from obstetrics to general anaesthetics and
minor surgery.

When the average waiting time at the Coast's biggest public hospital emergency
department is eight hours, being multi-skilled means being in demand.

He has more than 45,000 patient records in the Noosa Health Centre's database.
This means he has cared, at some time, for about 65% of the district's
population, and their visiting friends and families.

Prior to his arrival in 1991, Dr Heath was a medical superintendent at a Broome
hospital in Western Australia.

He could have had his pick of positions across Australia.

But a love for the "good old fashioned GP practice" attracted him to this small
corner of the world.

"Noosa for me is all about the interesting people and the diverse work," he
said.

"You never know who or what is going to walk through the door.

"This morning, for example, I saw an office worker with a drug problem.

"Then I treated a baby with tummy pain."

After two years in local practice, he became Noosa Triathlon's race medical
director.

A role not to be taken on lightly, there are an average of 20,000 spectators and
8000 competitors.

"Covering this event takes a lot of preparation and help from my staff," he
said.

"It is an extreme sport and people have died. You can't mess around."

A professional approach to elite sport paved the way for Dr Heath to secure a
position as a treating doctor at the Mooloolaba, Sydney and Hamburg triathlons.

As word spread of his on-the-ground triage and medical management skills, Dr
Heath was recruited for the Woodford Folk Festival in 2003 and then the Gympie
Muster in 2005.

He was also instrumental in the establishment of the Noosa After Hours Medical
Centre in 1993 and the associated medical retrieval service.

"That's been my professional highlight in Noosa so far," he said.

"I truly believe we saved many, many lives during the nearly six years that the
after hours clinic was open because of the improved access to medical care it
gave the community.

"The clinic saw more than 85,000 people. There were 42 doctors from the district
who worked a roster to ensure it was staffed."

The centre is now located at Noosa Private Hospital and continues to be a
success despite recently losing government funding.

The paperwork and red tape to maintain procedural credentials is often
mountainous, with compulsory training every three years to update his skills.

But Dr Heath reckons in the end, it was all worth it.

"The reason why I keep getting up in the morning is simple really ... I enjoy my
job," he said.

"I like caring for people."

Although he is gruff and a little rough around the edges, it is not hard to
believe his passion.

Dr Heath said health services seemed to have come a full circle on the Coast.

"When I first moved here, people were dying on Main Beach because there was no
hospital in the area," he said.

"Now instead of having no hospitals, they are over crowded and on bypass.

"The ambulance officers are run off their feet.

"Provisions for after hours care are not good."

Mr Heath said he believed the Coast had sufficient health infrastructure, but
said it was being used inefficiently.

"Queensland Health has more bureaucrats than doctors and nurses," he said.

"There is too much red tape.

As a member of the committee looking at e-health reforms, Dr Heath looks forward
to the advances in the health industry.

"Noosa Health was one of the first private practices in Australia to complete a
virtual amalgamation of medical records," he said.

"Recently, one of my patients was over in Russia having difficulty explaining
the history of his gut ache.

"I was able to email over his records and within minutes the issue was sorted
out."

Dr Heath said ultimately technology would also benefit patients through shorter
waiting times.

"If your gynie checks are all up-to-date and you're healthy, there is no reason
why you should come in every single time and sit around for 20 minutes just
because you need a new script for the pill," he said.

"This morning we sent out 10 to 15 electronically encrypted prescriptions."

In hasn't all been peaches and cream for the good doctor, however.

In 2001, he was piloting a twin-engine Cessna when it crashed 80 metres short of
the runway at Sunshine Coast Airport, just moments after take off.

The crash left him and passenger Gerry Geltch with serious injuries.

It wasn't the first time he had crashed a light aircraft, either.

He was charged with operating the plane in a careless or reckless manner and
banned from flying for three years.

"I would say that period of my life was the worst," he said.

His Noosa patients still occasionally remind him to make sure there's "fuel in
the tanks", but their banter is in jest.

And he is now back flying thanks to their encouragement.

Dr Heath said every day since that accident he wakes up at dawn.

"Just so I can see the sunrise. I know I'm lucky to be alive," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday

Guatemala strikes down ex-dictator's conviction

BYLINE: AFP

LENGTH: 318 words


Guatemala city: Guatemala's Constitutional Court on Monday struck down the
80-year   sentence given ...

Guatemala city: Guatemala's Constitutional Court on Monday struck down the
80-year   sentence given to former dictator Efrain Rios Montt as well as his
conviction for genocide and war crimes.



The 3-2 ruling annulled all proceedings that took place after the trial was
temporarily halted on April 19 due to a technicality, overturning the May 10
conviction but leaving most of the trial and testimony intact.

It was not immediately clear whether the proceedings from April 19 could be
repeated, nor whether Rios Montt, 86, would remain in prison.

"The sentence is hereby annulled" on an appeal from Rios Montt's attorneys, said
the Constitutional Court's spokesman Martin Guzman.

The court said the lawyers' claim of a procedural error during Rios Montt's
trial had standing and as such struck down the conviction and sentencing.

The court said the latter part of the trial had to be voided because it resumed
under a procedural error when the court that convicted him refused to review a
recusal put forth by defense attorney Francisco Garcia.

Rios Montt was rushed to a military hospital a week ago after fainting in court
before a hearing on reparations for victims, his lawyer said.

Rios Montt's conviction made him the first Latin American ex-dictator to be
convicted of trying to exterminate an entire people, during a brief but
particularly gruesome stretch of a war that started in 1960, dragged on for 36
years and left around 200,000 people dead or missing.

Under his rule, the army carried out a scorched earth policy against indigenous
peoples, accusing them of backing rebel forces.

Rios Montt and his former intelligence chief Jose Rodriguez were charged with
ordering the army to carry out 15 massacres that left 1,771 Maya Ixil Indians
dead in Quiche in northern Guatemala. Rodriguez was acquitted.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2013 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           December 13, 2003 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Knowles insists he did nothing wrong;
HOSPITALS SCANDAL

BYLINE: Ruth Pollard, and Paola Totaro

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 508 words


Craig Knowles, who was health minister when the nurses first raised their
allegations of patient deaths and management cover-up at Campbelltown and Camden
hospitals, yesterday categorically rejected claims that he bullied or
intimidated them.

But he offered an unreserved apology for the standard of health care at the two
south-western Sydney hospitals.

During a 40-minute press conference, Mr Knowles fielded aggressive questioning
but also said that he welcomed an independent examination of his actions during
the meeting with the nurses.

He said that within an hour of the nurses' visit to his electorate office on
November 25 last year, he wrote to the Director-General of Health, Robyn Kruk,
asking for a formal investigation. He produced copies of the memorandum and
several letters tracing the chain of events that led the claims to the Health
Care Complaints Commission.

"The facts demonstrate my actions were entirely appropriate and immediate," he
said. "I certainly place on record my deep apologies and sadness, as one human
being to another and as the former health minister, to anyone who's had the loss
of a loved one or inadequate care in the NSW public health system. I have been a
community representative since my 20s. This is my community as well . . . there
is a dispute between the nurses' view and mine, and I want that tested."

But yesterday, one of the nurses, Nola Fraser, rejected his apology.

"We didn't do this for an apology," Ms Fraser, flanked by the Opposition Leader,
John Brogden, said. "I just want [him] to recognise what he's done and be held
accountable. Because lots of people, innocent people, under his leadership, have
lost their lives. And it's so big that he can't cover it up."

The Health Minister, Morris Iemma, on Thursday released the report of a 13-month
investigation by the health-care watchdog, the Health Care Complaints
Commission, which examined the deaths of 19 patients at the two hospitals
between 1999 and 2003.

Mr Iemma also revealed that the commission's head, Amanda Adrian, had been
removed and an interim chief, Bill Grant, the CEO of the Legal Aid Commission,
installed to overhaul and reform the body. A special commission of inquiry,
headed by Bret Walker, SC, will investigate all existing and any new claims,
with the 19 deaths referred to the NSW Coroner for examination.

Late yesterday , a second damning report on the complaints commission was
released, this time from a NSW parliamentary committee that has been
investigating the commission for the past two years.

"The committee found that the commission's complaints-handling process lacked
procedural fairness at the assessment, investigation and prosecution phases of
the inquiry," the chairman, Jeff Hunter, the ALP member for Lake Macquarie,
said.

The committee recommended that each investigation be referred to the Crown
Solicitor for written independent legal opinion on the merits of the case, and
he criticised the Deputy Health Care Commissioner, Julie Kinross, over what the
committee termed

her denial of procedural fairness.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: In the spotlight . . . Jennifer Collins, who resigned as chief
executive of Macarthur Health Service on October 20, after the commission's
draft report, was given a week to show why she should not be sacked from her new
job. An overwhelmed Ms Collins, due to take up her new position as director of
clinical information at Central Sydney Area Health Service on Monday week, said
yesterday that she needed time to consider any public comment. Photo: Ben
Rushton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2003 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 13, 2017 Saturday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "Nuvasive spinal \x93procedural packages"

LENGTH: 315  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "Nuvasive spinal \x93procedural packages"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE-17-R-0007

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: May 12, 2017

Description: Added: May 12, 2017 1:40 pm
This is a sources sought notice.


The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing Nuvasive spinal "procedural packages".  The "procedural package"
includes Implants, Orthobiological products, Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary
Products. The product mix that makes up the "procedural package" varies based on
the individual needs of the patient. The instruments are both "used" during the
surgery and return to the vendor or purchased by the hospital so they are
readily available on the shelves.
All products must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural package" must be delivered
Just-In-Time (JIT), Direct Vendor Delivery (DVD) and Consignment.  Under the JIT
delivery method, the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the manufacturer's
field representative who carriers the products into the MTF just-in-time for the
surgery.  The manufacturer's sales representative may bring many sizes and types
of implants and other auxiliary products to the surgery along with the
instrumentation sets.  Under the DVD method an order for products is placed
through ECAT and the products and the products are delivered direct to the
customer via any transportation carrier.  Under the consignment method an
Medical Treatment (MTF's) will have the products that make up the procedural
package consigned to their facility.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): Charles Reimer Charles.Reimer@dla.mil Phone: 215.737.5495


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 31, 2016 Monday

Results from the NOBLE trial presented at TCT 2016 and published in The Lancet

LENGTH: 633  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Coronary artery bypass (CABG) surgery is the standard treatment for
revascularization in patients with left main coronary artery (LMCA) disease, but
use of percutaneousa coronary intervention (PCI) for this indication is
increasing. Findings from the Nordic-Baltic-British Left Main Revascularization
Study (NOBLE) trial found that despite similar mortality, the five-year risk of
major adverse events was higher after PCI compared to CABG for the treatment of
unprotected LMCA disease.





 Findings were reported today at the 28th annual Transcatheter Cardiovascular
Therapeutics (TCT) scientific symposium. Sponsored by the Cardiovascular
Research Foundation (CRF), TCT is the world's premier educational meeting
specializing in interventional cardiovascular medicine. The study was also
published simultaneously in The Lancet.



 The NOBLE trial is a prospective, randomized, open label, clinical,
non-inferiority trial that was conducted at 36 sites in Latvia, Estonia,
Lithuania, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Finland, United Kingdom and Denmark.
Eligible patients had stable angina pectoris, unstable angina pectoris or non-ST
elevation myocardial infarction. The primary endpoint was major adverse cardiac
or cerebrovascular events (MACCE) - a composite of all-cause mortality, non-
procedural myocardial infarction, any repeat coronary revascularization and
stroke.



 The original primary endpoint was evaluation of non-inferiority of PCI to CABG
assessed by MACCE at two years follow-up in the complete study cohort. Due to
lower than expected endpoint rates, the primary endpoint assessment was
ultimately changed to a median follow-up of three years.



 A total of 1,201 patients were randomized 1:1 to PCI (598) or CABG (603), and
592 in each arm entered analysis by intention to treat. Kaplan-Meier five-year
estimates of MACCE were 28.9% for PCI (121 events) and 19.1% for CABG (81
events), [HR 1.48 (95% CI 1.11-1.96)], exceeding the limit for non-inferiority
and demonstrating superiority of CABG over PCI (P=0.0066). As-treated estimates
were 28.1% vs. 19.2% [HR 1.55 (95% CI 1.18-2.04), P=0.0015]. Comparing PCI with
CABG, five-year estimates were 11.6% vs. 9.5% [HR 1.07 (95% CI 0.67-1.72),
P=0.7701] for all-cause mortality; 6.9% vs. 1.9% [HR 2.88



 (95% CI 1.40-5.90), P=0.0040] for non-procedural myocardial infarction; 16.2%
vs. 10.4% [HR 1.50 (95% CI 1.04-2.17), P=0.0315] for any revascularization; and
4.9% vs. 1.7% [HR 2.25 (95% CI 0.93-5.48), P=0.0731] for stroke.



 "Our findings of similar mortality but higher rates of myocardial infarction
and repeat revascularization in patients undergoing PCI compared to CABG are
consistent with previous studies of coronary revascularization in patients with
LMCA disease," said Evald H. Christiansen, MD, PhD, lead researcher from Aarhus
University Hospital, Skejby in Denmark. "However, the low mortality following
treatment in both groups demonstrates that modern revascularization techniques
can lead to excellent survival in stable LMCA patients. Further, the increased
rates of non-procedural myocardial infarction, repeat revascularization and
stroke associated with PCI are important considerations in selecting the optimal
treatment for individual patients."



 The NOBLE trial was funded by Aarhus University Hospital and an institutional
research grant from Biosensors. Dr. Christiansen reported receiving
institutional grants from Biosensors.



 The results of the NOBLE Trial will be presented on Monday, October 31 at 9:15
AM ET in the Main Arena (Ballroom, Level 3) at the Walter E. Washington
Convention Center.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday
                                Internet Edition

LGH teaching downgrade to stay

BYLINE: Tamara McDonald

SECTION: REAL ESTATE

LENGTH: 355 words


A downgrade to Launceston General Hospital teaching accreditation, which doctors
say has impacted recruitment, will stay in place.

The Tasmanian Health Service appealed a Royal Australasian College of Physicians
decision to downgrade adult internal medicine training from level three to level
two.

A RACP spokesman on Wednesday confirmed to Fairfax Media that the college's
reconsideration was complete and the "RACP decision is unchanged".

The college's decision to downgrade the adult internal medicine three
accreditation three months ago meant registrars in the discipline stay at the
LGH for two years, rather than completing a three-year module, as they
previously had done.

This means trainee doctors need to move to a different, level three, teaching
hospital to complete their training.

A THS spokesman earlier this year claimed the downgrade decision was based on
"incorrect information".

There are other avenues the THS is able to pursue to appeal the downgrade.

The spokesman said the health service was requesting the college review its
decision, and the process is under way.

LGH Medical Staff Association chairman Scott Parkes in January said the college
felt the hospital did not have sufficient staffing in some disciplines for
training, particularly endocrinology.

The training was for physicians who were procedural and non-procedural
specialists in general medicine and some specialties.

The LGH is accredited by a number of colleges in a wide range of different
disciplines.

Dr Parkes last week told Fairfax Media that the downgrade had impacted the LGH.

"It means that we are at the moment, fairly heavily dependent on locums, and I
think we've had reputational damage because of this, so it does impact on the
number of people who want to come here and want to stay here," Dr Parkes said.

He said the hospital's teaching status was "fundamental to delivering the best
patient care we can".

Australian Medical Association Tasmania president Stuart Day said the downgrade
should be heeded as a warning.

"It's meant that their ability to recruit training physicians has actually been
severely hampered this year," Dr Day said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday
                                Internet Edition

LGH teaching downgrade to stay

BYLINE: Tamara McDonald

LENGTH: 355 words


A downgrade to Launceston General Hospital teaching accreditation, which doctors
say has impacted recruitment, will stay in place.

The Tasmanian Health Service appealed a Royal Australasian College of Physicians
decision to downgrade adult internal medicine training from level three to level
two.

A RACP spokesman on Wednesday confirmed to Fairfax Media that the college's
reconsideration was complete and the "RACP decision is unchanged".

The college's decision to downgrade the adult internal medicine three
accreditation three months ago meant registrars in the discipline stay at the
LGH for two years, rather than completing a three-year module, as they
previously had done.

This means trainee doctors need to move to a different, level three, teaching
hospital to complete their training.

A THS spokesman earlier this year claimed the downgrade decision was based on
"incorrect information".

There are other avenues the THS is able to pursue to appeal the downgrade.

The spokesman said the health service was requesting the college review its
decision, and the process is under way.

LGH Medical Staff Association chairman Scott Parkes in January said the college
felt the hospital did not have sufficient staffing in some disciplines for
training, particularly endocrinology.

The training was for physicians who were procedural and non-procedural
specialists in general medicine and some specialties.

The LGH is accredited by a number of colleges in a wide range of different
disciplines.

Dr Parkes last week told Fairfax Media that the downgrade had impacted the LGH.

"It means that we are at the moment, fairly heavily dependent on locums, and I
think we've had reputational damage because of this, so it does impact on the
number of people who want to come here and want to stay here," Dr Parkes said.

He said the hospital's teaching status was "fundamental to delivering the best
patient care we can".

Australian Medical Association Tasmania president Stuart Day said the downgrade
should be heeded as a warning.

"It's meant that their ability to recruit training physicians has actually been
severely hampered this year," Dr Day said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday
                                Internet Edition

LGH teaching downgrade to stay

BYLINE: Tamara McDonald

LENGTH: 355 words


A downgrade to Launceston General Hospital teaching accreditation, which doctors
say has impacted recruitment, will stay in place.

The Tasmanian Health Service appealed a Royal Australasian College of Physicians
decision to downgrade adult internal medicine training from level three to level
two.

A RACP spokesman on Wednesday confirmed to Fairfax Media that the college's
reconsideration was complete and the "RACP decision is unchanged".

The college's decision to downgrade the adult internal medicine three
accreditation three months ago meant registrars in the discipline stay at the
LGH for two years, rather than completing a three-year module, as they
previously had done.

This means trainee doctors need to move to a different, level three, teaching
hospital to complete their training.

A THS spokesman earlier this year claimed the downgrade decision was based on
"incorrect information".

There are other avenues the THS is able to pursue to appeal the downgrade.

The spokesman said the health service was requesting the college review its
decision, and the process is under way.

LGH Medical Staff Association chairman Scott Parkes in January said the college
felt the hospital did not have sufficient staffing in some disciplines for
training, particularly endocrinology.

The training was for physicians who were procedural and non-procedural
specialists in general medicine and some specialties.

The LGH is accredited by a number of colleges in a wide range of different
disciplines.

Dr Parkes last week told Fairfax Media that the downgrade had impacted the LGH.

"It means that we are at the moment, fairly heavily dependent on locums, and I
think we've had reputational damage because of this, so it does impact on the
number of people who want to come here and want to stay here," Dr Parkes said.

He said the hospital's teaching status was "fundamental to delivering the best
patient care we can".

Australian Medical Association Tasmania president Stuart Day said the downgrade
should be heeded as a warning.

"It's meant that their ability to recruit training physicians has actually been
severely hampered this year," Dr Day said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'A court would certainly have found Dr Jadun to be negligent';
File 1

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 303 words


THE first independent review of Dr Jadun's work found four cases of negligence,
according to an expert.

The investigation - carried out by Dr Shawn Halpin, from the University Hospital
of Wales, in Cardiff - looked at 25 patients Dr Jadun treated between June and
November 2008.

Dr Halpin reported back to UHNS officials, who had called in the consultant
neuroradiologist to carry out a peer review of Dr Jadun, in July 2009.

Dr Halpin found there were "procedural complications in 25 per cent of cases,
with 12 per cent clinically apparent". He added: "These figures are too high."

Dr Halpin highlighted four cases in which he believed Dr Jadun's treatment of
patients at UHNS was negligent - and would have been confirmed as such if they
had come to court.

In one, Dr Halpin criticised Dr Jadun's use of a substance called Onyx, a
"liquid embolic agent" used in brain surgery.

Dr Jadun and UHNS had previously been warned by professional experts not to use
Onyx without special "training and mentorship". The medic and the hospital
ignored this advice but the doctor used Onyx in the treatment of a patient in
August 2008.

Dr Halpin said: "I read with alarm, the radiology report written by Dr Jadun...
'I have a new glue - Onyx.' "Onyx is not a glue. The statement clearly implies
its use would be a procedural first for Dr Jadun.

"There was nothing in the notes to indicate that Dr Jadun had advised the
patient this was a new agent. He should have obtained permission from the
medical director of the trust before undertaking it and should certainly have
had an experienced colleague with him.

"Dr Jadun's actions would have been unequivocal evidence of negligence had the
patient come to harm. Fortunately, she did not." Despite this, Dr Halpin
concluded that Dr Jadun was a caring doctor who wanted the best for his
patients.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2011 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly

                           December 9, 2015 Wednesday

Civil rights - Psychiatric evaluation

BYLINE: Tom Egan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 660  words


Where a plaintiff filed a 42 U.S.C. §1983 claim alleging that the defendant
doctor violated the plaintiff's federal constitutional rights when she issued an
order, pursuant to G.L.c. 123, §12, authorizing the plaintiff to be seized from
her home and brought to a hospital for a psychiatric evaluation, a judgment
dismissing the complaint must be affirmed because of the plaintiff's failure to
provide any developed argumentation that the defendant's alleged failure to
conform to a state statute constituted a violation of the Fourth and 14th
Amendment.

"(Defendant Theresa] Harpold, (plaintiff Louise] Durand's co-worker at a
Massachusetts Department of Mental Health facility in Norton, Massachusetts,
issued the order after she was approached by another co-worker, Marleen Mills.
Mills reported that Durand was having 'visual hallucinations of worms coming out
of her body and across telephone (lines],' had 'been driving to parts unknown,'
had been 'sending threatening texts' to Mills, had 'not been attending to her
blood sugar(, and] has diabetes and reported a (blood sugar level] of 30. '

"Harpold signed the §12 order on this basis, certifying that there was a '(v]ery
substantial risk' that Durand would injure herself. Pursuant to the order, the
police took Durand from her home and drove her to a hospital. At the hospital,
Durand was evaluated by a doctor, who found Durand lucid and released her. ...

"Durand contends that she has stated a plausible claim that Harpold violated her
right, under the Fourth Amendment, to be free from unreasonable seizures because
Harpold violated Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 123, §12, by (1) not evaluating Durand
before issuing the order to have her seized and brought to the hospital; and (2)
not contacting Durand to learn if she would refuse to be examined before issuing
the order. We disagree.

"Durand alleges violations of Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 123, §12, but a state law
violation is not itself enough to render a seizure unreasonable for Fourth
Amendment purposes.   ... Durand's only argument that the state law violation
she alleges does amount to a Fourth Amendment violation relies on precedent that
does not stand for the propositions for which she cites it.

"In sum, Durand does not address the limits the Fourth Amendment places on the
need for warrantless seizure in the scenario at hand, even though the District
Court dismissed her claim below for failure to identify the violation of a
constitutional right (as opposed to the violation of a state law). Because
Durand has failed to provide any developed argumentation regarding how Harpold's
actions rendered Durand's seizure unreasonable for that particular purpose, her
Fourth Amendment-based §1983 claim cannot proceed. ...

"Durand also argues that she has stated a plausible claim that Harpold violated
her Fourteenth Amendment right to procedural due process. But although Durand
acknowledges that the violation of a state law is not in itself sufficient to
demonstrate a violation the Fourteenth Amendment's guarantee of the right to due
process, Durand makes no more than the conclusory allegation -- in one paragraph
of her brief -- that Harpold's failure to comply with Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 123,
§12, 'deprived Ms. Durand of her rights to procedural due process under the
Fourteenth Amendment. ' Thus, this argument, too, is not sufficiently developed
to merit appellate review. ..."

Durand v. Harpold (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-318-15) (6 pages) (Barron, J.) (1st
Circuit) Appealed from a decision by Stearns, J., in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Massachusetts. Christopher J. Trombetta on brief for the
plaintiff-appellant; Sean E. Capplis, Sandra P. Wysocki Capplis and Capplis,
Connors & Carroll on brief for the defendant-appellee (Docket No. 14-2244) (Dec.
7, 2015).

Click here for the full-text opinion.



http://www.rilawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly

                            December 8, 2015 Tuesday

Civil rights - Psychiatric evaluation

BYLINE: Tom Egan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 660  words


Where a plaintiff filed a 42 U.S.C. §1983 claim alleging that the defendant
doctor violated the plaintiff's federal constitutional rights when she issued an
order, pursuant to G.L.c. 123, §12, authorizing the plaintiff to be seized from
her home and brought to a hospital for a psychiatric evaluation, a judgment
dismissing the complaint must be affirmed because of the plaintiff's failure to
provide any developed argumentation that the defendant's alleged failure to
conform to a state statute constituted a violation of the Fourth and 14th
Amendment.

"(Defendant Theresa] Harpold, (plaintiff Louise] Durand's co-worker at a
Massachusetts Department of Mental Health facility in Norton, Massachusetts,
issued the order after she was approached by another co-worker, Marleen Mills.
Mills reported that Durand was having 'visual hallucinations of worms coming out
of her body and across telephone (lines],' had 'been driving to parts unknown,'
had been 'sending threatening texts' to Mills, had 'not been attending to her
blood sugar(, and] has diabetes and reported a (blood sugar level] of 30. '

"Harpold signed the §12 order on this basis, certifying that there was a '(v]ery
substantial risk' that Durand would injure herself. Pursuant to the order, the
police took Durand from her home and drove her to a hospital. At the hospital,
Durand was evaluated by a doctor, who found Durand lucid and released her. ...

"Durand contends that she has stated a plausible claim that Harpold violated her
right, under the Fourth Amendment, to be free from unreasonable seizures because
Harpold violated Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 123, §12, by (1) not evaluating Durand
before issuing the order to have her seized and brought to the hospital; and (2)
not contacting Durand to learn if she would refuse to be examined before issuing
the order. We disagree.

"Durand alleges violations of Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 123, §12, but a state law
violation is not itself enough to render a seizure unreasonable for Fourth
Amendment purposes.   ... Durand's only argument that the state law violation
she alleges does amount to a Fourth Amendment violation relies on precedent that
does not stand for the propositions for which she cites it.

"In sum, Durand does not address the limits the Fourth Amendment places on the
need for warrantless seizure in the scenario at hand, even though the District
Court dismissed her claim below for failure to identify the violation of a
constitutional right (as opposed to the violation of a state law). Because
Durand has failed to provide any developed argumentation regarding how Harpold's
actions rendered Durand's seizure unreasonable for that particular purpose, her
Fourth Amendment-based §1983 claim cannot proceed. ...

"Durand also argues that she has stated a plausible claim that Harpold violated
her Fourteenth Amendment right to procedural due process. But although Durand
acknowledges that the violation of a state law is not in itself sufficient to
demonstrate a violation the Fourteenth Amendment's guarantee of the right to due
process, Durand makes no more than the conclusory allegation -- in one paragraph
of her brief -- that Harpold's failure to comply with Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 123,
§12, 'deprived Ms. Durand of her rights to procedural due process under the
Fourteenth Amendment. ' Thus, this argument, too, is not sufficiently developed
to merit appellate review. ..."

Durand v. Harpold (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-318-15) (6 pages) (Barron, J.) (1st
Circuit) Appealed from a decision by Stearns, J., in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Massachusetts. Christopher J. Trombetta on brief for the
plaintiff-appellant; Sean E. Capplis, Sandra P. Wysocki Capplis and Capplis,
Connors & Carroll on brief for the defendant-appellee (Docket No. 14-2244) (Dec.
7, 2015).

Click here for the full-text opinion.



http://www.masslawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Health department asks CSMMU to find cause of death of 9-month-old boy

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 402 words


LUCKNOW: Taking serious note of the death of a nine-month-old infant in
Barabanki village after vaccination, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to
inquire the cause of death. Two children became seriously ill and one died
reportedly after being administered measles vaccine in Avadhpur Majra village of
Barabanki on Thursday. The health department has written to the vice-chancellor,
Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical University (CSMMU), asking him to direct
university's paediatric department to find the cause of death.

Meanwhile, Barabanki's chief medical officer Dr AK Chowdhury sent samples of the
vaccine in question for testing to rule out possibilities of contamination. A
preliminary inquiry conducted by him hints towards procedural lapses. The case
relates to Auxiliary Nursing Midwife Nalini Devi and ASHA worker Saroj who went
for routine immunisation on Wednesday. They started their work at around 11.00
am from Mohanpur village. By the time, she reached Avadhpur, it was around 3.30
pm. All this while, she administered vaccines to six children.

Within hours of getting the vaccine shots, three children Shivansh, Lalla and
Sadhu in Avadhpur Majra took ill and were rushed to the hospital. Doctors
confirmed that they were down with toxic shock syndrome - typical fallout of
adverse reaction caused by vaccines. All the three children were referred to
Lucknow's Trauma Centre. Shivansh, however could not survive.

"Preliminary inquiries hint towards two procedural lapses. First one is that all
these vaccines should be administered within four hours from the time they are
prepared. But, by the time, the ANM reached Avadhpur villages four-and-half
hours had passed. Secondly, a single vial has vaccines for five children. But,
the ANM covered six children. This indicates that proportion for mixing of
vaccines with their diluting agent could be skewed," said the CMO.

Based on the findings, the CMO suspended ANM besides recommending departmental
action against the incharge medical officer Arvind Yadav and area's additional
CMO Dr Ram Chandani. Meanwhile, Ram Yadav, father of Shivansh, lodged an FIR
against medical officer Dr Arvind Yadav, ANM Nalini Devi and ASHA worker Saroj
at with Ghungter police station. To note, in August last year, a similar
incident was reported from Lucknow's Mohanlalganj area, when four children died
after vaccination.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                       May 9, 2000 Tuesday Final Edition

Tories restrict Bill 11 debate: Health legislation could win approval as early
as tonight

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

BYLINE: Ashley Geddes, Provincial Affairs Writer

SECTION: Alberta; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: Edmonton

The Conservative majority in the legislature could give final approval to Bill
11 as early as tonight, after the government used a procedural tactic to
restrict debate on third reading.

Opposition leaders denounced the government for cutting off debate for the third
time after the Tories introduced a motion Monday blocking further amendments.

But the government defended the motion -- which allows each MLA to speak only
once more on the bill -- saying the private health bill has already received
more than enough debate.

Depending on how many Conservatives speak, the bill could be passed today or
Wednesday.

"I think it's fair," said Premier Ralph Klein. "The process is to allow everyone
to speak."

Associate health minister Gene Zwozdesky said debate had already devolved into
"redundancy and repetition" in the two stages before third and final reading.

"When you get that type of filibustering started and nothing is moving forward,
no progress is being made, no new items or no new points are being raised,
clearly there's a need at some point to say simply 'let's bring this to a vote,'
" said Zwozdesky. "And that's what's going to happen."

The bill, introduced in the legislature March 2, will regulate and expand the
role of private surgery facilities and allow them to perform some procedures now
done only in public hospitals.

The government says the bill will reduce surgery waiting lists and protect the
public health system by filling a regulatory void for private surgery centres.

Critics say the bill will erode the public health system, opening the door to
two-tiered, U.S.-style care.

The motion comes on the heels of the government's use of closure to cut debate
at the committee stage, where amendments can be made. The government used the
same kind of procedural tactic it used Monday to limit debate at the second
reading stage.

The move means each MLA is limited to another 20 minutes of debate, except for
the premier and official Opposition leader, who can speak for up to 90.

Only procedural amendments -- generally involving referrals or delays -- could
be made during third reading debate in any event.

Opposition Liberal Leader Nancy MacBeth said the government has decided "to ram"
the bill through, something she said amounts to a "loss of democracy."

The Liberals had wanted to delay a final vote on the bill to allow time for an
all-party committee to hold public hearings and develop regulations to accompany
the legislation.

"It's an example of the arrogance of this government refusing to listen to
Albertans," said MacBeth.

New Democrat Leader Raj Pannu said the government "just wants to end the
humiliation" it faces due to overwhelming opposition to the bill.

"They have simply said they won't listen to Albertans any more. They're totally
frustrated, they're totally isolated, they're cornered."

About 300 anti-Bill 11 demonstrators gathered outside the legislature Monday
night, chanting and booing the government's decision to cut off debate. "I think
they should allow the debate to take its course and let the people be heard,
because it's a major concern to Albertans," said accountant Robert Calen.

Registered nurse Melanie Keasnytsia said Klein should adjourn debate on the
bill, which she thinks will create a two-tier health system, and allow a
referendum on the issue.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 9, 2015 Monday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
Ohio: MARGARET ROCKWOOD, Plaintiff,V.MELINDA J. SHOEN, et al., Defendants.

LENGTH: 3859  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of Ohio has issued
the following order:



 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO EASTERN DIVISION
MARGARET ROCKWOOD, Plaintiff, Case No. 2:15-cv-1134 v. JUDGE GREGORY L. FROST
Magistrate Judge Elizabeth P. Deavers MELINDA J. SHOEN, et al., Defendants.
OPINION AND ORDER This matter is before the Court for consideration of
Defendants' motion for judgment on the pleadings (ECF No. 10), Plaintiff's
memorandum in opposition (ECF No. 16), and Defendants' reply memorandum (ECF No.
17). For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART
Defendants' motion. I. Background Prior to September 11, 2014, Plaintiff,
Margaret Rockwood, a resident of Delaware County, Ohio, was an enrolled student
at Defendant Central Ohio Technical College (&ldquo;COTC&rdquo;) in the
Diagnostic Medical Sonography (&ldquo;DMS&rdquo;) Program. During Plaintiff's
second semester in the program, COTC's Program Director for the DMS Program,
Defendant Melinda J. Shoen, allegedly advised Plaintiff that Plaintiff could
create a special course of study that would allow Plaintiff to &ldquo;fulfill
the cardiac registry examination requirements of the American Registry for
Diagnostic Medical Sonography ('ARDMS')&rdquo; and to &ldquo;bypass her
remaining vascular course work and related clinical assignments.&rdquo; (ECF No.
1, at Page ID # 3, &para; 16.) Thereafter, Plaintiff began her required clinical
rotations at various nearby institutions.

Subsequent to a clinical rotation at Licking Memorial Hospital, Plaintiff began
a second rotation Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 1
of 11 PAGEID #: 2 at Berger Hospital. Plaintiff discussed her specialized
program with Berger Hospital staff in early September 2014. Plaintiff alleges
that despite her attempted explanation, hospital staff did not understand the
specialized program. Berger Hospital staff then contacted Defendant Elizabeth M.
Eyster, COTC's Clinic Coordinator for the DMS Program, for clarification. Eyster
purportedly failed to explain the cardiac-only program in which Plaintiff was
supposedly enrolled and instead informed the hospital that Plaintiff would not
return to finish her clinical rotation. On September 10, 2014, Plaintiff was
contacted by Shoen, Eyster, and Defendant Sandra Walker, COTC's Dean of Health
Sciences and Nursing Programs Administrator, and told not to return to Berger
Hospital, but to meet with them instead. Plaintiff requested that Defendants
inform her of the nature of the meeting but was allegedly denied such
information. During the meeting, which took place on September 11, 2014,
Plaintiff was handed a letter that indicated that she &ldquo;had been formally
dismissed as a cardiovascular clinical student at Berger Hospital and that
Plaintiff was dismissed from the DMS Program in accordance with policy, without
the possibility to apply for re-admission.&rdquo; (ECF No. 1, at Page ID # 5,
&para; 29) (internal quotation marks omitted). At no time prior to their meeting
did Defendants offer any explanation for Plaintiff's dismissal from Berger
Hospital or provide any details regarding their intent to dismiss Plaintiff.
Plaintiff was informed that the hospital was not required to provide any
justification for her dismissal and that she should not contact the hospital
&ldquo;under any circumstance.&rdquo; (Id. at Page ID # 6, &para; 32.) On
September 15, 2014, COTC's President, Defendant Bonnie Coe, agreed to meet with
Plaintiff. Coe informed Plaintiff that Plaintiff had a right to an appeal but
that the right had been exhausted during the September 11 and 15, 2014 meetings
with Defendants. Plaintiff was Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed:
11/06/15 Page: 2 of 11 PAGEID #: 3 allegedly never provided with any substantive
justification for her dismissal from either COTC or Berger Hospital. Rather, the
only justification Plaintiff purportedly received was in the form of a statement
that Plaintiff was &ldquo;self-evaluating.&rdquo; (Id.) On March 30, 2015,
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Shoen, Eyster, Walker, Coe, and
COTC. Thereafter, on July 7, 2015, Defendants filed a motion for judgment on the
pleadings pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(c). The parties have
completed briefing on the motion, which is ripe for disposition. II. Discussion
A. Standard of Review Defendants have filed a motion for judgment on the
pleadings pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(c). Rule 12(c) provides
that &ldquo;[a]fter the pleadings are closed--but early enough not to delay
trial--a party may move for judgment on the pleadings.&rdquo; Fed. R. Civ. P.
12(c). A court must review motions made under Rule 12(c) in the same manner it
would review a motion made under Rule 12(b)(6). Vickers v. Fairfield Med. Ctr.,
453 F.3d 757, 761 (6th Cir. 2006). Accordingly, to survive a motion for judgment
on the pleadings, a complaint must provide fair notice of each claim and the
grounds upon which it rests. Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544, 555, 570,
127 S.Ct. 1955, 167 L.Ed.2d 929 (2007) (citing Conley v. Gibson, 355 U.S. 41,
47, 78 S.Ct. 99, 2 L.Ed.2d 80 (1957)). The complaint must also state a claim to
relief that is plausible on its face. Id. A plaintiff's factual allegations must
be enough to raise the claimed right to relief above the speculative level and
to create a reasonable expectation that discovery will reveal evidence to
support the claim. Id. at 556. In ruling on a Rule 12(b)(6) or Rule 12(c)
motion, a court must construe the complaint in the light most favorable to the
plaintiff and treat all well-pleaded allegations contained therein as true. Id.
at 555-56. If the Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 3
of 11 PAGEID #: 4 &ldquo;well-pleaded facts do not permit the court to infer
more than the mere possibility of misconduct,&rdquo; the court should dismiss
the complaint. Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 678, 129 S.Ct. 1937, 173 L.Ed.2d
868 (2009). B. Analysis 1. Procedural Due Process Claim In her first claim,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated her procedural due process rights
with respect to the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United
States Constitution. Plaintiff claims that she has a &ldquo;clearly recognized
liberty and property interest in her continued education at COTC, in her
reputation and good name, and in the value of a clear academic record as a COTC
student.&rdquo; (ECF No. 1, at Page ID # 7, &para; 40.) Plaintiff further
alleges that her &ldquo;clearly recognized liberty and property interest&rdquo;
guarantees her the right to adequate procedural safeguards. Therefore,
Plaintiff's summary dismissal from COTC, which according to Plaintiff failed to
include the requisite procedural protections, robbed her of constitutionally
guaranteed rights. Defendants argue that they are entitled to judgment on this
claim on the ground of qualified immunity. Defendants also argue that they are
entitled to judgment even without qualified immunity because they did not deny
Plaintiff any process that she was due. But given the pleadings involved, this
Court cannot at this time agree with either proposition. The doctrine of
qualified immunity operates under certain circumstances to shield from civil
liability governmental officials who are performing official duties. Sinick v.
Summit, 76 F. App'x 675, 679 (6th Cir. 2003). It shields government officials
from liability for civil damages so long as their conduct does not violate
clearly established statutory or constitutional rights of which a reasonable
person would have known. Harlow v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 800, 818 (1982). Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 4 of 11 PAGEID #: 5 Courts
generally use a two-step analysis to address the potential applicability of
qualified immunity. First, the Court determines &ldquo;whether, considering the
allegations in a light most favorable to the injured party, a constitutional
right has been violated&rdquo;; second, the Court must determine &ldquo;whether
that right was clearly established&rdquo; at the time of the incident in
question. Campbell v. City of Springboro, Ohio, 700 F.3d 779, 786 (6th Cir.
2012) (citing Saucier v. Katz, 533 U.S. 194, 201 (2001)); Simmonds v. Genesee
Cnty., 682 F.3d 438, 443-44 (6th Cir. 2012). It is important to note that the
Court need not address these factors in order, but may consider either factor
first. Pearson v. Callahan, 555 U.S. 223, 236 (2009). The problem here is that
the Court cannot reach any conclusion on whether a constitutional right has been
violated or whether any such right was clearly established. This is because the
key facts are uncertain. These facts matter because the Supreme Court of the
United States has &ldquo;frequently emphasized that [t]he very nature of due
process negates any concept of inflexible procedures universally applicable to
every imaginable situation.&rdquo; Bd. of Curators of Univ. of Missouri v.
Horowitz, 435 U.S. 78, 86, 98 S. Ct. 948, 953, 55 L. Ed. 2d 124 (1978) (quoting
Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367 U.S. 886, 895, 81 S.Ct. 1743, 1748, 6 L.Ed.2d
1230 (1961)) (internal quotations omitted). This flexibility is directly
applicable to the academic field: The need for flexibility is well illustrated
by the significant difference between the failure of a student to meet academic
standards and the violation by a student of valid rules of conduct. This
difference calls for far less stringent procedural requirements in the case of
an academic dismissal. Since the issue first arose 50 years ago, state and lower
federal courts have recognized that there are distinct differences between
decisions to suspend or dismiss a student for disciplinary purposes and similar
actions taken for academic reasons which may call for hearings in connection
with the former but not the latter. Id. Thus, the nature of the dismissal here
should control the outcome of the arguments for dismissal. But review of the
pleadings fails to indicate whether Plaintiff was dismissed for academic reasons
or disciplinary reasons. Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15
Page: 5 of 11 PAGEID #: 6 Defendants characterize the events at issue as solely
an academic dismissal based on unprofessional conduct and explain that,
consequently, Plaintiff was afforded all of the process she was due. Plaintiff
in turn pleads facts suggesting by inference that the dismissal was disciplinary
in nature, which would necessitate her being afforded more procedural due
process under clearly established law. This Court cannot say which side is
correct because, based on the curiously crafted pleadings, it is impossible to
tell why Plaintiff was dismissed. There is arguably a substantial difference
between mandated dismissal from COTC as a result of dismissal from the hospital
and dismissal from the hospital at the direction of COTC leading to subsequent
dismissal from COTC. Absent clarity as to the events surrounding the dismissal
or dismissals involved, it is unclear whether the dismissal from COTC was
academic or disciplinary. Therefore, it is inappropriate at this time to grant
Defendants' motion and dismiss the procedural due process claim on the grounds
that there was no constitutional violation, with or without application of
qualified immunity. It may turn out that qualified immunity applies or that the
claim fails on other grounds, but absent sufficient context this Court cannot
reach such conclusions at this time. Through discovery and subsequent filings,
the parties can present to this Court the nature of the dismissal. The Court
DENIES Defendants' motion for judgment on the pleadings in regard to Plaintiff's
first claim for relief, the procedural due process claim. 2. Substantive Due
Process Claim In her second claim, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated
her substantive due process rights when Defendants offered no rational basis to
support her dismissal. She asserts that Defendants failed to conduct any
substantive investigation into the events that preceded her Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 6 of 11 PAGEID #: 7
dismissal and that this failure to investigate and the dismissal were arbitrary,
capricious, motivated by ill will, and a direct result of Defendants' custom and
policy regarding the dismissal of students. As a direct result of these alleged
acts, Plaintiff alleges, she &ldquo;was wrongfully denied the right to continue
and complete her education, she has suffered the loss of future employment
opportunities, and she has suffered damage to her reputation, embarrassment and
emotional distress.&rdquo; (ECF No. 1, at Page ID # 9, &para; 57.) Similar to
claim one, Defendants again first assert that they are entitled to qualified
immunity. Alternatively, they argue that substantive due process does not apply
here. This Court agrees with both propositions. Plaintiff argues that she has
both a clearly recognized property and liberty interest in her continued
education at COTC; that those interests are subject to the protections of
substantive due process; and that the actions of Defendants deprived her of
those interests and denied her that protection. Her principal contention is that
her allegedly arbitrary dismissal from COTC without justification violated her
&ldquo;clearly recognized&rdquo; property and liberty interest in continued
education. The interests protected by substantive due process, however, are much
narrower than those protected by procedural due process. The Sixth Circuit has
explained that the &ldquo;[i]nterests protected by substantive due process
include &hellip; those protected by specific constitutional guarantees, such as
the Equal Protection Clause, freedom from government actions that shock the
conscience, and certain interests that the Supreme Court has found so rooted in
the traditions and conscience of our people as to be fundamental.&rdquo; Bell v.
Ohio State Univ., 351 F.3d 240, 250 (6th Cir. 2003) (citations and quotations
omitted). Cognizant of the limitations that restrict the interests protected by
substantive due process, the Sixth Circuit has consistently refused to Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 7 of 11 PAGEID #: 8
recognize substantive due process as protecting a student's interest in
continuing education. See Yoder v. Univ. of Louisville, 526 F. App'x 537, 549
(6th Cir.) cert. denied, 134 S. Ct. 790 (2013); Rogers v. Tenn. Bd. of Regents,
273 F. App'x 458, 463 (6th Cir. 2008); McGee v. Schoolcraft Cmty. Coll., 167 F.
App'x 429, 436-37 (6th Cir. 2006); Bell v. Ohio State Univ., 351 F.3d 240,
249-51 (6th Cir. 2003). Plaintiff argues that she has a viable substantive due
process claim because Defendants' actions were so outrageous and egregious that
they &ldquo;shock the conscience.&rdquo; Her claim purportedly rests on the
&ldquo;the right to be free of 'arbitrary and capricious' action by government
actors.&rdquo; Bowers v. City of Flint, 325 F.3d 758, 763 (6th Cir.2003)
(quoting Pearson v. City of Grand Blanc, 961 F.2d 1211, 1217 (6th Cir. 1992)).
But as the Sixth Circuit has recognized, &ldquo;the 'arbitrary and capricious'
standard set forth in Pearson is simply another formulation of, but is no less
stringent than, the more traditional 'shocks the conscience' standard.&rdquo;
Bowers v. City of Flint, 325 F.3d 758, 763 (6th Cir. 2003). Therefore,
Plaintiff's second claim can only survive if Defendants' actions shock the
conscience in the constitutional sense. What this means is that Plaintiff's
second claim can survive only if the pleadings present action by Defendants that
is &ldquo;so severe, so disproportionate to the need presented, and such an
abuse of authority as to transcend the bounds of ordinary tort law and establish
a deprivation of constitutional rights.&rdquo; Parate v. Isibor, 868 F.2d 821,
832 (6th Cir. 1989). But the pleadings in this case simply do not support the
proposition that Defendants' actions shock the conscience. No facts pled suggest
that Defendants engaged in actions that &ldquo;violate[d] the decencies of
civilized conduct&rdquo; or that were &ldquo;so brutal and offensive that [they
do] not comport with traditional ideas of fair play and decency.&rdquo; Range v.
Douglas, 763 F.3d 573, 589-90 (6th Cir. 2014) (internal quotation marks
omitted). No facts pled suggest that Defendants &ldquo;intended to Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 8 of 11 PAGEID #: 9 injure
without any justifiable government interest,&rdquo; which matters because
&ldquo;[m]erely negligent tortious conduct is categorically beneath
constitutional due process.&rdquo; Id. at 590 (internal quotation marks
omitted). No facts pled therefore preclude the dismissal of this claim. The
Court GRANTS Defendants' motion for judgment on the pleadings in regard to
Plaintiff's second claim for relief, the substantive due process claim. 3.
Negligence Claim In her third claim, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted
negligently in numerous ways. For example, she asserts that Shoen was negligent
in failing to properly formulate the special program in which Plaintiff was
supposedly enrolled and that Shoen and Eyster were negligent in failing to
communicate Plaintiff's specialized program to Berger Hospital. Defendants argue
that this third claim fails because of statutory tort liability immunity
pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Chapter 2744 and because Ohio does not recognize a
claim of the sort asserted here. This Court need not reach the statutory
immunity issue because Ohio law indeed precludes Plaintiff's third claim. State
precedent teaches that &ldquo;[a] claim that educational services provided were
inadequate constitutes a claim for 'educational malpractice.' &rdquo; Lawrence
v. Lorain Cty. Cmty. Coll., 127 Ohio App.3d 546, 549, 713 N.E.2d 478, 480
(1998). That same precedent reveals that, regardless of the label a plaintiff
places on such a claim, &ldquo;Ohio does not recognize educational malpractice
claims for public policy reasons.&rdquo; Id. Therefore, Plaintiff's third claim,
which targets allegedly substandard educational services, is in actuality an
impermissible claim for educational malpractice that this Court cannot
entertain. See id. (&ldquo;The trial court properly characterized [the
plaintiff's] claims as masking allegations of educational malpractice, which is
barred as a cause of action in this state. Thus, we find that the trial court
properly dismissed his complaint pursuant to Civ.R. 12(B)(6).&rdquo;); see Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 9 of 11 PAGEID #: 10 also
Hopkins v. Columbus Bd. of Educ., No. 07AP-700, 2008 WL 852608, at *5 (Ohio Ct.
App. 10th Dist. Mar. 31, 2008) (&ldquo;there is a lack of authority supporting
[an educational malpractice] cause of action under Ohio law&rdquo;); Lemmon v.
Univ. of Cincinnati, 112 Ohio Misc.2d 23, 29, 750 N.E.2d 668, 672 (2001)
(rejecting negligence claim because it was &ldquo;essentially one of educational
malpractice&rdquo; and &ldquo;the claim is not recognized in the state of
Ohio&rdquo;). The claim is therefore inappropriate for this federal forum. See
Hutchings v. Vanderbilt Univ., 55 F. App'x 308, 310 (6th Cir. 2003) (explaining
that the plaintiff's &ldquo;claims concern the adequacy of the educational
services provided by the University&rdquo; and that &ldquo;[c]ourts are not
inclined to review educational malpractice claims or breach of contract claims
based on inadequate educational services&rdquo;); Buescher v. Baldwin Wallace
Univ., No. 1:13 CV 2821, 2014 WL 1910907, at *4 (N.D. Ohio May 12, 2014)
(rejecting educational malpractice claim asserted under Ohio law). In her reply
memorandum, Plaintiff attempts to circumvent an adverse decision on this claim
by transforming the claim into one targeting willful and reckless conduct. She
dubiously offers that &ldquo;[t]he Complaint may have been inartfully drafted,
and the Third Claim should have perhaps included a specific reference to the
wanton and reckless nature of Defendants' conduct, but the allegations in the
Complaint in their totality are sufficient to place the Defendants on notice
that Plaintiff is asserting something more than simple negligence.&rdquo; (ECF
No. 16, at Page ID # 93.) But even applying notice pleading standards leniently,
no fair reading of the complaint supports Plaintiff's self-serving contention.
Plaintiff's complaint expressly and repeatedly targets only negligence in the
third claim: &ldquo;Defendant Shoen was negligent in failing to properly
research and advise Plaintiff . . .&rdquo; (ECF No. 1, at Page ID # 10 &para;
63); &ldquo;Defendants Shoen and Eyster were negligent in failing to communicate
Plaintiff's cardiac only program requirements . . .&rdquo; (id. &para; 64);
&ldquo;Defendant Eyster was negligent in failing to clarify . . .&rdquo; (id.
&para; 65); &ldquo;The Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15
Page: 10 of 11 PAGEID #: 11 negligence of Defendants Shoen and Eyster in failing
to properly communicate . . .&rdquo; (id. &para; 66); &ldquo;In furtherance of
Defendants' negligence, Plaintiff was dismissed . . .&rdquo; (id., at Page ID #
11 &para; 67); &ldquo;Plaintiff did not learn of Shoen's mistake . . .&rdquo;
(id. &para; 68); &ldquo;Defendant COTC is vicariously liable for the negligent
acts and omissions of Defendants Shoen and Eyster.&rdquo; (id. &para; 69);
&ldquo;After learning of the mistakes made by Defendants Shoen and Eyster . .
.&rdquo; (id. &para; 70); &ldquo;As a direct result of the aforementioned
negligent acts and omissions . . .&rdquo; (id. &para; 71); &ldquo;As a direct
result of Defendants' negligence, Plaintiff was wrongfully dismissed . .
.&rdquo; (id. &para; 72); &ldquo;As a direct result of Defendants' negligence,
Plaintiff was wrongfully denied . . .&rdquo; (id. &para; 73). Plaintiff cannot
use a reply memorandum to rewrite that which she actually pled in an effort to
salvage an impermissible claim. This Court GRANTS Defendants' motion for
judgment on the pleadings in regard to Plaintiff's third claim for relief, the
educational malpractice claim disguised as a negligence claim. III. Conclusion
The Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Defendants' motion. (ECF No. 10.)
The Clerk shall enter judgment in favor of Defendants on claims two and three,
while claim one remains pending. IT IS SO ORDERED. /s/ Gregory L. Frost GREGORY
L. FROST UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19
Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 11 of 11 PAGEID #:



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             July 24, 2014 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Young doctors in demand;
JUNIOR MEDICAL OFFICERS

BYLINE: Keeli Cambourne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 570 words


The annual campaign to fill the state's JMO positions starts today, writes Keeli
Cambourne.

In the next three weeks NSW Health is looking to fill more than 3600 Junior
Medical Officer (JMO) positions available in the state's public hospitals and
health facilities in 2015.

The annual JMO recruitment campaign, the largest of its kind in the state,
begins today. Last year more than 47,000 applications were received for more
than 3500 jobs.

NSW Health is continuing to grow the number of JMO positions to meet staffing
needs and improve patient care. In the past three years the number has increased

2 per cent.

JMO positions are for doctors who have done at least one postgraduate year, and
allow them to start specialist training in everything from obstetrics and
gynaecology, pathology, dermatology, emergency medicine, and psychiatry.

In this year's campaign, NSW Health is encouraging applicants to think about
specialties in areas such as psychiatry, nuclear medicine and geriatric care.

As in past years, there is also a push for doctors to consider generalist rural
training under the NSW rural generalist training program.

The program, which started in 2011, supplies doctors to rural areas and offers
training in advanced skill procedurals.

Doctors can enter the program from their second postgraduate year and are
supported to do procedural advanced skills as well as normal GP training, which
then allows them to work in hospitals providing services such as anaesthetics,
emergency medicine or obstetrics.

"It is a great career option for junior doctors who can choose to undertake a
specialty area of training in anaesthetics, obstetrics and emergency medicine
and each year the interest in the program is growing," says Associate Professor
Kathleen Atkinson, executive director of medical services for Murrumbidgee Local
Health District.

"We also have an ongoing need for getting more JMOs in mental health, which is
also a growing area. In Wagga Wagga we have just opened a 50-bed mental health
unit and are now seeing more people coming through to do training in psychiatry.
Aged care is another growth area both in the city and country, and general
medicine practitioners who can cover geriatrics, respiratory medicine, kidney
and renal medicine are also needed."

Positions will be advertised from today (July 24) on the JMO website
(health.nsw.gov.au/jmo). All applications must be completed online by the
eRecruit system before August 14.

Professor Atkinson says it's essential those applying for the positions read the
criteria carefully and not leave applying until the last minute.

"The number of applications last year indicates that most people apply for more
than one position," she says. "Candidates should look at all positions and
opportunities and not limit themselves either to one hospital, region or
specialty."

As there are so many applicants for each position, Professor Atkinson advises
candidates do as much research as they can on each position to ensure they make
a good first impression.

"Each position will have a contact person to whom candidates can speak to find
out more about the position. There are FAQs on the JMO website to answer any
questions candidates may have, otherwise a helpdesk is available," she says.

"Sometimes there is a second round of offers but it's best candidates apply for
every job they want in that first round. NSW Health is keen to employ as many
new doctors as it can."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Picayune Item (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday

Jones, Stockstill take over key hospital positions

BYLINE: Jeremy Pittari, Picayune Item, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 918 words


Feb. 4--PICAYUNE -- Highland Community Hospital recently added two fresh faces
to its administrative personnel -- Doug Jones as the Interim Administrator and
Mark Stockstill as the hospital's new Chief Operating Officer.

Jones grew up in various places due to his father's work with the Civil Service.
In 1992, Jones earned his MBA from University of Alabama at Birmingham. The
following year he earned his Masters in Health Administration from the same
university.

Jones said out of graduate school he found employment with Baptist Health
Systems in Birmingham. When he left, he was the Chief Operating Officer for two
of their hospitals at the same time. He then worked for Mobile Infirmary Medical
Center and Resurgence Health Group, at separate times. At both facilities he
served as CEO.

He was the Executive Director of Adams Management Services Corporation for five
years prior to coming to Highland. Jones was hired by Forrest General Hospital
in June of 2009 to serve as the Interim Administrator for Highland Community
Hospital in Picayune.

Stockstill is a Picayune native who worked with the Pearl River County Sheriff's
Department as a dispatcher for four years in the early 1980s. He changed
professions to work in EMS, and then decided to attend nursing school at Pearl
River Community College, graduating with honors.

He went on to work in a New Orleans emergency room after graduation, flight care
and an intensive care unit.

Before moving into nursing, he enlisted in the U.S. Army Reserve. He was given
commission as an officer in the Army Reserve after graduation and sent to flight
school for aerospace medicine.

The previous five years of his medical career were spent at Slidell Memorial
Hospital as its Chief Nursing Officer.

After Hurricane Katrina, he not only worked as the Chief Nursing Officer but was
also given the duty of working to establish the hospital's Cancer Center.

"You never relinquish responsibility in this business," Stockstill said.

Recently he felt the urge to return to his hometown and better the community.
That urge prompted him to apply for the position of Chief Operating Officer at
Highland, which he filled in October of 2009.

While in his new position, he plans to better the services provided at the
hospital by working to have employees that enjoy what they do.

"If you have a nurse that feels good about their profession, they're going to
put that much more into it," Stockstill said.

To that end, Stockstill will employ the difference between management and
leadership. In management people are instructed to do things they might not want
to, but in leadership the goal is to lead people to want to do what is needed.

Annually there are about 100,000 deaths nationwide due to medical mistakes,
Stockstill said. He said he will work with Highland's staff to avoid such
incidents.

Last year the hospital worked to lower the rate of people who leave the
emergency room without getting the medical attention they need due to long
waits. The average rate of people leaving without being seen has been 6 percent
at Highland, Stockstill said. In 2009, the staff was able to bring that figure
down to 3 percent. Stockstill said the national average is 2 percent.

The hospital was able to achieve that reduction by gathering all the hospital's
staff and looking at each piece of the puzzle to get rid of procedural clutter
and put processes in place to reduce emergency room wait time. The average wait
for care in the emergency room used to be of an hour, but now has been reduced
to an average of 40 minutes, Stockstill said.

Stockstill and Jones both said their aim is to fix any procedural deficiencies
at the current location before the new hospital is built.

"We don't want to take broken processes to a new hospital," Jones said.

Stockstill said he also wants to improve the community's opinion of the hospital
and work towards the hospital being a community partner by forming relationships
with the community.

Jones said the new hospital is on track for construction. Design and development
of plans for the hospital should be completed by April. Forrest General's board
is expected to travel to Wall Street in March to get ratings for a bond issue.

Construction of one of two medical buildings will begin before construction of
the hospital. When complete, the hospital will have 60 beds, 49 for regular
hospital care and 11 for observation, Jones said. If needed in the future the
hospital can expand to 120 beds.

Jones estimates that construction of the hospital will begin in October of this
year, with completion expected by April 2012. He expects, if all time frames
work out, to move all hospital services to the new location by at least June
2012 and begin operations in the new facility by July of that year. Jones said
the current facility belongs to Southern Regional Corporation and that company
will decide what becomes of it after Highland moves out.

Other future plans include recruiting up to 20 primary care physicians to the
Picayune area. Jones said the hospital is working to recruit five new physicians
to the area, but that will take some time.

To see more of the Picayune Item or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.picayuneitem.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Picayune Item, Miss.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100204-YP-Jones-Stockstill-take-over-key-hospital-positions-0204

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YP


                                 Copyright 2010


                              345 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday

Massachusetts Legislators OK Governor's $1.47B Budget

BYLINE: Michelle Kaske

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34 Vol. 359 No. 32594

LENGTH: 385  words


Massachusetts' lawmakers yesterday approved Gov. Deval Patrick's $1.47

billion bond bill for fiscal 2007.

The legislature aims to return the bill to Patrick for his signature

before the April 1 deadline when lawmakers will present to local governments

how much they will receive from the roughly $60 million of additional state

aid.

Although the House will need to act on further procedural votes, the

action allows the Senate to take up the bond bill immediately, with the bill

potentially reaching Patrick's desk today, according to Jim Isenberg,

spokesman for Robert DeLeo, D-Suffolk, chair of the House Ways and Means

Committee.

"Once the Senate engrosses it, that means both Houses have essentially

passed the bill, then we have to go through a couple of these procedural

votes which can and probably will happen [today] and then it can go to the

governor," Isenberg said.

Officials say the legislation is an immediate-needs bond bill that will

help secure $985.6 million of matching federal grant money that Massachusetts

will lose if the state does not authorize borrowing. The bill calls for the

state to borrow roughly $869 million overall for highways, local road and

bridges, along with $250 million for a psychiatric hospital in Worcester,

$125 million for critical repairs to state buildings, higher educational

institutions and other facilities, $100 million for mass transit

improvements, and $94.4 million for information-technology upgrades, among

other projects.

Murray plans on taking up the bond bill today, according to spokeswoman

Samantha Dallaire.

A previous bond bill filed by the former Gov. Mitt Romney for the current

fiscal year died in the Legislature when both the House and the Senate failed

to pass the revised $1.2 billion bond bill by the July 31 midnight deadline.

While Patrick's $1.47 billion capital plan is larger than the previous

bond bill, it includes transportation projects that the administration

usually drafts in a separate bond bill.

Separately, Therese Murray, D-Plymouth and Barnstable, became the first

female Senate president in the state's history. Murray, who is also chair of

the Senate Ways and Means Committee, is replacing former Senate President

Robert Travaglini, who is leaving public office to pursue a career in the

private sector.

http://www.bondbuyer.com http://www.sourcemedia.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: b


                        Copyright 2007 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   Herald Sun

                             July 5, 1995 Wednesday

DOCTORS WARN OF RURAL BIRTHS CRISIS

BYLINE: EDMUNDS M

LENGTH: 291 words


SOARING medical insurance premiums are forcing country GPs to stop delivering
babies, a doctors' group says.The Rural Doctors Association said a $3900 premium
rise for procedural GPs (who practice surgery obstetrics and anaesthetics) would
aggravate the critical lack of obstetric care in rural areas. Association
president Dr Mark Robinson said premiums had leapt from $1600 last year to $5500
on July 1 for GPs who delivered babies."If they choose to stop performing
obstetric work they only pay the $1600 non-procedural GP premium, which is an
attractive option because obstetric work is not profitable anyway," he said.Dr
Robinson said most procedural GPs worked in rural areas and their services were
vital."There are not a lot of specialist obstetricians in country Victoria and
they are already overworked," he said.He wants the State Government to pay all
or part of the premium for rural doctors, as the NSW Government does, so they do
not give up obstetrics.Dr Trevor Mudge, federal secretary of the National
Association of Specialist Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, said the Medicare
rebate was the real problem.He said law suits against gynaecologists and
obstetricians had increased after courts awarded several multi-million-dollar
payouts for negligence during delivery."It's not worth doing obstetrics because
the rebate is too low and that has created a rural crisis," Dr Mudge
said.Director of medical services at Goulburn Valley Base Hospital Dr Andrew
Perrignon said the hospital flew obstetricians in from Sydney because of a local
shortage.A spokesman for Health Minister Marie Tehan said the minister was
considering a Department of Health and Community Services report on the
matter.END OF STORY

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -KEYS- -LIB- -SECT- NEWS

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 1995 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              347 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. John's Telegram (Newfoundland)

                            November 12, 2004 Friday

Doctors now offer less services: report

BYLINE: Stokes Sullivan, Deana

SECTION: METRO/PROVINCIAL NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 833  words


Family doctors in Canada are offering fewer services than they did a decade ago,
but those remaining active in clinical practice areas - such as obstetrics and
hospital inpatient care - tend to have increased workloads, according to a
report released this week by the Canadian Institute for Health Information
(CIHI).

As an example, the number of family physicians delivering babies dropped to 16
per cent in 2001 from 28 per cent in 1992, while the number of obstetrical
services offered by family physicians still providing these services increased
by 33 per cent.

In urban areas, the average number of obstetrical services offered by female
physicians showed an even sharper increase - 60 per cent between 1992 and 2001.

The report, titled The Evolving Role of Canada's Family Physicians: 1992-2001,
looks at activity levels in clinical areas traditionally identified as part of a
family physician's domain, including delivering babies, anesthesia, helping in
the operating room, and advanced procedural skills, such as setting broken
bones.

The primary source of information for the study was the CIHI's national
physician database, which contains fee-for-service claims data provided by
provincial and territorial medical service plan administrative systems.

"Traditionally, Canadians are used to their family physicians offering a wide
range of medical services," said Dr. Joshua Tepper, a practicing rural physician
and co-author of the study.

"The practice of medicine in this country has changed in the context of our
evolving health-care system. In the past decade, we have seen major changes in
medical training and licensing, regionalization, amalgamation, changes in
hospital care, primary health-care reform and an aging population with growing
needs."

The only area where an overall increase was noted in the participation levels of
family physicians was mental health.

The number of family doctors providing mental health services increased to 85
per cent in 2001, from 82 per cent in 1992.

Meanwhile, the average number of mental health-related billings increased by 12
per cent for the same period.

The report data also shows differences in the way male and female family doctors
work.

In 2001, male family physicians provided 46 per cent more office- assessment
services than female doctors, and twice as many advanced procedural skills
services.

Overall, office-assessment services account for about two-thirds of all services
provided by family doctors.

The rates of family physician participation in surgical services, surgical
assistance, anesthesia and obstetrical care declined by 32, 31, 28 and 43 per
cent, respectively, between 1992 and 2001.

The number of services provided in a hospital setting also declined.

A decreasing percentage of family physicians participated in hospital inpatient
care - 71 per cent in 1992, compared to 62 per cent in 2001 - while the average
number of hospital visits dropped by 8 per cent.

Rural family physicians had higher rates of participation in most clinical
areas, including surgical services, basic procedures, advanced procedures and
anesthesia, while mid-sized communities had the highest participation in
surgical assistance services and hospital inpatient care.

"The way family doctors work is influenced by many factors, including trying to
achieve better home/work life balance," said Steve Slade, a CIHI consultant on
physician databases and the study's co-author.

"Whether we are looking at the physician work force by age group, by gender or
by geographical location, we see differences.

"These trends can help us better understand how to plan for meeting the health
needs of Canadians."

A recent national physician survey, released by the College of Family Physicians
of Canada, the Canadian Medical Association and The Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada, also identified shifts in health-care practices which
these organizations cautioned could lead to "an alarming state in physician
supply and access to care unless adequate policies are put in place by all
levels of government."

The survey found that 60 per cent of family physicians are either limiting the
number of new patients they see or are not taking new patients at all.

Tough to find a new doctor

Almost half of the physicians surveyed, under the age of 35, said their
practices are either partially or completely closed to new patients.

The Newfoundland and Labrador Medical Association (NLMA) has noticed the same
trend in this province.

NLMA president Dr. Andrew Major said it's more common that newer medical
graduates see fewer patients and spend fewer hours providing patient care than
doctors did in the past.

"There are definitely lifestyle changes in the way medicine is practised in
general," said Major, who also pointed out the study indicated that 45 per cent
of physicians were approaching burnout.

According to the study, female physicians work fewer hours than their male
colleagues, mainly because of additional family responsibilities.

dss@thetelegram.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          November 25, 2015 Wednesday

Regulatory update: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission;PHILADELPHIA GAS WORKS
, has submitted -Petition- (P-2014-2459362)

LENGTH: 3142 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission has issued the following
document (case):







 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 Page

 I. INTRODUCTION AND STATEMENT OF THE CASE
...................................................1

 II. PROCEDURAL HISTORY
................................................................................
.................1

 III. LEGAL STANDARDS
................................................................................
.......................2

 IV. CONTINUATION OF DSM PLAN
................................................................................
....3

 V. PROPOSED NON-LIURP PROGRAMS
...........................................................................3

 VI. DSM COST RECOVERY MECHANISMS
.......................................................................3

 A. Summary of Briefing Party's Position
.................................................................... 3

 B. Recovery through Universal Service Charge ("USC") and Efficiency

 Cost Recovery Surcharge ("ECRS")
....................................................................... 4

 VII. PGW'S PROPOSED TWO NEW COST ELEMENTS FOR ECRS
...................................5

 A. Summary of Briefing Party's Position
.................................................................... 5

 B. Conservation Adjustment Mechanism ("CAM")
.................................................... 5

 C. Performance Incentives
................................................................................
........... 6

 VIII. DSM II BUDGET
................................................................................
................................6

 IX. CRP HOME COMFORT PROGRAM (LIURP)
.................................................................6

 X. OTHER ISSUES
................................................................................
..................................6

 A. Summary of Briefing Party's Position
.................................................................... 6

 B. PGW Should Submit The Plan For Its Proposed Online Platform To The

 Parties To Ensure Privacy Issues Are Appropriately Addressed.
........................... 7

 XI. CONCLUSION
................................................................................
....................................8

 APPENDIX A - PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

 APPENDIX B - PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW



 BEFORE THE

 PENNSYLVANIA PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION

 Petition of Philadelphia Gas Works for :



 Approval of Demand-Side Management :

 Plan for FY 2016-2020, and Philadelphia : Docket No. P-2014-2459362

 Gas Works Universal Service and Energy :

 Conservation Plan for 2014-2016, :

 52 Pa. Code &sect; 62.4 - Request for Waivers :

 MAIN BRIEF OF THE

 PHILADELPHIA INDUSTRIAL AND

 COMMERCIAL GAS USERS GROUP

 Aria Health

 Einstein Healthcare Network

 Magee Rehabilitation Hospital

 Thomas Jefferson University

 Thomas Jefferson University Hospitals, Inc.

 Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine

 Charis Mincavage (Pa. I.D. 82039)

 Adeolu A. Bakare (Pa. I.D. 208541)

 Elizabeth Trinkle (Pa. I.D. 313763)

 100 Pine Street

 P.O. Box 1166

 Harrisburg, PA 17108-1166

 Phone: (717) 232-8000

 Fax: (717) 237-5300

 cmincavage@mwn.com

 abakare@mwn.com

 etrinkle@mwn.com

 Counsel to the Philadelphia Industrial and

 Commercial Gas Users Group

 Dated: November 19, 2015

 I. INTRODUCTION AND STATEMENT OF THE CASE

 The Philadelphia Industrial and Commercial Gas Users Group ("PICGUG")1 hereby
files

 this Main Brief in response to Philadelphia Gas Works ("PGW" or "Company")
Petition for

 Approval of Demand-Side Management Plan for FY 2016-2020 ("2016 DSM Plan").
Petition of

 Philadelphia Gas Works for Approval of Demand-Side Management Plan for FY
2016-2020,

 Docket No. P-2014-2459362 (Dec. 23, 2014) (hereinafter, "Petition"). As set
forth below,

 PICGUG requests that the Commission approve the Company's proposed cost
allocation

 methodology, deny the additional cost components for the 2016 DSM Plan, and
condition any

 approval of the Company's proposed commercial data uploading tool upon an
opt-in

 participation structure.

 II. PROCEDURAL HISTORY

 PGW filed its Petition seeking approval of the 2016 DSM Plan on December 23,
2014.

 On January 12, 2015, the Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement ("I&E") filed
an Answer to

 PGW's Petition and the Office of Consumer Advocate ("OCA") filed a Notice of
Intervention,

 Public Statement and an Answer. Also on January 12, 2015, the Coalition for
Affordable Utility

 Services and Energy Efficiency in Pennsylvania ("CAUSE-PA") filed a Petition to
Intervene and

 Answer.

 On January 13, 2015, the Tenant Union Representative Network and Action
Alliance of

 Senior Citizens of Greater Philadelphia ("TURN") filed a Petition to Intervene.
On the same

 day, the Office of Small Business Advocate ("OSBA") filed a Notice of
Intervention and Public

 Statement. PICGUG also filed a Petition to Intervene on January 13, 2015.
Finally, the Clean

 Air Council ("CAC") filed a Petition to Intervene on January 16, 2015.

 1 PICGUG's compilation is listed on the cover page of this Main Brief.

 2

 A Prehearing Conference was held on February 17, 2015, before Administrative
Law

 Judges ("ALJs") Christopher P. Pell and Marta Guhl, during which PICGUG's
Petition to

 Intervene was granted and the procedural schedule was set.

 On April 10, 2015, PGW filed with the Commission a Petition for a limited
extension of

 its initial DSM plan, which expired on August 31, 2015,2 for an interim period
from

 September 1, 2015, through either: (1) August 31, 2016; or (2) upon the
effective date of a

 compliance plan filed in response to a final Commission order in this
proceeding, whichever is

 earlier ("DSM Bridge Plan"). The Commission entered an Order on May 7, 2015,
approving

 PGW's DSM Bridge Plan.

 PICGUG received the Company's Direct Testimony on May 4, 2015. Pursuant to the

 procedural schedule, on June 23, 2015, PICGUG received Direct Testimony from
the following

 parties: OCA, OSBA, I&E, and CAUSE-PA. On July 21, 2015, PICGUG received
Rebuttal

 Testimony from the Company, OCA, OSBA, and CAUSE-PA. On August 5, 2015, PICGUG

 received Surrebuttal Testimony from the Company, OCA, OSBA, I&E, and CAUSE-PA.

 PICGUG received PGW's Supplemental Testimony on October 20, 2015, and PGW's
Rejoinder

 Testimony on October 22, 2015.

 The ALJs presided over a telephonic hearing on October 28, 2015, during which
all

 testimony and exhibits were admitted into the record, without objection,
including PICGUG

 Exhibit No. 1. Pursuant to the procedural schedule, PICGUG submits this Main
Brief.

 III. LEGAL STANDARDS

 Section 332(a) of the Public Utility Code, 66 Pa. C.S. &sect; 332(a), provides
that the

 proponent of a rule or order has the burden of proof. As the proponent of a
rule or order, in this

 2 See Petition for Approval of Energy Conservation and Demand-Side Management
Plan, Order, Docket No. P-

 2009-2097639 (July 2010) (hereinafter "Initial DSM Plan")

 3

 instance an order seeking approval of a second DSM Plan, PGW bears the burden
of proof in this

 proceeding and, therefore, the duty to establish facts by a "preponderance of
the evidence." Se-

 Ling Hosiery, Inc. v. Margulies, 70 A.2d 854 (Pa. 1950); Samuel J. Lansberry,
Inc. v. Pa. P. U.

 C., 578 A.2d 600 (Pa. Cmwlth. 1990). Additionally, any finding of fact
necessary to support the

 Commission's adjudication must be based upon substantial evidence. 2 Pa. C.S.
&sect;704; Mill v.

 Pa. P. U. C., 447 A.2d 1100 (Pa. Cmwlth. 1982); Edan Transportation Corp. v.
Pa. P.U.C., 623

 A.2d 6 (Pa. Cmwlth. 1993). More is required than a mere trace of evidence or a
suspicion of the

 existence of a fact sought to be established. Norfolk and Western Ry. v. Pa. P.
U. C., 413 A.2d

 1037 (Pa. 1980); Erie Resistor Corp. v. Unemployment Compensation Bd. of
Review, 166 A.2d

 96 (Pa. Super. 1960); Murphy v. Commonwealth, Dept. of Public Welfare, White
Haven Center,

 480 A.2d 382 (Pa. Cmwlth. 1984).

 IV. CONTINUATION OF DSM PLAN

 PICGUG has no position on this issue.3

 V. PROPOSED NON-LIURP PROGRAMS

 PICGUG has no position on this issue.

 VI. DSM COST RECOVERY MECHANISMS

 A. Summary of Briefing Party's Position

 PGW's 2016 DSM Plan addresses cost allocation matters impacting PICGUG's
members.

 As clarified by discovery propounded by PICGUG and admitted to the record as
PICGUG

 Exhibit No. 1, PGW proposes to allocate 2016 DSM costs only to firm sales and
transportation

 customers, exempting interruptible transportation consumers from any rate
increases. See

 PICGUG Exhibit No. 1, p. 2. PICGUG recommends that the Commission approve PGW's


 3 PICGUG has not commented on every issue raised in this proceeding, but
silence on any particular issue shall not

 be construed as support for positions advanced by other parties.

 4

 proposal to allocate costs to firm customers only, as this proposal complies
with cost causation

 requirements.

 B. Recovery through Universal Service Charge ("USC") and Efficiency Cost

 Recovery Surcharge ("ECRS")

 PGW's 2016 DSM Plan proposes to maintain the cost allocation structure approved
as

 part of the Initial DSM Plan. Specifically, PGW projects to incur $25 million
in 2016 DSM Plan

 costs and recover such costs through the ECRS and USC, each of which are
recovered from only

 PGW firm sales and transportation customers. Petition, p. 4. PICGUG supports
the Company's

 proposal to continue allocating costs in a manner reflective of cost causation
principles.

 Regarding cost allocation, PGW proposes to continue recovering DSM charges from
Rate

 General Service ("GS") Residential, Rate GS Commercial, Rate GS Industrial, and
Rate

 Philadelphia Housing Authority ("PHA"). Petition, pp. 18-19; see also PGW
Statement No. 2,

 Direct Testimony of Elliott Gold ("PGW Statement No. 2"), p. 12. Moreover, as
clarified in

 PICGUG Exhibit No. 1, p. 1, Rate GS Industrial includes both firm sales and
firm transportation

 customers. PICGUG Exhibit No. 1, p. 1. As a result, all customers receiving
service under Rate

 GS Industrial would be allocated DSM charges. See id. Conversely, for customers
receiving

 Interruptible Transportation ("IT") service, PGW serves these customers via
Rate IT, which is

 exempt from DSM charges.4

 This cost allocation methodology is consistent with cost causation principles.
Under the

 proposed 2016 DSM Plan, PGW will offer programs benefitting firm sales and
transportation

 customers, but these programs would be unavailable to IT customers. See
Petition, Appendix B,

 p. 36 (listing rate classes expected to benefit from the 2016 DSM Plan).
Accordingly, PGW will

 4 PICGUG's discovery also confirmed that legacy customers served on Rate
General Transportation Service ("GTS")

 are exempt from DSM charges. See PICGUG Exhibit No. 1, p. 2.

 5

 recover costs of the 2016 DSM Plan solely from firm sales and transportation
customers, as these

 are the only customers eligible to take advantage of these programs. See id.
(listing rate classes

 subject to DSM charges).

 Because PGW's proposed cost allocation proposal for its 2016 DSM Plan only
assigns

 costs to those customer classes for whom the benefits of the DSM programs are
available,

 PGW's proposed cost allocation appropriately adheres to cost causation
principals. Accordingly,

 PICGUG supports PGW's cost allocation proposal for the 2016 DSM Plan.

 VII. PGW'S PROPOSED TWO NEW COST ELEMENTS FOR ECRS

 A. Summary of Briefing Party's Position

 The 2016 DSM Plan proposes two new cost recovery mechanisms: (1) a Conservation


 Adjustment Mechanism ("CAM") for recovery of lost margins from
conservation-based sales

 reductions; and (2) performance incentives for "achieving and surpassing
targeted program

 goals." See Petition, pp. 5-6. As discussed below, PICGUG opposes the
additional cost

 components proposed for the 2016 DSM Plan because the mechanisms would provide
financial

 windfalls for PGW at the expense of ratepayers.

 B. Conservation Adjustment Mechanism ("CAM")

 PICGUG does not support PGW's proposals to implement the CAM, which would allow


 PGW to recover lost margins associated with reduced gas usage resulting from
the DSM

 programs. Petition, pp. 19-20. PICGUG concurs with testimony offered by the OCA
and OSBA

 averring that the CAM constitutes detrimental single-issue ratemaking, is
inconsistent with

 Energy Efficiency and Conservation ("EE&C") plans approved under Act 129 of
2008 for

 Electric Distribution Companies ("EDCs"), and should not be approved as part of
the 2016 DSM

 Plan. See OCA Statement No. 1, Direct Testimony of Geoffrey C. Crandall ("OCA
Statement

 No. 1") OCA Statement No. 1, pp. 4-5, 17; OSBA Statement No. 1, Direct
Testimony of Robert

 6

 D. Knecht ("OSBA Statement No. 1"), p. 9. For these reasons, the Commission
should deny the

 Company's request to implement the CAM.

 C. Performance Incentives

 As with the CAM, PICGUG opposes PGW's proposal to implement a performance

 incentive mechanism. The proposed performance incentive mechanism would
compensate PGW

 for meeting or exceeding conservation benchmarks. Petition, p. 23. PICGUG
concurs with

 testimony offered by the OCA and OSBA averring that the performance incentive
mechanisms

 proposed by the Company would generate unnecessary revenue for the Company at
the expense

 of ratepayers and should not be approved as part of the 2016 DSM Plan. See OCA
Statement

 No. 1, p. 17; OSBA Statement No. 1, p. 12. As such, the Commission should deny
the proposed

 performance incentive mechanism.

 VIII. DSM II BUDGET

 PICGUG has no position on this issue.

 IX. CRP HOME COMFORT PROGRAM (LIURP)

 PICGUG has no position on this issue.

 X. OTHER ISSUES

 A. Summary of Briefing Party's Position

 During this proceeding, PICGUG raised concerns with PGW's proposal to implement
an

 online tool allowing Commercial and Industrial ("C&I") customers to track
natural gas usage

 data and upload such data to the United States Environmental Protection Agency
("EPA")

 Portfolio Manager program. To protect customers' privacy interests, PICGUG
recommends that

 the Commission require PGW to limit data uploads to customers that have
explicitly authorized

 such uploads.

 7

 B. PGW Should Submit The Plan For Its Proposed Online Platform To The

 Parties To Ensure Privacy Issues Are Appropriately Addressed.

 As part of its 2016 DSM proposal, PGW is seeking to implement a Commercial Data


 Uploading Tool ("Data Tool") that would not only permit C&I customers to track
natural gas

 data, but would also automatically upload these customers' usage data to the
EPA Portfolio

 Manager program. PGW Statement No. 2, p. 11. In response to discovery
propounded by

 PICGUG, PGW confirmed that the Data Tool would be developed to store and
transmit monthly

 consumption volumes, bill amounts, and read types. See PICGUG Exhibit No. 1, p.
4. PGW

 also noted that the software costs would be subsumed within the proposed DSM
budget and

 allocated among customers as an administrative expense. See id. In addition,
PGW affirmed

 that customer data will not be uploaded onto the Data Tool without customer
authorization. See

 id.

 Consistent with the Company's representation, the Commission should condition

 approval of the Data Tool upon compliance with the "opt-in" structure outlined
by PGW in

 response to PICGUG Interrogatory I-1(d). See id. Requiring interested customers
to explicitly

 authorize participation in the Data Tool ensures that customers concerned with
data security are

 not unnecessarily exposed to unauthorized data transmissions.

 8

 XI. CONCLUSION

 WHEREFORE, the Philadelphia Industrial and Commercial Gas Users Group

 respectfully requests that the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission:

 (1) approve PGW's proposal to allocate costs of the 2016 DSM Plan to firm

 customers only;

 (2) deny the Company's proposed CAM and performance incentives mechanism; and

 (3) condition any approval of PGW's proposed commercial data uploading tool on
a

 requirement that the data uploads remain limited to customers that have
provided

 explicit customer authorization.

 Respectfully submitted,

 McNEES WALLACE & NURICK LLC

 By

 Charis Mincavage (Pa. I.D. 82039)

 Adeolu A. Bakare (Pa. I.D. 208541)

 Elizabeth Trinkle (Pa. I.D. 313763)

 100 Pine Street

 P. O. Box 1166

 Harrisburg, PA 17108-1166

 Phone: (717) 232-8000

 Fax: (717) 237-5300

 cmincavage@mwn.com

 abakare@mwn.com

 etrinkle@mwn.com

 Counsel to the Philadelphia Industrial and

 Commercial Gas Users Group

 Dated: November 19, 2015

 9

 APPENDIX A

 PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

 1. PGW plans to recover $25 million in 2016 DSM Plan costs through the
Efficiency Cost

 Recovery Surcharge ("ECRS") and Universal Service Charge ("USC"), each of which
are

 recovered from only PGW's firm sales and transportation customers. See
Petition, p. 4.

 2. PGW will offer programs benefitting firm sales and transportation customers,
but will not

 offer such programs to interruptible transportation customers. See Petition,
Appendix B,

 p. 36 (listing rate classes expected to benefit from the 2016 DSM Plan).

 3. PGW will recover costs of the 2016 DSM Plan solely from firm sales and
transportation

 customers. See Petition, Appendix B, p. 36 (listing rate classes subject to DSM
charges).

 4. The proposed CAM would allow PGW to recover lost margins associated with
reduced

 gas usage resulting from the DSM programs. See Petition, pp. 19-20.

 5. The proposed performance incentive mechanism would compensate PGW for
achieving

 70% or more of its conservation target. See Petition, p. 23; OSBA Statement No.
1, p. 12.

 6. The proposed CAM would allow PGW to postpone base rate proceedings and

 comprehensive review of the Company's sales volumes, operating costs, and rate
levels.

 See OCA Statement No. 1, p. 9; OSBA Statement No. 1, p. 10.

 7. The General Assembly rejected lost revenue compensation for utilities
subject to Act

 129. See OCA Statement No. 1, p. 6.

 8. The proposed performance incentive would add to the cost of PGW's DSM
programs

 without producing commensurate benefits. See OCA Statement No. 1, p. 17.

 9. PGW proposes to implement a "commercial data uploading tool" that would not
only

 permit C&I customers to track natural gas data, but would also automatically
upload

 these customers' usage data to the EPA Portfolio Manager program. PGW Statement


 No. 2, p. 11.

 10. Costs for the proposed commercial data uploading tool will be subsumed
within the

 proposed DSM budget and allocated among customers as an administrative expense.
See

 PICGUG Exhibit No. 1, p. 4.

 11. Only data from customers that have provided PGW with explicit authorization
will be

 uploaded to the commercial data uploading tool. See PICGUG Exhibit No. 1, p. 4.


 10

 APPENDIX B

 PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 1. As the proponent of a Commission Order, PGW bears the burden of proof in
this

 proceeding. 66 Pa. C.S. &sect; 332(a).

 2. Any costs recovered for implementation of PGW's proposed Demand-Side
Management

 Plan must be just and reasonable. 66 Pa. C.S. &sect; 1301.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday

US Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania) Issues Solicitation
for "Cranial and Maxillofacial [#xfffd]Procedural Sets[#xfffd]"

LENGTH: 490  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations Officer has issued
requirement for "Cranial and Maxillofacial [#xfffd]Procedural Sets[#xfffd]"

Solicitation no. SPE2DE-15-R-0006

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date:
April 14, 2015
Response Date:
May 15, 2015 11:59 pm Eastern

Description: This is a sources sought notice.
The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing KLS Martin cranial and maxillofacial "procedural sets". These "
procedural sets"

include the following product mix; implants, instruments, auxiliary products,
biological products, distraction devices, biomaterials, power systems, sternal
products

and threadlock device systems. The product mix that makes up the "procedural
set" varies based on the individual needs of the patient. The instruments are
both "used"

during the surgery and return to the vendor or purchased by the hospital so they
are readily available on the shelves.
All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural sets" must be delivered
"Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery", and "Consignment". Under
"Just-In-Time" delivery, the

Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the manufacturer's field representative
who carries the products into the MTF just-in-time for the surgery. The
manufacturer's

sales representative may bring many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary
products to the surgery along with the instrumentation sets. Under "Direct
Vendor

Delivery" method an order for products is placed through ECAT and the product is
delivered directly to the customer via any transportation carrier. Under the

"Consignment" method, an MTF have the products that make up the "procedural set"
consigned to their facility.
At the request of the MTF, the manufacturer is required to have a qualified
representative on site at the MTF's within the timeframe specified by the
facility

necessary to meet their requirements. The manufacturer's representative provides
technical advice and guidance to the physician before, during, and after
implantation.

Furthermore, technical support is available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven
(7) days a week.
This is a request for information (RFI) and does not commit the U.S. Government
to issue a solicitation, make an award, or pay any costs associated with
responding to

this announcement. All submitted information shall remain with the U.S.
Government and will not be returned.
Your response to this Request for Information may be submitted electronically in
PDF format and emailed to john.r.jackson@dla.mil

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia,
 Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United States

Point of Contact(s): John R. Jackson,
 Acquisition Specialist john.r.jackson@dla.mil Phone: 2157370850

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 20, 2015 Friday

Association Between Public Reporting of Outcomes With Procedural Management and
Mortality for Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction

LENGTH: 152  words

DATELINE: Washington


American College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the following news release:

Public reporting of procedural outcomes may create disincentives to provide
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for critically ill patients.

Objectives  This study evaluated the association between public reporting with
procedural management and outcomes among patients with acute myocardial
infarction (AMI).

Methods  Using the Nationwide Inpatient Sample, we identified all patients with
a primary diagnosis of AMI in states with public reporting (Massachusetts and
New York) and regionally comparable states without public reporting
(Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont) between
2005 and 2011. Procedural management and in-hospital outcomes were stratified by
public reporting.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            March 22, 1997, Saturday

Horan backs legal protection for GPs

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: HAMMOND P

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 157 words


QUEENSLAND'S privately practising rural doctors will be given guarantees of long
term medico-legal indemnity protection in the latest bid to encourage them to
stay in the bush.

Health Minister Mike Horan will make his latest offer at the Rural Doctors
Association of Queensland's Gold Coast conference today.

"We are offering full indemnity for private doctors with private patients who
are in rural medicine doing procedural work," he said.

The indemnity meant doctors could abandon expensive medical defence insurance
and do their procedural work, including delivering babies, in public hospitals.

Mr Horan said he wanted to overcome rural doctors' reservations that a different
government could back out of the commitment in the future.

Outgoing RDA state president Shane Sondergeld said solving the "indemnity
crisis" was the priority for rural doctors, who were increasingly worried about
their future.

_ PHILIP HAMMOND

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              352 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          Nambour Weekly (Queensland)

                               December 15, 2010

Emergency wait will be reduced

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 491  words

Fast facts

 $520,000 emergency department redevelopment

Aimed at streamlining less urgent patients

Includes:

Five assessment areas

Two patient bays

Consultation room

Eye treatment room

NAMBOUR Hospital's emergency department waiting times should be reduced thanks
to a new fast-track area due to open on Monday.

The $520,000 project has seen the department's triage and waiting area totally
redesigned to treat high acuity patients more quickly and streamline less urgent
patients.

The department will have five fast-track assessment areas, staffed by a doctor,
nurse practitioner and senior nurse. It also includes an eye treatment room,
additional consultation room and two patient bays.

Emergency department acting nurse unit manager Rob McDonald said the
redevelopment would allow medical staff to quickly assess and treat waiting room
patients.

"They can then be moved on to the next stage of care, whether that's undergoing
further tests or treatment, being admitted, going home or transferring back to
their GP," Mr McDonald said.

"Patients will always be seen on a priority basis meaning the sickest patients
will be seen first, however, every patient who presents is important."

He said better signage and more a more open environment would make it easier for
staff and patients to communicate.

Mr McDonald said a dedicated paediatric unit would also be established in the
emergency department.

Decorated in bright colours, it will be staffed by nurses trained in paediatric
care.

"We recognise the need for children not to be exposed to some of the things that
happen in the emergency department, hence this separate unit," he said.

The paediatric project is funded by the hospital's health foundation, Wishlist,
and is due for completion in the new year.

About 35,000 people attend Nambour Hospital's busy emergency department each
year, more than 9000 in the three months to September alone.

In September, 48% of category four patients were seen within the national
benchmark of 60 minutes, the average wait being 89 minutes.

About 80% of category five patients were seen within the national benchmark
guidelines of 120 minutes averaging a 72 minute wait time.

The emergency department redesign follows the opening of the $150 million 96-bed
ward block at Nambour Hospital in August.

The redevelopment included an expanded specialist outpatient's clinic, acute
geriatrics, acute stroke/neurology and acute medicine, new antenatal and
paediatric clinics and a special care nursery. As well as the redesigned
emergency department, new works being undertaken in the old ward block include a
new 12-bed medical assessment planning unit and expanded medical imaging,
pathology and pharmacy services.

Construction of a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, a vascular procedural
suite and new dedicated endoscopy procedural unit will offer services in late
2011.

All areas are expected to be operational in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SNW


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 2, 2017 Thursday

New York: State University of New York (SUNY) Issues Solicitation for "Cellex
Procedural Kits, Methoxsalen (Uvadex) and related items"

LENGTH: 194  words

DATELINE: New York



 Albany: State University of New York (SUNY) has issued requirement for "Cellex
Procedural Kits, Methoxsalen (Uvadex) and related items"



 Reference No.: 16/17-098



 Solicitation Type: General



 Description: This procurement is subject to NYS Finance Law §139 j&k, AKA the
Lobbying Law. Therefore, vendors are cautioned that the only permissible contact
for this procurement is the individual listed below. Failure to comply with this
requirement can range from no contract to debarment from sales to any NYS
Agency. Successful contractor shall be required to complete and submit documents
related to Vendor Responsibility, NYS Finance Law 139, NYS Tax Law Section 5-a,
and valid/current NYS Workers' Compensation and Disability Forms.





 Deadline for All responses: 02/03/2017



 Contact Information:



 State University of New York (SUNY)

 SUNY Stony Brook University Hospital

 Hospital Purchasing

 Robert Meyn

 Sr Procurement Officer

 2000 Ocean Avenue

 Suite 1

 Ronkonkoma, NY 11779

 United States

 Ph: 631-444-4068

 Fax: 631-706-4211

 Robert.Meyn@stonybrook.edu



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Record (Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

IN BRIEF

BYLINE: Record news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 528 words


OTTAWA

NDP manage to delay vote

on federal crime bill

Procedural tactics by the NDP in the House of Commons have managed to postpone a
final vote on the Conservative government's omnibus crime bill. The stalling
tactics mean Wednesday evening's vote likely won't take place until early next
week - a perhaps fitting endgame for a bill that has attracted no end of
partisan acrimony in Parliament. Justice Minister Rob Nicholson accused New
Democrats of being more interested in procedural games than what he called doing
the right thing for Canadians.

VANCOUVER

RCMP searching for suspect

in Tamil migrants case

The RCMP have launched an international manhunt for the first person charged in
connection with a ship that brought hundreds of Tamil migrants to Canada's West
Coast a year and a half ago. Thayakaran Markandu has been charged with
organizing illegal entry into Canada, the RCMP announced Wednesday. The charge
relates to the MV Sun Sea, which arrived in August 2010 carrying 492 Tamil
migrants. Markandu, who was born in 1972 according to court records, is
currently believed to be living abroad, although Mounties haven't confirmed
where, said Sgt. Duncan Pound.

TORONTO

Man arrested after passersby foil attempted child abduction

Toronto police say members of the public intervened in the attempted abduction
of a 10-year-old boy. Police say the boy was walking along King Street West near
Cowan Avenue on Tuesday evening when a man grabbed him from behind and tried to
drag him across the street. The boy struggled, broke free and fell to the
ground. Police say people who saw what happened came to the boy's aid. The man
fled but police say an arrest was made a short distance away.

WINNIPEG

Inquest sought into slaughter

of caribou for antlers

Aboriginal leaders are calling for an investigation into the slaughter of almost
three dozen caribou along a Manitoba winter road. A northern chief discovered
the bloody carcasses of 30 animals near Lynn Lake, Man. Their antlers had been
removed, but the meat and hide were left to rot. Grand Chief David Harper, who
represents northern First Nations, says the slaughter is a huge waste. He says
aboriginal hunters would never have done such a thing because First Nations use
every part of the animal. The chiefs are also calling for more provincial
patrols on winter roads to prevent something similar from happening again.

TORONTO

Construction magnate donates $40 million to Sick Kids hospital

The founder of a company that has built thousands of homes in Canada and the
United States has donated $40 million to the Hospital for Sick Children in
Toronto. The donation by philanthropist Peter Gilgan, the CEO of Mattamy Homes,
is believed to be the largest single private gift to a children's hospital in
Canada. The hospital announced the donation Wednesday, and says it will go
toward the construction and operating costs of the SickKids Centre for Research
and Learning. The $400-million facility is currently under construction in
downtown Toronto, and is slated to open in August 2013. The hospital says the
laboratory and learning facility will bring together 2,000 scientists, trainees
and research staff under one roof.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 15, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

OhioHealth Interventional Cardiologist First in Ohio to Use Newly-Approved
Device to Remove Calcified Coronary Lesions in High-Risk Patients

LENGTH: 447  words


July 15 -- OhioHealth interventional cardiologist Mitchell J. Silver, DO,
recently performed Ohio's first coronary atherectomy using the Diamondback 360
Coronary Orbital Atherectomy System, a vessel preparation treatment for severely
calcified coronary lesions developed by Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. and
FDA-cleared late last year.

"This is an exciting new device that allows us to safely remove calcified
lesions in coronary arteries before stent deployment," said Dr. Silver, who
performed the procedure with good initial results at OhioHealth Riverside
Methodist Hospital. "Calcification in the coronary arteries is difficult to
treat and translates into higher-risk stent procedures. This system enables us
to increase our procedural safety while ensuring optimal stent deployment in
these high-risk patients."

Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death for both men and women in
the United States. It's a condition that occurs when the arteries that supply
oxygen-rich blood and nutrients to the heart muscle become narrowed or blocked
by a gradual build-up of plaque, which is made up of fatty deposits, white blood
cells, calcium, and scar tissue that collect in the coronary artery wall.

Calcified arterial plaque is a sign of advanced coronary artery disease and
reduces the effectiveness of traditional treatments like angioplasty.
Angioplasty involves temporarily inserting and inflating a tiny balloon where
the artery is clogged to help widen the artery followed by the placement of a
small wire mesh tube called a stent to help prop the artery open and decrease
its chance of narrowing again. Because calcified plaque can be as hard as bones
and teeth, angioplasty cannot effectively widen clogged arteries when calcified
lesions are present.

The Diamondback system uses an electrically driven diamond-coated crown to
reduce the calcified lesions, widen the artery and enable successful stent
deployment.

The FDA granted approval for use of the Diamondback System on October 21, 2013.
The 30-day data from CSI's ORBIT II clinical study demonstrated that the
Diamondback 360 Coronary Orbital Atherectomy System technology produced clinical
outcomes that exceeded the trial's two primary endpoints (safety and efficacy)
by a significant margin.

At 30 days, ORBIT II results showed patient freedom from major adverse cardiac
events was 89.8 percent and procedural success was 89.1 percent. Excluding in-
hospital events, procedural success was 98.6 percent with 97.7 percent of stents
successfully delivered. Moreover, 92.8 percent of patients were free from severe
angiographic complications, and core lab assessed final procedure residual
stenosis was 4.7 percent.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            December 7, 2012 Friday

Philadelphia health system to improve procedural efficiency with SIS technology

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Technology and Devices

LENGTH: 261 words



HIGHLIGHT: Abington Health in Philadelphia, US, has chosen Surgical Information
Systems' (SIS) Perioperative IT technology for improved patient care and
procedural efficiency.


Abington Health in Philadelphia, US, has chosen Surgical Information Systems'
(SIS) perioperative IT technology for improved patient care and procedural
efficiency.

The two-hospital health system will leverage the technology for optimising
operating room (OR) performance.

Abington nurse director of informatics Diane Humbrecht said the technology will
improve access to patient information at the point of care and increase the
efficiency of the OR.

"It gives us the ability to track important data from the OR; automate our
patient tracking to improve accuracy and efficiency; and fully integrate
information from the OR with our Allscripts enterprise record," Humbrecht added.

The SIS solution will implement a single perioperative record that includes
modules for surgery scheduling, including pre-admission testing (PAT) and
resource scheduling, nursing and anaesthesia documentation, rules-based bill
charging, advanced analytics, and patient tracking and communications.

The platform incorporates the AORN SYNTEGRITY Framework, which provides clinical
content that complements the SIS nursing documentation system with the
Perioperative Nursing Data Set (PNDS) third edition and standardised
documentation fields that guide patient-centred care, according to SIS.

SIS CEO Ed Daihl said the technology will help Abington in offering pertinent
information to regulatory bodies that monitor hospital quality and cost.

"The use of easily visible and highly integrated patient data within the OR
environment reduces costs and streamlines regulatory reporting," Daihl added.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1985, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                  March, 1985

                          Vol. 18, No. 3, HOSPLW Pg. 2

LENGTH: 355 words

TITLE: Peer review organization program implemented without meeting
requirements.

AUTHOR: Gregory M Luce, Washington, DC.

TEXT:

     The American Health Lawyers Association has filed a complaint with the US
District Court for the District of Columbia charging that the implementation of
the Peer Review Organization Program by the Department of Health and Human
Services was not done in accordance with the Peer Review Improvement Act and the
Administrative Procedure Act.

     Seeking declaratory judgment, injunctive relief and relief in the nature of
mandamus, the AHA asserted that it and its member hospitals have been and will
continue to be deprived of certain procedural and substantive rights by the
actions, practices and policies of the HHS in implementing provisions of the
Peer Review Organization Program without adhering to the rulemaking requirements
of the Administrative Procedure Act, in refusing the petition for rulemaking
previously submitted by the AHA, and in denying due process of law to the AHA
and its member hospitals.

     The AHA brought the action to vindicate the statutory right to reasonable
notice of and opportunity to comment upon regulations directly affecting AHA's
individual and collective interests.  The AHA stated that in several instances
published proposed rules governing the Utilization and Quality Control Peer
Review (PRO) Program have never been finalized; in still other cases, while a
final request for proposals was issued, responses to public comments received in
answer to a notice soliciting comments on the preliminary version of the Scope
of Work to be included in the RFP were never published.

     The AHA also charged that several transmittals, while never published in
the Federal Register in any form, drastically affect existing regulations
regarding the substantive and procedural rights of hospitals participating in
the Medicare program.  The provisions of the bulk of the transmittals have been
incorporated by reference in contracts with peer review organizations and have
been thereby imposed upon AHA member hospitals.

     Also, the Secretary issued certain PRO program directives that regulate and
affect material hospital interests.

REFERENCE: American Health Lawyers Association v Margaret Heckler et al, US
District Court, District of Columbia, January 29, 1985.  The American Academy of
Hospital Attorneys was formerly the American Society of Hospital Attorneys.


                              358 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                          September 22, 2005 Thursday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 1434 words


Bargaining power of doctors

Wake up Tasmania, you're being conned. The Tasmanian Government isn't the
culprit in the health sector.

The reason that the Royal Hobart Hospital is in difficulty is because of the
members of the medical profession and their trade union, the Australian Medical
Association.

Procedural medical specialists are the most avaricious, greedy and selfish group
in our community. Procedural specialists don't get out of bed for under a
million dollars a year.

When John Howard came to power in 1996 one of the first things he did was to put
up the chains around the gates of the medical faculties of our universities. He
did so at the behest of the AMA. Why?

Because restricting the numbers of doctors entering the profession has the
effect of increasing the bargaining power and incomes of doctors.

Not only did John Howard do so, but Fraser did it before him as did McMahon,
Gorton, Holt and Menzies.

The AMA has historically been the single greatest ally of the conservative side
of politics and the federal coalition has always done its bidding.

If there is a shortage of doctors at the Royal today then the blame lies
squarely at the feet of John Howard and his mates in the AMA.

Doctors use countless billions of dollars of publicly-owned infrastructure (our
hospitals) for their own personal profit, and they do so without contributing a
single cent for the privilege.

Doctors are also in the business of controlling the demand side of the health
sector.

Billions of dollars are spent every year on overservicing, unnecessary
procedures and new technologies that are as much about protecting doctors from
litigation as they are about serving the best interests of patients.

The only way we will ever solve the ongoing crisis in health will be by putting
the boot into the AMA and its members.

The old Soviet Union did a lot of things wrong, but they got one thing right. In
the USSR doctors' wages were pegged to the same level as bus drivers.

Richard Warwick

Lenah Valley

Expertise

In response to Christopher J. Ward (Letters, September 20), I am pleased that we
agree that there is a need for a new approach and new ideas for Clarence City
Council.

I know things can be better in Clarence and that is why I offer myself as a
candidate for mayor.

It has been a privilege to serve the people of Clarence as their alderman for
the past five years. During that time I've worked hard -- in a sensible and
professional manner -- to achieve best possible outcomes for the ratepayers.

Simply put, for an organisation to remain focused and vibrant, there is a need
for renewal at the top. It is now time for renewal in Clarence.

As the second largest council in Tasmania with an annual budget of $47 million
-- $38 million of which is raised in rates -- it is essential that those we
elect to manage the council have the necessary skills to perform this important
duty.

To Mr Ward and other electors in Clarence, I tender my experience and expertise
in business and government.

If we are to be truly serious about best outcomes for the city of Clarence, then
surely our mayor ought to be elected on the basis of their capacity to do the
job. Clarence ratepayers deserve the best.

Alderman Brendan Blomeley

Clarence City Council

Tassie team

I never thought I would see an AFL grand final that did not include a Melbourne
team. C'mon the Weagles!

But why does the AFL perpetuate a ground disadvantage? Surely the grand final
should be on the top qualifier's home ground to be fair to all sides and make
that top spot at the end of August worth fighting for.

Come on Melbourne, forget taking your marbles home if you miss out. Share the
occasion around so local fans can afford to see the grand final.

And as South Melbourne shifted to Sydney, surely a financially-troubled
Melbourne team could shift to Hobart and pick up local players who do well in
the seconds.

I was a foundation member of the Sydney Swans and saw them struggling in the
early years, but look at them fly now. So how about the Hobart Hawkes after
Hawthorn flies south?

A Tassie team should be a must for the AFL.

Can't the Tasmanian Government put some pressure and financial backing into it?

Murray Hunter

Auckland, New Zealand

Personal attack

When elected representatives may not, individually or collectively, express a
view about a community issue -- whether we agree with that view or not -- the
notion of representative democracy is diminished.

That is what Greg Barns contends in what appears to be just a personal attack on
Will Hodgman (The Mercury, September 19) dressed up as an insight into the minds
of investors and developers -- that it was wrong for the view to be expressed,
that it caused the demise of the project, that it will deter others who may wish
to invest, and that an elected political party should stay silent,
notwithstanding its function to represent its electors.

In my experience, developers are a little more robust than this.

The process of public debate and comment and the expression of opinion is not
the ultimate determinant of an investment decision at all.

The Opera House survived as a project despite adverse comment and political
opposition because it had merit.

The Ralphs Bay project did not survive because meritorious or not, the
developers did not have the mettle to persist.

That had nothing to do with Will Hodgman or the Liberals' comments.

That expression of view did not interfere with any process for the development
at all.

Gregory Geason

Hobart

HOT TOPIC PORTER HILL

The clash between public and private interest is before the community again in
relation to Porter Hill, and it seems to come down to a matter of money. The
community says the owners want too much and the owners say the community is too
mean.

Parliament has provided a solution: if the community really wants the site, let
the property be compulsorily acquired.

Then an independent umpire will decide on value. The result: the community will
have to pay, and the owners will have to accept, the value fixed independently.

That's a fair system.

Peter M. Roach

Sandy Bay

The people of Hobart as well as visitors from interstate and overseas sent in
more than 800 hand-written letters to the Hobart City Council, an unprecedented
number, urging Hobart City Council to save Porter Hill.

Aldermen voted unanimously on two occasions, deciding to purchase the land. The
Resource Planning and Development Commission had ruled that the Hobart planning
scheme be modified to rezone Porter Hill as "community bushland", a new type of
zoning. The Federal Government had offered the council financial assistance to
purchase Porter Hill as it was judged by the Department of Natural Heritage to
have high conservation value.

Other sections of land on the same hill face as Porter Hill have already been
purchased by council since the commission hearing and are now being managed by
council as the Bicentennial Park. This has enhanced the high conservation value
of Porter Hill.

Since the Supreme Court overturned the first ruling to rezone Porter Hill, the
RPDC and the landowners had agreed not to pursue the rezoning of Porter Hill as
the council was in the process of negotiating to purchase the land in order to
ensure that it be used as community bushland.

The negotiations now appear to have stalled. The owners appear to be placing
Porter Hill on the open market. If the land were sold, the new owners would be
able to lodge a development proposal which, under the present residential
zoning, could allow the area to be built over.

Alternatively, they may offer to sell the land to council at an even higher
price. Our precious Porter Hill could be lost as an important conservation and
recreation area to current and future generations.

If the State and Federal Governments assist the council at this stage, Porter
Hill can still become an extension to the Truganini Reserve, Cartwright Reserve
and Bicentennial Park.

Public pressure has been demonstrated more than adequately and council has shown
the political will to buy the land. All they need is some financial help.

Porter Hill is environmentally and visually the invaluable "bookend" to the
backdrop of Hobart, connecting the mountain to the sea. As such, its local as
well as state significance has been acknowledged even at a federal level. We
must save Porter Hill and the council needs help now.

We appeal to the State and Federal Governments to do the right thing for the
people of Hobart and of Tasmania.

Els Hayward

Dr W. C. Wakefield

Mt Stuart

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              359 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           February 23, 2017 Thursday

Multiple lapses led to nurse's death, finds AIIMS probe

BYLINE: Durgesh Nandan Jha

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 638 words


NEW DELHI: An AIIMS committee has identified several procedural lapses leading
to the death of a 28-year-old staffer in childbirth, raising serious questions
on the services offered at the country's most prestigious medical
institution.The victim, Rajbir Kaur, a nursing officer, was admitted on January
16 for normal delivery. The labour was progressing well till 5am the next day
when there was a sudden drop in fetal heart rate, necessitating emergency
surgery. The probe committee, headed by Dr S C Sharma of the ENT department,
found that an anesthesiologist was not present during the caesearean section
operation. Instead, the job was performed by a junior resident (JR) who neither
had the experience nor was trained enough to handle such a complicated
case.Sources said the JR gave general anesthesia to make Kaur completely
unconscious when most caesarean sections are done under spinal anesthesia.

He also intubated the patient improperly. Intubation is meant to maintain oxygen
level during surgery. However, in Kaur's case, "instead of trachea - the pipe
that connects the mouth to the lungs - the tube was inserted into the food
pipe", a source said.The child was stillborn and Kaur went into distress due to
aspiration - entry of stomach material into the respiratory tract. The nursing
officer also suffered a cardiac arrest. She was revived but then she remained in
coma for three weeks before being declared dead on February 4.The inquiry
committee also found that the consultant-on-call of obstetrics and gynaecology -
whose presence is mandatory - did not turn up for the emergency operation
despite being informed. She has been issued a show-cause notice by the hospital
while the senior resident (SR) of anesthesiology, who was on duty, has been
dismissed.A displeasure memorandum has been issued to the SR of gynaecology, who
can complete his medical training but will remain unemployable at AIIMS in
future. A warning has been issued to the JR of anesthesiology who prepared the
patient for surgery but later left under pressure from the residents of
obstetrics and gynaecology.Though instances of alleged medical negligence at
AIIMS are many, sources said, this is a rare case where institute has been
forced to accept negligence and take stern action. Also, for the first time,
institute has agreed to pay Rs 10 lakh as compensation to the next of kin of the
nursing officer and assured a job to a family member on compassionate grounds.Dr
K K Aggarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association, said the
responsibility of consultants too should be fixed in case of procedural failure.
"Residents cannot be blamed solely for such lapses," he said.V Srinivas, deputy
director (administration) at AIIMS, has ordered the head of anesthesiology to
ensure consultants from his department are available round-the-clock to oversee
and supervise anesthesiology services. The panel also directed the setting up of
a committee under the chairmanship of the hospital management to augment health
services to AIIMS employees.Two years ago, the son of an AIIMS employee had died
at the hospital during dengue treatment. Five senior residents tendered their
resignation after an inquiry report found lapses."Overall, we are satisfied with
the AIIMS decision. But a meeting is planned with Union health minister J P
Nadda to discuss certain issues," said Manish Behl, husband of Rajbir Kaur.TOI
was the first to report on Tuesday about possible action against doctors in the
medical negligence case."The lapses found in Kaur's case have dented AIIMS'
image as the most prestigious medical institution in the country. If this is how
the institute treats its own staff, god knows what happens in case of ordinary
citizens getting treatment," said a senior doctor at the institute.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                               May 8, 2017 Monday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

LENGTH: 403  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE17R0006

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: May 8, 2017

Description: Added: May 03, 2017 7:42 am Modified: May 08, 2017 8:01 amTrack
Changes
This is a sources sought notice.


The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing DePuy Synthes Joint Reconstruction Orthopedic Products for Hips,
Knees, Shoulders, Extremity and Other Joints Implant "procedural packages." The
"procedural package" includes Implants, Orthobiological products,
Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary Products. The product mix that makes up the "
procedural package" varies based on the individual needs of the patient. The
instruments are both "used" during the surgery and return to the vendor or
purchased by the hospital so they are readily available on the shelves.
All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural packages" must be delivered
"Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery", and "Consignment". Under
"Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the
manufacturer's field representative who carries the products into the MTF
just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales representative may bring
many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products to the surgery along
with the instrumentation sets. Under "Direct Vendor Delivery" method an order
for products is placed through ECAT and the product is delivered directly to the
customer via any transportation carrier. Under the "Consignment" method, an MTF
will have the products that make up the "procedural packages" consigned to their
facility.
At the request of the MTF, the manufacturer is required to have a qualified
representative on site at the MTF's within the timeframe specified by the
facility necessary to meet their requirements. The manufacturer's representative
provides technical advice and guidance to the physician before, during, and
after implantation. Furthermore, technical support is available twenty-four (24)
hours a day, seven (7) days a week.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): JOHN R JACKSON JOHN.R.JACKSON@DLA.MIL Phone: 2157370850


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Pakistan: Seminar underscores need for legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect
victims

LENGTH: 464  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 17 -- There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber

Crime law due to incidents against unassuming victims , recommended participants
of a seminar organised to celebrate 25th anniversary of WAR, the NGO working
against women.

Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour

on the occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Sharmila Farooqi
presided the session that attracted diverse segments of people, comprising
members of the Civil Society, representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers,
teachers, human rights activists.

Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in

the Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gang-rape, could be

reduced through "no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against
women.

They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and

implementation of all laws recently passed for women protection and

welfare.

Participants urged to empower the existent Women Police Stations and

increase their numbers in every district.

Moreover, medico- legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded

to be made operational in all major hospitals, including those in

private sector as Aga Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.

Mandatory DNA testing for all cases was also recommended besides

provision for DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.

They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state

prosecutors, judges, police officers, medico-legal officers and clerical

force in judiciary.

Guest of honour Mukhtaran Mai pleaded for speedy

trials to ensure prosecution of offenders of the heinous crime.

The Minister for Culture and Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising

the work of NGOs , reiterated the Government's

resolve to continue its work for the welfare of women.

The seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan

who reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in

the late 1980s.

The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &

Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh

Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint Act, but urged

the government to focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.

Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges

in context of medico-legal and the procedural obstructions hindering

disbursement of fair trial and justice to survivors. Going through her
experience as a past Director in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms

in the Medico-Legal Sector

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                         May 6, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Penn Study Finds Moderate Sedation More Effective than General Anesthesia for
TAVR Patients

LENGTH: 751  words


May 6 -- A new study finds the use of moderate sedation, in which patients do
not need a breathing tube, leads to better clinical outcomes as compared to
general anesthesia for patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve
replacement (TAVR). Researchers from the Perelman school of Medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania conducted the largest observational study of
minimally invasive transfemoral-entry through the groin-TAVR to find whether the
use of moderate sedation is associated with improved patient outcomes,
specifically evaluating 30-day mortality and length of hospital stays, as
compared to traditional general anesthesia. Their findings were presented today
as a late-breaking clinical trial at the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography
and Interventions 2016 Scientific Sessions in Orlando, FL.

For patients who are at extreme or high risk for open heart surgery, TAVR, a
minimally invasive procedure, has become the preferred therapy for severe aortic
stenosis. While general anesthesia has been typically administered during these
cases, the use of moderate sedation for TAVR is increasing. Most of the
developments associated with TAVR over the past decade have been focused on the
device, technology and procedural techniques. However, there has been a push to
improve the process of the procedure.

"More recently the field has moved toward use of an even more minimally invasive
TAVR procedure, in which physicians are able to insert the new valve through the
groin with no incisions at all," said senior and presenting author Jay Giri, MD,
MPH, an assistant professor of Cardiovascular Medicine. "Since there is no
longer a definitive need for a surgical incision, we had to ask the question of
whether there was a need for general anesthesia, the full sedation of a patient
requiring breathing tube and nonresponsive unconsciousness."

Researchers used the STS/ACC TVT RegistryTM - a database of all United States
TAVR patients - to evaluate elective cases treated via a percutaneous
transfemoral approach-entry through the groin without an incision- from April
2014 through June 2015, in order to compare the effectiveness of moderate
sedation to general anesthesia. A total of 10,997 patients were assessed with
1,737 receiving moderate sedation - approximately 15.8 percent. Investigators
concluded that while both patient groups had nearly equal rates of TAVR
procedural success, moderate sedation patients experienced lower rates of 30-day
mortality, 30-day mortality or stroke, and briefer hospital stays.

"This data shows that moderate sedation is both safe and effective, and has
potential to become the choice approach for TAVR," Giri said. "These results
support our hypothesis that moderate sedation can lead to better clinical
outcomes, and could have significant implications for patient care and for the
process of the TAVR procedure."

Importantly, the researchers also conducted a propensity-matched analysis which
accounted for 51 factors known to predict 30-day TAVR mortality, such as age,
gender and heart failure status. The analysis further confirmed that moderate
sedation was associated with lower 30-day mortality and 30-day mortality or
stroke.

"This additional analysis was conducted in order to evaluate whether moderate
sedation is successful across a variety of patients, and not just a relatively
healthy group that was selected for this novel technique," Giri said. "While it
is nearly impossible to account for all factors that could lead to needing
general anesthesia, the 51 comorbidities and clinical characteristics we were
able to account for still brought us to the same outcome - moderate sedation is
associated with better clinical outcomes for patients undergoing percutaneous
transfemoral TAVR."

Giri noted that there are three levels of moderate sedation: isolated local
anesthesia at the entry site; conscious sedation, or "twilight sleep" which puts
patients into a very light, responsive sleep; and monitored anesthesia care -
used by the Penn TAVR team - in which anesthesia is administered in different
proportions by a certified anesthesiologist, putting patients into an
unconscious, but arousable state.

Additional Penn authors on the study include, Matthew Hyman, Wilson Y. Szeto,
Prakash Patel, Howard C. Herrmann, Saif Anwaruddin, Nimesh D. Desai, Prashanth
Vallabhajosyula, Robert H. Li, and Joseph E. Bavaria. This study was also
completed in partnership with researchers from the Duke Clinical Research
Institute.

Source: Penn Medicine

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 11, 2016 Monday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "Orthopedic Knee, Hip, and Shoulder Reconstruction and
Trauma &#226;&#128;&#156;procedural packages;&#226;&#128;&#157; orthobiological
products; instrumentation sets and auxiliary products"

LENGTH: 407  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "Orthopedic Knee, Hip, and Shoulder Reconstruction and
Trauma &#226;&#128;&#156;procedural packages;&#226;&#128;&#157; orthobiological
products; instrumentation sets and auxiliary products"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE-16-D-0007

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: July 11, 2016

Description: This is a sources sought notice.



The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing Smith & Nephew Orthopedic Knee, Hip, and Shoulder Reconstruction and
Trauma "procedural packages;" orthobiological products; instrumentation sets and
auxiliary products. The product mix that makes up the "procedural package"
varies based on the individual needs of the patient. The instruments are both
"used" during the surgery and returned to the vendor or purchased by the
hospital so they are readily available on the shelves.
All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural packages" must be delivered
"Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery", and "Consignment". Under
"Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the
manufacturer's field representative who carries the products into the MTF
just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales representative may bring
many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products to the surgery along
with the instrumentation sets. Under "Direct Vendor Delivery" method an order
for products is placed through ECAT and the product is delivered directly to the
customer via any transportation carrier. Under the "Consignment" method, an MTF
will have the products that make up the "procedural packages" consigned to their
facility.
At the request of the MTF, the manufacturer is required to have a qualified
representative on site at the MTF's within the timeframe specified by the
facility necessary to meet their requirements. The manufacturer's representative
provides technical advice and guidance to the physician before, during, and
after implantation. Furthermore, technical support is available twenty-four (24)
hours a day, seven (7) days a week.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): JOHN R JACKSON, ACQUISITION SPECIALIST
JOHN.R.JACKSON@DLA.MIL Phone: 2157370850


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 28, 2011 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Cardiovascular Systems: New Reimbursement Codes Introduced to Better Track Costs
of Treating Patients with Severely Calcified Lesions

LENGTH: 490  words


New Delhi, Nov. 28 -- Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. (CSI) (Nasdaq: CSII) today
announced new medical diagnosis and procedure codes for severely calcified
coronary arteries. These codes will allow providers to track the costs of
treating high-risk patients with severely calcified coronary lesions, which is
the first step toward establishing specific reimbursement rates for this unique
patient population. Severely calcified coronary lesions are often
underestimated, even though they present unique challenges that existing
treatment options cannot overcome. These lesions are more difficult to access,
resulting in higher procedural complications and suboptimal stent placement.
Calcified lesions are also associated with an increased risk of retreatment,
heart attacks and even death.

"High-risk coronary patients often require additional resources during
treatment. In the past, these and other patients were combined under a single
code, which prohibited providers from tracking costs associated with treating
patients with more severe disease," said David L. Martin, CSI president and
chief executive officer. "Our goal is to understand and serve this high-risk
group, improve outcomes and align reimbursement rates."

Dr. Jeffrey Chambers, Metropolitan Heart and Vascular Institute, Minneapolis
added, "Of the 1.7 million patients treated annually via less invasive and
surgical interventions for coronary artery disease, about 10 percent to 20
percent are afflicted with severely calcified arteries. Physicians and hospitals
have long known it is more difficult and time consuming to treat patients with
severely calcified coronary arteries. These patients also have significantly
higher major adverse coronary events when treated with currently available
technology. With the use of these new codes, we will have the ability to
quantify the additional resources needed to optimality treat these patients."
Dr. Chambers is the principal investigator for ORBIT II, CSI's pivotal trial for
a coronary application.

The ICD-9-CM Coordination Committee of the Department of Health and Human
Services activated these new and revised codes:

Procedural Codes

* Revised: Code 00.66, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)

* New: Code 17.55, transluminal coronary atherectomy, directional atherectomy,
excimer laser atherectomy, rotational atherectomy, that by laser, that by
percutaneous approach, that by transluminal extraction

Diagnosis Code

* New: Code 414.4, coronary atherosclerosis due to calcified coronary lesion;
coronary atherosclerosis due to severely calcified coronary lesion, code first
coronary atherosclerosis (414.00-414.07)

Inpatient Hospital Procedure Code

* Revised: Code 00.66 was modified to describe PTCA only instead of PTCA or
coronary atherectomy

The new and revised codes are used for submissions related to inpatient hospital
procedures on the hospital UB-04 claim form. For more information, visit
www.csi360.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2011 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                              July 13, 2015 Monday

Stryker Spine launches LITe ALIF Procedural Solution

SECTION: SPINAL SURGERY; Product Launches / Expansions

LENGTH: 241 words



HIGHLIGHT: Stryker Spine announced the launch of the LITe (Less Invasive
Technologies) ALIF Procedural Solution.


This comprehensive platform will be featured during the International Meeting on
Advanced Spine Technologies (IMAST) in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia from July 8th -
10th.



Originating in 2005 with a single interbody device, Stryker's ALIF Portfolio now
features the LITe Anterior Retractor, the Reliance AL Instrumentation System,
the AVS AL and ALign PEEK Spacer Systems, the LITe Plate System, the Anchor-L
Anterior Lumbar Cage System, and most recently, the Aero-AL Anterior Lumbar
Interbody and Fixation System.

With the introduction of the LITe ALIF Procedural Solution, customers can
combine the LITe Anterior Retractor with Aero-AL, the only in-line ALIF device
in the U.S. market that compresses across the interbody.

The combination of these two new technologies supports a less invasive exposure
with minimized retraction.

"Our growing platform of ALIF products is the result of our strategic focus to
add value to our procedural solutions," said John Mayor, Vice President of
Marketing of Stryker Spine.

"The launch of the LITe ALIF Procedural Solution validates our continued
commitment to this evolving segment. We will continue to leverage our innovative
approach to develop differentiated products within the ALIF space for surgeons
and their patients."

The Company offers a diverse array of innovative products and services in
Orthopaedics, Medical and Surgical, and Neurotechnology and Spine, which help
improve patient and hospital outcomes.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            October 26, 2012 Friday

Mental health legislation

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 475 words


The draft mental heath law, if approved by the Standing Committee of the
National People's Congress on Friday, will mark a substantive step forward in
protecting the rights and interests of people with mental health problems.
The incorporation of the patient's own voluntary consent as a premise of
hospitalization, as stipulated in the draft under its third NPC reading, plugs a
disturbing hole in the current legislation.                    The lack of due
procedure in the application of forced hospitalization has resulted in such
abnormalities as perfectly healthy people being sent to hospital by family
members coveting their properties, and disobedient citizens being put there by
grassroots tyrants who see them as a threat.

Article 25 of the long-awaited draft, which features the principled request that
in-hospital treatment of mental disorders be on a voluntary basis, may not
eliminate all such potential threats to civil liberties. The second half of that
article makes an exception in cases where an individual may have already hurt
themselves or others. But those people applauding the proposal believe the draft
will provide an effective safeguard against abuse of forced hospitalization.
However, some people have also expressed concern about the capability of people
with serious mental health problems to express credible consent, and they worry
that the request for voluntary consent may leave some with severe mental
disorders untreated.                                It would be great if all the
concerns regarding due procedure can find a definitive answer in the
legislation. Such as what constitutes a patient's voluntary consent, in what
cases is such consent credible, who has the authority to judge a patient's
potential threat, and through what process should such conclusions be made.
But unless we expect such a law to cover all the technical specifics, such
concerns do not suffice as an excuse to further extend the process of
legislative deliberation. The specifics about procedure can be worked out in
subsequent legislative interpretations.
Leaving the procedural technicalities to legislative interpretations, however,
does not mean they are of lesser importance. On the contrary, they are
instrumental in preventing abuse. It has been the inadequate procedural
definition that has led to the abusive application of forced hospitalization. A
clearer definition of judiciary intervention as well as the legal consequences
of abuse will help safeguard us from such abuse.
(China Daily 10/26/2012 page8)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                           November 3, 2016 Thursday

Clinical Trial: Variability of Infant LP Insertion Site Based On Procedural
Experience

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., Nov. 3 -- ClinicalTrials.gov registry received information related to the
study (NCT02949869) titled 'Variability of Infant LP Insertion Site Based On
Procedural Experience' on Oct. 26.

Brief Summary: The reported rate of unsuccessful traditional LP in children
(defined as the inability to obtain cerebrospinal fluid or obtaining a traumatic
puncture) is as high as 50%. Many factors affect LP success including provider
experience. CSF is obtained by puncturing the subarachnoid space (traditionally
at the L3-L4 or L4-L5 interspinous process space), and many have hypothesized
that the width of this space may predict success. Anecdotally, trainees and
those with less experience, tend to perform the LP too low (caudally), where the
subarachnoid space tapers, or too laterally (off the midline) resulting in
higher failure rates. The investigators seek to determine if planned LP
insertion sites vary between training and attendings, and if so, could the
decreased success be explained by smaller subarachnoid spaces.

Study Start Date: November 2016

Study Type: Interventional

Condition: Traumatic Lumbar Puncture

Intervention: Other: Spinal Sonography

As described previously

Recruitment Status: Not yet recruiting

Sponsor: Boston Children's Hospital

Information provided by (Responsible Party): Jason Levy, Boston Children's
Hospital

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Field hospital blunder concealed for two years Soldiers need blood tests;
HIV threat to Diggers

BYLINE: Linton Besser

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 606 words


AN UNKNOWN number of Australian soldiers and contractors might have been exposed
to blood-borne diseases such as hepatitis or HIV after staff at Defence's main
hospital unit in the Middle East failed to sterilise surgical equipment
properly. The breach of protocol at the al-Minhad air base continued for 19
months in 2009 and 2010 during heavy fighting and significant casualties for
Australian troops, but soldiers were not alerted to the problem until last week.
A Defence Department memo to troops has warned that soldiers and contractors who
passed through the air base hospital near Dubai should ensure they had their
blood screened. "The al-Minhad air base health facility of Joint Task Force 633
has identified lapses in procedure in the operation of the surgical instrument
steriliser ... during the period February 2009 to August 2010," it says.

"As a consequence the sterilisation of surgical instruments at the facility
cannot be absolutely guaranteed to have met Australian standards. "Personnel who
underwent a surgical procedure (eg excision of skin lesions, minor operations)
during that period are possibly at risk of acquiring a blood-borne disease."
Al-Minhad base is the central launching point for Australian troops in the
Middle East, including the fighting forces in Afghanistan. The department has
previously disclosed there were 37 serious combat-related injuries in
Afghanistan in 2009, and 65 last year. But many of those who have
life-threatening injuries are flown straight to Germany for treatment. An
infectious disease control expert, Richard West, told the Herald yesterday such
"lapses" were rare in normal Australian hospitals and he expressed concern that
it took so long to identify the problem. "The highest risk is hepatitis C
because patients cannot be vaccinated ... there has been the occasional report
of HIV being transmitted in the operating theatre," he said. "It is unusual that
it has taken that long to detect that there is a problem." The machine failure
occurred between February 2009 and August 2010 but the memo was not issued until
May 16 - nine months after the errors were discovered and corrected. An
Australian soldier who asked not to be named said troops who had served in
Afghanistan during this time were shocked by the memo. "In that period of time,
we had a very high casualty rate," he said. The soldier said the health alert
had been removed from the Defence intranet last week because of fears of a
backlash, and he feared others at risk had not been properly informed. "We need
an inquiry because there has been a complete lack of governance," he said. The
memo was signed by Major-General Paul Alexander, the surgeon-general of the
Australian Defence Force, who is fighting numerous fires in his portfolio. There
is a continuing "investigating officers inquiry" into claims of negligence at
the medical centre at HMAS Albatross near Nowra and the department's health
programs have been repeatedly criticised by a serving captain and GP, Julian
Fidge, who claims there is "widespread" contempt for medical professionals
within the chain of command. The health alert said: "The potential risk to
Australian Defence Force personnel is assessed as low ... as blood-borne
diseases within the ADF population are extremely rare and all ADF members are
vaccinated against hepatitis B ...This was an internal procedural issue that was
detected and rectified by the health system," the memo says. "Measures have been
put in place to prevent a repeat of this procedural error and improve governance
systems for deployed ADF healthcare." Do you know more?
investigations@smh.com.au

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: In harm's way ... a wounded soldier is evacuated by
Australians from Afghanistan. Troops are taken from there to an Australian
medical base in Dubai. Below: an extract from the Defence Force memo about the
hospital breaches. Photo: Australian Defence Force/ Sergeant Neil Ruskin MAP:
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Agreements/contracts: Cardinal, Cook distribute vascular access products

LENGTH: 591 words

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report

Cardinal Health (Dublin, Ohio) and Cook Medical (Bloomington, Indiana) reported
a two-year agreement for the North American distribution of Cook Medical central
venous catheter (CVC) sets with Cardinal Health Presource customizable
procedural kits - providing clinicians with advanced technology the flexibility
of customization for their vascular access needs.

Cardinal and Cook customers are now able to customize components of their CVC
procedural kits, the companies said. The kits can include either uncoated or
Cook Spectrum CVC sets, which feature the industry's highest flow rates and a
comprehensive product line including power-injectable catheters. The partnership
enables acute care providers to maximize value and minimize waste by providing a
cost-effective means to decrease the number of supplies they need to supplement
standard CVC procedural kits.

"We're thrilled to partner with Cardinal Health, an industry leader in custom
kitting, to expand access to Cook Medical's CVC sets for vascular access
professionals," said Dan Sirota, VP and business unit leader of Cook Medical's
critical care and interventional radiology divisions. "Improving patient care
and lowering health care costs are of utmost importance to hospitals. We remain
committed to offering solutions that streamline processes for clinicians and
empower them to provide top-quality patient care."

Cook's Spectrum catheters are impregnated with the antibiotics minocycline and
rifampin and meet the newly released 1A recommendation from the CDC for reducing
catheter-related bloodstream infections (CRBSIs) if maximal sterile barrier
precautions haven't helped a facility reach its [infection prevention] goal.

"Cardinal Health focuses on developing partnerships that deliver innovative
solutions that help make it easier for our customers to deliver high quality
care," said Lisa Ashby, president of category management at Cardinal Health.
"Our relationship with Cook Medical is a great example of the kinds of
partnerships our customers value - those that promote best practice
standardization with superior quality products."

In other agreements/contracts news, Thermo Fisher Scientific (Waltham,
Massachusetts) reported an agreement with Abbott Laboratories (Abbott Park,
Illinois) to make its Procalcitonin (PCT) assay available with Abbott's
immunochemistry analyzers.

The company's Thermo Scientific B.R.A.H.M.S PCT assay will be available on
Abbott's Architect "i" and "ci" series of immunochemistry analyzers. Abbott's
high-, medium-, and low-volume integrated diagnostic testing solutions leverage
software, reagents, and sample carrier to enable labs to standardize lab
operations on a single platform. In turn, laboratories are able to optimize
processes, minimize errors and reduce result variability, an increasingly
important consideration as clinicians rely more heavily on laboratory
diagnostics to guide their treatment decisions.

"Earlier diagnosis of sepsis and other healthcare associated infections can
significantly lower healthcare costs and, most important, improve patient
outcomes," said Ken Berger, senior VP of Thermo Fisher Scientific's specialty
diagnostics business, "Our agreement with Abbott makes it possible for more
hospitals and laboratories globally to adopt a proven PCT testing regimen that
benefits patients and the entire healthcare industry."

Thermo Fisher will manufacture the Abbott Architect B.R.A.H.M.S PCT assay and
has exclusive distribution rights in relevant European markets.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2012 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1990, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 December, 1990

                        Vol. 23, No. 12, HOSPLW, Pg. 374

LENGTH: 405 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: MALPRACTICE: Court must decide patient's competence before
deciding physician's liability for ordering "no code" without patient's consent

AUTHOR: C.C./D.E.

TEXT:

   In a case of first impression, the Indiana Court of Appeals, Second District,
considered the liability of a physician and hospital for issuing a "no code"
order without the consent of an allegedly competent patient.  The court reversed
summary judgment, in part, in favor of defendant physician and hospital, because
genuine issues of material fact existed as to the deceased patient's competence.

   A sixty-five-year-old male alcoholic was admitted to a hospital for treatment
of his deteriorated condition.  When the patient's condition became worse, the
hospital staff contacted the patient's sister.  The sister requested the staff
make no attempts to revive her brother if his heart and lungs stopped
functioning.  The nurse informed defendant physician of this request.  The
physician placed the patient on a no code status to prohibit cardio-pulmonary
resuscitation.  The no code order was adhered to and the patient died.

   After the patient's death, defendant physician sued the decedent's estate for
compensation.  The decedent's estate counterclaimed, alleging the physician was
liable for malpractice because he ordered a no code without the patient's
consent.  The representative also alleged the hospital was negligent for not
providing procedural safeguards for no code orders.  The trial court granted
defendants' motion for summary judgment.  The estate appealed, claiming genuine
issues of material fact existed concerning the decedent's competence, lack of
informed consent, and whether or not he was terminally ill.  The court concluded
the evidence adduced from the nurses' depositions could have led to a jury
finding that the patient was conscious prior to death and therefore, able to
decide for himself whether or not he desired resuscitative efforts.  Other
evidence showed the patient had survived treatment for the same condition in the
past, thus raising a question of whether the patient was actually terminally
ill.

   However, the appellate court found the trial court properly granted summary
judgment in favor of the hospital on the issue of procedural safeguards for no
code.  The estate failed to present evidence demonstrating how the hospital's
failure to provide a written guideline for no codes failed to meet the relevant
standard of care.  Moreover, the estate failed to present evidence rebutting the
determination of the medical review panel which found the hospital was not
negligent.

REFERENCE: Payne v. Marion Gen. Hosp., 549 N.E.2d 1043 (Ind. Ct. App. 1990).


                              371 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday
                               GoldCoast Edition

DEADLY DOUGLAS

BYLINE: STEPHANIE BEDO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 389  words


A LEADING Gold Coast Health doctor has stood down from the executive management
team because of a politician's claims that he was a bully.

Dr Will Butcher resigned from his role as acting executive director of clinical
governance, education and research to focus on surgery amid calls for his
suspension by Gaven MP, Dr Alex Douglas.

While other top doctors and health executives labelled Dr Butcher's departure a
"tragedy", Dr Douglas (pictured left) yesterday stood by his comments.

Dr Butcher's resignation comes after the departures of Dr Lance Le Ray, general
manager of speciality and procedural services, and Dr Tom Snow, director of
radiology.

In further blows this week, two orthopedic surgeons and visiting medical
officers in other speciality services have also resigned because of the
statewide stoush in getting senior doctors to sign new Queensland Health
contracts.

The management restructure has also seen the shock appointment of Professor
David Ellwood to clinical director of speciality and procedural services, where
he will oversee his wife, Dr Anne Sneddon, as service director for women's and
babies health.

In parliament last week, Dr Douglas said "the local (health) boards have
appointed bullies to engage in none-too-subtle coercion tactics. At this point I
will name Dr Will Butcher at the Gold Coast Hospital as engaging in such
activity, and I call on the minister to suspend him immediately for doing so."
Health Minister Lawrence Springborg yesterday jumped to the defence of Gold
Coast Health, before accusing Dr Douglas of creating a "crisis of confidence" on
the Coast.

"He's now driving people away from the Gold Coast," Mr Springborg said. "It's
outrageous the way he's been treating certain doctors. The local hospital and
health board is working with local clinicians. They've got a local health
service that's working for them." Keep Our Doctors campaign spokesman Dr David
Spain said most specialists were sad to see Dr Butcher step down.

"We're supportive of him and what he was trying to do," Dr Spain said. Gold
Coast Health board chairman Ian Langdon said Dr Douglas owed Dr Butcher an
apology.

"The situation is I did inform the Minister's office that I was very unhappy
with the comments Alex Douglas made under parliamentary privilege," Mr Langdon
said."I do believe it's an abuse of privilege."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Gold Coast Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                          November 26, 2003 Wednesday

Ex-health CEO's plum job queried

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: ANNA PATTY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 483 words


THE former manager of troubled Campbelltown/Camden hospitals is "sitting pretty"
on a salary of $165,000 while whistleblower nurses are still out of their jobs,
a parliamentary committee heard last night.

Senior NSW Health officials, including director general Robyn Kruk, were
questioned about the circumstances surrounding a 12-month investigation into
allegations of patient deaths and mismanagement at the hospitals.

Questions were raised about why Jennifer Collins, the former CEO of the
Macarthur Health Service that oversees the hospitals, was forced to resign, only
to be reappointed to an equivalent role and salary ($165,000) in another Sydney
area health service.

Ms Kruk told the budget estimates committee hearing that there were no legal
grounds to terminate Ms Collins' contract.

A separate review of the hospitals headed by Professor Bruce Barraclough had
provided no grounds for her dismissal.

"In the absence of any adverse findings against her the Area [health service]
would have been exposed to legal action and potentially the payment of
compensation to Ms Collins," Ms Kruk said.

"In view of the legal advice and the important fact there have been no adverse
findings against Ms Collins, terminating Ms Collins' contract was not an
option."

Ms Kruk said there had been discussions of a settlement for whistleblower nurses
who lost their jobs after raising allegations about patient care and
mismanagement at the hospitals.

However procedural fairness could not be offered to the nurses until the NSW
Health Care Complaints Commission handed down its final report into its
investigation of the hospitals by December 10.

Democrats MP Arthur Chesterfield Evans said it was unfair for Ms Collins to be
"sitting pretty on $165,000" and offered procedural fairness after the
Barraclough review found the hospitals needed a change in management.

Especially when the nurses who raised the allegations had been offered no
assurances about their future employment prospects.

The committee also heard that Mike Wallace was a member of the Barraclough
review team as well as being responsible for rehiring Ms Collins in his position
as acting CEO of Central Sydney Area Health Service.

This connection has been previously raised in parliament by NSW Health Minister
Morris Iemma. Amanda Adrian, who heads the NSW Health Care Complaints
Commission, was questioned about her friendship with Ms Collins.

Hospital saga's winners and losers

* In November last year, four nurses concerned about care at Camden and
Campbelltown hospitals complain to then Health Minister Craig Knowles

  * All lost their jobs

  * In October, the CEO of the South Western Sydney Area Health Service Ian
Southwell was sacked and Macarthur Health CEO Jennifer Collins resigned.

  * Collins has been employed as acting CEO of Central Sydney Area Health
Service

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              373 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                    The Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                          September 22, 2005 Thursday

Furore erupts over appointment of consumer watchdog

BYLINE: Malcolm Cole

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 429 words


A FORMER NSW public servant whose job was axed after a botched investigation
into hospital deaths in that state has been hired as Queensland's consumer
watchdog.

A parliamentary investigation into the NSW hospitals affair also found Julie
Kinross had "denied procedural fairness" to a medical practitioner she
investigated.

At the time Ms Kinross was assistant commissioner of the NSW Health Care
Complaints Commission.

Ms Kinross's appointment as Queensland's new Commissioner for Fair Trading was
described by furious Opposition Leader Lawrence Springborg yesterday as totally
unacceptable.

He demanded that the Government reverse the decision before Ms Kinross started
in the role next month.

Fair Trading Minister Margaret Keech defended the appointment, saying Ms Kinross
had been employed in a senior NSW Government role before she was chosen by an
independent panel. A spokesman said Ms Keech had been unaware of the allegations
against Ms Kinross, but had now referred them to her acting director-general for
investigation.

Ms Kinross was among a number of senior managers who had their HCCC positions
abolished after a 2003 investigation into a series of patient deaths at the
Campbelltown and Camden hospitals in western Sydney.

The HCCC report found at least 17 patients had died as a result of unsafe,
inadequate or questionable care at the two hospitals. No medical or
administrative staff were found to be responsible for the deaths.

Then NSW health minister Morris Iemma, now the premier, said the HCCC had
botched the investigation and Ms Kinross was among senior commission staff who
lost their jobs from a resulting HCCC restructure.

A parliamentary inquiry into the affair said the HCCC's complaints handling
service had "lacked procedural fairness". The report says Ms Kinross forced a
medical practitioner to respond to a complaint without being given access to all
the evidence.

Ms Kinross said last night her job with the HCCC had disappeared in a
restructuring while she was on secondment to another agency. She said she had
played only a minor role in the Campbelltown and Camden Hospital investigation
which prompted the shake-up.

On the issue of the medical practitioner she had been acting on three separate
pieces of legal advice.

"The criticism applies to the handling of a complaint which led to a doctor who
had engaged in sexual misconduct being struck off the record," she said.

"I do not back away from any decision or action I took to protect health
consumers from inappropriate conduct by medical practitioners."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              374 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 20, 2015 Friday

Association Between Public Reporting of Outcomes With Procedural Management and
Mortality for Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction

LENGTH: 152  words

DATELINE: Washington


American College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the following news release:

Public reporting of procedural outcomes may create disincentives to provide
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for critically ill patients.

Objectives  This study evaluated the association between public reporting with
procedural management and outcomes among patients with acute myocardial
infarction (AMI).

Methods  Using the Nationwide Inpatient Sample, we identified all patients with
a primary diagnosis of AMI in states with public reporting (Massachusetts and
New York) and regionally comparable states without public reporting
(Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont) between
2005 and 2011. Procedural management and in-hospital outcomes were stratified by
public reporting.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                              April 5, 2002 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Medical indemnity condition worsens;
OPINION&ANALYSIS

BYLINE: Michael Ridley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 749 words


State Government quick-fix plans for ailing insurers will not help doctors and
the community in the long term. Michael Ridley says a national approach is
needed urgently.

NO group in Australia is more under threat from litigation than our doctors, and
this has major repercussions for the whole community.

If overheads make a business unsustainable, the business shuts down or goes
bust.

We have already seen what happens when income can't keep up with increasing
liability insurance premiums ¤ agricultural shows are cancelled and fun parks
close the best rides.

Will doctors be the next to shut up shop?

In the bush this is already becoming an issue, particularly when early
retirement is a more tempting option than battling on for little gain.

The NSW State Government has done all that can be reasonably expected to drive
down medical indemnity premiums, but so far no premium savings have trickled
down from the insurers.

To make matters worse, United Medical Protection (UMP), which insures 90% of NSW
doctors and 60% nationwide, is on a shaky financial footing.

The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) requires UMP to raise its
capital reserves by $30million within the next few weeks.

The Federal Government has agreed to provide a capital guarantee, but does
anyone seriously think that UMP can lower its premiums in such a climate?

Specialists such as obstetricians and neurosurgeons will still face premiums of
more than $100,000 ¤ more than their total earnings from Medicare.

The State Government came into line with other States last December and agreed
to pay for the medical indemnity of all doctors providing services to public
patients in public hospitals.

That move was also supposed to exert downward pressure on premiums for private
practice.

However, there is no sign of that, which is of no help to GPs or specialists
providing care to private patients.

Like many rural GPs, I also undertake procedural work for my patients.

As a result, my annual premium is $20,000 this year, including 22% of the call
UMP made on its members.

Last year, UMP required its members to start paying an extra year's premium over
five years to help offset its financial difficulties.

In contrast, non-procedural GPs pay premiums around $4000 including the call.

GPs who do procedural work aren't in it for the money.

The Federal Government's assistance to UMP relieves some of the pressure, but it
is still of concern that medical registration is tied to medical indemnity
cover.

Under Part 3 of the Health Care Liability Act, a doctor cannot be registered
without approved medical indemnity insurance.

Considering the general state of the insurance market, we are calling on NSW
Health Minister, Craig Knowles, to suspend that requirement until the current
crisis is resolved.

It is not just UMP feeling the heat. There are also longer-term issues to be
tackled by the whole insurance industry.

From July 1, APRA's capital adequacy requirement for all insurance companies
will increase significantly.

Government bandaids on ailing insurers will not help doctors and the community
long-term.

What we need now is a national care and rehabilitation scheme for victims of
medical accidents.

The Federal Government developed structured settlements just before Easter, but
still needs to devise a scheme to care for severely injured patients.

Until it does, cerebral palsy patients like Calandra Simpson (who was awarded
$14.2million last year over a botched forceps delivery at her birth) will have
no alternative but to sue doctors and undertake lengthy and expensive legal
battles.

Meanwhile, as this interminable insurance saga continues, doctors will continue
to retire early, or take on non-procedural work that attracts lower medical
indemnity costs.

Pregnant women will be the big losers according to the Royal Australian and New
Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.

Their research indicates that 48% of Australian obstetricians and gynaecologists
have left or intend to leave obstetrics within five years.

Only 24% expect to still be practising obstetrics in 10 years. This mass exodus
has been blamed on the threat of legal action and the soaring costs of medical
indemnity.

Birth is a risky business.

A Federal summit on medical indemnity will be held in Canberra on April 23,
where some real solutions will hopefully be developed.

It's a long time to wait in such uncertain times, so let's all hope it's worth
it. Dr Michael Ridley is president of the NSW Australian Medical Association.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COSTLY PRACTICE: Dr Michael Ridley ... `GPs who do procedural work
aren't in it for the money.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2002 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Kalgoorlie Miner (Western Australia)

                             April 24, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Rural GPs in health plea

BYLINE: By Charlotte Hamlyn

SECTION: KAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 468  words


RURAL doctors are seeking assurance from the Federal Government that support for
the regional health sector will not be reduced in the forthcoming budget.

The concern comes from the Rural Doctors Association of Australia after a
spokesperson for Federal Health Minister Nicola Roxon was quoted as saying "the
current incentive system (for enticing doctors to rural communities) is broken"
and would be reformed.

RDAA president Dr Nola Maxfield said the association had no problem with the
Government reforming rural doctor support programs, as long they were not axed
or cut back and as long as there was additional funding behind the programs to
make them work.

"Working families in rural Australia are finding it increasingly difficult to
access local doctors, hospitals and health services," she said.

"The Rudd Government must, in the forthcoming budget, improve support programs
to recruit and retain more doctors in country Australia."

Eastern Goldfields Medical Association chair and Kalgoorlie GP Mal Hodsdon said
doctors working in the regions faced a number of challenges associated with
isolation - and financial incentives were essential to attract and retain them.

"If you're the only doctor in town you're on call almost 24/7," Dr Hodsdon said.

"You haven't got another doctor you can discuss cases with, who can give you
back up, allow you to get a weekend off and spend quality time with your family.

"A general practice is a small business, it's like running any other business.

"Some of these small communities just don't have a population that would sustain
the business economically, that's why a lot of local shires have to subsidise a
doctor's income.

"Obviously, having a doctor in the community is vital for the community, it
encourages people to stay.

"Often when a doctor leaves it can be a nail in the coffin of that community,"

He said a number of regional hospitals were being downgraded to nursing-post
style facilities which did little to attract new doctors.

"A lot of doctors like to have access to a hospital, it adds to the variety of
work if the doctor can have some in-patients they can look after," he said.

Dr Hodsdon said financial assistance for international doctors needed to be
reassessed as they faced increased health and education costs.

RDAA has urged the Federal Government to use next month's budget to introduce a
critical Rural Rescue Package to get and keep more doctors in rural and remote
Australia.

The package, first outlined in 2007 and supported by the Australian Medical
Association, comprises a Rural Isolation Payment to reflect the isolation of
rural practice and a Rural Procedural and Emergency/On Call Loading to better
support rural procedural doctors who provide obstetric, surgical, anaesthetic or
primary emergency on-call service in rural communities.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 17, 2017 Thursday

Risks Associated With Transcatheter PDA Occlusions in Lower Weight Infants

LENGTH: 538  words



Washington: American College of Cardiology has issued the following news
release:
Transcatheter patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) occlusion is one of the safest
interventional cardiac procedures among adults and children. However, major
adverse events are five to 10 times greater among infants who weigh less than
six kilograms, according to a study published August 16 in JACC: Cardiovascular
Interventions.


Using ACC's IMPACT Registry, Carl H. Backes, MD, et al., identified 747 infants
weighing less than six kilograms who underwent transcatheter PDA occlusion
between January 2011 and March 2015. Across 73 hospitals, the procedural success
rate was 94.3 percent, and 96 percent of cases required less than two hours in
the catheterization suite.
Regarding the study population, researchers examined differences by grouping the
infants into three weight categories: extremely low weight (ELW, <2 kilograms),
very low weight (VL, 2-<4 kilograms) and low weight (LW, 4-<6 kilograms). A
third of the infants studied were born at <30 weeks of gestation. At
catheterization, the median age was 4.3 months and most were LW (4.6 kilograms).
Additionally, more than half of procedures were performed on females and
Caucasians. Less than half of the infants were hospitalized before the procedure
and more than half were on diuretic treatment. Most infants had a Type A (37
percent) or Type C (42 percent) PDA.
While the majority of attempted PDA closures were successful, approximately 13
percent of the infants experienced major adverse events (MAEs). "In the present
cohort of infants <6 kg, procedural success rates for transcatheter PDA closure
are similar to those in more mature counterparts, but rates of MAE were 5-10
fold greater," note the study authors.
Most common MAEs included acute arterial injury (3.5 percent) and device
embolization (2.4 percent). ELW infants (10.5 percent) had a higher risk of
embolization than VLW or LW infants (1.6 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively;
p = 0.050). Other noted MAEs included arrhythmia requiring intervention,
unplanned cardiac surgery and a major bleeding event (less than 2 percent each).
Infants who experienced an MAE were more likely to stay at the hospital a week
longer than those who did not (13 vs. 20 days, p = 0.01). Additionally, risk of
MAEs (odds ratio [OR], 3.4; 95 percent confidence interval [CI], 1.5-7.9) and
composite failure (OR, 3.1; 95 percent CI, 1.4-6.9) was higher among younger
patients (<30 days).
While the study proves to be an "important first step in understanding the risk
profile of transcatheter PDA occlusion in this subgroup of infants," the authors
note that "conclusions on the optimal treatment among lower weight infants with
a persistent ductus remain unanswered."
"Conservative treatment may reduce unnecessary interventions in many infants,
but the question remains as to what to do if the PDA fails to close following a
period of conservative treatment," they continue.
"Well-designed comparative trials (transcatheter occlusion, surgical ligation,
conservative treatment) that use clearly defined inclusion criteria and
treatment thresholds, standardized protocols for AE surveillance, and long-term
follow-up, are needed."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Michigan Lawyers Weekly

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Medical Malpractice - Trial court erred in summarily dismissing plaintiff's
lawsuit

BYLINE: Lee Dryden

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1873  words


  Plaintiff Audrey Trowell appeals as of right the trial court's order granting
summary disposition in favor of defendant Providence Hospital and Medical
Centers, Inc. (the hospital), in this dispute that, at this juncture, concerns
whether plaintiff's complaint sounded in medical malpractice or ordinary
negligence. The substance of the case regards an incident in which a
patient-care technician employed by the hospital allegedly "dropped" plaintiff
twice while assisting and escorting her to the bathroom, resulting in various
injuries. There is no dispute that plaintiff did not take the mandatory
procedural steps associated with a medical malpractice action, such as serving a
notice of intent, MCL 600.2912b, and procuring and filing an affidavit of merit,
MCL 600.2912d. And the lawsuit was filed beyond the two-year statute of
limitations generally applicable to medical malpractice actions, MCL
600.5838a(2);

MCL 600.5805(1) and (6). Solely on the basis of the allegations in plaintiff's
complaint, as there was no documentary evidence presented in regard to the
hospital's motion for summary disposition, the trial court ruled that
plaintiff's lawsuit sounded in medical malpractice and dismissed the action in
its entirety. The trial court denied plaintiff's motions for reconsideration and
to amend the complaint. Because the allegations in the complaint did not lend
themselves to a definitive determination that the negligence claims in
plaintiff's suit necessarily sounded in medical malpractice, we reverse and
remand for further proceedings.



Background

On February 11, 2014, plaintiff filed a single-count complaint against the
hospital in the Wayne Circuit Court; however, pursuant to a stipulated order,
venue was transferred to the Oakland Circuit Court. In the complaint, under a
count titled "Medical Negligence," plaintiff alleged that on February 11, 2011,
she was admitted to the hospital after having suffered a stroke caused by an
aneurysm. Plaintiff asserted that she subsequently went into cardiac arrest and
that she was placed in the hospital's intensive care unit (ICU). Plaintiff
alleged in the complaint that she had been advised that two nurses needed to
assist her whenever she went to the bathroom, yet "on several occasions" the
hospital only employed one nurse to assist plaintiff to the bathroom. She
additionally contended that on one particular occasion an unassisted female
nurse was tasked with helping plaintiff in going to and using the bathroom and
that she "dropped" plaintiff, causing her to hit her head on a wheelchair.
According to the complaint, when the nurse's aide attempted to assist plaintiff
after dropping her, the aide "dropped (p]laintiff a second time. " Plaintiff
alleged that as a result of the falls, she suffered a torn rotator cuff,
requiring multiple surgeries and treatment that was ongoing, as well as
"bleeding on the brain. "

Plaintiff alleged that the hospital had a duty to ensure that she "received
proper assistance while a patient, including assistance ambulating to and from
the bathroom while she was in the ICU. "

The hospital filed an answer to the complaint and affirmative defenses,
indicating, in part, that plaintiff's suit was time-barred and that she had
failed to serve a notice of intent and file an affidavit of merit as required in
medical malpractice actions. Subsequently, the hospital filed a motion for
summary disposition pursuant to MCR 2.116(C)(7) and (8), arguing that
plaintiff's complaint sounded in medical malpractice and not ordinary
negligence, that the suit was barred by the two-year statute of limitations
applicable to medical malpractice actions, that plaintiff failed to serve a
notice of intent, so there was no tolling of the limitations period, and that
plaintiff failed to file an affidavit of merit. The hospital maintained that
plaintiff's suit sounded in medical malpractice, considering that a professional
relationship had existed between plaintiff and the hospital and that the alleged
acts of negligence raised questions of medical judgment that were not within the
common knowledge and experience of laypersons. The latter proposition forms the
heart of this appeal.

In response to the hospital's motion for summary disposition, plaintiff
contended that the issues concerning the two-year statute of limitations, a
notice of intent, and an affidavit of merit were all irrelevant, given that
plaintiff's "claim was not filed as a medical malpractice action. " Plaintiff
argued that medical expertise was not necessary "in order for a jury to decide
whether a(n] (aide] dropping someone is negligence" and that a juror would be
able to discern, absent medical testimony, that plaintiff had not been handled
properly. Plaintiff further maintained that her suit and the alleged breach of
duty did not entail the aide's administration of any medical care or treatment
or the exercise of medical judgment, that the nurse's aide was simply assisting
plaintiff in using the bathroom, that being dropped by an aide who was
unassisted constituted clear negligence, and that the issue of the hospital's
alleged failure to prevent plaintiff's injury could be answered without any
specialized knowledge. Finally, plaintiff argued that summary disposition was
premature because discovery had not yet been completed.

After reviewing the factual and procedural history of the case and reciting the
two-part test enunciated in Bryant v Oakpointe Villa Nursing Ctr, Inc, 471 Mich
411, 422; 684 NW2d 864 (2004), which test is employed in determining whether a
claim sounds in medical malpractice or ordinary negligence, the trial court
ruled as follows at the hearing on the hospital's summary disposition motion:
Here, there's no dispute that the professional relationship requirement is met.
At issue is the second element. The (c]ourt finds that plaintiff's allegations
sound in medical malpractice. Furthermore, allegations concerning staffing
decisions and patient monitoring involve questions of professional medical
management and not issues of ordinary negligence that can be judged by the
common knowledge and experience of a jury. . . . Therefore, (the hospital's]
motion for summary disposition is granted.

On April 8, 2015, an order was entered granting the hospital's motion for
summary disposition for the reasons stated on the record. Plaintiff then filed a
motion for reconsideration and to amend the complaint. On May 4, 2015, the trial
court entered two orders. One order denied plaintiff's motion for
reconsideration, with the trial court concluding that plaintiff had failed to
demonstrate palpable error and was merely presenting the same issues that had
been previously ruled on by the court. In the second order, the trial court
indicated that plaintiff had failed to attach to her motion a proposed amended
complaint, depriving the court of the opportunity to engage in meaningful review
of her request for leave to file an amended complaint. The trial court directed
plaintiff to refile her motion to amend with an attached proposed amended
complaint. Plaintiff did so, and her proposed amended complaint again contained
a single count, but it was retitled "Negligence. " Plaintiff essentially
repeated most of the allegations found in the original complaint. Paragraph 15
of the proposed amended complaint, which paragraph in the original complaint we
quoted earlier, now simply asserted negligence on the part of the hospital for
departing from the standard of care by failing to ensure plaintiff's safety
while in the hospital, thereby retaining only subparagraph (a) from the original
paragraph 15. Plaintiff did repeat the earlier allegations that the "hospital
was negligent through its agents, employees, and staff in failing to ensure the
safety of" plaintiff and that the negligence of the hospital "and its agents,
employees and staff was the proximate (cause] of" plaintiff's alleged damages.

On May 26, 2015, the trial court entered an order denying plaintiff's renewed
motion to amend her complaint, ruling that the motion was "essentially a motion
for reconsideration," which had already been denied, that the proposed amended
complaint still sounded in medical malpractice, and that, therefore, any
amendment would be futile. Plaintiff appeals as of right.



Overview of appellate arguments

On appeal, plaintiff argues that her claims of failure to ensure safety, failure
to exercise proper care, failure to train, failure to supervise, and failure to
provide adequate staff all sounded in ordinary negligence and not medical
malpractice. She further maintains that Michigan caselaw involving "dropped" or
"fallen" patients in medical settings have all been held to sound in ordinary
negligence. Plaintiff alternatively contends that even assuming some of her
claims sounded in medical malpractice, there still remained viable claims of
ordinary negligence. She also asserts that her claims implicated the doctrine of
res ipsa loquitor. Finally, plaintiff argues that the trial court erred in
denying her motion to amend the complaint.

The hospital argues that the trial court did not err in granting its motion for
summary disposition and in denying plaintiff's motions for reconsideration and
to amend the complaint. The hospital contends that medical knowledge and
expertise were necessary to assess plaintiff's fall risk, that plaintiff did not
allege a failure to take corrective steps, which was recognized in Bryant as a
claim sounding in ordinary negligence, that staffing decisions require the
exercise of medical judgment, that failure to ensure safety is not a viable,
recognizable claim, and that the requirements for the application of res ipsa
loquitor were not met. The hospital further maintains that plaintiff's proposed
amended complaint also sounded in medical malpractice; therefore, the amendment
would have been futile. Finally, the hospital argues that, given the inescapable
conclusion that plaintiff's suit sounded entirely in medical malpractice, the
suit was not properly commenced in accord with mandatory procedural steps and
was also time-barred.



Conclusion

We cannot conclude solely on the basis of the allegations in the complaint,
which is all that can be considered given the procedural posture of the case,
that plaintiff's claims sounded in medical malpractice. Accordingly, the trial
court erred in summarily dismissing plaintiff's lawsuit. Further factual
development is required to properly ascertain whether plaintiff's claims sounded
in medical malpractice or ordinary negligence, and perhaps the suit presents a
mix of such claims. Testimony by the nurse's aide would appear to be a key
factor in answering the question.

Reversed and remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. We
do not retain jurisdiction. Having fully prevailed on appeal, plaintiff is
awarded taxable costs pursuant to MCR 7.219.

Trowell v. Providence Hospital and Medical Centers Inc.; MiLW No. 07-92517, 14
pages; Michigan Court of Appeals published; Murphy, J, joined by Stephens, J,
Boonstra, J; appeal from Oakland Circuit Court.

http://www.milawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             May 18, 1985 Saturday

DOCTORS BLAMED

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 132 words


Doctors blamed SYDNEY._ More than half the public lay the blame for the
year-long New South Wales Medicare dispute on surgeons who withdrew their
services from public hospitals, a Sydney University professor has found.
Professor Stuart Rees is conducting a State-wide survey which he said ""will
depict a side of the long-running dispute the public knows little about".
""There are a lot of surprises in store," he said yesterday. ""The extent to
which patients were used to foster the interests of some procedural specialists
is disgraceful. ""The motives of many procedural specialists were essentially
selfish." Professor Rees, who was sponsored by the Australian Consumers'
Association, said he hoped to publish the findings of his first series of public
interviews by late June.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              380 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 October, 1993

                        Vol. 26, No. 10, HOSPLW Pg. 315

LENGTH: 396 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: STAFF PRIVILEGES: Hospital bylaws allowing peer review hearing
before nonmedical staff members contrary to state law

AUTHOR: L. R./A. V.

TEXT:

   The Court of Appeals of Indiana reversed and remanded a trial court's denial
of plaintiff physician's request for declaratory judgment and found defendant
hospital's bylaws contrary to state law and an injunction enjoining defendant
from enforcing its bylaws in a suit against defendants hospital and hospital
board of trustees.  In reversing, the court determined defendant's bylaws, which
allowed a peer review hearing before an ad hoc committee comprised of nonmedical
staff members, ran contrary to the state peer review statute requiring an
evidentiary hearing before medical staff members.

   Defendants hospital and board of trustees brought charges to terminate
plaintiff's medical staff privileges.  Terminating plaintiff's privileges
required filing a report with the state licensing board.  Pursuant to
defendant's bylaws, defendant hospital appointed an ad hoc evidentiary
committee, which according to the bylaws, could include nonmedical staff
members.  Plaintiff brought suit, arguing defendants' by laws ran contrary to
state statute requirements mandating a peer review committee comprised solely of
medical staff members to review charges to be reported to the state licensing
board.  At trial, defendants argued its bylaws conformed to the standards
proscribed by the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (HCQIA), 42 U.S.C.
§ 11112(b)(3).  Arguing the HCQIA does not specify the type of individuals to be
appointed to a peer review action, defendants contended its bylaws complied with
federal law.  The trial court found for defendants and plaintiff appealed.

   The Court of Appeals found under the HCQIA a state may provide further
procedural protection to physicians if it so desired.  More specifically, the
HCQIA states the act does not preempt state law from providing additional
procedural protection during professional review action, 42 U.S.C. § 1115.

   Under the plain language of the state statute, however, the court found
defendants' bylaws too broad in not granting plaintiff the statutorily required
evidentiary hearing comprised solely of medical staff members.  The court also
noted defendants' bylaws stated defendant hospital was obligated to follow the
state peer review statute.  The court remanded the case for an order and
judgment consistent with its holding defendants' bylaws ran contrary to state
statute requirements.

REFERENCE: Mann v. Johnson Memorial Hosp., 611 N.E.2d 676 (Ind. Ct. App. 1993).


                              381 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          December 11, 2013 Wednesday

Virtual reality takes doctors to next level

BYLINE: Ernest Kao ernest.kao@scmp.com

SECTION: NEWS; City; Medicine; Pg.3

LENGTH: 379 words


Inside a brightly lit Aberdeen  office, a medical student digs into a patient's
chest cavity looking for a blocked coronary artery during a tense, but
bloodless, heart bypass surgery.

None of it is actually real - but it is the closest thing to it.

Aspiring doctors and nurses can now hone their skills at the Academy of
Medicine's  new state-of-the-art simulation centre. Built by the Jockey Club  at
a cost of HK$53 million, the Innovative Learning Centre for Medicine  boasts a
variety of facilities, which aim to give medical students and junior doctors
"hands-on" experience - much of it in virtual reality.

The facilities include mocked-up operating theatres and procedural skills rooms
equipped with devices for performing digital "keyhole surgeries". These cover
anything from removing gall bladders and conducting endoscopes to minimally
invasive heart surgery.

Doctors, midwives and nurses-in-training can also use obstetric mannequins to
simulate emergency labour and delivery. The "intelligent dummies" are fitted
with their own heart rate, pulse and dilatable pupils.

Trainees' performances can be observed from behind one-way mirrors fitted in
each room.

"Simulated training is a safer and much more efficient way of training medical
professionals," said academy president Dr Donald Li Kwok-tung.

"It provides opportunities for them to experience adverse or sudden situations
in a safe and controlled environment."

Health authorities of the future will also get a chance to try out in virtual
reality what may perhaps be the hardest part of their job - facing the press.

A "virtual reality" procedural skills room recreates a press conference, where
the trainee can practise answering - or deflecting - questions in the event of
an emergency press briefing.

Li said the next step would be to provide more virtual-reality disaster or
accident-response scenarios.

The Hospital Authority  has eight institutions that have their own simulators.
But the academy's 550 square metre facility is the city's first integrated
simulation centre.

Permanent Secretary for Food and Health Richard Yuen Ming-fai  said the entire
city would benefit from the facility as demand for hospital care and health-care
professionals was expected to soar further amid a rapidly ageing population.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:                  Jockey Club chairman Brian Stevenson (centre) and
Academy of Medicine president Donald Li (far right) experience simulated
training at the Innovative Learning Centre for Medicine.
Photo: Felix Wong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        St. Joseph News-Press (Missouri)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday

Insure Missouri tabled for now: Legislators want a closer look

BYLINE: Alyson Raletz, St. Joseph News-Press, Mo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 538 words


Feb. 23--Gov. Matt Blunt pulled a controversial health care plan Friday that a
St. Joseph Republican has challenged since its inception.

With Democrats close behind, Rep. Dr. Rob Schaaf, R-St. Joseph, led Republican
opposition to Insure Missouri, Mr. Blunt's program to increase Medicaid
eligibility.

The plan's first phase, aimed at helping more than 54,000 working Missourians
purchase their own health insurance, was set to go into effect in March.

But the governor announced Friday he would take the plan off the table -- for
now.

"The House requested additional time to reach a consensus on the plan and we
will consider ideas that could improve it," Mr. Blunt wrote in a news release.
"I do not believe it would be fair to sign citizens up for a program that may
not be renewed by the Legislature."

One of Dr. Schaaf's largest criticisms of the plan was that the governor planned
on implementing it without legislative approval.

The governor's staff has contended legislators authorized the creation of Insure
Missouri in 2007 when they approved

MO HealthNet, Mr. Blunt's plan to replace Medicaid.

Dr. Schaaf, who handled the MO HealthNet bill, in January launched an
unprecedented six-week series of hearings to examine health care in Missouri,
including the implications of Insure Missouri.

"I don't feel bad about what happened because I see it as a stepping stone to
getting where we are now," Dr. Schaaf told the News-Press.

The health care transformation committee Dr. Schaaf chairs this winter sent a
letter to Secretary of State Robin Carnahan, requesting that she stop the
procedural move necessary for the March launch.

Before she released a decision, Mr. Blunt said the Department of Social Services
would postpone its request for the procedural rule and that he'd continue to
work with legislators on Insure Missouri.

As discussions between Social Services and the General Assembly continue, Mr.
Blunt said he hoped a consensus could be reached so that the program could begin
by July 1.

"Our plan is to now really buckle down and work very hard and try to cover as
many uninsurable people as possible and at the same time strive for some market
reforms that will make health care better and more affordable for every
Missourian," Dr. Schaaf said of his committee.

Insure Missouri had received support from the hospital community, including
Heartland Health's chief executive officer, Lowell Kruse, and the Missouri
Hospital Association, as a way to curb cost shifting in health care.

"This is the governor showing a sign of faith," said another plan supporter,
Senate Majority Floor Leader Charlie Shields, R-St. Joseph. "I don't think he
would've pulled it and said, 'We're done,' and walked away from this ... I don't
think this is the end."

Alyson E. Raletz can be reached at alysonraletz@npgco.com

To see more of the St. Joseph News-Press or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.stjoenews-press.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, St. Joseph News-Press, Mo.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080223-JM-Insure-Missouri-tabled-for-now-0223

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JM


                      Copyright 2008 St. Joseph News-Press


                              383 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            April 20, 1985 Saturday

DOCTORS' DISPUTE NEAR END AS VOTE COMES IN

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 460 words


Doctors' dispute near end as vote comes in SYDNEY._ Most doctors are in favor of
an immediate end to the Medicare dispute. Early returns from a national
plebiscite of 32,000 doctors indicate that more than 80 percent support the
Federal Government's $166 million peace package. The Australian Medical
Association federal president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, announced the interim
figures yesterday. He said an end to the dispute affecting public hospitals in
New South Wales was now ""inevitable". Of the 5791 replies so far, 546 came from
doctors who were withholding their services from hospitals. Of these the
majority (55 percent) believed normal services should be resumed. Rebel surgeons
have greeted the results with derision, saying that only those who have resigned
from public hospitals have the right to accept or reject the Government offer.
The Council of Procedural Specialists vice-president, Dr Michael Aroney, said
that even if the number was accurate there were still 1400 resignations
outstanding. Dr Thompson said he believed the results so far indicated that the
majority of Australian doctors wanted peace. He said the final count would
reveal an even stronger anti-strike lobby. Dr Thompson said next week could see
dramatic numbers of doctors withdrawing resignations and returning to the public
hospital system. ""I think that as time goes by more people will see the
validity of a return to work. The package which has been negotiated is not a
perfect one, but it is a package which strongly favors the medical profession
and I think it is an excellent basis for getting back to work," Dr Thompson
said. With less than two weeks to go before the Federal Government's offer
expires, Dr Thompson said it was imperative that the profession accept the
package. ""There will be a hard-core of doctors _ and I support these people _
who have no intention whatsoever of going back to the public hospital system,"
he said. Saying he was confident that the dispute would effectively end by May
1, Dr Thompson warned of the long-term consequences. ""The hospitals are not
going to pick up overnight. It's going to be quite a while before you see the
system working any way like it did before. In fact I suspect it will never
return to quite the system that we had before _ which was the envy of many
people throughout the world," he said. Last night the surgeons maintained that
they were standing firm on their resolution not to accept the Government's peace
package. The procedural specialists have already written to the State and
Federal Governments seeking ""clarification" of some undertakings omitted from
the AMA agreement. Rebel surgeons will meet in Sydney on April 27 to consider
responses to these approaches, Dr Aroney said.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              384 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          Bush Telegraph (Queensland)

                                  June 7, 2016

Numbers hide rural medical shortage

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 395  words


THE Rural Doctors Association of Australia warns rural and remote Australia
still faces a significant shortage of local doctors with the advanced skills
needed for rural medical practice.

The organisation argued numbers remain low despite coverage of a report by the
Australian Population Research Institute in The Australian that indicated
Australia has an overall oversupply of doctors.

RDAA resident Ewen McPhee said there was lower distribution of doctors in rural
areas compared to an oversupply in larger cities.

"But this is not the case for the hundreds of small rural and remote communities
across Australia that desperately need local doctors with the right skills to
provide the range of advanced general practice and hospital-based services that
those communities require," Dr McPhee said.

"There is not only an overallshortage of doctors in the bush, but more
importantly a shortage of those doctors trained in advanced medical skills who
can provide both procedural services (like anaesthetics, obstetrics, general
surgery and emergency medicine) and non-procedural services (like advanced
mental healthcare and indigenous healthcare) in rural and remote settings, often
with very few available supports.

"Historically, rural and remote Australia has had a strong and viable rural
medical workforce, with local doctors providing not only general practice care
but also medical services at their local hospital.

"But with the older generation of rural doctors now passing retirement age, and
still working for the good of their communities - the urgent challenge is to get
in place the Rural Generalist pathways needed to entice more of the next
generation of Australian-trained medical graduates into advanced rural medical
training, and then get them into rural and remote practice, where they can
become the much-needed GPs and hospital doctors in their towns.

"In communities where rural generalism has been embraced and supported, and
where the next generation of doctors with advanced medical skills are working,
it has resulted in increased services in local hospitals as well as increased
numbers of doctors in local general practices.

"This can only be good for rural patients.

"It is getting "~the right doctor, with the right skills, in the right place'
that is the challenge for governments in developing the next generation of
doctors for the bush."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WBT


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 12, 2017 Wednesday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "Depuy Spine Spinal "Procedural Packages"

LENGTH: 333  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "Depuy Spine Spinal "Procedural Packages"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE17R0003

Notice Type: Presolicitation
Posted Date: July 11, 2017

Description: Notice Information
Solicitation:


SPE2DE-17-R-0003
Agency/Office:
DLA Acquisition Locations
Location:
DLA Troop Support - Medical
Title:
Depuy Spine Spinal "Procedural Packages"
Description(s):
Added:
The goal of the Manufacturer Direct Program is to establish an alternative to
manual open market purchase activity, re-engineer the business process with
automated e-commerce business solution. The objective of this solicitation is to
establish a Fixed Price (with Economic Price Adjustment) Indefinite
Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contract with Depuy Spine for their Spinal "
Procedural Packages," which includes the implant, instrumentation and ancillary
services (such as bone cement, guide wire, etc.) that are necessary for the
physician to perform orthopedic surgery.
This solicitation contains an on-site personnel requirement for the contractor
to provide advice and guidance to physician's before, during and after
implantation of the device at the request of the Medical Treatment Facility.
Technical support shall be available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7)
days a week.
Market Research has revealed that there are no other manufacturers or
distributors other than Depuy Spine who can provide DoD hospitals with Depuy
Spine Spinal "Procedural Packages" at the required time for surgery and be
available on-site if needed to answer questions on all these products. The Depuy
Spine Representatives are experts on Depuy Spine's products and are a vital part
of helping to ensure that the patient is getting the necessary treatment.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): Brian C. Mason brian.mason2@dla.mil Phone: 2157377238


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             TABLELANDS ADVERTISER

                           January 18, 2006 Wednesday

Double incentives

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 93  words


The Commonwealth Government will double the incentive payments to rural
procedural GPs in further recognition of their additional skills and
responsibilities.

From February, rural procedural GPs will be entitled to claim up to $15,000 per
year under the government's Practice Incentives Program.

This boost will provide further support to GPs who provide surgical, anaesthetic
and obstetric services to rural and remote communities.

This is an important measure for rural communities relying on experienced
general practitioners to keep local hospitals running.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: TMA


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

United States Courts Opinions: District Court for The Missouri Eastern District:
Feger v. Russell

LENGTH: 3813  words

DATELINE: Jefferson City


District Court for The Missouri Eastern District has issued the following order:


UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI
EASTERN DIVISION
CHARLES FEGER, )
)
Petitioner, )
)
vs. ) Case No. 4:13CV1767 CDP
)
TERRY RUSSELL, )
)
Respondent. )
MEMORANDUM AND ORDER
Petitioner Charles Feger seeks a writ of habeas corpus under 28 U.S.C. § 2254.
Feger is currently incarcerated at the Eastern Reception Diagnostic, and
Correctional Center in Bonne Terre, Missouri. Feger was convicted of robbery in
the first degree and armed criminal action in the Circuit Court for St. Louis
County in Clayton, Missouri. The Circuit Court sentenced him to two terms of
twenty-five years imprisonment to be served concurrently.


Feger raises five grounds for relief in his petition for a writ of habeas
corpus. Three of Feger's grounds for relief are barred by procedural default and
the other two are without merit. Therefore, I will deny his petition for a writ
of habeas corpus.
2
I. Procedural History
Feger was charged with robbery in the first degree and armed criminal action.
His trial was held in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, Missouri, where
Robert and Joleen Taaffe represented him at trial. On November 4, 2009, the jury
found Feger guilty of both counts. On December 9, he was sentenced to two
twenty-five year terms to be served concurrently. He filed a direct appeal
alleging three claims of error by the trial court. The state argued that his
claims had not been properly preserved at trial, and the Court of Appeals for
the Eastern District of Missouri agreed. The Court, however, exercised
discretionary plain error review as allowed by Missouri Supreme Court Rule
30.20, and denied the claims on the merits. See State v. Feger, 326 S.W.3d 826,
(Mo. Ct. App. 2010) (per curiam); Resp. Ex. E (Memorandum Supplementing Order).
Feger then filed a pro se motion for post-conviction relief under Missouri
Supreme Court Rule 29.15 in the St. Louis County Circuit Court. The court
appointed counsel and held an evidentiary hearing. In his motion Feger alleged
two separate claims of ineffective assistance of counsel by his trial attorneys.
The first claim was that counsel had failed to convey a fifteen-year plea offer.
The second claim was that counsel had failed to call Feger or any other
witnesses during the hearing to suppress the statements Feger made to police
when he was in the hospital. Robert Taaffe testified that he did not recall a
fifteen-year plea offer.
3
Jolene Taaffe testified that there was no fifteen year plea offer. Both
testified that they had considered calling witnesses at the suppression hearing
before deciding against it. The motion court denied both of Feger's claims for
relief. Feger appealed the motion court's decision and the state court of
appeals affirmed the motion court's denial of post-conviction relief, deferring
to their factual findings. See State v. Feger, 378 S.W.3d 421 (Mo. Ct. App.
2012) (per curiam); Resp. Ex. J (Memorandum Supplementing Order). Feger then
filed this petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
II. Factual Background
On February 19, 2008, Feger was at a bar drinking beer and margaritas in St.
Louis County along with his wife, Jennifer Feger, and uncle, James Davis.
Feger's uncle left the bar between 9 and 9:30 p.m. Feger stayed at the bar with
his wife until around 11 p.m., when he exited the bar into the alley after
saying he felt sick. When Feger did not return quickly, his wife went outside
and saw him throwing up. He told her to go back inside the bar and wait there
for him.
The bar was located next to a pizza restaurant that was managed by Nathan
Murphy. The restaurant had closed for the night and Murphy was finishing his
shift when he was struck with a metal baseball bat and slammed into a soda
machine. Murphy fell to the ground and looked up to see Feger standing over him
wearing a black hooded sweatshirt, but Murphy could see Feger's face. Feger
4
demanded that Murphy give him the money and Murphy told Feger it was on the
counter. Feger walked over to the counter, took the money, and stuffed it in his
sweatshirt. Feger then demanded to know where Murphy's car was and after
learning it was parked behind the restaurant, Feger took Murphy's car keys.
Feger left the restaurant, headed for Murphy's car, and dropped the bat. Murphy
heard the bat fall to the ground and saw Feger with his back turned, trying to
unlock Murphy's car. Murphy picked up the bat, ran towards Feger and struck
Feger in the back of the head with the bat. Feger fell to the ground and Murphy
retrieved the money and his car keys. Murphy then went back inside the
restaurant and called the police.
The police arrived and found Feger lying semi-conscious on the ground and
bleeding. Feger told the police that his wife was inside the nearby bar. One of
the officers went to locate her and informed her that a man appearing to be her
husband was unconscious on the ground. Feger's wife identified the unconscious
man as her husband and Feger was taken to a hospital in an ambulance.
At the hospital, Dr. Harlan Hodges treated Feger for his head injuries in the
emergency room. According to Dr. Hodges, Feger had an open wound to his head, a
skull fracture, and several hemorrhages. After treating Feger in the ER, Dr.
Hodges sent Feger to the intensive care unit (ICU) and did not see him again.
5
Around 11:30 a.m. the next morning, the police questioned Feger in the hospital
after asking hospital personnel for clearance. The police explained his Miranda
rights,1 and Feger agreed to answer questions, but he did not sign a written
waiver. After some initial questioning, the police told Feger about the robbery
and Feger admitted that he had committed the robbery and said he was sorry.
Feger also admitted that he needed money for his $300-a-day crack habit. The
police then placed him under arrest. Resp. Ex. A, 5-13.
Feger was indicted for robbery in the first degree and armed criminal action.
Before trial, Feger's attorney filed a motion to suppress the statements Feger
made in the hospital on the grounds that Feger had not been competent to waive
his Miranda rights when he was in the hospital. At the hearing, one of the
detectives testified that Feger had made a knowing and voluntary waiver of his
rights and that there had been no police coercion. He also testified that Feger
had not been under the influence of any medication at the time he made his
statements. Based on this evidence, the trial court denied the defense motion to
suppress the statements. Resp. Ex. A, 5-13.
At some point before Feger's trial, the state offered a plea of twenty-years
imprisonment. Both Feger and his trial counsel confirmed that this offer was
made
1 See Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436 (1966).
6
and that after conferring with his attorneys, Feger rejected the offer. The
defense raised the issue of a fifteen-year plea agreement, but the state
rejected it.
III. Petitioner's Grounds for Relief
In his § 2254 petition for a writ of habeas corpus, Feger raises five grounds
for relief:
(1) That he was denied due process and a fair trial when the trial court
prohibited him from introducing evidence about the lack of a videotape;
(2) That he was denied the right to be free of self-incrimination when the trial
court denied his motion to suppress statements made to the police while he was
hospitalized;
(3) That the trial court erred when it failed to declare a mistrial or strike
testimony by James Davis regarding Feger's character that was later commented on
in closing arguments;
(4) That he was denied effective assistance of counsel when his attorney
allegedly failed to inform him of a plea offer by the state; and
(5) That he was denied effective assistance of counsel when his attorney failed
to call witnesses in support of his motion to suppress statements he made to the
police.
IV. Discussion
Under the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA), "[a]n
application for a writ of habeas corpus on behalf of a person in custody
7
pursuant to the judgment of a state court shall not be granted when it was
adjudicated on the merits in state court unless the adjudication of the claim:
(1) resulted in a decision that was contrary to, or involved an unreasonable
application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme
Court of the United States; or
(2) resulted in a decision that was based on an unreasonable determination of
the facts in light of the evidence presented in the State Court proceeding.
28 U.S.C. § 2254(d). A state court's adjudication is contrary to clearly
established federal law "if the controlling case law requires a different
outcome either because of factual similarity to the state case or because
general federal rules require a particular result in a particular case." Tokar
v. Bowersox, 198 F.3d 1039, 1045 (8th Cir. 1999) (quoting Richardson v.
Bowersox, 188 F.3d 973, 977-978 (8th Cir. 1999)). An unreasonable application of
federal law is one where the "state court decision, evaluated objectively, and
on the merits, resulted in an outcome that cannot be reasonably justified under
existing Supreme Court precedent." Id. (internal citations omitted). Factual
determinations made by a state court "shall be presumed correct" and a
petitioner must rebut such determinations by "clear and convincing evidence." §
2254(e)(1).
A. Petitioner's Grounds One, Two, and Three are Procedurally Barred
Missouri Supreme Court Rule 30.20 gives appellate courts the discretionary power
to review unpreserved claims for plain error. A federal habeas court may
8
not consider "a claim rejected by a state court if the decision of the state
court rests on a state law ground that is independent of the federal question
and adequate to support the judgment." Walker v. Martin, 131 S. Ct. 1120, 1128
(2011) (quotations omitted). The independent state law ground can be either a
substantive rule or a procedural barrier. Id. A discretionary state procedural
rule can serve as an adequate ground to bar habeas review when it is "firmly
established" and "regularly followed." Beard v. Kindler, 558 U.S. 53, 60 (2009).

Respondent contends that Feger's first three grounds are procedurally barred.
The Missouri Court of Appeals determined that Feger had not properly preserved
any of these claims. That court, however, used the discretionary power granted
by Rule 30.20 to conduct plain error review and then denied the claims on the
merits. Feger does not dispute that he failed to preserve these claims at trial,
nor does he allege that the state procedural rule at issue is not "regularly
followed" and "firmly established." Walker, 131 S. Ct. at 1127. Instead he
argues that because the state appellate court exercised discretionary review for
plain error, this court may review for plain error as well.
Within the Eighth Circuit, different panels have disagreed over whether a state
court's discretionary review of an unpreserved claim for plain error waives
procedural default by a habeas petitioner, permitting collateral review by a
federal court. See Toney v. Gammon, 79 F.3d 693, 699 (8th Cir. 1996) (holding
that a
9
state's discretionary review for plain error does not excuse procedural
default); but see Mack v. Caspari, 92 F.3d 637 (8th Cir. 1996) (holding that
plain error review by a state court waives procedural default and permits
collateral review); see also Hornbuckle v. Groose, 106 F.3d 253 (8th Cir. 1997)
(noting the split with in the Eighth Circuit and electing to adopt the same
position as Mack v. Caspari). However, in Mader v. United States, the Eighth
Circuit Court of Appeals settled the issue of what rule to apply when there are
conflicting panel opinions: "We definitively rule today, in accordance with the
almost universal practice in other federal circuits, that when faced with
conflicting panel opinions, the earliest opinion must be followed . . . ." Id.
(citing T.L. ex rel. Ingram v. United States, 443 F.3d 956, 960 (8th Cir.
2006)). The earliest decision handed down by the Eighth Circuit on this issue
concluded that a habeas petitioner is not entitled to an independent
determination by a federal habeas court after plain error review by a state
court. Hayes v. Lockhart, 766 F.2d 1247, 1252-53 (8th Cir. 1985) (because the
burden of justifying federal habeas relief for state prisoners is greater that
the plain error showing required on direct appeal, petitioner was not entitled
to a determination by federal habeas court on whether the giving a jury
instruction was plain error); see also Pollard v. Delo, 28 F.3d 887, 889 (8th
Cir. 1994) (plain error review of claim by state court did not "erase the fact
that the court specifically and clearly found that the claim was procedurally
barred by [petitioner's] failure to
10
comply with the procedural requirements . . . [of] Missouri Rule 29.15 . . . As
a result, this court cannot consider [petitioner's] claim . . . ."). As such,
Feger's first three grounds are procedurally defaulted and the Court may not
consider them unless he "can demonstrate cause for the default and actual
prejudice as a result of the alleged violation of federal law, or demonstrate
that failure to consider the claims will result in a fundamental miscarriage of
justice." Coleman v. Thompson, 501 U.S. 722, 750 (1991).
Here, Feger makes no attempt to avoid the procedural bar. See Murray v. Carrier,
477 U.S. 478, 488 (1986) (to demonstrate cause, petitioner must show "some
objective factor external to the defense impeded [petitioner's] efforts to
comply with the State's procedural rule."); United States v. Frady, 456 U.S.
152, 170 (1982) (to establish actual prejudice, petitioner must demonstrate that
the errors "worked to his actual and substantial disadvantage, infecting the
entire trial with error of constitutional dimensions."); Abdi v. Hatch, 450 F.3d
334, 338 (8th Cir. 2006) (petitioner must present new evidence that
affirmatively demonstrates that he is actually innocent of the crime for which
he was convicted in order to fit within the fundamental miscarriage of justice
exception). Instead, he merely reargues in his traverse that the Court should
apply Mack and consider his claims on the merits. I have already rejected this
argument and concluded that I must apply Hayes (and later Toney and Pollard),
not Mack and Hornbuckle, to his
11
claims. Therefore, Grounds 1-3 of Feger's habeas petition will be denied as
procedurally defaulted.
B. Ineffective Assistance of Counsel
Both of Feger's ineffective assistance of counsel claims were rejected on the
merits by the post-conviction motion court and in the subsequent appeal. They
are therefore properly before this Court, so I will review the claims to
determine whether they are contrary to, or an unreasonable application of,
established federal law or were based on an unreasonable determination of the
facts in light of the evidence before the state court. 28 U.S.C. § 2254(d).
The Sixth Amendment guarantees every defendant the right to effective assistance
of counsel. Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668, 686 (1984); U.S. Const.
Amend. VI. To succeed on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a
petitioner must show by a preponderance of the evidence that (1) counsel's
performance was deficient and (2) that the deficient performance prejudiced his
defense. Id. at 687. Under this standard, "[j]udicial scrutiny of counsel's
performance must be highly deferential" and there is a "strong presumption" that
counsel's conduct falls within the range of professionally reasonable
assistance. Id. at 689. Even if counsel's performance is deficient "[a]
defendant must also show that there is a reasonable probability that, but for
counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceedings would have been
different." Id. at 694. "[A]
12
court need not address both components [of the Strickland test] if the movant
makes an insufficient showing on one of the prongs." Engelen v. United States,
68 F.3d 238, 241 (8th Cir. 1995).
1. Ground 4: Ineffective Assistance of Counsel Based on Failure to Convey a Plea
Offer
In his fourth ground for relief, Feger alleges that he was denied effective
assistance of counsel because his trial counsel failed to inform him of a
fifteen-year plea offer. He testified that after he was convicted, his counsel
told him that he should have taken "that fifteen that was on the table." Feger
claims that if he had known about this supposed offer, he would have accepted
it.
Feger is the only person who claims that a fifteen-year plea offer was ever
made, and no other evidence in the record supports his contention. Both
attorneys testified that there had been a twenty-year plea offer (which Feger
rejected) but neither knew of any fifteen-year offer, and neither remembered
making the statement Feger alleged. The Taaffes also testified that they had
asked for a fifteen-year plea agreement, but the state refused. The Taaffes
further stated that if they had been aware of any such offer, they would have
informed Feger. The state denied making any such offer. Resp. Ex. F, 8-9, 27-28.

Feger does not dispute that he was informed of the twenty-year offer and
rejected it, or that his counsel informed him that the state had rejected a
fifteen-
13
year offer. Resp. Ex. F, 99. Instead, he argues that there must have been such
an offer because of counsel's statement to him after the verdict. The PCR motion
court found that Feger's testimony about the supposed fifteen-year plea offer
was not credible and the state court of appeals deferred to the motion court's
factual determination. See State v. Feger, 378 S.W.3d 421 (Mo. App. E.D. 2012)
(per curiam); Resp. Ex. J. Feger has failed to rebut the "presumption of
correctness" accorded to state court factual findings by "clear and convincing
evidence," so I must defer to the factual determination that no fifteen-year
plea offer was made. See § 2254(e)(1).
Because counsel's performance could not be deficient for failing to notify Feger
of a plea offer that did not exist, I need not address the second prong of the
Strickland test. Engelen, 68 F.3d at 241.2 Feger's fourth ground for habeas
relief is without merit and will be denied.
2. Ground 5: Ineffective Assistance of Counsel Based on a Failure to Call
Witnesses at the Suppression Hearing
Feger's final ground for habeas relief is that he was denied effective
assistance of counsel because his attorneys did not call either Feger himself or
any other witnesses at the suppression hearing. A petitioner has the burden of
showing
2 Feger has also continued to maintain his innocence. He claims that even though
he is innocent, he would only have taken the plea because of medical reasons and
for the sake of his family.
14
he was denied effective assistance of counsel by a preponderance of the
evidence, and must overcome a strong presumption that counsel's conduct was
professionally reasonable. E.g. Strickland, 466 U.S. 689. The decision as to
whether to call a witness "is a virtually unchallengeable decision of trial
strategy." Rodela-Aguilar v. United States, 596 F.3d 457, 464 (8th Cir. 2010).
At the post-conviction hearing, Feger's attorney testified that she decided not
to call Feger at the suppression hearing3 because she was concerned that any
testimony given could later be used to impeach Feger at trial. This is a
legitimate strategic decision and hardly constitutes constitutionally
ineffective assistance. Calling any witness comes with the risk of
cross-examination. Rodela-Aguilar at 864. Ms. Taaffe also stated that although
Dr. Harlan Hodges did appear to testify, he was not called when counsel learned
that he had no knowledge about Feger's condition at the time he spoke to the
police. Dr. Hodges testified at the post-conviction hearing that he had treated
Feger in the emergency room but had no specific knowledge of Feger's condition
at the time the police questioned him.
Ms. Taaffe also stated that she declined to call members of Feger's family
because, like Dr. Hodges, they did not observe Feger at the time he made his
statements to the police and so had no knowledge of his condition at that time.
Thus, the decision by Ms. Taaffe not to call any of Feger's family members at
the
3 The suppression hearing was conducted the morning the trial began.
15
suppression hearing was well within the range of "professionally reasonable
assistance" and not constitutionally deficient. See Strickland, 466 U.S. at 689.

Ms. Taaffe testified that in hindsight, her decision not call witnesses at the
suppression hearing might have been in error. Resp. Ex. F, 30-34. This hindsight
opinion does not render counsel's assistance constitutionally deficient. See
Strickland at 689 (a fair assessment of counsel's performance must strip out the
benefit of hindsight). As stated above, trial counsel's decision about whether
to call a witness is a virtually "unchallengeable" strategic decision.
Rodela-Aguilar, 596 F.3d at 464. Dr. Hodges admits that he had no knowledge of
Feger's condition at the time Feger was questioned by the police, and the same
is true regarding Feger's family. Nothing they would have said would have
contradicted the testimony of Detective Scott Cork regarding Feger's condition
at the time he was questioned. Resp. Ex. A, 5-13. In affirming the denial of
post-conviction relief, the appellate court held that the decision not to call
Dr. Hodges or any members of Feger's family did not constitute ineffective
assistance of counsel because the testimony would not have helped Feger at the
suppression hearing. This state court determination is not contrary to, or an
unreasonable application of, federal law as stated by the Supreme Court, nor is
it an unreasonable determination of the facts. Feger's fifth and final ground
for relief is without merit and will be denied.
16
Certificate of Appealability
A district court may issue a certificate of appealability only if the applicant
has made a substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional right. 28
U.S.C. §
2253(c)(2). A substantial showing is a showing that issues are debatable among
reasonable jurists, a court could resolve the issues differently, or the issues
deserve
additional proceedings. Cox v. Norris, 133 F.3d 565, 569 (8th Cir. 1997). No
reasonable jurist could differ on any of Feger's claims. Therefore, I will not
issue
a certificate of appealability on any of the claims.
V. Conclusion
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Charles Feger's petition for a writ of
habeas corpus [#1] and his motion for appointment of counsel [#4] are denied.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this court will not issue a certificate of
appealability.
A separate Judgment is issued in accordance with this Memorandum and
Order.
CATHERINE D. PERRY
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE
Dated this 17th day of September, 2014.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday

Put down the guns, pick up the scalpel;
Jerry Bruckheimer shifts spotlight to doctors from police in new TV series

BYLINE: BRIAN STELTER

SECTION: LEISURE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles

ABSTRACT

The movie producer Jerry Bruckheimer is having an ever bigger impact on U.S.
television, shifting to doctors from police in a new TV series.

FULL TEXT

Something terrible is about to happen to the two beautiful people who are
cruising down a street in South Beach in the first moments of ''Miami Medical.''

Maybe the convertible will be totaled by a tanker truck, or perhaps a bridge
will collapse beneath them. But whatever transpires, we know that tragedy will
befall them, because this is a Jerry Bruckheimer series.

Mr. Bruckheimer, the hugely successful film producer (''Pirates of the
Caribbean'' and ''National Treasure,'' to name two franchises), is also a
prolific player in the television business. His name already adorns five CBS
series, making him the biggest individual supplier to the network. He is now
adding a sixth on CBS, ''Miami Medical,'' about trauma-center doctors.

''Miami Medical'' has the same Bruckheimer signatures as ''CSI'' and its
spinoffs: a cinematic style and a by-the-numbers formula. Episodes begin with a
violent act, the characters grapple with the aftermath, and most if not all of
the loose ends are wrapped up before the closing credits, leaving little to be
explained in future episodes. The formula is easy to malign, but little on TV is
more popular than the three ''CSI'' series, which all rank among the Top 20
shows on television each week. (Another Bruckheimer production, ''Cold Case,''
places 38th so far this television season.)

''Procedurals have done really well for us,'' Mr. Bruckheimer said casually in
an interview between casting sessions for the fourth ''Pirates of the
Caribbean'' movie.

But ''Miami Medical'' does represent a new twist on the Bruckheimer formula. Its
previous procedurals have focused on law enforcement; now, for the first time,
his production company is entering the well-trod medical genre.

Jeffrey Lieber, the day-to-day executive producer of ''Miami Medical,'' isn't
particularly interested in the medicine. He sees the world of hospitals and very
good-looking doctors as an entryway into the characters' stories.

''I've tried as hard as possible not to know how the body actually works,'' he
said while sipping matzo ball soup at a deli in Westwood last week.

In the first episode, for instance, Mr. Lieber created a scene involving a
pregnant woman in an elevator at the hospital. He recalled approaching the
show's medical consultant and saying: ''I've just written a scene where she's
bleeding out of her ears and nose. What could that be?''

Eventually a scenario was concocted. ''I knew what the act-out was going to be,
and I reverse-engineered from there,'' he said.

For Mr. Lieber the signature of a Bruckheimer series is a visual one. ''They
expect a level of visual gloss that is the starting point,'' he said.

The producers achieve that look by relying on many of the same DP's, short for
directors of photography, across the Bruckheimer shows and films. ''We
cross-pollinate people,'' Mr. Bruckheimer said.

The director of photography for the first episodes of ''Miami Medical'' was
Eagle Egilsson, who had just finished filming a Bruckheimer series for TNT,
''Dark Blue.''

''Miami Medical'' also leaned on Matthew Mungle, a longtime special-effects
artist for ''CSI,'' for its sometimes messy surgery scenes.

Mr. Bruckheimer said the talent sharing also applies in front of the camera:
''We meet so many actors when we're casting these movies. We find some terrific
people that we can slide into TV and the other way around.'' From there Mr.
Bruckheimer gives each program a wide berth.

In one instance Omar Miller, an actor Mr. Bruckheimer cast in ''The Sorcerer's
Apprentice,'' was added to the cast of ''CSI: Miami'' last fall.

Mr. Bruckheimer has branched out to other networks in recent years, placing
''Dark Blue'' on TNT last summer and ''The Forgotten'' at ABC last fall. But
except for ''The Amazing Race,'' his Emmy-winning reality show on CBS, Mr.
Bruckheimer has not ventured far from his television comfort zone. His two
pilots for the coming season are both procedurals: ''Chase,'' about U.S.
marshals, for NBC, and ''The Whole Truth,'' about court cases, for ABC.

Mr. Lieber suggested that he and Mr. Bruckheimer did not set out to enter the
medical genre; the setting, he said, was a ''byproduct of the ideas on the
table.''

After being announced but before getting onto the air, the show underwent a name
change. Originally called ''Miami Trauma,'' CBS changed it to ''Miami Medical''
to distinguish it from the NBC paramedics drama ''Trauma,'' which made its debut
last fall and has teetered on the brink of cancellation ever since.

By any measure Mr. Bruckheimer spends more time on film than on television;
asked why he remains in the television production business, he said, ''because
movies take forever to get made.''

Mr. Lieber said, ''Jerry is very efficient.''

Mr. Bruckheimer was only on the ''Miami Medical'' set for about an hour for the
pilot episode, and isn't heavy-handed with his production notes. But ''he brings
an everyman's eye to things,'' Mr. Lieber said.

While work was under way on a potential Season 2 episode, involving a sinkhole
at a construction site, the script called for a trauma doctor to tell a victim
that ''we're going to have to cut off your leg'' just before the commercial
break.

Mr. Bruckheimer recommended an edit; he thought the statement was a step too far
because, as Mr. Lieber put it, ''you know you're going to see a guy's leg get
cut off at the other end of the act break.''

''He's got an ability to look at things very simply and say, 'That might be too
much for people,' '' Mr. Lieber said.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                             August 20, 2012 Monday

High Court rejects claim, fines ACRI NIS 45,000 for protesting four years too
late. NGO: Ruling on hospital care bad for Ashdod poor, but even worse for
social justice

BYLINE: YONAH JEREMY BOB

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 817 words


The Association for Civil Rights in Israel reacted with dismay on Sunday at the
High Court of Justice's Thursday ruling which not only rejected its claim of
discrimination against the poor at a new Ashdod Medical Center, but also imposed
an unprecedented NIS 45,000 fine on ACRI.

ACRI had claimed discrimination against the poor due to the inclusion of a
program at the medical center where 25 percent of the care provided could be
privatized, meaning persons with the means to do so could pay extra to receive
special care from particular doctors.

In its petition to the High Court, ACRI argued that equal medical care for all
of the state's citizens was a fundamental right, and that providing different
levels of care at a state subsidized medical center violated those basic rights.
The state paid over NIS 400 million - well over half the cost of establishing
the medical center.

ACRI added that private care at the center would also create perverse incentives
for doctors to give less time, energy and hospital resources to poorer patients
so that they could invest more time in attending to "private care" patients, for
whom they could get paid more.

The court, in an opinion authored by Supreme Court President Asher D. Grunis on
behalf of a panel of three justices, rejected ACRI's petition and imposed a NIS
45,000 fine, characterizing the petition as having been filed four-and-a-half
years late.

In other words, the court viewed what it called the petition's lateness as such
a decisive factor that it did not need to analyze or weigh the substantive
discrimination arguments made by ACRI in-depth, though the court did briefly
comment that it found the arguments unconvincing.

ACRI spokeswoman Nirit Moskowitz said that the High Court ruling was highly
problematic on two significant counts.

The first was that the court, according to Moskowitz, ignored a fundamental
human right to equal health care, a corollary to the fundamental right of
equality, on procedural grounds without making a real effort to see if there was
a way to better protect the rights which ACRI said were violated.

Secondly, Moskowitz said that the heavy fine imposed in the ruling would make it
hard for NGOs like ACRI to do their job of defending the rights of those too
poor or vulnerable to defend themselves.

More significantly, she said it would likely lead to situations where NGOs will
sometimes refrain from getting involved in helping vulnerable persons, not
because they think that there is no injustice, but out of fear of fines if the
court happens to disagree.

On the procedural issue itself, Moskowitz and ACRI attorney Gilad Barnea
disputed Justice Grunis's characterization of the petition as late.

Justice Grunis ruled that the petition should have been filed before the
government and investors had poured funds into building the institution, or at
various other points during the bidding or contract signing process, all of
which were public.

He noted that it was also clear that ACRI had full knowledge of the private
aspects of the medical center nearly a year and a half ago, when ACRI sent a
letter of protest to various government offices.

Despite sending that letter in April 2011, ACRI did not file a petition with the
High Court until March 2012.

Waiting such a long time to file its petition caused significant and unnecessary
prejudice to the parties already invested in the medical center, said Grunis.

Barnea responded that the argument of delay was a poor one. He said both the
state and the Health Ministry had tried to stop the entire project even after
the bidding process, and that the ministry could still withhold its approval.

Barnea also noted that only days before the hearing on the petition it was
revealed that a private company has rights to the land on which the medical
center was built, creating potential complications for its future.

Elaborating on the issue of fines, Moskowitz noted that organizations like ACRI
are not private organizations for profit for whom it is easy to raise funds.
Rather, he said, much of ACRI's work is done by volunteer Barnea and two other
volunteer attorneys, and those funds which are available for essential
expenditures are limited.

Moskowitz confirmed that it had been decades since ACRI had been fined by a
court. She added that, in ACRI's estimation, Grunis was turning out to be a big
disappointment and was ignoring all of the public discussion provoked by the
social protest movement over social justice rights like economic and health
inequalities.

In contrast, Grunis noted that the private aspects of the medical center are
carefully and clearly limited by law and that there were appropriate monitoring
mechanisms in place to prevent inequalities.

He also pointed out that it made sense for a percentage of the medical center to
be private where a significant - though minority - portion of the funding for
the medical center was also private.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: The four-year-old multimillion shekel Ashdod Medical Center is
at the epicenter of a court case initiated by the Association for Civil Rights
in Israel, which has unexpectedly left the NGO NIS 45,000 worse off. (Credit:
Artist's rendering courtesy of Ashdod Medical Center)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Hospital lapse exposes Diggers to HIV risk

BYLINE: LINTON BESSER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words


AN UNKNOWN number of Australian soldiers and contractors may have been exposed
to blood-borne diseases such as hepatitis or HIV after staff at Defence's main
hospital unit in the Middle East failed to properly sterilise surgical
equipment. The protocol breach at the Al Minhad Air Base, near Dubai, continued
for 19 months from February 2009 during a period of significant casualties for
Australian troops. But soldiers were not alerted to the problem until last week.
A Department of Defence memo issued to troops has warned that soldiers and
contractors who passed through the air base hospital should have their blood
screened.

It said "lapses in procedure" in operating the instrument steriliser had been
identified. "As a consequence the sterilisation of surgical instruments at the
facility cannot be absolutely guaranteed to have met Australian standards," the
memo says. "Personnel who underwent a surgical procedure (e.g. excision of skin
lesions, minor operations) at the AMAB Health Facility during that period are
possibly at risk of acquiring a blood-borne disease." Al Minhad is the central
launching point for Australian troops in the Middle East, including for the
country's fighting forces in Afghanistan. The department has previously
disclosed that Australians suffered 37 serious combat-related injuries in
Afghanistan in 2009, and 65 in 2010. But many of those who suffer
life-threatening injuries are flown straight to Germany for treatment.
Infectious disease control expert Richard West said yesterday that such lapses
were rare in normal Australian hospitals and he expressed concern that it took
so long for the problem to be identified. "The highest risk is hepatitis C
because patients cannot be vaccinated . . . there has been the occasional report
of HIV being transmitted in the operating theatre," Professor West said. "It is
unusual that it has taken that long to detect that there is a problem." The
machine failure occurred between February 2009 and August 2010, but the memo was
not issued until May 16 - nine months after the sterilisation procedures were
discovered and corrected. People exposed to HIV and hepatitis B can be treated
to reduce the chance of the infection taking hold, but the medicine must be
given within two to three days of the incident. There is no such treatment for
people exposed to hepatitis C. An Australian soldier, who asked not to be named,
said troops who had served in Afghanistan during this period were in shock over
the memo. "In that period of time, we had a very high casualty rate," he said.
He said the health alert had been removed from the department intranet last week
over fears of a backlash, and he feared others at risk had not been properly
informed. "We need an inquiry because there has been a complete lack of
governance," the soldier said. The memo was signed by Major- General Paul
Alexander, Surgeon General of the Australian Defence Force, who is fighting
numerous fires within in his portfolio. There is an ongoing "investigating
officers inquiry" examining claims of negligence at the medical centre at HMAS
Albatross near Nowra. And the department's health programs have been repeatedly
criticised by a serving captain, Julian Fidge, who claims there is "widespread"
contempt for medical professionals within the chain of command. Last week's
health alert said the potential risk to soldiers was assessed as low, "as
blood-borne diseases within the ADF population are extremely rare and all ADF
members are vaccinated against hepatitis B". "This was an internal procedural
issue that was detected and rectified by the health system," the memo says.
"Measures have been put in place to prevent a repeat of this procedural error
and improve governance systems for deployed ADF health care."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                               May 8, 2017 Monday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

LENGTH: 453  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE17R0006

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: May 8, 2017

Description: The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources
capable of providing DePuy Synthes Joint Reconstruction Orthopedic Products for
Hips, Knees, Shoulders, Extremity and Other Joints Implant "procedural
packages." The "procedural package" includes Implants, Orthobiological products,
Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary Products. The product mix that makes up the "
procedural package" varies based on the individual needs of the patient. The
instruments are both "used" during the surgery and return to the vendor or
purchased by the hospital so they are readily available on the shelves.


All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural packages" must be delivered
"Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery", and "Consignment". Under
"Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the
manufacturer's field representative who carries the products into the MTF
just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales representative may bring
many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products to the surgery along
with the instrumentation sets. Under "Direct Vendor Delivery" method an order
for products is placed through ECAT and the product is delivered directly to the
customer via any transportation carrier. Under the "Consignment" method, an MTF
will have the products that make up the "procedural packages" consigned to their
facility.
At the request of the MTF, the manufacturer is required to have a qualified
representative on site at the MTF's within the timeframe specified by the
facility necessary to meet their requirements. The manufacturer's representative
provides technical advice and guidance to the physician before, during, and
after implantation. Furthermore, technical support is available twenty-four (24)
hours a day, seven (7) days a week.
This is a request for information (RFI) and does not commit the U.S. Government
to issue a solicitation, make an award, or pay any costs associated with
responding to this announcement. All submitted information shall remain with the
U.S. Government and will not be returned.
Your response to this Request for Information shall be submitted electronically
in PDF format and emailed to john.r.jackson@dla.mil

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): JOHN R JACKSON JOHN.R.JACKSON@DLA.MIL Phone: 2157370850


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday

Undue tax exemptions to trusts, others cost govt Rs3,019 cr: CAG

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 472  words


Irregularity in tax benefits allowed to hundreds of trusts, which include many
well-known entities such as Breach Candy Hospital, Jamsetji Tata Trust and
several state cricket associations, contributing tax effect to the tune of
Rs3,019 crore has come to light.

A performance audit report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG)
on exemptions to charitable trusts and institutions, tabled in Parliament on
Friday, highlights major violations of tax rules in 1,283 cases for more than
two years. Out of the 90,000 trusts audited by the CAG, procedural lapses were
noted in 6,948 (7.7%) cases.

The Income Tax Act, 1961 provides various tax exemptions to charitable trusts
and institutions run solely for philanthropic purposes, not for profit. The
audit sought to verify the eligibility of trusts enjoying tax benefits. Even
though the tax exemption allowed to Breach Candy Hospital trust initially was
withdrawn by the I-T department on the ground that it runs with the motive of
profit and not philanthropy, the trust continued to enjoy tax benefits. This
resulted in under-assessment of income involving tax effect of Rs4.94 crore.
Similarly, despite clear guidelines on disallowing tax exemptions on the income
received from TV rights from the Board Of Control For Cricket In India, at least
four cricket associations - Saurashtra Cricket Association, Baroda Cricket
Association, Kerala Cricket Association and Maharashtra Cricket Association -
continued to enjoy tax benefits. This resulted in non-levy of tax to the tune of
Rs37 crore.

The CAG also pulled up the I-T department for failing to take action against the
investment of Rs3,139 crore made by Jamsetji Tata Trust and Navajbai Ratan Tata
Trust in contravention to the I-T rules, resulting in short levy of tax of
Rs1,066 crore. The I-T department received a total of 1.75 lakh trust
applications for granting registrations during the financial years 2009 to 2011.
While the department approved 90,000 of these applications, 36,000 requests were
turned down, while the rest are pending for action.

The report notes procedural lapses, allowance of exemptions and non-monitoring
of foreign contributions received. The auditors in their recommendations urged
the ministry concerned to provide a database of registered trusts to I-T
officials for better coordination between approving authorities and the tax
officer. It also said that the ministry may come out with protocols to make sure
that tax officials verify unauthorised investments made by trusts.

Reaction to CAG report

Breach Candy Hospital director Dr Geeta Koppikar said, "I have no idea about
this report."

A person close to the Jamshedji Tata Trust said, "Trusts  are governed by the
Bombay Public Trusts Act. They had taken the charity commissioner's approval
before making the investment referred to."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Albany Herald (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 19, 2016 Friday

Phoebe officials say hospital is in compliance with CMS protocol

BYLINE: Jennifer Parks, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 793 words


Aug. 19--ALBANY -- More details have been released regarding the circumstances
leading to Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital sending a corrective measure plan to
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

The senior administrative team, the operating room committee and all operating
room staff at Phoebe met on July 22 to discuss the protocol for stopping a
wrong-site procedure after an incident of that nature resulted in a surgeon
being suspended. Phoebe officials said a follow-up survey was conducted earlier
in the week, the results of which showed the hospital is in compliance with
corrective measures.

"We routinely participate with survey agencies such as DNV-GL, the Department of
Community Health and CMS," Phoebe Putney Health System CEO Joel Wernick said.
"When incidents occur that have the potential to impact quality or safety, we
rightfully report them as a means to apply corrective measures to prevent future
incidents. Such an event did occur recently and was appropriately reported,
resulting in a request from CMS for a corrective action plan and follow-up
survey.

"As a matter of state and federal law, we are not at liberty to discuss
instances where a physician's professional practices are under review. Phoebe
and its independent medical staff have cooperated fully with the CMS protocol.
We responded with strong and immediate action, and have taken this opportunity
to review and modify our procedural safety protocol where needed. The survey
took place this Tuesday, and we are pleased to announce we are in full
compliance."

A report from CMS shows a survey was completed at the hospital on July 7, noting
that the facility -- based on a plan of action given to surveyors -- was to
reinforce and hold surgeons responsible for pre-operative processes, including
the reconciliation of any difference between the informed consent and the
marking of the site in the presence of the patient and a nurse.

It further noted that the plan of action, signed off on by Phoebe officials
earlier this month, was to include standardizing the process for when there is a
discrepancy found in the pre-op period so that the surgeon, with a pre-op nurse
present, documents the variance and obtains informed consent reflecting the
correct surgical site.

The report said three patients were involved in separate incidents. The first
one had a loss of blood supply to tissue in the hip and was scheduled for an
arthroplasty. Consent was signed for the right hip, but the procedure was
performed on the left hip with no patient consent for the left side.

A second patient with a compression fracture in the spine had to be returned for
additional surgery after a procedure was done on a portion of the spine that was
not consented.

A third patient had cervical stenosis and surgery was performed on the consented
area of the spine, as well as another area that was not consented, the report
said.

"A Patient Safety Report, including wrong site surgeries, was being provided to
the Quality Council quarterly at the time of the event(s)," a corrective plan in
the report said. "This reporting process has been modified to monthly and will
include measurement, analysis and tracking of adverse patient events to ensure
patient safety is prioritized and immediate action implemented, as warranted."

A review of minutes from a Quality Assurance and Performance Improvement meeting
from June 28 showed that discussions regarding wrong-site surgery had taken
place and that an investigation was ongoing, but that there was no evidence of
training with the involved personnel or other immediate action to prevent future
incidents, the report said.

At the time of the July 7 survey, surgery patients were expected to be reviewed
weekly for four weeks to assess compliance with providing patient rights.
Reviews will continue monthly for six months on a random selection of 50 surgery
and procedure patients. At all access points, patients at Phoebe will be
presented a patient rights and responsibilities document, and will be asked to
sign an acknowledgement form confirming receipt, the report said.

The report said the surgeon placed on suspension following the hip procedure is
required to attend formal safety education before he operates again. All
physicians, advanced practice providers and hospital staff in procedural areas
are to be educated on the process for confirming laterality or other surgical
site identification prior to the procedure in a memorandum.

An additional preoperative verification process is being implemented for one
year for the surgeon and a second staff member in each of the three cases, the
report said.

___ (c)2016 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160819-1AH-Phoebe-officials-say-hospital
-is-in-compliance-with-CMS-protocol-0819-20160819

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                        Copyright 2016 The Albany Herald


                              394 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1984, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                   July, 1984

                          Vol. 17, No. 7, HOSPLW Pg. 3

LENGTH: 259 words

TITLE: State health planning agency committed prejudicial procedural error.

TEXT:

     A Georgia Superior Court has upheld a state health planning review board's
order that remanded a certificate of need case to the state planning agency
because the agency committed prejudicial error in its consideration of a CON
application. The court explained that the agency committed the error when it
failed to notify interested health care facilities that it was advancing its
planning horizon from 1987 to 1988 on April 1, 1983, rather than on July 1,
1983. However, the court noted that the agency was correct in its perception
that new population data should be applied promptly.

     The court explained that, heretofore, the agency had advanced its planning
horizon on July 1, 1983, in accordance with its rules and in light of the
release of information by the Georgia Office of Planning and Budget. However,
the Office released planning figures on April 1, 1983, and the agency applied
new population date to the CON application under review at that time. The
agency, however, refused to notify other interested health facilities that the
project would be evaluated based on the new population projections.
     When the CON was granted, the matter was appealed to the review board which
remanded the case to the agency because of the prejudicial procedural error. The
court affirmed the board's decision and directed that the case be remanded for
further action by the agency (State Health Planning Agency v Chatham County
Hospital Authority, Georgia Superior Court, Fulton County, No D-3396, April 30,
1984).

REFERENCE: State Health Planning Agency v Chatham County Hospital Authority,
Georgia Superior Court, Fulton County, No D-3396, April 30, 1984.  The American
Academy of Hospital Attorneys was formerly the American Society of Hospital
Attorneys.


                              395 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

Lifelong Learning Competencies for General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The following are key points to remember about American College of Cardiology
lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists:





     The lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists are organized
using the six domains promulgated by the Accreditation Council for Graduate
Medical Education/American Board of Medical Specialties and endorsed by the
American Board of Internal Medicine (Medical Knowledge, Patient Care and
Procedural Skill, Systems-Based Practice, Practice-Based Learning and
Improvement, Interpersonal and Communication Skills, and Professionalism).

     The aggregated lifelong learning competencies collectively underlie the
Entrustable Professional Activities that patients and the public can reasonably
expect all competent clinical cardiologists to be able to perform. These include
ability to:

         Evaluate, diagnose, and develop treatment plans for patients with
known, suspected, or at risk of developing cardiovascular disease.

         Manage patients with acute cardiac conditions.

         Manage patients with chronic cardiovascular diseases.

         Appropriately utilize cardiovascular diagnostic testing.

         Implement disease prevention and risk factor control measures,
addressing comorbidities.

         Work effectively to promote and coordinate interdisciplinary,
patient-centered care.

         Engage in lifelong learning to maintain and enhance knowledge and
skills.

     There are a number of ways physicians can maintain competency and expand
lifelong learning in the course of practice (assuring currency with the evolving
art and science of the field), and assess their own professional needs for
education and performance improvement.

     Objective evaluation of competence in the practice setting can be
challenging, but a number of tools are available for this purpose. These
include, for example, certified continuing medical education activities relevant
to an individual's practice, review of practice or hospital data, performance
assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated self-reflection.

     For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment tools may
include registry and/or hospital data, appropriate use criteria, and metrics
developed by professional organizations.

     Scholarly activity and clinical research are also important in lifelong
learning and professional competency.

     All physicians should have the skills to assess new research findings and
appropriately incorporate new diagnostic and treatment modalities in patient
care.

     Knowledge should also be maintained and enhanced through regular reading of
journals and other sources of reliable information and attending scholarly
scientific meetings and professional congresses.

     In addition to clinical competency, cardiologists are expected to function
effectively as leaders in allied efforts to assure high quality care and promote
individual and population health.

     Some of these activities and attributes fall outside the realm of clinical
knowledge and skill and instead involve administrative roles in clinical
practice, hospitals, health systems, professional societies, or other
organizations.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

Lifelong Learning Competencies for General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The following are key points to remember about American College of Cardiology
lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists:





     The lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists are organized
using the six domains promulgated by the Accreditation Council for Graduate
Medical Education/American Board of Medical Specialties and endorsed by the
American Board of Internal Medicine (Medical Knowledge, Patient Care and
Procedural Skill, Systems-Based Practice, Practice-Based Learning and
Improvement, Interpersonal and Communication Skills, and Professionalism).

     The aggregated lifelong learning competencies collectively underlie the
Entrustable Professional Activities that patients and the public can reasonably
expect all competent clinical cardiologists to be able to perform. These include
ability to:

         Evaluate, diagnose, and develop treatment plans for patients with
known, suspected, or at risk of developing cardiovascular disease.

         Manage patients with acute cardiac conditions.

         Manage patients with chronic cardiovascular diseases.

         Appropriately utilize cardiovascular diagnostic testing.

         Implement disease prevention and risk factor control measures,
addressing comorbidities.

         Work effectively to promote and coordinate interdisciplinary,
patient-centered care.

         Engage in lifelong learning to maintain and enhance knowledge and
skills.

     There are a number of ways physicians can maintain competency and expand
lifelong learning in the course of practice (assuring currency with the evolving
art and science of the field), and assess their own professional needs for
education and performance improvement.

     Objective evaluation of competence in the practice setting can be
challenging, but a number of tools are available for this purpose. These
include, for example, certified continuing medical education activities relevant
to an individual's practice, review of practice or hospital data, performance
assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated self-reflection.

     For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment tools may
include registry and/or hospital data, appropriate use criteria, and metrics
developed by professional organizations.

     Scholarly activity and clinical research are also important in lifelong
learning and professional competency.

     All physicians should have the skills to assess new research findings and
appropriately incorporate new diagnostic and treatment modalities in patient
care.

     Knowledge should also be maintained and enhanced through regular reading of
journals and other sources of reliable information and attending scholarly
scientific meetings and professional congresses.

     In addition to clinical competency, cardiologists are expected to function
effectively as leaders in allied efforts to assure high quality care and promote
individual and population health.

     Some of these activities and attributes fall outside the realm of clinical
knowledge and skill and instead involve administrative roles in clinical
practice, hospitals, health systems, professional societies, or other
organizations.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

Lifelong Learning Competencies for General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The following are key points to remember about American College of Cardiology
lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists:





     The lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists are organized
using the six domains promulgated by the Accreditation Council for Graduate
Medical Education/American Board of Medical Specialties and endorsed by the
American Board of Internal Medicine (Medical Knowledge, Patient Care and
Procedural Skill, Systems-Based Practice, Practice-Based Learning and
Improvement, Interpersonal and Communication Skills, and Professionalism).

     The aggregated lifelong learning competencies collectively underlie the
Entrustable Professional Activities that patients and the public can reasonably
expect all competent clinical cardiologists to be able to perform. These include
ability to:

         Evaluate, diagnose, and develop treatment plans for patients with
known, suspected, or at risk of developing cardiovascular disease.

         Manage patients with acute cardiac conditions.

         Manage patients with chronic cardiovascular diseases.

         Appropriately utilize cardiovascular diagnostic testing.

         Implement disease prevention and risk factor control measures,
addressing comorbidities.

         Work effectively to promote and coordinate interdisciplinary,
patient-centered care.

         Engage in lifelong learning to maintain and enhance knowledge and
skills.

     There are a number of ways physicians can maintain competency and expand
lifelong learning in the course of practice (assuring currency with the evolving
art and science of the field), and assess their own professional needs for
education and performance improvement.

     Objective evaluation of competence in the practice setting can be
challenging, but a number of tools are available for this purpose. These
include, for example, certified continuing medical education activities relevant
to an individual's practice, review of practice or hospital data, performance
assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated self-reflection.

     For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment tools may
include registry and/or hospital data, appropriate use criteria, and metrics
developed by professional organizations.

     Scholarly activity and clinical research are also important in lifelong
learning and professional competency.

     All physicians should have the skills to assess new research findings and
appropriately incorporate new diagnostic and treatment modalities in patient
care.

     Knowledge should also be maintained and enhanced through regular reading of
journals and other sources of reliable information and attending scholarly
scientific meetings and professional congresses.

     In addition to clinical competency, cardiologists are expected to function
effectively as leaders in allied efforts to assure high quality care and promote
individual and population health.

     Some of these activities and attributes fall outside the realm of clinical
knowledge and skill and instead involve administrative roles in clinical
practice, hospitals, health systems, professional societies, or other
organizations.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

Lifelong Learning Competencies for General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The following are key points to remember about American College of Cardiology
lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists:





     The lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists are organized
using the six domains promulgated by the Accreditation Council for Graduate
Medical Education/American Board of Medical Specialties and endorsed by the
American Board of Internal Medicine (Medical Knowledge, Patient Care and
Procedural Skill, Systems-Based Practice, Practice-Based Learning and
Improvement, Interpersonal and Communication Skills, and Professionalism).

     The aggregated lifelong learning competencies collectively underlie the
Entrustable Professional Activities that patients and the public can reasonably
expect all competent clinical cardiologists to be able to perform. These include
ability to:

         Evaluate, diagnose, and develop treatment plans for patients with
known, suspected, or at risk of developing cardiovascular disease.

         Manage patients with acute cardiac conditions.

         Manage patients with chronic cardiovascular diseases.

         Appropriately utilize cardiovascular diagnostic testing.

         Implement disease prevention and risk factor control measures,
addressing comorbidities.

         Work effectively to promote and coordinate interdisciplinary,
patient-centered care.

         Engage in lifelong learning to maintain and enhance knowledge and
skills.

     There are a number of ways physicians can maintain competency and expand
lifelong learning in the course of practice (assuring currency with the evolving
art and science of the field), and assess their own professional needs for
education and performance improvement.

     Objective evaluation of competence in the practice setting can be
challenging, but a number of tools are available for this purpose. These
include, for example, certified continuing medical education activities relevant
to an individual's practice, review of practice or hospital data, performance
assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated self-reflection.

     For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment tools may
include registry and/or hospital data, appropriate use criteria, and metrics
developed by professional organizations.

     Scholarly activity and clinical research are also important in lifelong
learning and professional competency.

     All physicians should have the skills to assess new research findings and
appropriately incorporate new diagnostic and treatment modalities in patient
care.

     Knowledge should also be maintained and enhanced through regular reading of
journals and other sources of reliable information and attending scholarly
scientific meetings and professional congresses.

     In addition to clinical competency, cardiologists are expected to function
effectively as leaders in allied efforts to assure high quality care and promote
individual and population health.

     Some of these activities and attributes fall outside the realm of clinical
knowledge and skill and instead involve administrative roles in clinical
practice, hospitals, health systems, professional societies, or other
organizations.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "DePuy Spine, Cranial and maxillofacial and Trauma
procedural packages"

LENGTH: 300  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "DePuy Spine, Cranial and maxillofacial and Trauma
procedural packages"

Solicitation No: SPE2DER0003

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: February 28, 2017

Description: The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources
capable of providing DePuy Spine, Cranial and maxillofacial and Trauma "
procedural packages".  These "procedural packages" include Orthopedic Implants,
Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary products (such as drill bits, saw blades,
bone cement, etc.) that are necessary for the orthopedic surgery. The
instruments are both used during the surgery and returned to the vendor or
purchased by the hospital so they are readily available on the shelves.


All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
Orthopedic products must be delivered "Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery",
and "Consignment". Under "Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility
(MTF) calls the manufacturer's field representative who carries the products
into the MTF just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales
representative may bring many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products
to the surgery along with the instrumentation sets. Under the "Direct Vendor
Delivery" method an order for products is placed through ECAT and the product is
delivered directly to the customer via any transportation carrier. Under the
"Consignment" method, an MTF have the products that make up the "procedural set"
consigned to their facility.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): Brian C. Mason brian.mason2@dla.mil Phone: 2157377238


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            April 27, 1985 Saturday

DOCTORS MEET ON 'FINAL' OFFER

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 416 words


Doctors meet on "final' offer SYDNEY._ Surgeons here today will vote by secret
ballot whether to accept the Federal Government's $166 million package and go
back to work in New South Wales public hospitals. About 1500 doctors throughout
the State have withdrawn their services over the effects of Medicare on their
incomes and on the operation of public hospitals. The Council of Procedural
Specialists president, Dr Bruce Shepherd, said he received a letter yesterday
from the Prime Minister, Mr Hawke, and the NSW Premier, Mr Wran, in response to
his request for clarification of several outstanding issues in the Medicare
dispute. ""It doesn't clarify a lot of things but until I discuss it with my
colleagues I can't say much more," he said last night. The issues yet to be
clarified, according to the rebel doctors, include a timetable for repeal of
sections of the Medicare legislation and whether the State Government will
deregulate private hospitals through repeal or amendment of State legislation.
Mr Hawke repeated in his letter to Dr Shepherd his warning that the joint
Federal-New South Wales offer is final and that there will be no further
negotiations on the package. The Australian Medical Association accepted the
Government package and last week released progressive figures from an
Australia-wide ballot of doctors which showed 80 percent believed the NSW
surgeons should withdraw their resignations. Dr Shepherd said today's meeting at
the University of New South Wales would be addressed by representatives from the
private insurance industry and private hospitals, and the Federal Opposition
health spokesman, Mr Porter. Invitations to Mr Hawke and Mr Wran to attend were
still open, but both of them, along with the AMA, had declined to attend. Mr
Hawke said in his letter that once a return to work took place matters of detail
and the legislative amendments required could be finalised with the medical
profession. He said he understood the AMA had invited the Procedural Specialists
to be represented during this consultation and he urged doctors to return to
work so it could begin. Mr Hawke said legislation had been drafted on gap
insurance and inpatient fees and could be placed before Parliament immediately
there was a resumption of work. Moves to deregulate private hospitals at a
federal level would require negotiation with the private hospitals and the
health insurance funds. Legislation covering this could be expected in the
Budget session.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              401 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Scientist wins fight with health bosses

BYLINE: Leigh Dayton

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 410 words


Dr Tuch said researchers were reluctant to fight back

IN a scientific David and Goliath battle, a NSW diabetes researcher took the
health department, his employer, to court after the closure of his laboratory --
and won.

Endocrinologist and stem cell scientist Bernie Tuch claimed he had been the
victim of bias and procedural unfairness after the department closed his
Diabetes Transplant Unit at Sydney's Prince of Wales hospital over allegations
of unethical research.

In his judgment, handed down on November 12, NSW Supreme Court judge Peter
Johnson agreed with Dr Tuch, finding a report detailing the allegations was
biased, and ruling against the NSW Health Department's South Eastern Sydney
Illawarra Area Health Service.

Dr Tuch said researchers were reluctant ``to fight back'' when their employers
took such action against them.

The report was produced by a committee, established by area health chief
executive Terry Clout and chaired by University of NSW associate dean Terry
Campbell.

The disputed research was aimed at helping young people with type 1 diabetes
overcome the need for insulin injections by giving them insulin-producing cells
placed in protective microcapsules. The result of the early phase-one trial
found the procedure safe, and participants wanting further transplants to help
control their disease.

A total of 15 scientists, research assistants and students worked in the
Diabetes Transplant Unit before it was closed.

Justice Johnson found Dr Tuch had not been allowed to respond to the report's
allegations. He also found that last December, area health circulated the
negative report to UNSW and the NSW Medical Board.

Justice Johnson found ``reasonable apprehension of bias'' due to the involvement
of Robyn Ward, director of research for area health's Northern Hospital Network.

The judge ruled that area health must pay 80 per cent of Dr Tuch's legal costs.

According to Dr Tuch, the work targeted by area health had been approved by its
ethics committee in 2005. The research results were published last month in
Diabetes Care.

A spokesperson for Area Health noted that Justice Johnson dealt only with
questions of procedural fairness, and failed to find ``any person acted with
malice or impropriety'' towards Dr Tuch.

Despite long-running tensions between Dr Tuch and Area Health, the situation
boiled over last January when negotiations to keep his unit alive hit rock
bottom. He began proceedings in the Supreme Court last July.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                         May 5, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

CareFusion Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2014 Results

LENGTH: 1027  words


May 5 -- CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical technology
company, today reported financial results for its third quarter of fiscal 2014,
ended March 31, 2014.

"Our team continued to make progress during the quarter, and as a result, we are
well positioned to finish the fiscal year strong," said Kieran T. Gallahue,
chairman and CEO. "The entire Procedural Solutions segment once again
outperformed our expectations, delivering its seventh consecutive quarter of
organic growth. Medical Systems revenue was below our expectations as we
continued to roll out our new Dispensing Technologies platform and refine our
installation processes in partnership with our customers. We are encouraged by
the positive feedback we're receiving and continue to see momentum building. We
have achieved an all-time record backlog in Dispensing, giving us confidence as
we prepare to close out the fourth quarter and enter fiscal 2015."



Third Quarter Results

CareFusion reported third quarter fiscal 2014 revenue of $968 million, compared
to $901 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, a 7 percent increase
on both a reported and constant currency basis.

Compared to the prior year period, operating income increased 18 percent to $159
million. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income decreased 2
percent to $196 million, with revenue mix negatively affecting the company's
operating margins during the quarter. On a sequential basis, adjusted operating
income improved 8 percent from the second quarter.

Operating expenses totaled $314 million, an 8 percent decrease from the prior
year period during which the company recorded a one-time reserve associated with
a government settlement. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating
expenses were $284 million, an increase of 3 percent over the prior year period,
primarily driven by operating expenses from the recent acquisitions of Vital
Signs, a manufacturer of single-patient-use consumables for respiratory care and
anesthesiology, and Sendal, an infusion specialty disposable manufacturer in
Spain.

The company reported income from continuing operations of $102 million, or $0.48
per diluted share. Adjusted income from continuing operations totaled $127
million and increased 2 percent to $0.60 per diluted share.

Medical Systems

Third quarter revenue for the Medical Systems segment decreased 2 percent to
$571 million on a reported and constant currency basis compared to a strong
prior year in both the Infusion Systems and Respiratory Technologies business
lines. The Dispensing Technologies business line was even with the prior year as
it continued to manage a product line transition during the quarter.

Segment profit for the quarter was $104 million, as revenue mix negatively
affected segment margins. Adjusted segment profit decreased to $118 million.

Procedural Solutions

Third quarter revenue for the Procedural Solutions segment was $397 million, a
25 percent increase from the prior year period on a reported and constant
currency basis. The top-line results were driven by the segment's clinically
differentiated portfolio and contributions from recent acquisitions.

Segment profit for the quarter was $55 million, an increase of 2 percent.
Adjusted segment profit grew 26 percent to $78 million.

Nine-Month Results

For the first nine months of fiscal 2014, revenue increased 3 percent to $2.72
billion, compared to $2.65 billion in the prior year period. Operating income
totaled $427 million. Income from continuing operations was $277 million, or
$1.29 per diluted share. Adjusted income from continuing operations was $339
million, or $1.58 per diluted share.

Operating expenses in the first nine months totaled $935 million, or $853
million on an adjusted basis.

Within the Medical Systems segment, revenue decreased 3 percent from the prior
year period to $1.68 billion. Segment profit was $287 million and totaled $332
million on an adjusted basis.

Revenue for the Procedural Solutions segment increased 14 percent from the prior
year period to $1.04 billion. Segment profit totaled $140 million. On an
adjusted basis, segment profit increased 13 percent to $187 million.

Recent Highlights

Additional third quarter and recent highlights included:

* Completing the acquisition of the Vital Signs division of GE Healthcare in the
majority of geographies worldwide, helping to create additional scale in
respiratory care and anesthesiology delivery consumables and increasing the
company's presence outside of the U.S.

* Continuing to expand the company's Procedural Solutions portfolio with
multiple new product introductions for Interventional Specialties, surgical
instrumentation and Infection Prevention, including SurFlash safety peripheral
IV catheters.

* Completing an investment for a 40 percent minority stake in Caesarea Medical
Electronics (CME), an Israeli manufacturer of compact and highly portable
infusion and syringe pumps for homecare and hospital settings.

* Installing the first live instance of bidirectional infusion pump
interoperability between the Alaris System and Epic Electronic Medical Record
(EMR) software, helping to improve patient safety and streamline the traditional
workflow for administering intravenous medications.

* Partnering with more than 100 U.S. hospitals to complete a six-month
assessment of surgical skin preparation practices as part of the CareFusion
Focus on Quality Care Program, a service designed to help hospitals reduce or
eliminate variability in processes and have less waste, fewer errors and better
outcomes.

* Receiving the #1 Medication Dispensing Cabinet ranking by nurses in a recent
study from KLAS, an independent research company. According to nurses surveyed
for the report, the Pyxis MedStation system outperformed all competition in
overall product quality, ease of use, and reliability/uptime and earned the
clear number one ranking in terms of overall performance and quality.

* Investing $103 million to repurchase 2.5 million shares during the quarter
under a two-year, $750 million share repurchase program. To date in fiscal 2014,
the company invested $444 million to repurchase 11.5 million shares.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                           October 13, 2016 Thursday

Clinical Trial: Catheter Ablation of Longstanding Persistent Atrial Fibrillation

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., Oct. 13 -- ClinicalTrials.gov registry received information related to the
study (NCT02929836) titled 'Catheter Ablation of Longstanding Persistent Atrial
Fibrillation' on Oct. 5.

Brief Summary: This randomized prospective study compared three ablation
strategies in patients with longstanding persistent atrial fibrillation (LPeAF).
It also explored the best procedural endpoint from among the following:
circumferential pulmonary vein isolation (PVI)+left atrial (LA) linear lesions
(roof line, mitral isthmus)+complex fractionated atrial electrogram (CFAE)
ablation, PVI+LA linear lesions +cavotricuspid isthmus (CTI) ablation +CFAE
ablation, and PVI+CFAE ablation.

Study Start Date: May 2016

Study Type: Interventional

Condition: Atrial Fibrillation

Intervention: Procedure: PVI

PVI was the complete isolation of all PVs, which was confirmed by entrance
and/or exit block into or from the PV antra.

Procedure: LA linear ablation

LA linear ablation include mitral isthmus ablation and roof line ablation.
Mitral isthmus ablation (from the mitral annulus to the left inferior PV) was
performed first, followed by roof line ablation (between the right and left
superior PVs).

Procedure: CFAE ablation

Ablation catheter was maintained in a stable position when the electrograms were
being recorded for at least 5 s to avoid artifacts.The procedural endpoint of
CFAEs was the complete elimination of fragmented atrial activity in local
electrograms.

Procedure: linear ablation

Right atrial CTI ablation was performed during SR.

Device: CARTO

3 dimensional mapping system

Recruitment Status: Recruiting

Sponsor: Shanghai Chest Hospital

Information provided by (Responsible Party): wang yuanlong, Shanghai Chest
Hospital

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           November 30, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Reprieve for asylum seeker family

BYLINE: AMY REMEIKIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 202 words


The family of a premature baby born in Brisbane will be allowed to stay in
Australia for the time being after the federal government agreed to ensure they
would receive "a fair process" before any decision was made to return them to
Nauru.

Baby Ferouz made headlines earlier this month when Fairfax Media revealed he was
being kept in Brisbane's Mater Hospital alone, while his mother Latifar was
locked up for 18 hours a day in detention.

Maurice Blackburn Lawyers took up the case and demanded the government grant the
family "procedural fairness" before deciding whether to return Ferouz, Latifar,
her husband and two older children back to offshore detention.

Federal Circuit Court Judge Margaret Cassidy recognised the deal in Brisbane on
Friday.

The legal firm's spokesman, Murray Watt, said: "We believe we've reached
agreement that the family will receive procedural fairness or a fair process in
any decision to remove them to Nauru. That is all we have ever asked for. In the
meantime the family will remain in detention in Australia."

Procedural fairness means the family will have access to any information the
Immigration Department relies on - such as medical clearance - in deciding to
return the family.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 10, 1988 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

PRACTICE NO LONGER PERFECT

BYLINE: JOHN McLEOD

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 939 words


IN THE medical profession it has always been an unstated rule that specialists
and general practitioners should present a united front: politicians must never
be allowed to glimpse a gap in the ranks. It was said that the socialisation of
medicine in the UK occurred because a wedge was driven between the two and the
GPs caved in.

Recently the South Australian Minister for Health, Dr Cornwall, made what seems
to be a reasoned statement recommending that the role of the GP be redefined and
his remuneration increased. He added that it seemed likely that some specialists
were earning from four to 10 times what most GPs did.

The president of the Australian Medical Association (AMA), Dr Pickering, a
surgeon, responded that this was simply an attempt to divide the profession. I
believe that the medical profession has been divided for a long time and that to
admit it can do no harm and may well do good.

As the medical profession stands today, GP and specialist have little in common
beyond the medical degree they were awarded at graduation. From the moment that
a graduate decides to be either a specialist or a GP there is a parting of the
ways - the two will live quite different lives, see a totally different aspect
of society and illness, and they will have hugely different incomes,
expect-ations and lifestyles. By and large the specialist's mother, the general
public, and frequently the specialist himself, will see him as a cut above an
ordinary GP.

In the medical pecking order the equation is: specialist is to GP is as officer
to NCO; as archbishop to parish priest; as QC is to Rumpole. It seems that
knowing a lot about a little is more valuable than knowing a little about a lot.
Or that knowing about people is not so important as knowing how to operate on
them. None of this is being said out of sour grapes because I have had 35
satisfying years in general practice.

In the public debate doctors are all seen as being alike - especially when
thought to be greedy, uncaring, unavailable or putting themselves before the
public interest. It is time to say that we are almost two different professions
with quite different problems, and cannot be lumped together.

Some specialists earn five to 10 times as much as the average GP. Perhaps they
are right in believing that their skills justify it, but I think they compare
their situation with the business executive in the house next door -his
superannuation, his overseas travel at someone else's expense, and his BMW or
Porsche. I doubt whether they care very much about what a GP may be worth.

Things have changed. Once many city surgeons began as GPs and continued as
family doctors even whey they were specialists on public hospitals. There were
very few full-time specialists. In the past 40 years they have proliferated, but
now they must make their decision to stream into a speciality or general
practice while still hospital residents. Never again the twain shall meet.

Politicians of all colours have done much to erode general practice. John Gorton
introduced the differential rebate so that specialists were paid more than GPs
for doing the same thing. Where were the specialists protesting about this? Now,
except in country areas, a GP is not expected to deliver a baby, give an
anaesthetic, remove an appendix or perform emergency surgery. And just as well!
The system has made it almost impossible for a GP to get the necessary training.

Through all these years of change the AMA, in all its dealings with the attempts
of governments to socialise the profession and control its fees, has clung fast
to two basic tenets - firstly, fee-for-service, and secondly the unity of
specialist and GP.

It is time to say that specialists' problems and GPs' problems have little in
common and may well require different solutions. While Dr Bruce Shepherd is busy
fighting to preserve specialists' incomes and status I fear he is also
preserving mine in its present state, which is rock-bottom. And while he may be
doing the right thing for procedural specialists, I think there may be better
ways for me and other GPs.

GPs, with few exceptions, can now derive their income only from consultations in
the office or in the home, and their income from this is tightly restricted by
almost insurmountable pressures. They do not benefit, as do many procedural
specialists, from technological advances such as ultrasound, CT scans, pathology
tests, endoscopy, lens implants and the like -their main diagnostic tool remains
the human ear.

General practice is an institution worth preserving, but I foresee that this may
be better achieved through a salaried system where the GP is adequately paid,
given holiday pay, sick leave and superannuation rather than through
fee-for-service. At the same time the GPs' qualifications and training should be
those as laid down by the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners and
its Quality Care program. It should not be open to anyone, whether trained here
or overseas, with only the bare minimum of medical qualifications.

Specialists, on the other hand, wish to preserve their present status. They, and
the health service, would be better off if they were allowed by the Government
to be in the public hospital system, at whatever reasonable pay negotiated.
Moreover, private insurance should again be encouraged so that the specialist
would continue to be reasonably reimbursed through the private medical system.

But none of their options is available to, or would help, the GP. The general
practitioners' day of procedural work is over, and neither governments of the
day nor the specialists did anything to help preserve it.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1988 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

David Carradine episode airs on Mental

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Fine Tuning - Today on TV; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 459  words


Every so often, a very ordinary TV series finds itself in extraordinary
circumstances.

That's the situation tonight facing Mental, the slow-burning psychodrama about
life in a big-city hospital's psychiatric unit. In the series, British-born
Chris Vance plays Dr. Jack Gallagher, a hot, dynamic, rules-breaking therapist
used to dealing with lost souls and missing minds. In a House-ian twist,
Annabella Sciorra plays his hospital-administrator boss, who also happens to be
his ex.

Tonight's episode finds Gallagher treating a famous writer, professor and
philosopher, played by David Carradine. Carradine's character has been struck by
lightning, and has lapsed into a catatonic state. Gallagher tries a risky
unorthodox treatment that may do the patient more harm than good.

Complicating matters, so to speak, is a growing physical attraction between
Gallagher and the patient's daughter, played by Estella Warren.

So far, it doesn't sound any different than any number of other TV medical
procedurals. Mental isn't doing anything House hasn't done countless times
before, and better.

But the presence of Carradine -- who died late last week under mysterious
circumstances in a hotel room in Thailand -- has suddenly thrust Mental into the
media eye.

The Fox Network has said it will go ahead with tonight's broadcast as scheduled,
but will include some kind of testimonial at the end of the episode. Global TV
airs Mental in Canada.

Carradine's sudden death Wednesday has prompted more questions than answers
about the character actor's real-life state of mind, which is why the network
reportedly reconsidered airing tonight's episode.

Mental isn't half the show Kung Fu was, of course, but in its own way, it's
representative of its time. True to TV tradition, tonight's story is --
presumably -- neatly wrapped up at the end. Real life, alas, is rarely so
simple. (9p.m., Fox, Global)

Stephen Colbert's guest tonight on The Colbert Report is TBA, which only makes
sense when you think about it. Colbert is based in Iraq all week. At an
undisclosed location, no less. Does al-Qaeda in Mesopotamia know about this? The
Colbert Nation lives on. (12:35 a.m., CTV)

NCIS, the oddly popular procedural about the U.S. navy's criminal investigative
service, repeats a timely outing from November, Dagger, in which the team tracks
down a spy bent on stealing government secrets. How popular is NCIS, you ask? An
NCIS spinoff, set in Los Angeles and starring rapper LL Cool J, will bow in this
fall. (8p.m., CBS, Global)

Brainless summer movies got you down? Try a brainless summer TV show instead.
Watchman: The Motion Comic is a new animated series that hopes to do for the
Watchmen comic book series what The Clone Wars did for the Star Wars franchise.
(10p.m., Space)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2009 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Sunbury & Macedon Ranges Weekly

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday
                         WKL Sunbury & Macedon Edition

DiagnostiCare provides top-qua...

BYLINE: Eleanor Tabone

SECTION: EGN; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 321 words


DiagnostiCare provides top-quality medical imaging and procedural care for
residents in the northern and western suburbs.

"We're the closest MRI facility to Sunbury and Gisborne and are experts in pain
management and pain injections, with a strong referral base from all over
Melbourne," says practice manager Rod Truran.

Established in 2010, DiagnostiCare has state-of-the-art equipment, providing
hospital-grade medical imaging and procedural care for patients.

Services include MRI, CT (including cardiac CT imaging and calcium scoring),
ultrasounds, interventional imaging (including pain injections), X-rays,
mammography, OPG and dexa imaging.

"We practise industry-leading medical imaging, with quality and thoroughness the
main focus," says radiologist and practice owner Dr Stephen Fasulakis.

"We take no short cuts and patients who come to us inevitably return to us and
become loyal clients."

Patients can also receive treatment for pain management, and there's a
paediatric radiologist, as well as head and neck cancer-imaging specialists, on
site.

"Patients are often examined prior to their procedures, adding value to the
diagnosis provided," Dr Fasulakis said. "The thoroughness of our examinations
frequently leads to the discovery of important diagnostic information that would
otherwise have been overlooked if the study was performed in a rushed manner."

With a strong focus on patient care, DiagnostiCare offers bulk-billing on most
examinations for all local residents.

"It has developed into the go-to practice in the northern and western suburbs
for coronary artery imaging, pain management procedures and musculoskeletal
imaging," says Mr Truran.

DiagnostiCare has a strong relationship with referring clinicians, and it uses a
portal system which gives doctors the opportunity to view images and reports
without the patient having to deliver them.

Appointments are readily available and there is on site free parking.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 999 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright (c) 2004 Boston University School of Law
                       American Journal of Law & Medicine

                                      2004

                            30 Am. J. L. and Med. 85

LENGTH: 10958 words

NOTE AND COMMENT: If Roth were a Doctor: Physician Reputation under the HCQIA

NAME: Guillermo A. Montero +

BIO:



   + B.A. Political Science, Boston University, 1999; J.D., Boston University
School of Law, 2004. I would like to thank the AJLM Editorial Board and Staff
Members for their contribution to this Note. Thank you in particular to Bethany
Engel for her editorial comments and encouragement.

 TEXT:
 [*85]  I. INTRODUCTION

   Hospitals in the United States rely on peer review committees to make
credentialing decisions and to conduct ongoing evaluations of all medical care,
thereby ensuring the quality of the physicians they employ.  n1 Physicians,
however, may be reluctant to serve on peer review committees for fear of
retaliatory litigation.  n2 In response, and in an effort to improve the quality
of healthcare in the United States, Congress passed the Health Care Quality
Improvement Act of 1986 ("HCQIA").  n3

   Congress designed the HCQIA to improve the quality of healthcare in two ways.
First, it increased the effectiveness of peer review by providing review
committees  n4 with immunity from lawsuits filed in response to professional
review actions.  n5 Second, it authorized the Secretary of Health and Human
Services ("HHS") to create the National Practitioner's Data Bank ("NPDB").  n6
Any disciplinary action taken by a review committee must, as a condition to
immunity, be reported for listing in the NPDB.  n7

   "Listing" in the NPDB can, and is in fact designed to, stigmatize the
practitioner against whom the review action is taken. The NPDB lists a
physician's name, address, and social security number, as well as the
physician's history of malpractice payouts, adverse licensure actions, and
sanctions regarding his or her clinical  [*86]  privileges.  n8 Hospitals are
reluctant to hire a physician after he or she has been terminated or otherwise
sanctioned by his or her prior employer. In extreme cases, practitioners may
effectively be precluded from practicing at all.  n9 This potential deprivation
raises questions regarding the constitutional validity of the HCQIA.

   The HCQIA establishes reasonableness  n10 and notice and hearing requirements
n11 with which review committees must comply before claiming immunity. Assuming
the employer is a state actor for purposes of Fourteenth Amendment
jurisprudence, compliance with these requirements will generally ensure that a
physician receives constitutionally adequate procedural protections prior to
sanction or termination. Thus, termination of employment in compliance with the
procedural requirements of the HCQIA will rarely result in the unconstitutional
deprivation of a practitioner's property right to employment. For reasons
developed later, however, listing in the NPDB is likely to result in the
deprivation of a practitioner's liberty interest in good reputation. Moreover,
unlike termination of employment, which may be done by private healthcare
providers, "listing" will always be a government action and thus subject to the
strictures of the Due Process Clause,  n12 since only HHS, a federal agency, may
list practitioner specific information in the NPDB.  n13

   This Note explores two issues. First, it explores the threshold question of
whether the Constitution creates a liberty interest in good reputation. The
Supreme Court has been careful to limit the protection of reputation as a
liberty interest,  n14 but  [*87]  has indicated that such an interest may be
implicated "when there is harm to reputation if it is accompanied by a tangible
detriment, such as the loss of employment."  n15 Assuming that listing in the
NPDB constitutes the deprivation of a recognized liberty interest, the second
issue is whether the procedural protections already provided by sections
11112(b) and 11112(c) of the HCQIA satisfy the requirements of due process at
the listing stage. This Note argues that they do not.

   Part II of this Note discusses the relevant provisions of the HCQIA insofar
as they relate to peer review and the NPDB. Part III explores whether and under
what circumstances the Supreme Court should recognize a medical practitioner's
liberty interest in reputation. Part IV assumes that such a liberty interest
exists, and explores whether the Fifth Amendment requires that HHS provide
additional procedural protection before listing potentially stigmatizing
information on the NPDB. Finally, Part V explores the means by which HHS may
meet its constitutional mandate under the Fifth Amendment without diminishing
the effectiveness of the NPDB, or derailing the policy objectives behind the
HCQIA.

II. THE HEALTH CARE QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ACT

A. THE NATIONAL PRACTITIONER'S DATA BANK

   In 1986, Congress passed the HCQIA in an effort to "improve the quality of
medical care by encouraging physicians to identify and discipline other
physicians who are incompetent or who engage in unprofessional behavior."  n16
Congress found that peer review, though vital for maintaining the quality of
healthcare, was not as effective as it needed to be.  n17 Physicians were
generally reluctant to participate in peer review activities due to fear of
subsequent lawsuits for discrimination, defamation, or anticompetitive behavior.
n18 Moreover, even aggressive peer review was of little help in improving
healthcare on a nationwide basis. Often, physicians who were disciplined or
terminated in one part of the United States simply relocated and continued
practicing medicine in another.  n19

   In response, the HCQIA authorized the Secretary of HHS to create the NPDB.
n20 The NPDB is a national clearinghouse that houses information on medical
malpractice payouts and disciplinary actions taken by a licensing board,
hospital, or medical society.  n21 When a healthcare entity, such as a hospital,
suspends or restricts the clinical privileges of a physician for more than
thirty days, it must report the action to the Board of Medical Examiners.  n22
The Board of Medical Examiners then reports this information to HHS,  n23 which
in turn causes the report to be published in the NPDB.  n24 Proper reporting is
vital to the maintenance of the NPDB, and the NPDB, as explained below, is vital
to the furtherance of the policy objectives  [*88]  underlying the HCQIA.  n25
To that end, the HCQIA sanctions healthcare entities that fail to comply with
its reporting requirements by disqualifying non-compliant healthcare entities
from the HCQIA's grant of immunity for three years.  n26

   The general public cannot access the information contained in the NPDB.  n27
This information, however, is available for review by state licensure boards,
hospitals, and other healthcare entities.  n28 The HCQIA requires that hospitals
and other healthcare entities request information from the NPDB every time a
physician applies for a medical staff position or clinical privileges, as well
as every two years with respect to physicians already on the medical staff or
with clinical privileges.  n29 While HHS does not take any precautions sua
sponte to ensure that the reported review action was merited, HHS does require
that reporting healthcare entities report any revisions to the original action.
n30 HHS also allows aggrieved physicians to dispute the accuracy of information
contained in the NPDB, and sets out specific procedures for doing so.  n31

B. HCQIA IMMUNITY PROVISION

   A physician's reluctance to serve on a peer review committee is often well
founded.  n32 In Patel v. Midland Memorial Hospital and Medical Center,  n33 for
example, a peer review committee at Midland Memorial Hospital ("Midland") found
that Dr. Patel, a cardiologist, had an unusually high rate of catastrophic
outcomes among his non-cardiac interventions.  n34 Upon further investigation,
an outside source confirmed that a sample of Dr. Patel's cardiac cases suggested
the use of poor medical judgment.  n35 As a result, Midland's Medical Executive
Committee suspended Dr. Patel's clinical privileges.  n36 Dr. Patel sued Midland
and several of its doctors, alleging that his suspension was the result of
racial discrimination and anticompetitive behavior.  n37 Dr. Patel also alleged
breach of contract, and sought damages for defamation and tortious interference
with contractual relations.  n38 All of Dr. Patel's claims were dismissed on
summary judgment. In many cases, however, the potential for such litigation
creates a disincentive for physicians to serve on peer review committees.  n39

    [*89]  In response, the HCQIA provides legal immunity from damage claims to
physicians who serve on peer review committees.  n40 In order to qualify for
immunity, a committee's review actions must comply with several reasonableness
and procedural requirements. A committee may only take a professional review
action if it reasonably believes that the action will further the quality of
healthcare after having made "a reasonable effort to obtain the facts of the
matter."  n41 Upon challenge, compliance with this requirement is determined at
the summary judgment stage  n42 and reviewed under an objective standard,
thereby precluding a physician from alleging that the review action was taken in
bad faith.  n43

   A review committee must further comply with notice and hearing requirements
in order to qualify for immunity under the HCQIA.  n44 Section 11112(b) creates
a list of requirements which, if followed, will establish a safe harbor for
immunity. Specifically, the committee must notify the physician that a
professional review action is pending, and that the physician has at least
thirty days after the date of notice within which to request a hearing.  n45 The
hearing must be held before an arbitrator, hearing officer, or panel of
individuals, none of which may be in direct economic competition with the
physician involved.  n46 In the hearing, the physician has the right to
representation by an attorney, to call, examine and cross-examine witnesses, to
present evidence, and to receive a record of the proceedings.  n47

   A review committee, however, is not strictly required to follow all of these
procedures to qualify for immunity.  n48 Upon review, a court may find that a
committee has satisfied the HCQIA's "due process-like" requirements with
substantially less procedure than suggested in section 11112(b), especially
where immediate suspension or restriction of clinical privileges is necessary to
prevent imminent danger to the health of any individual.  n49 Whether reduced
procedural protections will also suffice for purposes of the Due Process Clause,
however, will turn on the threshold determination of whether the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments recognize a physician's liberty interest in good
reputation.

 [*90]  III. DO PHYSICIANS HAVE A CONSTITUTIONALLY PROTECTED LIBERTY INTEREST IN
REPUTATION? MAKING SENSE OF THE PAUL V. DAVIS "STIGMA-PLUS" TEST

A. RECONCILING PAUL V. DAVIS WITH BOARD OF REGENTS V. ROTH

   The Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments impose procedural requirements upon the
government deprivation of a constitutionally protected property or liberty
interest.  n50 The Supreme Court, however, has refused to find that harm to
reputation in and of itself is a deprivation of liberty.  n51 In Paul v. Davis,
for example, the Louisville police chief distributed flyers to hundreds of local
merchants in an effort to alert them that the plaintiff, Davis, was an active
shoplifter.  n52 At the time, Davis was employed as a photographer for the
Louisville Courier-Journal.  n53 Davis' supervisor at the newspaper became aware
of the flyer and "informed [Davis] that although he would not be fired, he 'had
best not find himself in a similar situation in the future.'"  n54

   Davis brought a claim against the chief of police alleging that circulation
of the defamatory flyer had impinged upon his liberty interest in reputation by
impairing his future employment opportunities,  n55 but the Court refused to
find that Davis' interest in reputation was within the scope of the term
"liberty" as it is used in the Due Process Clause.  n56 Rather, the Court held
that an interest only "attain[s] this constitutional status by virtue of the
fact that [it] has been initially recognized and protected by state law . . . ."
n57 Four years earlier, however, the Court in Board of Regents of State Colleges
v. Roth  n58 reaffirmed an earlier decision, Wisconsin v. Constantineau,  n59
recognizing that "where a person's good name, reputation, honor, or integrity is
at stake because of what the government is doing to him, notice and an
opportunity to be heard are essential."  n60 Davis, then, is not easily
reconciled with Roth and Constantineau.

   In Constantineau, the Court held that a Wisconsin statute authorizing the
posting of the identities of known alcoholics violated due process because the
posting damaged the plaintiff's reputation.  n61 There, a Wisconsin police chief
posted a notice in several liquor outlets prohibiting the sale of liquor to the
plaintiff.  n62 While upholding the State's power to regulate the sale and
consumption of intoxicating beverages,  n63 the Supreme Court held that the
State's attachment of "a badge of infamy" to the plaintiff infringed on the
plaintiff's private interests such  [*91]  that due process required the State
to grant him the procedural protections of notice and a hearing.  n64

   In Davis, however, the Court limited Constantineau, stating that "the
governmental action taken in that case deprived the individual of a right
previously held under state law[:] the right to purchase or obtain liquor in
common with the rest of the citizenry."  n65 The Court, therefore, reconciled
Constantineau by adopting a "positive law" approach to identifying
constitutionally protected liberty interests. The Court held that "the
procedural guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment apply whenever the State seeks
to remove or significantly alter [a] protected status" that has "been initially
recognized and protected by state law."  n66

   Roth, on the other hand, was not as easily reconciled with Davis. In Roth, a
professor sued the Board of Regents at Wisconsin State University, alleging that
the decision to not renew his one-year contract infringed on his Fourteenth
Amendment rights.  n67 Specifically, the plaintiff alleged "that the failure of
University officials to give him notice of any reason for non-retention and an
opportunity for a hearing violated his right to procedural due process of law."
n68 Finding for the defendant, the Court nonetheless recognized that the
plaintiff's liberty interests included the freedom "to engage in any of the
common occupations of life."  n69 Thus, the Court recognized that "there might
be cases in which a State refused to re-employ a person under such circumstances
that interests in liberty would be implicated."  n70 Specifically, the Court in
Roth suggested that a liberty interest would have been violated if the Board of
Regents, in deciding not to rehire Roth, "imposed on him a stigma or other
disability that foreclosed his freedom to take advantage of other employment
opportunities."  n71 Today, this manner of identifying liberty interests
independent of state law is commonly referred to as the "stigma-plus" theory.

B. SEPARATING THE POSITIVE LAW AND STIGMA-PLUS THEORIES

   The Davis Court interpreted Roth narrowly, recognizing the violation of a
constitutionally protected liberty interest only when the defamation "occurred
in the course of the termination of employment."  n72 However, the Roth Court's
recognition of a liberty interest under these circumstances is inconsistent with
the positive law theory established in Davis, since it fails to ground that
interest in a previously recognized state right to employment.  n73 Moreover,
the Roth Court's failure to ground that liberty interest in a previously
recognized state right is inconsistent with its own reasoning, since the Court
in that very opinion recognized  [*92]  that a constitutional interest depends
on the nature, rather than the weight, of the interest at issue.  n74

   The Supreme Court may have reconciled these apparent inconsistencies in
Kentucky Department of Corrections v. Thompson.  n75 In Thompson, the Supreme
Court acknowledged that liberty interests could be grounded in either state laws
or the Due Process Clause itself.  n76 One may assume, then, that the Roth
Court's willingness to find a liberty interest in reputation under a stigma-plus
theory was based at least in part on the notion that the Due Process Clause
provides a qualified "right to engage in the common occupations of life."  n77
This "right," as articulated in Meyer v. Nebraska,  n78 has never been binding
authority in constitutional law.  n79 The Court's reference to Meyer in the Roth
opinion,  n80 however, suggests that some underlying concept of fundamental
fairness, grounded in the Due Process Clause rather than state law, is driving
the Court's recognition of reputation as a liberty interest when a stigma is
imposed incident to the loss of employment.  n81

   The source of the liberty interest in reputation as articulated in Roth is
vital for the purposes of this Note because, in deciding whether an employee has
a liberty interest in reputation under the stigma-plus theory, one's reasoning
should not be clouded by a positive law analysis. Michael K. Cantwell, for
example, has predicted that the Supreme Court may limit the protection of
liberty interests under a stigmaplus theory to cases where the stigma arises in
connection with the loss of government employment.  n82 This approach to the
stigma-plus test seems to conflate a property rights and liberty rights analysis
by tying the source of a liberty interest in reputation to the deprivation of a
recognized property right, such as government  [*93]  employment. The
requirement of a property right, however, is more properly the province of a
positive law analysis, as illustrated in the Davis Court's interpretation of
Constantineau.  n83 In contrast, the Davis Court's interpretation of Roth
suggests that the recognition of a liberty interest under the stigma-plus test
does not require the identification of a right grounded in state law.

   A better approach is illustrated in Vanelli v. Reynolds School District No.
7.  n84 In Vanelli, the Ninth Circuit held that a person's liberty interests
were implicated for purposes of procedural due process if, among other things, a
charge that impaired the person's reputation was either "[1] made in connection
with the termination of employment or [2] the altercation of some right or
status recognized by law."  n85 By stating the test in disjunctive terms, this
holding rightfully separates the liberty interest analysis into two independent
prongs, such that either the stigma-plus test (former) or the positive law test
(latter) will independently suffice to trigger procedural due process
protections.

   Having separated the two theories, the elements of the stigma-plus test may
now be more easily distilled from Davis. The Court in Davis interpreted Roth as
holding that a plaintiff could establish a due process claim under the
stigma-plus theory only if the government employer, "in declining to re-employ
the [plaintiff], imposed on him a stigma or other disability that foreclosed his
freedom to take advantage of other employment opportunities," and the stigma was
imposed in the course of the termination of employment.  n86 Thus, in order to
claim a liberty interest in reputation, a physician will have to show that: (1)
he was terminated; (2) that a stigma was imposed upon him incident to the
termination; and (3) that the stigma foreclosed him from practicing medicine in
the future.

IV. DOES "LISTING" IN THE NATIONAL PRACTITIONER'S DATA BANK VIOLATE A
PHYSICIAN'S LIBERTY INTEREST IN REPUTATION?

   A court must understand the definition and scope of the termination,
incidence, and foreclosure elements before determining whether a public employer
has violated an employee's liberty interest in reputation. The Supreme Court,
however, has only partially defined those terms. With regard to termination, the
Court in Davis made clear that a mere demotion would not suffice.  n87 In Moore
v. Otero,  n88 Judge Gee interpreted the Davis opinion as holding that "when an
employee retains his position even after being defamed by a public official, the
only claim of stigma he has derives from an injury to his reputation, an
interest that [Davis] reveals does not rise to the level of a liberty interest."
n89 In Siegert v. Gilley, the Supreme Court further expanded on this definition
by implying that resignation does not constitute termination for purposes of the
stigma-plus test.  n90 There, the Court held that the  [*94]  plaintiff,
Siegert, had not established the element of termination because Siegert had
voluntarily agreed to resign from his position.  n91 The fact that Siegert had
been notified of his impending termination, and only resigned in an effort to
avoid the damage termination would have inflicted on his reputation, did nothing
to persuade the Court that Siegert had met the termination pleading requirement
of the stigma-plus test.  n92

   With regard to incidence, the Supreme Court has again failed to give much
guidance beyond Siegert. There, the Court refused to find that a defendant's
writing of a defamatory letter was incident to the plaintiff's resignation
because the letter was written several weeks after the resignation, and then
only in response to a potential employer's request for information on the
plaintiff.  n93 Read narrowly, this finding in Siegert implies that an action
taken by an employer in response to a third party's request will not constitute
action incident to termination for purposes of the stigma-plus test. Read
broadly, however, Siegert may also stand for the proposition that an employer's
action is not incident to termination unless that action occurs within a certain
temporal proximity to the employee's termination.  n94

   Finally, with regard to the foreclosure element, many courts will require a
plaintiff to show that the employer's defamation completely precludes that
plaintiff from working in the medical arts. In Simpkins v. Shalala,  n95 the
plaintiff, Dr. Simpkins, claimed that the Secretary of HHS had violated his due
process rights by failing to give him "meaningful notice and opportunity to
contest his listing" in the NPDB.  n96 Judge Lamberth, while acknowledging the
Fifth Amendment's protection of individual liberty interests from government
deprivation, determined that the Secretary had not impinged on any such
interest.  n97 Finding that the NPDB provides adverse information about
physicians to potential employers, Judge Lamberth nonetheless determined that
the plaintiff's listing on the NPDB would not "broadly preclude [him] from
continuing in [his] chosen career" as a physician.  n98

   As defined above, the elements of incidence, termination, and foreclosure may
prove very difficult for an aggrieved physician to establish in the context of
an HCQIA review action. Because this liberty interest in reputation is grounded
in the Due Process Clause itself rather than a state protected right,  n99
however, the application of the stigma-plus test should be guided by fairness.
Thus, in applying the stigma-plus test to listing in the NPDB, the definitions
of termination, incidence, and foreclosure should accommodate the unique
realities of the healthcare industry.

 [*95]  A. APPLYING THE "INCIDENCE" ELEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A PEER REVIEW
ACTION

   Relying on a broad interpretation of Siegert, as described above, a lower
court may find that the listing of a physician's disciplinary record on the NPDB
is "not incident" to termination, since the listing of information would not
occur until several weeks after the sanction or termination takes place.  n100
Moreover, even under the narrow interpretation of Siegert, a court may refuse to
find the element of incidence since HHS, and not the physician's employer, lists
information on the NPDB. Thus, a plaintiff will fail to establish the incidence
element since the "defamation" will not have been caused by the party
effectuating the termination.

   Listing in the NPDB, however, is intended to be an inevitable consequence of
all peer review actions. Because proper reporting is vital to the maintenance of
the NPDB,  n101 Congress included in the HCQIA a provision by which healthcare
entities that failed to comply with the Act's reporting requirements would be
disqualified from the HCQIA's grant of immunity for three years.  n102 It should
not matter, therefore, if there is a delay between the time of the review action
and the time the physician is listed on the NPDB, especially in light of the
Siegert Court's very tentative reference to temporal proximity in defining
incidence for purposes of the stigma-plus test.  n103

   Nor should it matter that a third party, rather than the physician's
employer, causes review action-related information to be listed on the NPDB.
While in Siegert there was no relationship between the defendant employer and
the third party potential employer,  n104 in the HCQIA context there is a
symbiotic relationship between the healthcare entity and HHS. A healthcare
entity instituting a peer review action gains the benefit of immunity from
retaliatory suits in exchange for its cooperation with HHS in effectuating the
quality goals of the HCQIA.  n105 An aggrieved physician seeking to challenge an
injury to his reputation, therefore, should not be denied the element of
incidence simply because two distinct parties collaborated in causing the
physician to be listed in the NPDB.

B. APPLYING THE "TERMINATION" AND "FORECLOSURE" ELEMENTS IN THE CONTEXT OF A
PEER REVIEW ACTION

   The most severe review actions generally result in the suspension of staff
and clinical privileges. Because suspension is not technically a termination of
employment, an aggrieved physician may not be able to present the prima facie
[*96]  elements required under the stigma-plus test.  n106 The loss of
privileges, however, has the same practical effect on a physician as
termination, since a physician must be able to access a hospital in order to
practice medicine.  n107 Moreover, physicians who have lost their staff and
clinical privileges at one hospital will likely be unable to acquire staff or
clinical privileges with another hospital or healthcare provider.  n108

   In Simpkins, Judge Lamberth trivialized the stigma imposed by the NPDB on a
listed physician when she described the role of the NPDB as "merely providing
future employers with information about doctors."  n109 In reality, a listed
status may substantially limit or even foreclose a physician's ability to
continue practicing medicine. The rise of direct corporate liability has created
pressure for healthcare providers to heighten the scrutiny of their
credentialing procedures.  n110 The HCQIA facilitates this credentialing process
by allowing healthcare providers to access information regarding adverse peer
review actions that have been taken against any physician. More importantly, the
ready availability of such information may allow a malpractice plaintiff in a
corporate liability claim to present as evidence the fact that the credentialing
committee hired a physician despite his or her being listed in the NPDB.  n111 A
healthcare provider, therefore, may be reluctant to hire a listed physician for
fear that the physician's listed status will create a presumption of negligence
with regard to credentialing in a corporate liability malpractice claim. As a
result, a physician's ability to practice medicine at any hospital will be
severely limited by the occurrence of any prior adverse action against that
physician.  n112 The suspension of clinical privileges, while not technically a
loss of employment, will nonetheless create a hardship tantamount to the
termination of current employment and the foreclosure of future employment
opportunities.

 [*97]  V. WHAT PROCEDURE IS DUE PRIOR TO LISTING IN THE NPDB?

   Section 11112 of the HCQIA generally requires that a peer review committee
notify the physician of an impending professional review action and of his or
her right to request a hearing.  n113 If requested, the hearing must be held
before a neutral party,  n114 and the physician must be allowed to retain an
attorney, to call, examine and cross-examine witnesses, to present evidence, and
to receive a record of the proceedings.  n115 Therefore, assuming the Due
Process Clause recognizes a liberty interest in reputation, the standards for
professional review actions suggested by section 11112 of the HCQIA will
generally ensure that a physician receives the procedural protections required
by due process prior to being terminated or listed on the NPDB.  n116

   Moreover, even the reduced procedural protections allowed by the HCQIA will
generally meet the requirements of due process in the context of a health
emergency. Under the HCQIA, the presence of exigent circumstances would allow a
peer review committee to sanction and report a physician with substantially less
procedure than suggested in sections 11112(a) and (b).  n117 This is, for the
most part, consistent with procedural due process jurisprudence, for it is well
settled that the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments afford less procedural
protection in the presence of exigent circumstances.  n118 Nonetheless, there
may be times when the presence of exigent circumstances will cause the HCQIA's
procedural requirements to fall short of what is mandated by due process.

A. THE MATHEWS V. ELDRIDGE TEST

   In order to determine the "dictates of due process," the Supreme Court in
Mathews v. Eldridge  n119 instructed the lower courts to consider:


     first, the private interest . . . affected by the official action;
     second, the risk of an erroneous deprivation of such interest through
     the procedures used, and the probable value, if any, of additional or
     substitute procedural safeguards; and [third], the Government's
     interest, including the function involved and the fiscal and
     administrative burdens that the additional or substitute procedural
     requirement would entail.  n120


Applying this test to the peer review context, the private interest of a
physician in maintaining his or her reputation or keeping his or her clinical
privileges would  [*98]  remain constant under the first prong, regardless of
the presence or absence of exigent circumstances. Under the second prong, the
risk of an erroneous deprivation of either employment or reputation would
actually increase due to the reduced provision of procedural safeguards.
Additional procedural protections, therefore, would be valuable in that they
would likely reduce the risk of erroneous deprivation. The government's interest
in preserving the public health under the third prong, however, weighs heavier
than the second prong in the context of peer review actions, and favors reduced
procedural protections.  n121 Therefore, due process, consistent with section
11112(c)(2) of the HCQIA, will afford less procedural protection when a
physician's practice may reasonably be thought to pose an imminent danger to the
safety of his or her patients.  n122

   Notwithstanding, the Eldridge test in some cases may require that HHS provide
procedural protections beyond those afforded by the HCQIA. A court applying the
Eldridge test may find that due process requires different degrees of procedural
protection at different stages of the peer review process--e.g., the
investigative, sanctioning, reporting, and listing stages.  n123 While a public
health risk may exist at the investigative and sanctioning stages, this risk
ceases to exist once the physician is suspended. Thus, the Eldridge factors may
balance in favor of providing enhanced procedural protections at the reporting
and listing stages.  n124

   Applying the Eldridge test to the listing phase of the peer review process,
the first prong would once again be a non-factor, since the physician's private
interest in maintaining his or her reputation or keeping his or her job would
remain constant during the listing stage, despite the removal of exigent
circumstances. Similarly, under the second prong, the risk of an erroneous
deprivation of either employment or reputation would once again be high as a
result of reduced procedural protections at the investigative and sanctioning
stages. Under the third prong, however, the government's interest would no
longer be compelling enough to justify the  [*99]  abrogation of procedural due
process protections, since the physician will have already been suspended from
the practice of medicine. Thus, in the absence of an imminent public health
risk, the Eldridge test would balance in favor of providing additional
procedural safeguards at the listing stage, so as to prevent the erroneous
deprivation of a physician's right to good reputation.

B. CURRENT PROCEDURES DO NOT MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF DUE PROCESS

   HHS has provided several means by which to ensure the accuracy of the
information reported in the NPDB. Healthcare entities are required to divulge
any errors or omissions contained in their original report to the NPDB, and are
further required to report any revisions to a peer review action, such as the
reversal of a sanction.  n125 In addition, HHS has established procedures by
which an aggrieved physician may challenge the accuracy of information reported
to the NPDB.  n126

   The Secretary of HHS "will routinely mail a copy of any report filed in the
NPDB to the subject individual."  n127 An aggrieved physician may then dispute
the accuracy of the report within sixty days of the mailing date of the
Secretary's letter by "(1) informing the Secretary and the reporting entity, in
writing, of the disagreement, and the basis for it, (2) requesting
simultaneously that the disputed information be entered into a 'disputed' status
and be reported to inquirers as being in a 'disputed' status, and (3) attempting
to enter into discussions with the reporting entity to resolve the dispute."
n128

   If, upon discussion with the reporting healthcare entity, the entity admits
to an error in its original report to the NPDB, "the Secretary will notify all
[other] entities to whom reports have been sent that the original information
has been revised."  n129 If, however, the reporting healthcare entity does not
admit to an error or omission in the originally reported information, "the
Secretary will, upon request, review the written information submitted by both
[the entity and the aggrieved physician]."  n130 Upon review of this
information, the Secretary will determine whether the information as originally
reported is accurate. If the Secretary determines that the information is
inaccurate, he or she will notify previous inquirers to the NPDB of any
corrections concerning the aggrieved physician.  n131

   These procedures are helpful in maintaining the accuracy of information
contained in the NPDB. These procedures do not, however, meet the requirements
of procedural due process. When a physician disputes the veracity of information
in the NPDB but is unable to persuade the reporting healthcare entity that
revision is merited, 45 C.F.R. § 60.14(c)(2) directs the Secretary to review all
written information submitted by both parties and base his decision thereon.
n132 The record on which the Secretary must base his decision, therefore,
excludes any evidence of a nature that could only be obtained through a hearing,
such as the testimony of  [*100]  witnesses or their cross examination. Thus, in
situations where a suspension or sanction was doled out without the benefit of a
hearing--as often happens when there is an imminent health risk--neither party
will be able to submit to the Secretary the sort of information that would only
surface in a pre- or post-termination hearing.  n133 Moreover, the "judicial
review of administrative action under the APA is limited to the administrative
record before the agency at the time the agency issues its decision."  n134 Even
upon judicial review, therefore, the reviewing court will decide the aggrieved
physician's fate without the benefit of evidence that may have surfaced during a
hearing.

   As a result, an aggrieved physician will have a more difficult time
challenging a perceived error in the NPDB if the peer review action at issue was
taken without the benefit of a pre- or post-termination hearing. An adverse
decision by the Secretary under these circumstances will always be a violation
of due process, so long as due process would have required that the physician
receive a hearing in the absence of exigent circumstances at the investigative
and sanctioning stages.  n135

C. CONCLUSION

   The Department of Health and Human Services should, under its rulemaking
power,  n136 create an explicit requirement that healthcare entities inform
sanctioned physicians of their right of appeal and all relevant procedural
requirements and limitations. More importantly, HHS should require name-clearing
hearings where they would otherwise have been required prior to termination or
suspension but for the presence of an emergency. Congress could accomplish this
by amending section 11112 of the HCQIA so as to require (as a condition to
section 11111(a) immunity) that peer review committees provide a
post-termination hearing to all sanctioned physicians. In this manner, HHS would
not be forced to carry out its own investigative procedures for every physician
it lists on the NPDB--a necessary accommodation since the imposition of such
duties would clearly exceed the agency's investigative capacity. Rather, the
burden of investigating further would rest on the healthcare provider that
employs the sanctioned physician. Thus Congress, without derailing the policy
objectives underlying the HCQIA, could ensure that sanctioned physicians are
provided with the procedural protections due process requires at all stages of
the peer review process.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawSubstantive Due ProcessScope of ProtectionHealthcare
LawActions Against FacilitiesGovernmental & Nonprofit LiabilityHealth Care
Quality Improvement ActHealthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationPeer
ReviewOrganizations

FOOTNOTES:




n1  See Matthew J. Cate, Physician Peer Review: Serving the Patient or the
Physician?, 20 J. LEGAL MED. 479, 479 (1999).




n2  Jeanne Darricades, Medical Peer Review: How is it Protected By the Health
Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986?, 18 J. CONTEMP. L. 263, 263 (1992).




n3  Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11153
(2000).




n4  For purposes of the HCQIA, "review committee" includes "the professional
review body, . . . any person acting as a member or staff to the body, . . . any
person under a contract or other formal agreement with the body, and . . . any
person who participates with or assists the body with respect to the
[professional review] action . . . ." Id. § 11111(a)(1).




n5 " Professional review action" is defined as "an action or recommendation of a
professional review body which is taken or made in the conduct of professional
review activity, which is based on the competence or professional conduct of an
individual physician." Id. § 11151(9).




n6  See id. § 11134(b).




n7  See id. § 11133.




n8  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 60.7-.9 (2003).




n9  A pre-HCQIA case illustrates the potentially draconian consequences of a
peer review action. See Craig W. Dallon, Understanding Judicial Review of
Hospitals' Physician Credentialing and Peer Review Decisions, 73 TEMP. L. REV.
597, 615-16 (2000) (quoting Ritter v. Bd. of Comm'rs, 637 P.2d 940 (Wash.
1981)).

     At the invitation of a community hospital, a physician left his large
     city practice after ten years and began a practice at the community
     hospital. After eight years of staff privileges at the hospital, the
     physician's privileges were summarily suspended. The consequences to
     his practice were devastating: The findings of fact show that
     immediately after his suspension [he] lost 25 percent of his patients,
     necessitating staff lay-offs at his clinic. Additionally, [he] lost
     his courtesy privileges at Odessa Hospital, and his application for
     staff privileges at Moses Lake Good Samaritan Hospital was put on hold
     until they received additional information on the Adams County
     suspension. [His] subsequent attempts to enroll in the United States
     Navy and the United States Air Force Physician Corps were similarly
     rebuffed for the same reason. In short, the summary suspension
     effectively deprived [him] of the pursuit of his medical practice.

Id. (citations omitted).




n10  42 U.S.C. §§ 11112(a)(1)-(2) (2000).




n11  Id. §§ 11112 (a)(3), (b)-(c).




n12  U.S. CONST. amend. V.




n13  See 42 U.S.C. § 11134(b); 45 C.F.R. § 60.1 (2003). In reality, a private
corporation manages the NPDB and lists all new information. The use of a private
corporation for such limited purposes, however, will not likely convert the
listing of information on the NPDB into a private action for purposes of the Due
Process Clause. See Driscoll v. Int'l Union of Operating Eng'rs, Local 139, 484
F.2d 682 (7th Cir. 1973) (holding that the activity of a private entity is
subject to the strictures of the Fifth Amendment insofar as the entity's
activity is endorsed by a regulatory agency); Lathan v. Block, 627 F. Supp. 397
(D.N.D. 1986) (holding that a government agency may be responsible for a private
party's decisions when the agency has exercised coercive power or has provided
encouragement such that the private party's action may be deemed to be that of
the agency).




n14  See Siegert v. Gilley, 500 U.S. 226, 231 (1991) (holding that there was not
a claim for denial of liberty because the Constitution does not protect an
interest in reputation without more); Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 712 (1976)
(holding that injury to the interest in reputation "does not result in a
deprivation of any 'liberty' or 'property' recognized by state or federal law .
. . [and] for these reasons . . . is neither 'liberty' nor 'property' guaranteed
against state deprivation without due process of law").




n15  ERWIN CHEMERINSKY, CONSTITUTIONAL LAW: PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES § 7.3.3, at
447 (1997) (citing Owen v. City of Independence, 445 U.S. 622, 661 (1980)).




n16  See H.R. REP. NO. 99-903, at 2, reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. (P.L.
99-660) 6384.




n17  Id.




n18  See Cate, supra note 1, at 490-91.




n19  See H.R. REP. NO. 99-903, at 2, reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. (P.L.
99-660) 6384.




n20  See 42 U.S.C. § 11134(b) (2000).




n21  45 C.F.R. §§ 60.1, .2, .7-.9 (2003).




n22  42 U.S.C. § 11133(a).




n23  Id. § 11134(b).




n24  See id.; see also 45 C.F.R. § 60.1.




n25  SUBCOMMITTEE ON NATIONAL ECONOMIC GROWTH, NATURAL RESOURCES, AND REGULATORY
AFFAIRS, U.S. GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE, PUB. NO. GAO-01-130, NATIONAL
PRACTITIONER DATA BANK: MAJOR IMPROVEMENTS ARE NEEDED TO ENHANCE DATA BANK'S
RELIABILITY (2000) [hereinafter GAO REPORT].




n26  42 U.S.C. § 11111(b); see also 45 C.F.R. § 60.9(c).




n27  42 U.S.C. § 11137(b).




n28  45 C.F.R. § 60.11(a).




n29  42 U.S.C. §§ 11135(a)(1)-(2); see also 45 C.F.R. § 60.10(a).




n30  45 C.F.R. § 60.6(b).




n31  Id. § 60.14.




n32  Darricades, supra note 2, at 263.




n33  298 F.3d 333 (5th Cir. 2002).




n34  Id. at 336.




n35  Id. at 337.




n36  Id.




n37  Id. at 338.




n38  Id.




n39  See Scott M. Smith, Annotation, Construction and Application of Health Care
Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C.A. §§ 11101-11152), 121 A.L.R. FED.
255 § 2 (1994).




n40  H.R. REP. NO. 99-903, at 2, reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. (P.L. 99-660)
6384.




n41  42 U.S.C. §§ 11112(a)(1)-(2) (2000).




n42  Bryan v. James E. Holmes Reg'l Med. Ctr., 33 F.3d 1318, 1332 (11th Cir.
1994).




n43  See Singh v. Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Mass., Inc., 308 F.3d 25, 32 (1st
Cir. 2002).




n44  See 42 U.S.C. § 11112(a)(3).




n45  Id. §§ 11112(b)(1)-(2).




n46  Id. § 11112(b)(3)(A).




n47  Id. § 11112(b)(3)(C).




n48  Id. § 11112(b) ("A professional review body's failure to meet the
conditions described in this subsection shall not, in itself, constitute failure
to meet the standards of subsection (a)(3) of this section."); see also Smith v.
Ricks, 31 F.3d 1478, 1485 n.5 (1994) (holding that the procedural protections
described by § 11112(b) create a "safe harbor" for immunity under § 11111(a)(1),
but are not "necessary" to receive that immunity).




n49  See 42 U.S.C. § 11112(c)(2).




n50  Board of Regents of State Colleges v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 569 (1972).




n51  Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 712 (1976).




n52  Id. at 695.




n53  Id. at 696.




n54  Id.




n55  Id. at 696-97.




n56  Id. at 710.




n57  Id. at 710-11.




n58  408 U.S. 564 (1972).




n59  400 U.S. 433 (1971).




n60  Roth, 408 U.S. at 573.




n61  Constantineau, 400 U.S. at 437.




n62  Id. at 435.




n63  Id. at 436.




n64  Id. at 437.




n65  Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 708 (1976). The Davis court did not deny the
broader grant of liberty in Constantineau, but instead reasoned that it would
"not read this language as significantly broadening [prior] holdings . . . if
there [was] any other possible interpretation of Constantineau's language." Id.




n66  Id. at 710-11.




n67  Board of Regents of State Colleges v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 568 (1972).




n68  Id. at 569.




n69  Id. at 572.




n70  Id. at 573.




n71  Id.




n72  Davis, 424 U.S. at 710.




n73  CHEMERINSKY, supra note 15, § 7.3.3, at 447 ("In deciding if there is a
liberty interest, the Court is to look at the positive law and not base its
decision on a conclusion about the importance of the interest of the
individual." (citing Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693 (1976))) (emphasis added).




n74  See Roth, 408 U.S. at 570-71 (reasoning that, in "determining whether due
process requirements apply in the first place, [the court] must look not to the
'weight' but to the nature of the interest at stake") (emphasis added).




n75  490 U.S. 454 (1989).




n76  Id. at 460.




n77  See Roth, 408 U.S. at 572 ("While this court has not attempted to define
with exactness the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, the term has
received much consideration and some of the included things have been definitely
stated. Without a doubt, it denotes not merely freedom from bodily restraint but
also the right of the individual to . . . engage in any of the common
occupations of life." (quoting Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U.S. 390, 399 (1923)))
(emphasis added).




n78  Meyer, 262 U.S. at 399.




n79  See, e.g., Boyanowski v. Capital Area Intermediate Unit, 215 F.3d 396, 404
(3d Cir. 1999) (holding that the reversal of a teacher's conviction under an
English-only statute in Meyer v. Nebraska did not rely on the Court's
"celebrated language about the right to engage in any of the common occupations
of life," but rather was based on the effect of that statute on a parent's
liberty right to control the raising of his or her children).




n80  Roth, 408 U.S. at 572.




n81  Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 711 n.5 (1976) ("There are other interests, of
course, protected not by virtue of their recognition by the law of a particular
State, but because they are guaranteed in one of the provisions of the Bill of
Rights which has been 'incorporated' into the Fourteenth Amendment."); see also
RONALD A. CASS ET AL., ADMINISTRATIVE LAW: CASES AND MATERIALS 605-07 (4th ed.
2002). Jack Beermann takes it a step further, reasoning that the Roth Court's
reliance on Meyer v. Nebraska, rather than on the Davis positive law analysis,
"suggests that liberty is a purely constitutional concept to be elaborated
exclusively by the Court." Id. at 605.




n82  See Michael K. Cantwell, Constitutional Torts and the Due Process Clause, 4
TEMP. POL. & CIV. RTS. L. REV. 317 (1995). Specifically, Cantwell states, "The
Supreme Court has yet to address whether the defamation must be in connection
with dismissal from a government job, or whether this 'stigma plus' is satisfied
by defamation that results in the plaintiff's loss of employment, coupled with
an impairment of future employment opportunities. [However,] the bulk of lower
court authority requires that the defamation occur in the course either of a
dismissal from a government position or termination of any other legal right or
status enjoyed by the plaintiff." Id. at 324 (emphasis added).




n83  Davis, 424 U.S. at 708.




n84  667 F.2d 773 (9th Cir. 1982).




n85  Id. at 777-78 (emphasis added). The full test, as stated in Vanelli, for
determining if an assault on an individual's reputation violates that
individual's liberty is that, "The procedural protections of due process apply
if the accuracy of the charge is contested, there is some public disclosure of
the charge, and it is made in connection with the termination of employment or
the alteration of some right or status recognized by state law." Id.




n86  Davis, 424 U.S. at 709-10.




n87  Id. at 710.




n88  557 F.2d 435 (5th Cir. 1977).




n89  Id. at 438.




n90  Siegert v. Gilley, 500 U.S. 226, 233-34 (1991).




n91  Id.




n92  Id. at 234.




n93  Id. at 228.




n94  See id. at 233-34. In Siegert, the plaintiff's claim failed in part because
the defamatory letter at issue had been written several weeks after the
plaintiff's resignation, and as such was not incident to termination. Id.




n95  Simpkins v. Shalala, 999 F. Supp. 106 (D.D.C. 1998).




n96  Id. at 117.




n97  Id. at 118.




n98  Id. (citing Kartseva v. Dep't of State, 37 F.3d 1524, 1527 (D.C. Cir.
1994)).




n99  See Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 711 n.5 (1976).




n100  See 45 C.F.R. § 60.5(c) (2003) ("A health care entity must report an
adverse action to the Board within 15 days from the date the adverse action was
taken. The Board must submit the information received from a health care entity
within 15 days from the date on which it received this information.").




n101  GAO REPORT, supra note 25.




n102  See 42 U.S.C. § 11133(c)(1) (2000); see also 45 C.F.R. § 60.9(c)(1)(iii)
(2003). But see, GAO REPORT, supra note 25, at 13 (discussing the HHS Office of
Inspector General's concern that there has been a "relatively low number of
reported clinical privileges restrictions since NPDB's early years of
operation," and suggesting that the Health Resources and Services Administration
"seek legislative authority to fine nonreporting providers"); Sara Hoffman
Jurand, Managed Care Companies Don't Report Bad Doctors, Federal Study Finds,
TRIAL MAG., Aug. 1, 2001, at 80.




n103  See Siegert v. Gilley, 500 U.S. 226, 234 (1991).




n104  See id. at 228.




n105  See 42 U.S.C. §§ 11111(a), 11133(a).




n106  See Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 709-10 (1976).




n107  See Dallon, supra note 9, at 612-13; see, e.g., Simpkins v. Shalala, 999
F. Supp. 106, 112 (D.D.C. 1998) (noting that there was no meaningful distinction
between the resignation of the plaintiff physician's employment and the
surrender of his clinical privileges).




n108  See Dallon, supra note 9, at 613.




n109  Simpkins, 999 F. Supp. at 118.




n110  See Johnson v. Misericordia Cmty. Hosp., 301 N.W.2d 156, 164 (Wis. 1981)
("The failure to investigate a medical staff applicant's qualifications for the
privileges requested gives rise to a foreseeable risk of unreasonable harm and
we hold that a hospital has a duty to exercise due care in the selection of its
medical staff."); see also John D. Blum, The Evolution of Physician
Credentialing into Managed Care Selective Contracting, 22 AM. J.L. & MED. 173,
189 (1996) ("Capitated plans, like hospitals, are engaging in credentialing not
only to ensure quality, but also as a form of risk management to protect
themselves from potential liability.").




n111  The HCQIA prohibits disclosure of information contained in the NPDB to
parties other than those specifically authorized by the Act. See 42 U.S.C. §
11137(b)(1) (2000). Thus, the public, malpractice insurers, and third party
payers are precluded from accessing the NPDB. See Ruth E. Flynn, Demand for
Public Access to the National Practitioner Data Bank: Consumers Sound Their Own
Death Cry, 18 HAMLINE J. PUB. L. & POL'Y 251, 252 (1996). It is unclear,
however, whether this provision would also preclude a plaintiff in a medical
malpractice claim from acquiring such information, through discovery, to prove
that the healthcare entity negligently selected its medical staff. Compare 42
U.S.C. § 11137(b)(1) ("Information reported under this part is considered
confidential and shall not be disclosed (other than to the physician or
practitioner involved)"), with id. ("Nothing in this subsection shall prevent
the disclosure of such information by a party which is otherwise authorized,
under applicable State law, to make such disclosure.").




n112  See Dallon, supra note 9, at 614.




n113  42 U.S.C. §§ 11112(b)(1)-(2).




n114  Id. § 11112(b)(3)(A).




n115  Id. § 11112(b)(3)(C).




n116  See, e.g., id. § 11112(a) (stating that a review committee may only take a
review action if, after making "a reasonable effort to obtain the facts of the
matter," it reasonably believes the action will further the quality of
healthcare); id. § 11112(b) (requiring notice and opportunity for a hearing,
with assistance of counsel, before an arbitrator, hearing officer, or panel of
unbiased individuals).




n117  See id. § 11112(c)(2) ("Nothing in this section shall be construed as . .
. precluding an immediate suspension or restriction of clinical privileges . . .
where the failure to take such an action may result in an imminent danger to the
health of any individual.").




n118  See, e.g., Patel v. Midland Mem'l Hosp. and Med. Ctr., 298 F.3d 333, 340
(5th Cir. 2002) (relying on due process principles rather than the HCQIA, the
court found that patient safety outweighed the physician's Due Process right to
a pre-termination hearing).




n119  424 U.S. 319 (1976).




n120  Id. at 335.




n121  While the Eldridge Court focused on the "fiscal and administrative burden"
created by additional procedural requirements, the third prong of the Eldridge
test also weighs a state's compelling interest in preserving the public health,
or, in this case, the federal government's interest in the regulation of
interstate commerce. See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 334; cf. Freilich v. Bd. of Dirs.
of Upper Chesapeake Health, Inc., 142 F. Supp. 2d 679, 694 (D. Md. 2001)
(holding that Congress may pass the HCQIA as a valid exercise of its power to
regulate commercial activity under the Commerce Clause).




n122  See Patel, 298 F.3d at 340 ("In some cases, 'where a state may act
quickly, or where it would be impractical to provide pre-deprivation process,'
post-deprivation process is enough to satisfy the requirements of due
process."); Caine v. Hardy, 943 F.2d 1406, 1412 (5th Cir. 1991) ("Under such
exigent circumstances, where the safety of the public is at risk, an adequate
post-suspension remedy satisfies the requirements of due process."); see also
FDIC v. Mallen, 486 U.S. 230, 240 (1998) ("An important government interest,
accompanied by a substantial assurance that the deprivation is not baseless or
unwarranted, may in limited cases demanding prompt action justify postponing the
opportunity to be heard until after the initial deprivation.").




n123  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 334 ("'Due Process,' unlike some legal rules, is
not a technical conception with a fixed content unrelated to time, place and
circumstances." (quoting Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367 U.S. 886, 895
(1961))).




n124  A healthcare entity, such as a hospital, will theoretically be required to
provide procedural protections at the reporting stage only if the entity can be
characterized as a public actor. See Freilich, 142 F. Supp. 2d at 691 (holding
that the plaintiff's claim, "that the HCQIA violates her right to due process
and equal protection under the Fifth Amendment must be dismissed against the
private hospital defendants because the Fifth Amendment restricts only actions
of the federal government."). Listing, however, will always constitute public
action, regardless of the hospital's status, since only HHS may list peer review
information in the NPDB pursuant to the HCQIA, 42 U.S.C. § 11134(b) (2000). See
also 45 C.F.R. § 60.1 (2003). For purposes of this Note, therefore, this
analysis will proceed only with regard to the listing stage of the peer review
process.




n125  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 60.6(a)-(b).




n126  See 42 U.S.C. § 11136(2); see also Simpkins v. Shalala, 999 F. Supp. 106,
111 (D.D.C. 1998) ("The HCQI Act requires HHS to establish procedures to govern
disputes concerning the accuracy of information contained in the Data Bank.").




n127  45 C.F.R. § 60.14 (a).




n128  Id. §§ 60.14(b)(1)-(b)(3). The physician, however, is summarily precluded
from challenging the listing if he fails to submit the required challenge within
sixty days. See id. § 60.14(b).




n129  Id. § 60.14(c)(1).




n130  Id. § 60.14(c)(2).




n131  Id. §§ 60.14(c)(2)(i)-(ii).




n132  Id. § 60.14(c)(2).




n133  Id.




n134  Simpkins v. Shalala, 999 F. Supp. 106, 110 (D.D.C. 1998) (citing Camp v.
Pitts, 411 U.S. 138, 142-43 (1973)). But see Citizens v. Overton Park, 401 U.S.
402, 420-21 (1971) (determining that the reviewing court may remand to the
Secretary so that he may supplement the record).




n135  Contra Ingraham v. Wright, 430 U.S. 651 (1977). The Supreme Court in
Ingraham, found that a student was able to vindicate his right to freedom from
bodily restraint and punishment through tort liability and held that due process
did not require a pre-sanction hearing. Id. at 678. In the HCQIA context,
however, the vindication of rights through alternative means is not available to
physicians who have been listed in the NPDB--the immunity provisions in section
11111 of that Act prevent an aggrieved physician from seeking damages, thereby
distinguishing Ingraham. Id.




n136  See 42 U.S.C. § 11114 (2000) ("The Secretary may establish, after notice
and opportunity for comment, such voluntary guidelines as may assist the
professional review bodies in meeting the standards described in section
11112(a) of this title."); see also id. § 11136 ("With respect to the
information reported to the Secretary . . . respecting a physician or other
licensed health care practitioner, the Secretary shall, by regulation, provide
for . . . procedures in the case of disputed accuracy of the information.").


                              409 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                           August 10, 2016 Wednesday

Sexual violence: Fewer cases being registered, finds report

LENGTH: 582  words


A disparity has been discovered in the number of medico-legal examinations (MLE)
and the FIRs registered in reported incidents of sexual violence as only 122
cases were registered despite 516 MLEs performed at the city's three public
hospitals from January 2015 to June 2016.

This was revealed in a report released by War Against Rape (WAR) which compiled
data from various sources, including police stations and Jinnah Postgraduate
Medical Center, Civil hospital and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

The nightmare of sexual violence for female farmworkers

During 2005-2014, 1,128 cases of sexual violence were reported as per the data
collected from the police stations, whereas the office of assistant inspector
general crime branch, Karachi mentioned 572 sexual assault cases.

According to WAR programme officer Sheeraz Ahmed, the significant difference of
51% is indicative that reliable data is missing, which according to the WAR
report indicates that the number of actual reported sexual violence cases is
much higher than the figures provided. Demographically, 17% of the cases were
recorded in Korangi and Orangi each, 10% in Sohrab Goth and seven per cent in
Gulistan-e-Johar, Saddar and Soldier Bazaar each. Out of the total cases
reported from January 2015 to June 2016, 48% are of gang-rape, 22% of sodomy
followed by 11% of incest.

Not making it easy

The report further states that the statistics on rape extracted from police
records are 'notoriously' unreliable because of significant under-reporting.
According to the report, the major impediment behind the under-reporting is the
"biased, judgmental and discouraging" attitudes of police and medico-legal
officers.

Furthermore, lengthy legal proceedings and insensitive court environments and
procedural inadequacies further push a significant 15-20% of cases towards
out-of-court settlements.

Pakistan's shameful denial of male rape

It is thus no surprise that the total number of reported sexual violence came
down to 939 in 2015 from 1,582 in 2014.

Majority kids, girls

Moreover, WAR reveals that 88% of sexual violence cases among children have
female victims whereas 40% of the survivors are between 12-18 years.

According to Ahmed, in 2015, 3,768 children were sexually assaulted across
Pakistan as compared to 3,508 in 2013.

The statistics reveal an increase of seven per cent in the registration of child
sexual abuse cases with 10 children sexually exploited a day in 2015.

Out of the total cases, 1,974 (52%) were girls compared to 1,794 (48%) boys,
whereas 97 children were murdered after being sexually assaulted, across the
country.

The study reveals that that the most vulnerable age group among boys and girls
was 11-15.

Way forward

Ahmed told The Express Tribune that in order to improve legal and procedural
deterrents to ensure speedy justice in sexual violence cases, it is important to
ensure the immediate passage and implementation of anti-rape laws (Criminal Laws
Amendment) Bill, 2014.

Most sexual abuse cases reported from Landhi, Korangi, Gulshan

He added that child friendly courts and spaces must be established to ensure
safety and protection of survivors.

He also emphasised on the mandatory recruitment, training, and empowerment of
women as prosecutors, judges, police officers and medico-legal officers to
eliminate gender biases.

According to Ahmed, human and sexual rights' education must also become part of
our curriculum to spread gender equality and the narrow definition of sexual
violence needs to be broadened.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                             March 10, 1997, Monday

Country doctor's hands are tied

SOURCE: QNP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1945 words


FROM July, I will no longer be able to accept maternity patients to deliver
privately myself. I have been forced to make this decision by rising costs in my
medical indemnity premiums.

The premium of $6700 will rise to more than $10,000 in July. Three years ago it
was only $1500.

As a general practitioner who does not perform anaesthetics, plastic surgery,
vasectomies or other surgical procedures, my only source of income to justify
this "procedural" premium is for hands-on obstetrics. For the 20 to 25 babies I
deliver each year, an out-of-pocket expense of $10,000 ($500 a patient) is not
viable. I will not force patients to pick up this expense by simply increasing
my fees.

This saddens me greatly. The babies I delivered on arriving in Kingaroy are
starting school this year. As the only female GP obstetrician in the South
Burnett I envisioned continuing obstetrics all my working life and delivering
second and third generations of Kingaroy babies. This is not to be.

I will, of course, try to refer my maternity patients to a GP who continues to
practise delivery obstetrics although I cannot say who they may be and for how
long.

Regardless of my personal disappointment, there are statewide repercussions.

While Queensland Health provides indemnity for doctors rendering services to
public patients, it ignores the fact that the vast majority of the rural medical
workforce is totally private.

This private workforce undertakes the major share of rural procedural work. If,
as expected, procedural indemnity cover rises significantly in July 1997, it
will be uneconomic for most private rural GPs to continue this work.

Significant numbers of patients will flow into the public system where there are
neither the staff numbers nor skills to cope with such an influx.

Hundreds of cases will be diverted to major teaching hospitals, causing
increases to long waiting lists and social dislocation to families of patients
seeking care.

Private GPs will become deskilled and no longer available for back-up to junior
doctors in the public system.

Doctors in rural traineeships will be unable to afford these premiums and we
will lose these rural doctors of the future at a time when the rural workforce
is drastically low.

Queensland is the only state that does not provide some form of assistance with
medical indemnity to all of its doctors._ Melanie Connah, Kingaroy.

March 6

I AM tired of political grandstanding by Lord Mayor Jim Soorley and Cr David
Hinchliffe, who are suddenly finding the need to "pork barrel" us with things
that they should have done anyway over the past three years.

At least Opposition leader Cr Bob Mills doesn't pander to the trendies. He wants
to help the rest of us out in the suburbs.

A change at City Hall will be refreshing and stimulating to ratepayers outside
the inner-city area. We riff-raff out here in the suburbs will see a fresh
approach from Mills _ just as John Howard had to provide a fresh approach after
Paul Keating._ R. Field, Gumdale.

March 6

THE Liberal Party's council election campaign lacked imagination and depth.

Lord mayoral candidate Cr Bob Mills has disappointed me with his concentration
on rates rather than mapping out his plan for Brisbane.

Politicians intimidate the electorate with talk of taxes and rates when there is
little else to concentrate on. This is insulting because many ratepayers
associate councils with much more than rates.

I approve of the way our city is developing and maturing and I understand the
community and social basis of Lord Mayor Jim Soorley's policies.

The Opposition says we pay too much, the cat laws may need reviewing and that we
can use all the water we like.

This does not make a modern, enterprising or vital city. This doesn't articulate
a vision for our city's cultural, social and environmental future. The decision
is clear-cut: vision and performance versus ad hoc promises._ Jenny McNaught,
Morningside.

March 3

I AM tired of political grandstanding by Lord Mayor Jim Soorley and Cr David
Hinchliffe, who are suddenly finding the need to "pork barrel" us with things
that they should have done anyway over the past three years.

At least Opposition leader Cr Bob Mills doesn't pander to the trendies. He wants
to help the rest of us out in the suburbs.

A change at City Hall will be refreshing and stimulating to ratepayers outside
the inner-city area. We riff-raff out here in the suburbs will see a fresh
approach from Mills _ just as John Howard had to provide a fresh approach after
Paul Keating._ R. Field, Gumdale.

March 6

THE Liberal Party's council election campaign lacked imagination and depth.

Lord mayoral candidate Cr Bob Mills has disappointed me with his concentration
on rates rather than mapping out his plan for Brisbane.

Politicians intimidate the electorate with talk of taxes and rates when there is
little else to concentrate on. This is insulting because many ratepayers
associate councils with much more than rates.

I approve of the way our city is developing and maturing and I understand the
community and social basis of Lord Mayor Jim Soorley's policies.

The Opposition says we pay too much, the cat laws may need reviewing and that we
can use all the water we like.

This does not make a modern, enterprising or vital city. This doesn't articulate
a vision for our city's cultural, social and environmental future. The decision
is clear-cut: vision and performance versus ad hoc promises._ Jenny McNaught,
Morningside.

March 3

I AM tired of political grandstanding by Lord Mayor Jim Soorley and Cr David
Hinchliffe, who are suddenly finding the need to "pork barrel" us with things
that they should have done anyway over the past three years.

At least Opposition leader Cr Bob Mills doesn't pander to the trendies. He wants
to help the rest of us out in the suburbs.

A change at City Hall will be refreshing and stimulating to ratepayers outside
the inner-city area. We riff-raff out here in the suburbs will see a fresh
approach from Mills _ just as John Howard had to provide a fresh approach after
Paul Keating._ R. Field, Gumdale.

March 6

THE Liberal Party's council election campaign lacked imagination and depth.

Lord mayoral candidate Cr Bob Mills has disappointed me with his concentration
on rates rather than mapping out his plan for Brisbane.

Politicians intimidate the electorate with talk of taxes and rates when there is
little else to concentrate on. This is insulting because many ratepayers
associate councils with much more than rates.

I approve of the way our city is developing and maturing and I understand the
community and social basis of Lord Mayor Jim Soorley's policies.

The Opposition says we pay too much, the cat laws may need reviewing and that we
can use all the water we like.

This does not make a modern, enterprising or vital city. This doesn't articulate
a vision for our city's cultural, social and environmental future. The decision
is clear-cut: vision and performance versus ad hoc promises._ Jenny McNaught,
Morningside.

March 3

I WOULD suggest that Des Partridge's chair be moved closer to the window so he
can see across to the Queensland Cultural Centre when he claims that "after
years of neglect" the arts in Queensland flourished only with the advent of the
Goss Labor government (Perspectives, Mar 6).

What also flourished from 1990 were arts bureaucrats, red tape and the
ultimately destructive concept of the arts as an industry.

Queensland always had a strong interest in the arts and the notion of a cultural
backwater is a classic cringe.

The coalition government in the 1970s and 80s had a deep commitment to the arts,
of which the Cultural Centre _ the legacy of former Liberal treasurer Sir Gordon
Chalk _ is the symbol.

The arts bodies also were strongly supported and in several cases founded by
senior public servants (Sir David Longland, Sir David Muir, Sir Leo Hielscher,
Sir Sydney Schubert and Peter Jones). Their influence and active participation
ensured that the arts were well-funded.

The arts are flourishing and Greg Andrews has played a major role in that
welcome state of affairs but Queensland has had several strong and at times
controversial directors of the arts whose legacy was the state-wide
infrastructure and funding on which Mr Andrews was able to build._ Allen
Callaghan, Manly.

March 6

GRAEME Turner, former chairman of the Arts Advisory Committee, thinks he smells
a pork barrel in the restructuring of the arts division (Letters, Mar 6).

The changes have nothing to do with pork-barrelling or any irresponsible or
politically cynical act, as Turner suggested.

The restructuring has followed a six-month review aimed at nipping in the bud a
state arts bureaucracy which was growing like Topsy and easing the unacceptable
drag it was placing on funding for front-line services and arts infrastructure.

It also aimed at refocusing my department's activities on delivering front-line
services to arts workers and organisations; giving statutory bodies more
independence and funding certainty; making the Arts Office and statutory
authorities more accessible and efficient providers of services.

The executive director's position will be advertised nationally and
internationally. Arts practitioners and organisations should be smelling nothing
but roses._ Joan Sheldon, Arts Minister, Brisbane.

March 7

Women as

victims, again

WHILE Dale Spender's juvenile writing style often can be refreshing, her
tiresome article on the use of the term "chairman" instead of "chairperson"
offers nothing new to explain the feminist assertion that it demeans women
(Perspectives, Mar 6).

Let's face it, she is no Germaine Greer. Men of my generation embraced Greer and
her ideas and I still chuckle at her acerbic wit as she continues to savage
males and females who refuse to stand up for themselves.

Dale's inane statement that "dogs are dogs and cats are cats" may appeal to the
logic of an eight-year-old, but some of us are old enough to remember putting in
our Vietnam national service papers. Is this constant "women as victims"
position really necessary? We're all in this together, you know._ Paul Blain,
Nundah.

March 3

SOMEONE should explain to Ms Spender that unlike the terms "man" and "woman",
dog and cat are not identifiers of different genders within the same species.
Cats belong to the feline species and dogs belong to the canine species._Rick
Kirkness, The Gap.

March 6

Bullies

at work

OUR ever-vigilant moral watchdogs have turned their attention to a 13-year-old
girl and the editor of an innocuous teenage-oriented magazine, Dolly.

They have managed only to increase temporarily the circulation of this vacuous
little magazine and distress a young lady whose only crime appears to be that
she is pretty. Memo to these overzealous bullies: get a life._ Peter Earsman,
Kallangur.

March 6

Waiting

for medal

NOT one combatant of the Korean war, the Malayan emergency and Borneo and the
Malay Peninsula campaigns has received a distinctly Australian medal for their
active service. Some have received the Australian Service Medal 1945-1975 for
service in Korea after the ceasefire (July 28, 1953) for garrison duties but it
has not been issued to recognise those who served as combatants between June
1950 and July 1953. Others have received it for service in Papua New Guinea as
trainers and advisers as well as for service in the Far Eastern Strategic
Reserve.

Combatants were first in but appear to be last on the priority list for
recognition.

Many do not have much time left to wait._ Kevin Wills, Broadbeach Waters.

March 6

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              411 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday

French legislation concerning reimbursement for planned healthcare treatment in
another Member State is compatible with EU law

LENGTH: 968  words

DATELINE: Brussels


Brussels, Oct. 06 -- European Commission has issued following Press Release:

The Commission brought an action against France before the Court for failure to
fulfil obligations, taking the view that some provisions of national law
relating to the reimbursement of certain planned treatment - that is to say,
treatment that the insured person proposes to obtain in a Member State other
than France - are contrary to European Union law.

In the first place, the Commission considered that the provisions of the French
Social Security Code making reimbursement in respect of treatment planned,
outside a hospital setting, in another Member State subject to prior
authorisation by the competent French institution when that treatment requires
the use of major medical equipment are contrary to the freedom to provide
services1. That includes, for example, nuclear magnetic resonance imaging or
spectrometry apparatus used to detect and treat, in particular, cancer, certain
cerebral palsies etc.

In that regard, the Court finds that, in accordance with its settled case-law,
medical services supplied for consideration fall within the ambit of freedom to
provide services, and there is no need to distinguish treatment provided in a
hospital environment from treatment provided outside such an environment.

It points out that the freedom to provide services includes the freedom for the
recipients of services, including persons in need of medical treatment, to go to
another Member State in order to receive those services there without being
hampered by restrictions. The prior authorisation required under French
legislation for reimbursement in respect of medical treatment involving the use
of major medical equipment is capable of deterring, or even preventing, persons
insured under the French system from applying to providers of medical services
established in another Member State, which in fact constitutes a restriction of
the freedom to provide services.

However, regardless of the setting, hospital or otherwise, in which it is
installed and used, it must be possible for the major medical equipment
exhaustively listed in the Public Health Code to be the subject of planning
policy, such as that defined by the French legislation, with particular regard
to quantity and geographical distribution, in order to help ensure throughout
national territory a rationalised, stable, balanced and accessible supply of
up-to-date treatment, and also to avoid, so far as possible, any waste of
financial, technical and human resources. For example, the cost of purchasing
and using the equipment necessary for detecting and treating cancer comes to
thousands, even millions, of euro.

Consequently, having regard to the dangers both to the organisation of public
health policy and to the balance of the financial social security system, the
requirement of prior authorisation for that kind of treatment is, as European
Union law now stands, a justified restriction.

The Court notes, however, that a prior authorisation scheme must be based on
objective, non-discriminatory criteria known in advance, in such a way as to
circumscribe the exercise of the

1 France, supported by Spain, Finland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, challenges the grounds of that head of claim.

www.curia.europa.eu

national authorities' discretion so that it is not used arbitrarily. Such a
system must, furthermore, be based on a procedural system which is easily
accessible and capable of ensuring for the persons concerned that a request for
authorisation will be dealt with objectively and impartially within a reasonable
time, and it must, in addition, be possible for refusals to grant authorisation
to be challenged in judicial proceedings. In the present case, the Commission
has not put forward any specific criticism of the French procedural and
substantive rules regulating the prior authorisation measure.

In the second place, the Commission maintained that France had not given effect
to the Court's decision that, if the reimbursement of costs incurred for
hospital services provided in the Member State of stay, calculated under the
rules in force in that State, is less than the amount which application of the
legislation in force in the Member State of affiliation would afford to a person
receiving hospital treatment in that State, additional reimbursement covering
that difference must be granted to the insured person by that institution2.

On that point, the Court observes that the French legislation provides that a
patient may receive, in respect of hospital treatment provided in another Member
State, reimbursement on the same conditions as if the treatment had been
received in France, and within the limits of the costs actually incurred by the
person insured. Thus those provisions include entitlement to an additional
reimbursement to be paid by the competent French institution when there is a
difference between the levels of social cover in the State of affiliation and
the State of the place of the hospital treatment, as referred to in the Court's
case-law.

That finding is borne out by the fact that the Commission has identified no
provisions of national law constituting an obstacle to the Court's decisions.
Likewise, the Commission has not mentioned any decisions given by French courts
denying that right to an additional reimbursement or any administrative practice
whatsoever that could have deprived insured persons of that right.

Consequently, the Commission's action against France is dismissed in its
entirety.

For more information please contact info@plusmediasolutions.co Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  New Orleans City Business (New Orleans, LA)

                          November 18, 2015 Wednesday

Local health care providers report smooth coding transition, for now

BYLINE: Ashley Roe, Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 873  words


The dust has settled on the medical community's roll-out of the ICD-10 diagnosis
and procedural coding system, and area hospitals have reported no major
logistical snafus more than a month after the mandated transition.

They caution, however, that it's still too early to evaluate the full financial
impact of the switch.

On Oct. 1, all medical entities covered by the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act transitioned to using ICD-10 diagnosis and procedure codes
when submitting claims to insurers.

ICD-10 stands for International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Edition. The
worldwide diagnostic coding and procedural system was implemented by the World
Health Organization in 1993.

Providers in the metro region and across the country voiced concerns about
potential technology breakdowns and interruptions in insurance reimbursement
ahead of the switch.

More than six weeks later, two major New Orleans hospital systems and a
community health care center reported relatively smooth roll-outs amid
monitoring of long-term effects.

At Ochsner Health System, Vicki Kaplan, vice president of health information
management, said the more than $10 million investment Ochsner poured into
transition efforts was well worth it. It included technology upgrades, staff
training and other preparations.

"In hindsight, the roll-out went as well as we hoped it would," she said. "We
were worried there was something we did not consider, but it was very smooth. "

Kaplan said there were some instances of specific ICD-10 codes being rejected by
insurance companies during claims submission, but staff members were able to
resolve the issues fast and efficiently.

Kaplan said Ochsner is now focused on monitoring and measuring the long-term
effects of the switch.

"It's still very early and we don't want to get too into declaring a success,"
Kaplan said. "But so far, we feel like we put in the time, effort and money
needed for a smooth transition. "

At Jefferson Community Health Care Centers, CEO Shondra Williams reported a
similar experience.

"It's really 'business as usual' right now with the notion that we will evaluate
the financial impact at a later date as the information becomes available," she
said.

Williams said JCHCC noticed a slight increase in workflow time spent per patient
due to converting ICD-9 codes to ICD-10 codes in an ongoing training crosswalk
JCHCC staff underwent.

"Our productivity numbers have not changed, but the timeframe in serving the
patient has," she said, citing a 15 to 20 minute increase in patient workflow
time due to the conversion.

Williams said the health care center is planning to deploy a new electronic
medical record system next year. Among other benefits, the new system will help
improve coding efficiency and streamline patient workflow.

Across LCMC Health facilities, chief financial officer Suzanne Haggard reported
that the transition went well. LCMC Health manages four New Orleans hospitals,
including University Medical Center, Touro, Children's Hospital and New Orleans
East Hospital.

"Our team was well prepared for the ICD-10 implementation on Oct. 1 and we have
not encountered any significant issues thus far," Haggard said in a statement.
"We are continuing to monitor, audit and collaborate across the system to
maintain this smooth transition. "

Haggard has said LCMC facilities spent well over two years training its coding
staff for the conversion. Efforts included setting up ICD-10 boot camps, ongoing
dual coding in the ICD-9 and ICD-10 systems, traditional coursework, one-on-one
training, submitting test claims to insurers and other measures.

The organization also spent considerable time educating other staff including
nurses, registration staff, department directors and hospital management. It
also invested heavily in what Haggard called a "post-go-live" strategy, bringing
in extra staffing resources to be on hand as a safety net during roll-out.

Nationwide, trade media outlets reported it was mostly a smooth transition
across the board for many health care organizations, far from the initial
worries over a Y2K-like breakdown.

According to an Oct. 29 update from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, all Medicare and Medicaid claims were processing normally. However,
because of a standard two-week payment delay in Medicare claims and an up to
30-day delay in standard Medicaid claims processing, CMS stated it would be
gathering more information on the effects of the transition sometime this month.

The ICD-10 coding transition ultimately allows providers to capture more details
about the health status of their patients to improve patient care and public
health surveillance, according to CMS.

The new code set covers diagnoses and procedures in greater detail and scope
than those in the previous ICD-9 system and incorporates updated medical
terminology. The update added roughly 55,000 new diagnosis codes into the
system, expanding the code set from about 14,000 to about 68,000. Procedure
codes expanded from about 4,000 to roughly 87,000.

To sign up for free CityBusiness Daily Updates, click here.

http://www.neworleanscitybusiness.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more
from this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 21, 1991 Saturday

OHIP: Don't leave home with it

BYLINE: TERENCE CORCORAN; GAM

LENGTH: 843 words


TERENCE CORCORAN
 ONTARIO'S universal and comprehensive health care system is about to cut
off most of the universe. As of Oct. 1, Ontario residents travelling or
living outside Canada will no longer be entitled to the full benefits of
the Ontario Health Insurance Plan. Under the new rules, an Ontario
resident forced to spend time and $28,000 in a U.S. hospital as a result
of a car accident would get OHIP coverage of only $5,000, the new limit
set by the Ontario government.

Since U.S. hospital care can run to $3,000 a day, the risks are high.

The unceremonious elimination of out-of-country coverage is the latest
in an increasing number of initiatives Canadian provinces are taking as
they stare down the throat of the uncontrollable, centrally planned health
care system. What should Ontario residents do to protect themselves now
when they're outside Canada? An official in the ministry of Health
Minister Frances Lankin offered some blunt advice in a Toronto newspaper:
"We advise everyone to carry extra insurance."

The province paid $225-million to U.S. doctors and health services last
year. Now most of that cost will have to be picked up by individuals, who
must either buy private insurance plans costing hundreds or even thousands
of dollars or pay the full cost of out-of-country health care themselves,
a prospect that could bankrupt some people.

The Ontario move raises some interesting constitutional, ethical,
medical, procedural and economic issues.

Constitutional issue: Choose one of the following: As far as medicare
is concerned, the province of Ontario is (a) unwaveringly committed to
federal principles of Canadian medicare, (b) willing to bend the
principles a little here and there, (c) it's hard to tell.

Rhetoric-wise, the province seems totally committed to the federal
health system. In its discussion paper released yesterday on the need for
a Canadian social charter, Ontario makes much of the government's desire
to enshrine universal medicare as a Canadian constitutional principle. The
paper lists the five basic principles of medicare found in the Canada
Health Act, including comprehensiveness (coverage of all medically
required services) and universality (provided to all residents).

These principles should be entrenched in the constitution, the paper
suggests, to ensure that all governments across Canada adhere to basic
national principles. But is the new OHIP out-of-country policy consistent
with the requirement that health insurance cover "all residents" for "all
medically required services?" Legally, it's hard to tell, but practically
there's little doubt that as of Oct. 1 all Ontario residents are not
covered for all services.

Ethical issue: It is one thing to limit the ability of drug addicts to
defraud the system by spending $500,000 at resort-like U.S. rehab clinics.
It is ethically another thing to strip Ontario residents of emergency
medical care just because they happen to be out of the country when the
emergency strikes. Or to suddenly tell hundreds of thousands of elderly
and retired vacationers that they must now spend large amounts on new
private health insurance.

Medical issues: Where is the Ontario Medical Association on this issue?
Supposedly dedicated to the welfare of its patients, and to the integrity
of the system, the OMA has been silent. Of course, this is no loss to
Ontario doctors. Indeed, it could mean more business for the doctors as
many Ontario residents are prevented from obtaining specialized medical
services in the United States or elsewhere. As well, uninsured Canadians
temporarily out of the country could be forced to return to Ontario for
medical care - assuming it's available.

Procedural issue: In Ontario there are waiting lists for many medical
procedures, including some that could be termed urgent, if not
emergencies. Imagine, if you will, being unwell in Florida and trying to
line up an Ontario hospital bed via fax and long-distance telephone calls.

Economic issue: One of the province's justifications for the move is
that it doesn't want to continue to pay money into the allegedly
overpriced ($3,000 a day) and profit-driven private U.S. medical system.
This gives the impression OHIP has an idea of how much it costs to keep
someone in hospital in Ontario. In any case, the Ontario ministry's daily
rate for U.S. citizens using Ontario hospitals is equivalent to U.S.
rates. At the Toronto Hospital, for example, non-residents of Canada are
required to pay up to $3,200 a day for intensive care. Hospital care may
even be cheaper in the United States - OHIP has no way of knowing.

Political issues: When Ontario and federal politicians - Premier Bob
Rae, for example, or federal Trade Minister Michael Wilson - travel
outside of Canada, will they purchase extra insurance?

One consolation is that the Ontario government decided not to
nationalize auto insurance. Had they done so, they might have applied the
same out-of-country restrictions. As of Oct. 1, therefore, Ontarians can
take comfort. If they are in an accident south of the border, their bodies
might not be covered but their cars are still protected.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1991 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 8, 2015 Saturday

US Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania) Issues Solicitation
for "DePuy Synthes Spine, Cranial Maxillofacial and Trauma "Procedural
Packages""

LENGTH: 505  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations Officer has issued
requirement for "DePuy Synthes Spine, Cranial Maxillofacial and Trauma "
Procedural Packages""

Solicitation no. SPE2DE15R0010

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date:
August 6, 2015
Response Date:
Sep 08, 2015 3:00 pm Eastern

Description:
The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing  DePuy Synthes Spine, Cranial and maxillofacial and Trauma "procedural
packages".  These "procedural packages" include Orthopedic Implants,
Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary products (such as drill bits, saw blades,
bone cement, etc.) that are necessary for the orthopedic surgery. The
instruments are purchased by the hospital so they are readily available on the
shelves.
All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
Orthopedic products must be delivered "Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery",
and "Consignment". Under "Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility
(MTF) calls the manufacturer's field representative who carries the products
into the MTF just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales
representative may bring many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products
to the surgery along with the instrumentation sets. Under the "Direct Vendor
Delivery" method an order for products is placed through ECAT and the product is
delivered directly to the customer via any transportation carrier. Under the
"Consignment" method, an MTF have the products that make up the "procedural set"
consigned to their facility.
At the request of the MTF, the manufacturer is required to have a qualified
representative on site at the MTF's within the timeframe specified by the
facility necessary to meet their requirements. The manufacturer's representative
provides technical advice and guidance to the physician before, during, and
after implantation. Furthermore, technical support is available twenty-four (24)
hours a day, seven (7) days a week. The DePuy Synthes Sales Representatives are
experts on the vendor's products and are a vital part of helping to ensure that
the patient is getting the necessary treatment.  Sources must have direct
control over a sales force that is knowledgeable in DePuy Synthes products.
This is a request for information (RFI) and does not commit the U.S. Government
to issue a solicitation, make an award, or pay any costs associated with
responding to this announcement. All submitted information shall remain with the
U.S. Government and will not be returned.
Your response to this Request for Information may be submitted electronically in
PDF format and emailed to charles.reimer@dla.mil

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia,
 Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United States

Point of Contact(s): Charles Reimer,
 Contracting Officer Charles.Reimer@dla.mil Phone: 215.737.5495

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday

Time to wake up

LENGTH: 952 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, April 6 -- Anaesthesiology is a field that hassuffocated inside the
operationtheatre. Graduates specialise in this subject of study with the view to
save lives. Global trends document intense competition among anaesthesiologists;
winning a postgraduate position inanaesthesia and critical care is highly
competitive. In our social context,however, the case is very different

Recently, the Ministry of Health announced 22 vacancies for anaesthesiologists.
Only two applied. We can count the number of specialists working in public
hospitals on our fingers, and most are approaching retirement. We rarely find
anaesthesiologists working outside Kathmandu Valley. The number of
anaesthesiologists in the country now stands around 250. Though the number is
slowly growing, people are still hesitant to pursue this area of specialisation.

Public perception

A look into the historical development of anaesthesia in Nepal may provide
insight into the trend of low interest in anaesthesiology. While interest in
other surgical specialities grew exponentially, the willingness of medical
graduates to pursue anaesthesiology as a career was hard hit by socio-cultural
issues. An anaesthesiologist was not perceived as a doctor; he was widely
regarded as a "gas man" who puts people to sleep. Medical graduates chose
specialities that gave them recognition as public figures. Anaesthesiologists
were the service providers behind the curtain.

The scarcity of anaesthesiologists was highlighted by a conspicuous lack of
trained specialists for surgical procedures and critical care. Only those
graduates with weaker results specialised in anaesthesiology as a secondary
choice. Though the Health Ministry introduced a provision of extra allowance for
anaesthesiologists in a bid to address the shortage, it had little success.

Today, there is only a slight improvement in the public perception of an
anaesthesiologist as a "gas man". Anaesthesiologists are overshadowed by their
surgical colleagues; the public has yet to understand that a lack of trained
anaesthesiologists can result in clinical problems and even loss of life during
surgical procedures.

Existing challenges

A shortage of trained manpower, the prevalent sociocultural context, a lack of
proper policy and interest from the government sector, weak societal awareness
and improper payment systems are some of the hindrances that need to be
addressed. Anaesthesiologists are also to be faulted for their inability to make
the public understand their plight. Globally,anaesthesiologists are the leaders
of critical care, perioperative care medicine and pain medicine. They have also
shown their acumen in the field of policy-making.

The challenges faced by this area of specialisation lie in the shortage of
manpower and safe anaesthesia care for the public. To overcome these challenges,
there is a need for a stepwise tactical approach. The government has to advocate
safe anaesthesia care. This entails, among other measures, raising public
awareness through patients' interaction with anaesthesiologists prior to
surgery.

Anaesthesiologists also need to function independently in their practice; they
need to show greater willingness to talk with patients, and to charge proper
amounts for their service instead of taking cuts from operation charges. Such an
environment can only be created through proper policy-making and implementation
that help break the socio-cultural barriers and make the care providers more
responsive and visible to the public.

Current procedural terminology

The National Anaesthesia Society (NAS) is advocating the use of current
procedural terminology in Nepal. It is a scientific system of anaesthesia
services and charges that is in place in developed countries. The NAS needs to
adapt this system for the Nepali context, making it locally relevant and easily
understandable. Backed by government policy, anaesthesia practitioners will be
answerable to the state and will be required to interact with patients and
provide quality anaesthesia services.

Anaesthesia providers will be an integral part of public hospitals. They will
actively participate in overall operative care of patients; the results will be
evident in the improved quality of patient care. This will also help break the
socio-cultural norms that are biased against anaesthesiologists, encouraging
more medical graduates to pursue the field. Once the shortage of
anaesthesiologists is addressed, some policy changes could encourage
anaesthesiologists to work in rural areas.

More flexible residency selection criteria can eliminate bottlenecks. Once they
graduate, financial and non-financial incentives can be provided as a part of an
initial programme to those willing to work in rural areas. Integration of the
current procedural terminology system in an extended health services policy can
be the best way to start this noble cause. Proper infrastructural provision with
appropriate oxygen supply systems, operating theatre set-ups, ventilators,
assistant staff and administrative support in rural areas can vastly improve the
situation of anaesthesiology in Nepal.

Efforts have been made in the past and a number of meetings have been held
between the government and the anaesthesia society, but the outcomes have been
negligible. Both parties show a lack of willingness to make necessary changes. A
pro-active mindset with a visionary approach is needed. Patients from across
Nepal are entitled to quality anaesthesia services. It's time to wake up.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from EKantipur.com. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 12, 2017 Saturday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "Stryker Craniomaxillofacial "Procedural Packages" -
SPE2DE17R0008"

LENGTH: 326  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "Stryker Craniomaxillofacial "Procedural Packages" -
SPE2DE17R0008"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE17R0008

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: August 11, 2017

Description: Added: Aug 11, 2017 7:20 am
The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing Stryker Craniomaxillofacial "procedural packages."  These "procedural
packages" include bone fixation systems, biomaterials, porous polyethylene
implants, microdissection needles and patient-specific implants to address a
wide variety of surgical specialties and procedures and Auxiliary products (such
as drill bits, saw blades, bone cement, etc.) that are necessary for the
maxillofacial, craniofacial, and neurosurgical procedures and surgeries.  The
instruments are purchased by the hospital so they are readily available on the
shelves.


All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
Craniomaxillofacial products must be delivered "Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor
Delivery", and "Consignment". Under "Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical
Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the manufacturer's field representative who
carries the products into the MTF just-in-time for the surgery. The
manufacturer's sales representative may bring many sizes and types of implants
and auxiliary products to the surgery along with the instrumentation sets. Under
the "Direct Vendor Delivery" method an order for products is placed through ECAT
and the product is delivered directly to the customer via any transportation
carrier. Under the "Consignment" method, an MTF have the products that make up
the "procedural set" consigned to their facility.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): Charles T. Reimer Charles.Reimer@dla.mil Phone:
215.737.3829


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Stoke The Sentinel

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Darren died days after seizure in police custody

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 630  words


THE mother of a 43-year-old man who died after suffering a seizure in custody
has accused Staffordshire Police of treating her son 'worse than a dog'.

Diane Aqueel says her faith in the police has been 'completely shattered' after
listening to four weeks of evidence at the inquest into the death of Darren
Lyons.

Darren was arrested following a stand-off at his Kidsgrove home in January, 2014
and taken to the force's Northern Area Custody Facility - despite his family
warning he had stopped taking his medication and needed urgent medical help.

Lawyers claimed that during Darren's seven-hour detention he  was left
half-naked on his cell floor and covered in his own faeces before his seizure
went unobserved. Darren,right, was resuscitated at the custody suite but died in
hospital three days later.

Staffordshire Police have now admitted 'procedural shortcomings' in Darren's
care and three officers have faced disciplinary hearings.

Following yesterday's inquest verdict, Diane said: "I was brought up to have
such faith in the police but that faith has been completely shattered. I truly
believed Darren was safe and would receive the medical help he needed.

"It is vile to think about how he was left to die, naked and covered in his own
faeces on a cell floor. No dignity, no care, nothing. They treated him worse
than a dog.

"His death and the actions of Staffordshire Police have knocked everything out
of me. I had to find out about the condition of my son, who was critically ill,
fighting for his life, in The Sentinel. I rang the police to inquire which
hospital my son was admitted to and no-one to this day has ever contacted me or
apologised."

Armed police descended on Darren's Beech Drive home after reports he had an air
rifle and a knife and was making threats to kill.

Darren had a history of mental health problems  and alcohol dependency.

The family was represented by the Inquest campaign group, which supports
families affected by deaths in custody. The group's lawyers argued observations
in Darren's cell were 'insufficient', questioned why a  medical examination was
not carried out and criticised the 'inaccurate' handover. Lawyer Gemma Vine
said: "This case illustrates the lack of understanding in custodial settings of
those who have complex medical needs. The seriousness of Darren's presentation
was clearly evident and he was undoubtedly in need of help. Custody was not the
right place for him. He should have been transferred to hospital at the very
outset."

The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) carried out its own
inquiries into policies after Darren's death.

It was found one custody sergeant  failed to properly assess and manage Darren's
health risk during detention, while a second custody sergeant  failed to conduct
an appropriate risk assessment. A police custody detention officer also attended
a disciplinary hearing after being criticised for his cell checks and the
accuracy of his record keeping.

Assistant Chief Constable Emma Barnett said: "We acknowledge there were some
procedural shortcomings in how Mr Lyons was dealt with in custody. Two officers
faced a misconduct meeting following the death of Mr Lyons. One of the officers
received management advice and a second received a written warning. A
considerable amount of work has been undertaken since January 2014 by the force
and those that work with us, so that we are better equipped to understand and
deal with complex needs. In addition, many improvements have been made to the
broader custody process."

Delivering its verdict, the jury criticised 'insufficient' observations and
questioned why his cell door was closed. The jury found Darren died from a
cardiac arrest due to his seizure. He had suffered from a combination of
'prolonged alcohol and drug misuse'.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CALL OUT: Police were called to a stand-off at Darren Lyons' home in
Beech Drive, Kidsgrove.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Kalgoorlie Miner (Western Australia)

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                    GENERAL

Rural health election issue

BYLINE: ALICIA BRIDGES

SECTION: MINER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 477  words


CANDIDATES from both sides of politics for the Federal seat of Kalgoorlie have
acknowledged the need to address rural health issues in the electorate.

However, neither Kalgoorlie MHR Barry Haase nor ALP candidate Sharon Thiel would
commit to a Rural Doctors Association of Australia proposal to set minimum
standards of access to health care services in the country.

With rural Australia needing an estimated 1000 doctors, the RDAA has called on
both political parties to make rural health an election centrepiece.

In partnership with the Australian Medical Association, the doctors want a
two-tiered support structure for rural GPs.

The model would comprise a "rural isolation payment" to reflect the isolation of
regional practice and a "rural procedural and emergency/on call loading" to
support procedural doctors and specialists.

Mr Haase said he supported the RDAA in its bid to attract more doctors to rural
areas, however he said the proposal required further assessment.

"There is no doubt about it that any contribution to a solution for the shortage
of doctors in the Kalgoorlie electorate is welcome," Mr Haase said.

"The proposal that has been put up needs some careful analysis."

He acknowledged the shortage was a key issue in Kalgoorlie-Boulder, but said the
government was already trying to address it by attracting overseas doctors and
streamlining their immigration process.

Mr Haase named the Shire of Leonora as one beneficiary of the Rural Medical
Infrastructure Fund which provides financial support for local governments to
attract a doctor.

"We have tried to solve this problem in many, many ways," he said.

He also said the implementation of community management in regional hospitals,
as proposed by Federal Health Minister Tony Abbott, would help ease the rural
doctor shortage because local people had greater knowledge of their specific
needs.

"Shiny bums in Perth do not care a fig about the shortage of doctors in rural
areas because when they get crook they go down to the local GP," he said.

Ms Thiel said Kalgoorlie-Boulder was facing a critical shortage of doctors,
labelling it a "key election issue".

She said she was in the process of meeting with health organisations throughout
the electorate.

"Statistics clearly show that people in rural areas have poorer health than
people living in metropolitan areas, and poorer access to health services," Ms
Thiel said.

"It's easy to see why this problem exists when the Commonwealth spends less than
$100 per person in many WA rural and remote communities, compared to the
national average of $827 per person.

"People are driving hundreds of kilometres to see a GP which just isn't
reasonable when people are unwell."

Ms Thiel said Labor's GP "super clinics", which would be established in areas
where there was under-utilisation of Medicare funded services, were an example
of what could be done.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly

                           January 28, 2016 Thursday

2015: Business Litigation Session year in review

BYLINE: Beth I.Z. Boland and Noah G. Brown

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1908  words


In 2015, Judge Janet L. Sanders once again led the Superior Court's Business
Litigation Session as administrative judge and shared the BLS-2 session with
Judge Christine M. Roach. Judges Mitchell H. Kaplan and Edward P. Leibensperger,
who replaced Judge Thomas P. Billings, shared the BLS-1 session.

In the first half of 2016, Kaplan will hear cases in BLS-1, and Judge Kenneth W.
Salinger will replace Roach in BLS-2.

Last year the BLS adopted additional rules relating to motions for partial
summary judgment. In addition to the existing procedural order requiring
judicial approval prior to filing such motions, effective July 1, 2015, the
moving party now must also file a "Certificate of Compliance" detailing the
steps taken by the parties to comply with the procedural order.

The BLS began and ended 2015 with decisions in two very high-profile matters.

In January, the court rejected a proposed consent judgment agreed to by
then-Attorney General Martha Coakley to allow Partners Healthcare System to
acquire South Shore Hospital and Hallmark Healthcare in Commonwealth v. Partners
Healthcare System, Inc., No. SUCV2014-02033-BLS2 (Jan. 29, 2015) (Sanders, J.).

The court found the proposed acquisitions would increase Partners' market share
and drive up prices from insurers, and cast doubt that the controls put in place
to limit price increases and further expansion by Partners would be fully
enforceable.

The decision not only affected the economic landscape of the health care
industry in Massachusetts (in the wake of the decision, Partners abandoned the
deal), but also utilized an extraordinary process for review of the settlement
agreement.

While judicial approvals of consent judgments between the AG and prospective
defendants often do not trigger intense inquiry, here the BLS not only set up a
process for the submission of comments from the public but also refrained from
deciding the matter until the new attorney general, Maura Healey, had the
opportunity to comment on the deal. And, in fact, Healey notified the court her
office would sue to prevent the merger from going forward.

In December, the court denied a panoply of challenges to the proposed casino in
Everett.

In highly charged litigation, the court rejected suits filed by the cities of
Boston and Revere challenging the Massachusetts Gaming Commission's decision to
award a casino license to Wynn MA, LLC, on grounds that neither city had
standing to challenge the award, in City of Boston v. Massachusetts Gaming
Commission, No. 2015-0012-BLS2 (Mass. Super. Ct., Dec. 3, 2015) (Sanders, J.),
and City of Revere v. Massachusetts Gaming Commission, No. 2014-3253-BLS2 (Mass.
Super. Ct., Dec. 3, 2015) (Sanders, J.), respectively.

Adding insult to injury, the BLS affirmed the commission's decision to
de-designate Boston as a "surrounding community," which would have entitled it
to fees and mitigation commitments from Wynn.

In Abdow v. Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, No. 2015-02026-BLS2
(Mass. Super. Ct., Oct. 15, 2015) (Sanders, J.), the BLS also rejected an
indirect attack to the Wynn casino brought by "approximately forty taxable
inhabitants of Massachusetts," again for lack of standing.

The BLS also decided a number of other issues in 2015 with broad legal
implications:

o Chitwood v. Vertex Pharmaceuticals, 33 Mass. L. Rep. 36 (Mass. Super. Ct.,
Aug. 4, 2015) (Sanders, J.) (An inference of wrongdoing by corporate officers
and directors is insufficient to demonstrate a "proper purpose" under
Massachusetts books and records statute)

In Chitwood, a shareholder of Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., issued a letter to
the Vertex board demanding an investigation into the trading of stock by several
company directors and officers immediately after a press release that allegedly
overstated the efficacy of Vertex drugs and inflated the Vertex share price.

The company subsequently issued a press release correcting the erroneous
release, which drove the share price back down. The board convened a special
committee consisting of two directors who did not sell company shares after the
initial press release and who were considered "independent" under NASDAQ listing
standards.

After its investigation, the special committee concluded that no wrongdoing took
place and submitted its report and recommendations to the board. The independent
members of the board voted unanimously to accept the special committee's
findings and recommendations.

Dissatisfied, the shareholder demanded to inspect the books and records of the
special committee. As with its Delaware counterpart, the Massachusetts
Shareholder Inspection Statute, G.L.c. 156D, §16.02, allows such access so long
as the shareholder party acted in good faith and can show a "proper purpose. "

The court denied the request, concluding that the shareholder did not present a
"credible basis" challenging the special committee's independence or diligence,
or that there was, in fact, wrongdoing by those Vertex directors and officers
who sold their shares immediately after the announcement.

Absent such evidence, a mere inference of wrongdoing is insufficient, and "the
Special Committee's conclusion (ultimately accepted by the Board) would warrant
dismissal of any derivative action the plaintiff might file. "

Equally important, the BLS took pains to endorse (1) the use of a special
committee to investigate claims of wrongdoing, and (2) the submission of the
special committee's findings for final decision by the independent directors of
the board. Once the board has undertaken such efforts, the burden on a plaintiff
to show a "proper purpose" is particularly stringent.

o TIBCO Software, Inc. v. Zephyr Health, Inc., 32 Mass. L. Rep. 637 (Mass.
Super. Ct., April 1, 2015) (Kaplan, J.) (employer of employee subject to a
non-compete can enforce arbitration clause in employee's employment agreement
with prior employer)

The former employer of an employee sued his new employer to enforce a
non-compete clause in the employment contract between the former employer and
the employee. The employment contract contained an arbitration provision, and
the new employer sought to enforce it against the former employer. The former
employer argued that the new employer was not a party to the employment contract
and therefore the non-compete claims were not subject to the arbitration
provision.

The BLS, however, concluded that because the former employer's claims arose out
of the employment contract, the new employer could enforce the arbitration
clause.

Based on this decision, employers should consider limiting the scope of
employment contract arbitration clauses to claims brought against them but not
by them, or consider other carve-outs to preserve their own litigation rights.

Companies hiring employees with non-compete agreements should determine whether
they can force arbitration under those agreements. If claims would not exist but
for the contract, Massachusetts courts may allow the new employer to force the
former employer to arbitrate those claims.

o Walker v. Boston Medical Center Corp., No. 2015-1733-BLS1 (Nov. 19, 2015)
(Leibensperger, J.) (plaintiffs suing over data breach of medical records do not
need to allege such records were actually accessed by unauthorized personnel)

With data breaches (both large and small) now becoming everyday news, the BLS
has weighed in on an important aspect of data breach law: when can a person
whose medical information has been breached -- but not yet accessed or "used" by
unauthorized personnel -- bring a claim against the entity entrusted with the
data?

In Walker, the BLS denied a motion to dismiss a class action against Boston
Medical Center for the inadvertent disclosure by BMC's medical record
transcription service reflecting patient records from office visits with
physicians filed for an indeterminate period of time on its Internet site.

BMC argued that the plaintiffs did not have standing because they did not know
whether their medical records were in fact accessed by unauthorized individuals,
and there was no evidence the information had been used nefariously against the
class members whose records were made available on the online site.

The BLS rejected that argument and held that the plaintiffs' allegations showed
a "serious" risk of injury, given that the records were available to the public
on the Internet for some period of time and therefore "likely" to have been
accessed by unauthorized personnel.

More important, the court focused on the fact that persons whose medical records
are disclosed may bring suit for mental distress, harm to interest in privacy,
and special or economic harm, without more specific evidence of harm. As such,
the plaintiffs were entitled to discovery to determine whether their records
were accessed while they were on the transcription service site.

The Walker decision represents an important stepping stone in the longstanding
battle over whether mere disclosure of private data, without more, can
constitute an "injury" sufficient to support a claim for damages.

According to the BLS, when the data consists of medical information, the answer
may be "yes. "

o Aspinall v. Philip Morris USA Inc., No. 98-6002-BLS1 (Aug. 10, 2015)
(Leibensperger, J.) (smokers purchasing "low tar/low nicotine" cigarettes that
were allegedly as harmful as regular cigarettes could seek to recover $25
minimum statutory damages, and possibly also "benefit of the bargain" damages)

Seventeen years in the making and at least one trip to the Supreme Judicial
Court later, Aspinall went to trial. Prior to trial, the BLS decided two key
evidentiary motions and a motion for summary judgment.

First, in Aspinall v. Philip Morris USA Inc. (Mass. Super. Ct., Aug. 10, 2015)
(Leibensperger, J.), the BLS denied Philip Morris USA Inc. 's motion for summary
judgment and to exclude the testimony of the plaintiffs' damages expert.

After a lengthy discussion of damages theory under a string of SJC decisions
since the landmark decision in Hershenow v. Enterprise Rent-a-Car, 445 Mass. 790
(2006), the BLS concluded that (1) the plaintiffs were entitled to submit proof
of $25 minimum statutory damages based on their allegation that "low tar and
nicotine" cigarettes were in fact less safe than advertised, and (2) the
plaintiffs could potentially recover more if they could show that the difference
between the value paid for the misrepresented cigarettes and their "true market
value" was more than $25.

The BLS also denied the defendant's Daubert motion to exclude expert testimony
of the "true market value" of the misrepresented cigarettes, and instead ordered
a pre-trial evidentiary hearing regarding the expert's methodology. The court
further granted the plaintiffs' motion to exclude prior deposition testimony
from out-of-state smokers in other tobacco cases, given that the instant
plaintiffs did not have an opportunity to cross-examine those deponents.
Aspinall v. Philip Morris USA Inc. (Mass. Super. Ct., Sept. 10, 2015)
(Leibensperger, J.).

The court conducted a five-week bench trial in late 2015, and post-trial
briefing is underway. MLW

Beth I.Z. Boland is vice chair of the litigation department, chair of the
securities enforcement and litigation group, and a partner in the Boston office
of Foley & Lardner. Noah G. Brown is an associate at the firm.

http://www.masslawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 6, 2015 Tuesday

Massachusetts: Management Analyst III - (140000AN)

LENGTH: 1279  words

DATELINE: Boston


Division of Human Resources, The State of Massachusetts has issued the following
job opportunities:


Management Analyst III - (140000AN)
Description
 The mission of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH) is to
prevent illness, injury, and premature death, to assure access to high quality
public health and health care services, and to promote wellness and health
equity for all people in the Commonwealth.



We envision a Commonwealth in which all people enjoy optimal health.
Massachusetts ranks among the healthiest of states according to comparative
analyses, but we face numerous challenges, including chronic and infectious
disease, substance abuse, violence, preventable hospitalizations, and health
disparities.

DPH coordinates programs and policies to address specific diseases and
conditions and offer services to address the needs of vulnerable populations. We
also develop, implement, promote, and enforce regulations and policies to assure
that the conditions under which people live are most conducive to health and
enable people to make healthy choices for themselves and their families. We
license health professionals, healthcare facilities and a variety of businesses
that impact public health. We operate the state laboratory and four public
health hospitals. We monitor health status and manage vital records including
births, marriages and deaths. We educate people about public health issues and
work closely with local boards of health and community partners to identify and
solve public health problems.
This individual will be required to review and analyze information, including
operating procedures, to plan and coordinate the Associate Commissioner program
schedule and activities associated with the nine Bureau of Environmental Health
(BEH) programs, the MDPH Office of Local and Regional Health, and other
agencies, and offices within state and federal government. The individual will
be required to identify possible needs for recommended changes in the
operations, methods, and procedures with respect to the BEH Associate
Commissioner/Director programmatic and scheduling activities.  This work will
include review and analysis of current operational policies and procedures.  In
addition, the individual will be required to maintain, monitor, review, and
analyze the Associate Commissioner scheduling activities with respect to
ensuring programmatic, and procedural efficiency in BEH operations and services.
The individual will also be required to work with BEH staff, other DPH staff
(e.g., Commissioner's Office), and other internal and external stakeholders to
determine needs, propose solutions, and make appropriate recommendations related
to the Bureau's organizational responsibilities.

DETAILED STATEMENT OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

1.    Review and analyze information, including organizational procedures, to
identify needs for organizational, scheduling, or procedural revisions.
2.    Develop and implement bureau program and administrative standards and
procedures to ensure successful organization and communication among BEH
Associate Commissioner/Director and Deputy Director and the BEH program
directors related to Associate Commissioner/Director schedule and commitments.
3.    Analyze and review Associate Commissioner/Director activities to recommend
appropriate schedule and ensure efficient operations through continuous
maintenance, monitoring, and review of ongoing or proposed activities of
Associate Commissioner/Director.
4.    Conduct necessary research to support recommended BEH organizational or
procedural policies related to BEH administrative operations.
5.    Recommend revisions to organizational and administrative policies or
procedures in consultation with BEH Associate Commissioner/Director.
6.    Assist the BEH Associate Commissioner/Director in review and analysis
related to BEH programmatic and organizational activities for their policy,
programmatic, and procedural implications for BEH.
7.    Confer with senior BEH staff in collecting and evaluating information for
public or other meetings; includes ensuring appropriate information and
materials are compiled for Associate Commissioner/Director of BEH prior to
public or other meetings.
8.    Reviews and implements bureau program and administrative standards and
procedures to ensure reliability and efficiency of BEH administrative
operations.
9.    Conduct evaluations to determine effectiveness of organizational,
scheduling, and administrative operations.
10. Provide direct supervision to employees in titles of a lower level and
conduct annual performance evaluations.
11. Regularly confer with BEH Associate Commissioner/Director and Deputy
Director regarding organizational, scheduling, and administrative operational
activities.
12. Responsible for managing all activities related to the maintenance of state
owned vehicle(s).
13. Confers with Associate Commissioner/Director to evaluate information
requests related to BEH organizational, programmatic, and administrative
activities.
14. Carry out other duties, as requested, including analyzing information as
requested, preparing reports, maintaining records, and attending meetings
related to BEH activities.
15. Formulate and prepare reports of Bureau activities for review by Bureau
Associate Commissioner/Director.
16. Adhere to Bureau protocol in responding to inquiries regarding environmental
health concerns.
17. Attend day or evening public meetings within Massachusetts, as requested,
related to BEH activities.

Qualifications

This requisition will remain open until filled; however, first consideration
will be given to those applicants that apply within the first 14 days.

MINIMUM ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS:  Applicants must have at least (A) four years of
full-time, or equivalent part-time, professional experience in work
simplification, management analysis, program analysis, methods analysis,
economic analysis, fiscal analysis, financial analysis, budget analysis, program
administration, or program management or (B) any equivalent combination of the
required experience and the substitutions below.

Substitutions:

I.  A Bachelor's degree with a major in business administration, business
management, public administration, industrial engineering or industrial
management may be substituted for a maximum of two years of the required
experience.*

II.  A Graduate degree with a major in business administration, budget
management, public administration, industrial engineering or industrial
management may be substituted for a maximum of three years of the required
experience.*

III.  A Bachelor's degree or higher degree with a major other than in business
administration, business management, public administration, industrial
engineering or industrial management may be substituted for a maximum of one
year of the required experience.*

*Education toward such a degree will be prorated on the basis of the proportion
of the requirements actually completed.

NOTE:  Educational substitutions will be permitted for a maximum of three years
of the required experience.

An Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action Employer.  Females, minorities,
veterans, and persons with disabilities are strongly encouraged to apply.

Official Title: Management Analyst III
Work Locations
:
Boston - 250 Washington Street

  021084619
Job
: Administrative Services
Agency
: Department of Public Health
Schedule
: Full-time
Shift
: Day
Job Posting
: Jan 6, 2015, 2:15:30 AM
Number of Openings
: 1
Salary
: 54,945.8 - 79,658.54 Biweekly
Diversity Officer / ADA Coordinator Name: Juna Pierre - 6176245471

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          Nambour Weekly (Queensland)

                                 June 22, 2011

State budget delivers for the Coast

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 183  words


QUEENSLAND treasurer Andrew Fraser labelled a boost in education, roads and
health as some of the key benefits for the Coast when the State budget was
brought down last week.

Funding allocated for the Nicklin electorate included:

HEALTH:

$11.6 million for a new cardiac and vascular surgery procedural suite, a new
endoscopy procedural unit and a new outpatient neurosurgery service at Nambour
General Hospital

EDUCATION:

$1.23 million for a kindergarten at Yandina State School

$92,000 for maintenance work at Nambour High and $29,000 for work at Yandina
State School

COMMUNITIES:

More than $11 million to support people with a disability

$6.4 million in Commonwealth funding to St Vincent de Paul Society Qld to
complete construction of 40 units at Nambour

ENVIRONMENT:

$75,000 for construction of two replacement bridges at Kondalilla Falls

ENERGY:

$723,000 to replace high voltage circuit breakers at Nambour

TRANSPORT AND MAIN ROADS:

$1 million in Commonwealth funding for miscellaneous works on Bruce Highway
(Cooroy - Gympie)

$14,000 for passenger set-down facilities at Yandina State School

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SNW


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              422 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

In a state of excitement;
JUNIOR MEDICAL OFFICERS

BYLINE: Keeli Cambourne

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 580 words


LAST year, nearly 40,000 applications were made by about 6000 doctors for 4500
junior medical officer (JMO) positions during the NSW Health Department's annual
recruitment campaign.

Dr Linda MacPherson, a medical adviser for the Ministry of Health, says the
department expects similar numbers this year.

The campaign begins today.

"It is a very competitive process and there are lots of people applying for
multiple positions," she says, "so it is best to apply early and ... put some
effort into each application."

All JMO positions in the NSW health system are advertised at the same time, so
junior doctors can see what is available across the specialties and apply during
one period rather than stagger applications across the year.

MacPherson says the campaign aims to encourage junior doctors to think about
where they would like their careers to lead them, and highlights the many
options available in each specialty.

JMO positions are for doctors who have done at least one postgraduate year.

They allow doctors to start their specialisation training in many disciplines,
from obstetrics and gynaecology to pathology, dermatology, emergency medicine,
orthopaedics and psychiatry.

This year, the JMO campaign applications will close on August 15. The jobs are
posted on the NSW Health website.

Certain disciplines always have shortages, MacPherson says, but for junior
doctors who are uncertain about which specialisation to choose,

non-training positions are available. These allow junior doctors to rotate
through different areas of a hospital.

"Intensive care specialists are needed, and it is one of those specialties that
is not as well known as others," MacPherson says. "An intern is unlikely to do
intensive care, so this is a specialisation that we are encouraging junior
doctors to think about.

"And as with every campaign, we are also encouraging doctors to think about
going to regional and rural sites.

"One of the positions in these areas is general practice with procedural
training, which was implemented under the NSW generalist rural training program.
It is being advertised for the first time this year and will be something to
look out for."

MacPherson says the generalist rural training program is about supplying doctors
to rural areas and offers training in advanced skill procedures, such as general
practice obstetrics or anaesthetics.

"Doctors can enter the program from their second postgraduate year and they are
supported to do procedural advanced skills as well as normal GP training," she
says.

"With those advanced skills they can work in hospitals to provide things like
anaesthetics or obstetrics.

"We are focusing on these two skills in the first year."

MacPherson says it's essential that junior doctors applying for positions make
sure their applications meet all the selection criteria. If they don't, they
won't even be considered," she says. "I also encourage them to find out as much
about the position as they can before starting their application by contacting
the suggested contact person.

"And it's always good to apply for more than one position. Don't put all your
eggs in one basket. It is also important not to apply for positions in locations
that you know you probably will not accept, so it doesn't waste the time of
selection committees.

"Consider applying for positions outside of where you are working now, and talk
to friends or colleagues who may be working at those hospitals so they can give
you an idea of what the position is like."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Recruitment operation ... career options abound. Photo: Louie
Douvis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              423 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Kansas City Daily Record (Kansas City, MO)

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday

Missouri Court of Appeals Western District rules health care insurers can go to
arbitration

BYLINE: Aaron Bailey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 704  words


Kansas City-area physician groups trying to sue several health insurance
companies for price-fixing will have to arbitrate their claims.

In a unanimous decision, the Missouri Court of Appeals Western District en banc
sided with the health insurance companies Tuesday, ruling that an arbitration
agreement between the two sides is binding and not unconscionable. The physician
groups wanted to take their antitrust claims to court.

The physician groups, comprising more than a dozen health care professionals in
Kansas City, sued in February 2005, claiming that several health insurance
companies were conspiring to fix doctor reimbursement fees.

The groups had entered into contracts with the insurers, including Blue Cross
and Blue Shield and United HealthCare Services, agreeing to arbitrate disputes
over fees.

The appellate case is the result of Jackson County Circuit Judge Charles
Atwell's denial of a motion to compel arbitration in December 2006. Atwell, who
acknowledged in the decision that he would be appealed, also stayed the case.

Atwell denied the motion to compel despite the recommendation that it be
sustained by a court-appointed special master.

In denying the arbitration request, Atwell relied heavily upon a Western
District opinion in Whitney v. Alltel Communications and a case from the Ohio
Supreme Court involving an allegedly similar medical conspiracy.

The Whitney case involved class action allegations and sought relief under the
Missouri Merchandising Practices Act. The Western District, which upheld a lower
court order denying arbitration, determined in Whitney that a clause precluding
class actions was "procedurally and substantively unconscionable. "

Atwell, who called the case complex and a "close call" in his decision, wrote
that antitrust laws were enacted to deter anticompetitive conduct.

In the Western District's decision Tuesday, the court decided that while the
circuit court was correct that the arbitration agreements between the insurers
and physician groups were broad, but they did cover the physician's antitrust
claims.

"A broad scope creates a strong presumption in favor of arbitrability, and the
circuit court should order arbitration of any dispute that 'touches' matters
covered by the parties' contracts," wrote Judge Paul Spinden, citing a case
decided by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, Simula v. Autoliv.

The Western District found that all of the arbitration

"touched" on issues of alleged price-fixing and rate disputes.

Lynn McCreary, a Bryan Cave attorney who represented the insurers, said the
appellate court made the appropriate decision.

"Obviously this matter was grounded in the parties' contracts," she said. "Blue
Cross has always valued its relationships with the physicians that service
members in the community. We've always worked to resolve issues in a fair and
equitable manner and in accordance with the agreements Blue Cross has with its
physicians. And we're pleased the court of appeals is furthering this effort. "

Lead attorney for the physician groups, Robert Horn, of Horn Aylward & Bandy,
could not be reached for comment.

In defending the lower court's decision, Horn argued that the antitrust claim
could be litigated without ever referring to the underlying arbitration
contracts.

"Nonetheless," Tuesday's decision reads, "the physicians assert that they have
suffered damages as a result of the conspiracy, which they would not have
suffered had they not agreed to reimbursement contracts with Blue Cross and
United Healthcare. "

Atwell's alternative basis to rule against enforcing the arbitration agreement
was that the contracts were unconscionable.

But the appellate court decided that Whitney lays out two aspects of
unconscionability: procedural and substantive. The procedural angle deals with
the forming of the contract - such as undue pressure from one side to enter the
contract. And the substantive aspect revolves around the actual terms of the
contracts.

The Western District ruled that since Atwell never made a finding of procedural
unconscionability and the physicians never made that claim, there was sufficient
basis to overturn the ruling of unconscionability.

- Charles Emerick of The Daily Record contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              424 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

RHH chief loses appeal `No miscarriage of justice' in inquiry

BYLINE: SUE NEALES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 441  words


OUSTED Royal Hobart Hospital chief Michael Pervan has lost his appeal to State
Service Commissioner Iain Frawley over an internal investigation into bullying
allegations against him.

Mr Frawley yesterday ruled that there had been no miscarriage of justice or
denial of procedural fairness by the Department of Health and Human Services in
its initial investigation of the bullying allegations.

The decision means a full-blown inquiry into several alleged bullying incidents
involving Mr Pervan will now resume.

He remains stood down from his job as RHH chief executive.

But he stays on as the recently appointed acting director of community
development, disabilities and housing within the DHHS.

Mr Frawley's findings did not look at the validity of the bullying allegations
made by two RHH doctors.

His only task was to assess whether the way Mr Pervan claimed to have been dealt
with by the DHHS in its external preliminary inquiry was contrary to the State
Service Act and justified the case being dropped.

Mr Pervan is now considering appealing against Mr Frawley's ruling to the
Supreme Court.

Mr Pervan, a former WA Commissioner of Health, was stood down from the RHH top
job in September by Health Department supremo David Roberts, less than one year
into his five-year contract.

Mr Pervan was immediately sent on leave while an independent investigator from
Sydney appointed by Mr Roberts conducted a preliminary inquiry into the bullying
accusations.

But Mr Pervan complained to the State Service Commissioner, backed by the Health
and Community Services Union, that he had been denied a right of reply and
procedural fairness when he was not interviewed as part of the inquiries.

However, Mr Frawley yesterday handed down a confidential ruling declaring that
Mr Pervan's objection that he had been dealt with unfairly had no merit.

He found, according to HACSU state secretary Tim Jacobson, that independent
investigator and workplace grievances expert Jocelyn Sparks was not required to
give Mr Pervan a right of reply under his interpretation of the State Services
Act, because her investigation was preliminary.

Mr Frawley also ruled that, based on the information provided to him by the DHHS
secretary, he believed there were grounds for the department to start an
investigation into the allegations against Mr Pervan.

The State Service Commissioner determined a full inquiry into the bullying
allegations made against Mr Pervan could now proceed, but that Mr Pervan should
be interviewed as part of that process.

DHHS acting secretary Alice Burchill said yesterday the formal investigation
into the allegations against Mr Pervan would now resume.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      April 21, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Medtronic Launches New Endoscopic Ablation Catheter for Barrett's Esophagus

LENGTH: 477  words


April 21 -- Medtronic (NYSE: MDT) today announced the launch of the new BarrxTM
360 Express radiofrequency ablation (RFA) balloon catheter, which can help in
the treatment of Barrett's esophagus.

The Barrx 360 Express catheter, with its self-adjusting circumferential RFA
catheter, lets gastroenterologists and surgeons provide RFA treatment more
easily and efficiently. RFA therapy removes diseased tissue while minimizing
injury[1] to healthy esophageal tissue. This treatment has been shown to reduce
the risk of Barrett's esophagus with low grade dysplasia -- a precancerous
condition that causes abnormal cell growth in the esophagus, progressing to high
grade dysplasia or esophageal adenocarcinoma, a type of cancer -- by
approximately 90%.[2]

Esophageal cancer is the fastest-growing cancer in the U.S., having increased
sixfold since the 1970s, outpacing breast cancer, prostate cancer and melanoma.3
Barrett's esophagus, which affects more than 12 million American adults,
develops as a result of chronic injury from gastroesophageal reflux disease
(GERD).[1,4]

The new design helps physicians lower procedural time by up to 20 percent 2,5 by
reducing procedural steps and enhanced ease-of-use features, including the
ability to custom fit the device to various esophagus diameter sizes. With this
tool, physicians are able to ablate Barrett's tissue more efficiently. Using RFA
to treat dysplastic Barrett's tissue has been shown to reduce the risk for
progression to high-grade dysplasia and esophageal adenocarcinoma,[2,6] the most
common type of esophageal cancer in the U.S.

"The biggest advantage of the Barrx 360 Express catheter is that it's easier to
use because of the larger, longer and adjustable balloon size," said Anthony
Infantolino, MD, AGAF, FACG, FACP, of Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in
Philadelphia. "These new features provide for a reduction in surgery time[2,5]
and the number of catheters required during RFA procedures, allowing me to
concentrate on increasing the quality of the procedure."

"In reducing the progression of dysplastic Barrett's esophagus to esophageal
cancer, the launch of the Barrx 360 Express RFA balloon catheter underscores our
commitment to patients," said Vafa Jamali, president, Early Technologies
business in the Medtronic Minimally Invasive Therapies Group. "We believe
patients and physicians will benefit from the easier-to-use technology of the
Barrx 360 Express catheter, which provides a more precise delivery of RF energy
to the targeted area."

The company is currently launching the Barrx 360 Express RFA balloon catheter in
the United States. The catheter is also expected to be available in the EU,
Australia and New Zealand in 2016.

This document has footnotes and they may be found at:
(http://newsroom.medtronic.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=251324&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=2159
148)

Source: Medtronic

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      December 29, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Medicaid, Medicare New Codes, Reimbursements for Telehealth Services

LENGTH: 555  words


Dec. 29 -- US-based Cytta Corp issued the following news release:

Cytta Corp. (OTCQB: CYCA) - Beginning January 1st, 2015, the Centers for
Medicaid and Medicare (CMS) will begin reimbursement for a number of telehealth
services that the Agency hasn't covered before. This means that physicians will
now get paid for using Cytta's remote monitoring system to remotely monitoring
their patients' health!

CMS rule changes and current procedural terminology ("CPT") codes will
significantly broaden coverage for chronic care telehealth services. "Government
action to support healthcare technology creates greater acceptance of remote
patient care and it essentially guarantees the growth of telemedicine usage that
we anticipate for 2015," remarked Gary M. Campbell, CEO of Cytta.

CMS now includes a provision that would cover remote chronic care management
using a new current procedural terminology ("CPT") code, 99490 (with a monthly
unadjusted, non-facility fee of $42.60). This new CPT code can be bundled with
the existing CPT code 99091 for collecting and reviewing patient data, which
does not require the beneficiary to be present and pays an average monthly fee
of $56.92 to the physician. The final rule also includes a provision that would
cover remote-patient monitoring of chronic conditions using existing CPT code
99091 (with a monthly unadjusted, non-facility fee of $56.92).

In effect, these provisions broaden Medicare payments for remote patient
monitoring of chronic conditions, while freeing patients from having to visit
their doctor's office and permits doctors to watch over many more patients, in a
far more cost efficient manner.

Notably, the 99490 and 99091 codes are available nationwide and intended for
coverage of monitoring chronic conditions, the two services can now be combined
as chronic care management and remote patient monitoring with a combined monthly
fee of nearly $100.

"This is a tremendous leap forward for our CyttaConnect platform, for our care
partners and patient users," says Erik Stephansen President of Cytta. "We are
seeing telemedicine momentum pickup and, with proof of beneficial care occurring
everyday, we expect additional CMS telehealth codes will be put in place to
provide more funds for remote patient treatment."

Chronic care management is crucial to reducing healthcare costs. There are
services required that many physicians just don't do right now, in part because
they are not paid for it. By introducing controlled telehealth capabilities,
there are larger economies of scale to help the physician.

Additionally, Hospitals might also take a greater interest in chronic care
management to avoid readmissions penalties. Currently, there are more than 2,000
hospitals paying a penalty this year in their Medicare rates because of
readmissions," mentioned Mr. Campbell. "Telehealth is the best way to remotely
manage care and get ahead of care issues before they require emergency
treatment."

The new rules also include seven new covered procedure codes for telehealth,
including annual wellness visits, psychotherapy services, and prolonged services
at physicians' offices.

For more information about our connected blue tooth monitoring devices, the
Cytta Connect open source network and updates on our current research and
actions go to (http://www.Cytta.com/)

Source: Cytta Corp

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

               August 6, 2003 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

Judge puts UNSW report decision on hold

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Patrick Lawnham

SECTION: FEATURES-COLUMN- HIGHER EDUCATION; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 255 words


A JUDGE has reserved a decision on the scientific scandal at the University of
NSW, which is prevented by a temporary injunction from releasing the report of
an inquiry into accusations against scientist Bruce Hall.

In the NSW Supreme Court, Justice David McClellan said he would rule no later
than August 25 on an application by accused medical scientist Hall to quash and
permanently suppress the report and its findings on allegations against him.
Professor Hall, a transplant specialist who works for UNSW and Sydney's
Liverpool Hospital, has been accused by two other scientists he supervised at
the hospital of scientific misconduct and scientific fraud. He has denied the
allegations.

Justice McClellan has to decide whether Professor Hall was denied procedural
fairness by the way the inquiry was run, as Professor Hall claims happened, and
whether his court has the power to make a permanent order in a university
disciplinary case.

The report of the external inquiry, which was headed by former High Court chief
justice Gerard Brennan, has been suppressed by temporary court injunction since
February, just as the university was due to release the report to the NSW and
federal governments and the complainants against Professor Hall.

The university denies the external inquiry lacked procedural fairness. Justice
Brennan has not commented publicly.

Counsel for UNSW and Professor Hall ended their arguments unexpectedly early
last Wednesday, on the fourth day of hearings, which began in early July.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              428 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 8, 2011 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

St. Jude Medical Expands Hospital Access to Wireless Fractional Flow Reserve
Technology with New Agreement

LENGTH: 705  words


New Delhi, Nov. 8 -- St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE: STJ), a global medical device
company, today announced its wireless PressureWire Aeris technology, which aids
in the diagnosis and treatment of coronary artery blockages by measuring
Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR), will now be available to hospitals using the
Philips Xper Flex Cardio physiomonitoring system. Physicians will have greater
access to the market's only wireless FFR measurement system through this new
Philips agreement.

FFR measurements indicate the severity of blood flow blockages in the coronary
arteries, allowing physicians to better identify which specific lesion or
lesions are responsible for a patient's ischemia, a deficiency of blood supply
to the heart caused by blood flow restriction. The PressureWire Aeris technology
helps physicians determine the best treatment options for patients during
coronary interventions, such as stent procedures.

The PressureWire Aeris system offers a secure, wireless interface between
PressureWire and a cath lab's hemodynamic recording system to immediately
display, measure and save FFR data. With FFR results integrated into a patient's
existing study record, the severity of coronary lesions is documented together
with other procedural data and angiographic imagery. The wireless technology of
the PressureWire Aeris also eliminates cables crossing the sterile field,
reducing risk of contamination, and making the entire procedure faster and
easier.

The Philips Xper Flex Cardio physiomonitoring system has been designed to
streamline the overall workflow of the entire catheterization suite. A single
interface on the Philips physiomonitoring system combines both the FFR
measurement controls and clinical documentation including lesion, stage and
medication. This unique integration between the PressureWire Aeris wireless
technology and the Philips physiomonitoring system provides availability of this
important clinical data in the physician reporting module. The new product line
offers a truly integrated wireless FFR solution for physicians.

Two-year follow-up data from the landmark FAME (Fractional flow reserve (FFR)
vs. Angiography in Multivessel Evaluation) trial compared FFR-guided treatment
using a St. Jude Medical PressureWire to treatment using standard angiography
alone, and found both superior clinical outcomes and reduced healthcare costs in
patients whose treatment was based on FFR. The combined risk of death or
myocardial infarction (heart attack) was 34 percent lower for patients whose
treatment was guided by PressureWire technology prior to coronary stenting.

FFR-guided treatment using the St. Jude Medical PressureWire System was also
found by the FAME trial to be cost-saving, with a difference of about $2,000, or
a 14 percent reduction in health care costs to the hospital between the two
patient groups after one year. These lower health care costs were a result of
reduced procedural costs, reduced follow-up costs for major adverse cardiac
events and shorter hospital stays.

"St. Jude Medical's FFR technology is clinically proven to significantly improve
patient outcomes while reducing costs to the health care system," said Frank
Callaghan, president of the St. Jude Medical Cardiovascular Division. "This
agreement with Philips allows physicians to more easily gain access to the only
wireless FFR measurement system available."

Because of this new agreement with Philips, and existing compatibility with
other recording systems including the GE Mac-Lab(R) Hemodynamic Recording
System, Mennen Horizon XVu, McKesson Horizon Cardiology Hemo(TM) solution and
Siemens AXIOM Sensis XP, the PressureWire Aeris technology can be used in nearly
all cardiac cath labs for wireless integrated FFR measurement utilizing existing
hardware.

About Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR)

Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) is an index determining the functional severity of
narrowings in the coronary arteries. FFR specifically identifies which coronary
narrowings are responsible for significantly obstructing the flow of blood to a
patients' heart muscle (called ischemia), and it is used by the interventional
cardiologist to direct coronary interventions and assess results for improved
treatment outcomes.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2011 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Retail News

                      November 8, 2011 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

St. Jude Medical Expands Hospital Access to Wireless Fractional Flow Reserve
Technology with New Agreement

LENGTH: 705  words


New Delhi, Nov. 8 -- St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE: STJ), a global medical device
company, today announced its wireless PressureWire Aeris technology, which aids
in the diagnosis and treatment of coronary artery blockages by measuring
Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR), will now be available to hospitals using the
Philips Xper Flex Cardio physiomonitoring system. Physicians will have greater
access to the market's only wireless FFR measurement system through this new
Philips agreement.

FFR measurements indicate the severity of blood flow blockages in the coronary
arteries, allowing physicians to better identify which specific lesion or
lesions are responsible for a patient's ischemia, a deficiency of blood supply
to the heart caused by blood flow restriction. The PressureWire Aeris technology
helps physicians determine the best treatment options for patients during
coronary interventions, such as stent procedures.

The PressureWire Aeris system offers a secure, wireless interface between
PressureWire and a cath lab's hemodynamic recording system to immediately
display, measure and save FFR data. With FFR results integrated into a patient's
existing study record, the severity of coronary lesions is documented together
with other procedural data and angiographic imagery. The wireless technology of
the PressureWire Aeris also eliminates cables crossing the sterile field,
reducing risk of contamination, and making the entire procedure faster and
easier.

The Philips Xper Flex Cardio physiomonitoring system has been designed to
streamline the overall workflow of the entire catheterization suite. A single
interface on the Philips physiomonitoring system combines both the FFR
measurement controls and clinical documentation including lesion, stage and
medication. This unique integration between the PressureWire Aeris wireless
technology and the Philips physiomonitoring system provides availability of this
important clinical data in the physician reporting module. The new product line
offers a truly integrated wireless FFR solution for physicians.

Two-year follow-up data from the landmark FAME (Fractional flow reserve (FFR)
vs. Angiography in Multivessel Evaluation) trial compared FFR-guided treatment
using a St. Jude Medical PressureWire to treatment using standard angiography
alone, and found both superior clinical outcomes and reduced healthcare costs in
patients whose treatment was based on FFR. The combined risk of death or
myocardial infarction (heart attack) was 34 percent lower for patients whose
treatment was guided by PressureWire technology prior to coronary stenting.

FFR-guided treatment using the St. Jude Medical PressureWire System was also
found by the FAME trial to be cost-saving, with a difference of about $2,000, or
a 14 percent reduction in health care costs to the hospital between the two
patient groups after one year. These lower health care costs were a result of
reduced procedural costs, reduced follow-up costs for major adverse cardiac
events and shorter hospital stays.

"St. Jude Medical's FFR technology is clinically proven to significantly improve
patient outcomes while reducing costs to the health care system," said Frank
Callaghan, president of the St. Jude Medical Cardiovascular Division. "This
agreement with Philips allows physicians to more easily gain access to the only
wireless FFR measurement system available."

Because of this new agreement with Philips, and existing compatibility with
other recording systems including the GE Mac-Lab(R) Hemodynamic Recording
System, Mennen Horizon XVu, McKesson Horizon Cardiology Hemo(TM) solution and
Siemens AXIOM Sensis XP, the PressureWire Aeris technology can be used in nearly
all cardiac cath labs for wireless integrated FFR measurement utilizing existing
hardware.

About Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR)

Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) is an index determining the functional severity of
narrowings in the coronary arteries. FFR specifically identifies which coronary
narrowings are responsible for significantly obstructing the flow of blood to a
patients' heart muscle (called ischemia), and it is used by the interventional
cardiologist to direct coronary interventions and assess results for improved
treatment outcomes.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2011 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              430 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           The Ledger (Lakeland, FL)

                            October 30, 2005, Sunday

HOSPITAL'S VITAL SIGNS; IMPROVED ER EXPECTS TO STAY BUSY

BYLINE: ROBIN WILLIAMS ADAMS The Ledger

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 971 words


LAKELAND -- Winter is on the way and the prognosis for Lakeland Regional Medical
Center's emergency room is for another deluge of patients.

Hospital officials want to avoid a repeat of earlier this year, when "code
purple," meaning a saturated ER, became a catchword. Beds filled hallways in the
ER and patients complained of waits of 12 hours or more before they were moved
to a regular room.

There's no question the ER is going to be busy again come winter. Think flu,
winter residents, population growth, people without insurance and people who
don't want to wait three days for a doctor's appointment.

Overall, LRMC expects 133,000 emergency department visits in the fiscal year
that began Oct. 1 -- 5,000 more than last year.

Vice President Janet Fansler, who supervises the ER, said she expects several
improvements made by LRMC to make the situation less stressful, however.

Among the changes:

The patient wing that opened in April with 286 beds, 192 of them in private
rooms, will make it easier to move patients from the ER to a regular room.

The hospital added eight beds to the ER, which brought its total to 82 beds on
March 10.

There have been ongoing procedural changes to improve patients' treatment and
their flow through the ER.

LRMC officials also plan renovations, an electronic tracking system to speed ER
treatment and a fourth ICU for admitting sick patients.

The new wing doesn't increase LRMC's total beds, but it makes more available for
admissions because of its private rooms. Some beds in semiprivate rooms go
unused if only one patient can be there because of a contagious disease or other
situations requiring isolation.

While extra bed space will help with the load, the procedural changes have the
potential for the longest-lasting impact.

A bigger ER alone isn't enough, said Jim Nathan, treasurer of the Florida
Hospital Association board and chief executive officer of Lee Memorial Health
System in southwest Florida.

That health system has 1,070 beds at several facilities. The largest number is
at Lee Memorial Hospital, which has 427 beds.

"Emergency departments are very different today than they were not too many
years ago," Nathan said. "Patients are getting actively managed in an emergency
department for many hours while they are going through a battery of tests."

LRMC and other hospitals need to plan with that in mind, as well as how other
areas of the hospital affect the ER, he said.

In the LRMC emergency room, an area that has been newly designated for
diagnosing chest pain illustrates what Fansler and Nathan mean when they talk
about changing ER delivery to reflect the care needed.

Chest pain already was a high priority, Fansler said, but a designated area
allows a "more formal, organized approach."

Another factor that has a major impact on Lakeland Regional's ER, as it does at
Lee Memorial, is a high number of uninsured people seeking care there.

Nathan recommends hospitals cooperate with groups that work on health care for
the uninsured.

LRMC Vice President John Schliesser participates in the Health Care Alliance, a
coalition working to improve that care, and is on the board of Lakeland
Volunteers in Medicine, a free clinic for some of the Lakeland area's uninsured.

LVIM makes a "significant contribution" in helping uninsured Lakeland residents,
he said, and the alliance has addressed tough issues, including better ways to
provide primary care that can keep people out of the emergency department.

Paul Powers, LRMC's chief finance officer, recently was appointed to the
Citizens Oversight Committee, which recommends how to spend money from the
half-cent indigent-care sales tax.

LOOKING AHEAD

The new wing, extra ER beds and procedural changes already have helped, Fansler
said.

"There has been a lot of satisfaction lately on the situation having improved,"
said Dr. Eric Lipson, a Watson Clinic pulmonary doctor who is chief of the LRMC
medical staff this year.

But more is needed.

LRMC officials had hoped to choose an electronic tracking system by this summer,
which should speed ER treatment once installed, but Fansler said it took longer
than expected to schedule interviews with providers.

Hospital officials saw several presentations in late September on what those
systems could accomplish.

"Hopefully, within a year we'll have a system chosen and installed," Fansler
said. "I hope we make a decision in the fall."

LRMC is budgeting $ 1.4 million this fiscal year for the emergency department
tracking system, Powers said.

LRMC also is working on plans to add a fourth ICU, expand its pediatric ER and
move the fast-track ER for less-serious care into the main building. But those
changes won't be completed in time for this winter.

Construction on the 18-bed ICU and emergency department expansion is scheduled
for 2006-07 as part of LRMC's facilities master plan, Vice President Carole
Philipson said.

Hospital officials expect these changes to satisfy recommendations made by VHA
Inc., an association of not-for-profit hospitals to which LRMC belongs.

The new wing and additional ICU will address its recommendation to limit the
number of patients waiting in the ER for inpatient beds, Fansler said.

Full-to-capacity ICUs can mean some patients who usually would be admitted to an
ICU get their care in the ER instead.

VHA, which visited LRMC before the eight ER beds went in, said its ER had enough
nurses and doctors, but that more beds were needed. It didn't say how many.

The 82 ER beds at LRMC are more than triple its 25 in 1988.

Lee Memorial Health System, with 73 ER beds divided among three hospitals, also
sees increasing visits, particularly in winter.

"Demand fills the emergency department as soon as we expand it," Nathan said.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RICK RUNION/The Ledger: An ambulance pulls into Lakeland Regional
Medical Center recently. Earlier this year, the hospital issued a "Code Purple"
-- indicating patient saturation -- and ordered incoming ambulances diverted to
other facilities.; Nathan; Schliesser; Fansler

             Copyright 2005 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


                              431 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                 March 3, 1995

WOMEN IN NEW X-RAYS ALERT;
300,000 breast cancer screenings to be re -checked

BYLINE: Jenny Hope, Medical Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 894 words


ALL breast cancer X-rays taken in Scotland since 1991 are to be checked after
six patients were mistakenly given the all-clear.

The blunder was discovered when doctors treating a woman for advanced breast
cancer found a suspect X-ray, taken almost two years earlier, had not been
investigated.

Health officials have blamed a 'procedural error' for the failure to follow up
the woman's scan at the East of Scotland Breast Screening Service.

A review was ordered yesterday of all 300,000 X-rays taken since the NHS
Scottish Breast Cancer Screening programme was launched in 1991 for women aged
50 to 64.

The case that sparked the review involves a middle-aged woman whose identity is
being kept secret.

Her X-ray was checked by two radiologists who correctly interpreted the results.
They wanted the patient to come back for reassessment and marked her record for
a recall.

But the recall was entered wrongly in a logbook, and this led to an incorrect
entry into a computer at the screening centre based in Dundee Royal Infirmary,
in February 1993.

The computer then produced a letter telling the patient she was in the clear.

There were no cross-checks with the original X-ray and it is feared the same
system may be used by six other screening centres in Scotland.

The woman, who had surgery two months ago and is about to begin chemotherapy,
was told of the mistake this week and is said to be annoyed and upset.  Dr Derek
Maclean, medical director of the Dundee Teaching Hospitals Trust, said doctors
treating the patient had said she should not be told 'until the appropriate time
in her treatment'.

The trust carried out a secret review of all 40,000 records of women attending
the East of Scotland Screening Centre.

This identified five further procedural errors.

All the women have been contacted and no further cancers have been found.

Dr Maclean said the decision to carry out the review in secret was made to
protect patient confidentiality.

Elizabeth Quinn, of the Scottish Breast Cancer Association, said: 'Time is of
the essence in these things and they waited too long - it's women's live they're
dealing with.'

Scottish Office Minister Lord Fraser of Carmyllie said: 'The exercise in Dundee
to check back on records and a previous exercise in Birmingham has shown the
risk from a procedural error to women who have been screened is virtually nil.'

But all UK screening centres have been asked to review procedures.

A similar problem in the West Midlands last year led to the re-checking of
250,000 records and an instruction to all breast screening centres in England to
ensure they had failsafe written procedures.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              432 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                            January 31, 2016 Sunday

Procedural delays render ambulance service immobile

LENGTH: 550  words

DATELINE: PUDUCHERRY


PUDUCHERRY, Jan. 31 -- An ambulance meant to shift critically ill-patients from
Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital to Jipmer or hospitals in Chennai is
lying idle for the past two-and-half months waiting for clearance to be
repaired.


 It requires only Rs. 3,500 to repair the clutch cylinder of this ambulance that
has worn out. The other vehicle - a Qualis used by the doctors requires a new
self-starter that would cost Rs. 2,500.
 But the cumbersome bureaucratic procedures are delaying the sanction of this
required amount to carry out repair works.
 Well-equipped
 An official in the hospital lamented: "This ambulance is well-equipped to
quickly shift a critical patient and all that needs to be done is to repair the
clutch cylinder. When moving the patients to Chennai, they are only charged Rs.5
per km. This would come up to Rs. 1,500 or Rs. 1,600 per patient. But, it
becomes very expensive for people taking private vehicles since they charge up
to Rs. 12,000 to move the patients to Chennai."
 It would be impossible for people from economically poor background to spend
such exorbitant amount on ambulance.
 The procedure to repair a vehicle begins by getting a no-objection certificate
(NOC) and RRC from a government-run workshop. After assessing the extent of
damage, the cost incurred towards repairing would be given to the hospital. The
file would be sent to Assistant Engineer (AE) and then to Junior Engineer (JE)
in the RTO office. It has to come back from the RTO office.
 Once the director (health) sanctions the amount, the file would be sent to the
secretariat (health) and then to the finance department.
 This procedure will take at least five to six months to complete, causing
inconvenience to the impoverished people dependent on this service. There are
only six vehicles which include ambulances and also vehicles used by doctors at
the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Postgraduate Institute.
 In 2001, they had 16 vehicles. Out of the six vehicles present now, only three
are working. The hospital has not added any new vehicles for the past 10 years.
 On an average, at least two to three patients in a day would need the ambulance
to be moved to Chennai or Jipmer or Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children Hospital.
 When asked about the ambulance service, Director of Health and Family Welfare
Services K.V. Raman said that there were enough 108 ambulance services.
 These vehicles are all strategically placed at the eight primary health centres
(PHCs). The 108 services are present at Ariyur, Karaikalampakkam, Katterikuppam,
Thavalakuppam, Bahour, Kalapet, Nettapakkam, and Medical College.
 However, the National Health Mission that runs the 108 ambulance services
provide services mainly to pregnant women, referral cases sent to the Indira
Gandhi Government General Hospital, road accidents and snake bites.
 It is the vehicles in the GH which are used to move patients from Indira Gandhi
Government General Hospital to other hospitals including those in Chennai.
 These procedural delays are adding to the burden of the patients who cannot
afford expensive private ambulance services. The repair work should be carried
out faster to enable better services during emergencies.
 One has get a no-objection certificate and RRC from a govt.-run workshop for
repairs

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

Deals roundup: Steris to acquire US Endoscopy for about $270 million in cash

LENGTH: 1174 words

Medical Device Daily Staff Reporter

Steris (Mentor, Ohio) reported the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire
all the outstanding shares of privately-owned United States Endoscopy Group
(Mentor, Ohio), a company that develops therapeutic and diagnostic medical
devices and support accessories used in the gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy
markets worldwide, for $270 million. With the acquisition of US Endoscopy,
Steris said it will significantly expand its presence in the GI market and gain
direct access to the procedural spaces in the GI market with a franchise of
proprietary, single-use consumable medical devices.

"This is the most significant deal we've done in many years," Walt Rosebrough,
president/CEO of Steris said during a conference call yesterday. "With the
acquisition of this company Steris, will significantly expand its presence in
the GI units. "It also provides Steris with a direct sales force in the U.S. and
a strong branding."

During the call Rosebrough noted that US Endoscopy has 400 employees has
generated double-digit organic growth for many years through successful new
product development.

Steris has a strong presence in the procedural spaces within the hospital, in
particular the operating room, but has not historically had a presence in the
procedural spaces within the GI environment.

The acquisition will add direct access to a multi-billion dollar global market,
where US Endoscopy has focused on technology and innovation to build a pipeline
of new products which propelled their revenue growth to greater than 15%
compounded over the past five years, and allows for attractive margins.

In 2011, US Endoscopy generated revenue of about $70 million and operating
income of about $14 million. After adjusting for depreciation and amortization,
shareholder expenses and other non-recurring items, adjusted operating income
would have been about $20 million in 2011.

"Not only will we gain the size and scale necessary to continue to innovate and
grow over the long term, we will also ensure that we can and will remain a vital
part of the Greater Cleveland community," Gulam Khan, president/CEO and
co-Chairman of US Endoscopy said in a release. "While we have had great success
the last two decades, having the support of Steris will better enable us to take
full advantage of global opportunities."

Steris said that due to the transaction and integration costs and a less than
full-year impact of earnings, the transaction is anticipated to be dilutive by
about 5 cents to Steris's earnings in fiscal 2013, but accretive in fiscal 2014
and beyond. Steris said its management believes that the dilutive effect can be
absorbed within its current earnings per share outlook of $2 to $2.20 per
diluted share for fiscal 2013.

The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to
close by the end of 2Q13. Steris will finance the acquisition through a
combination of cash on hand and borrowings under its existing credit facility.
The business will be integrated into Steris' Healthcare business segment.

During the call, Rosebrough noted that the company will not be assuming any debt
from US Endoscopy. He also spoke about potential synergies between the firms,
particularly in revenue growth.

"We do expect to see some modest cost synergies across the businesses, but this
is not a turn two factors into one kind of acquisition," Rosebrough said during
the call. "The [operations] for the two businesses are significantly different.
We work very hard to make our facilities more and more effective and efficient,
and we would do that in their facilities as well. We think that the synergies
are largely in the field of revenue growth and product development. We have some
knowledge in some areas, but they don't and vice versa."

In other dealmaking activity:

o Henry Schein (Melville, New York), a provider of healthcare products and
services to office-based dental, medical and animal health practitioners,
reported three acquisitions that advance key priorities of the company's
2012-2014 strategic plan. Together these acquisitions represent annual sales of
nearly $61 million and will be neutral to the company's 2012 diluted EPS.
Financial terms were not disclosed.

Henry Schein enhanced its position in the dental specialty market through the
acquisition of Ortho Technology (Tampa, Florida), a $24 million orthodontics
business; furthered its strategy of helping medical practitioners operate more
efficient and profitable practices by strengthening its U.S. physician office
laboratory presence through the acquisition of Modern Laboratory Services (MLS;
Bakersfield, California), a $22 million medical distributor; and expanded its
geographic footprint in Asia through a merger with Accord (Bangkok, Thailand), a
$15 million full-service dental dealer in Thailand, the 26th country in which
Henry Schein now has operations or affiliates.

o Life Technologies (Carlsbad, California) reported the acquisition of
Navigenics (Foster City, California). This acquisition represents Life
Technologies' first step in executing against a strategy to build out its
molecular diagnostics business through internal development, partnerships and
select acquisitions.

Navigenics' multidisciplinary expertise, including its technology
infrastructure, user interfaces, online platforms, genomic support services, and
an experienced team, will play a central role in the delivery of Life
Technologies' molecular diagnostic model. The company's established
CLIA-certified laboratory, licensed throughout the U.S., will be employed for
design and validation of new diagnostics assays. Life Technologies plans to
develop and offer lab-developed tests as well as commercialized assays that have
been approved by FDA and other regulatory authorities. Life will also continue
to build partnerships with pharmaceutical companies for companion diagnostic
development, including participating in clinical trials, which is enabled by the
CLIA lab acquisition.

Navigenics' extensive clinical program provides Life Technologies with a
leadership position in clinician and patient education and support, which will
be leveraged by Life Technologies in building its diagnostics business. The
platform includes a network of oncologists, pathologists, and genetic
counselors, who will be available to support community-based physicians in the
adoption of genetic medicine and assist them in understanding these innovative
types of medical information.

"Complex diseases like cancer require physicians to receive and interpret data
from the genome, transcriptome and proteome. Life Technologies is the only
company in the industry today with the breadth of technology to span the full
continuum of diagnostic information necessary to effectively manage such
diseases," said Gregory Lucier, chairman/CEO of Life Technologies. "The
Navigenics informatics platform allows us to now transform the data from our
instrument systems into actionable information and deliver it in real time to
physicians around the world."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2012 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              434 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

Montana: Surgical Tech 10076420

LENGTH: 540  words

DATELINE: Helena


Department of Labor & Industry, The State of Montana has issued the following
job announcement:

10076420
Job Title:  Surgical Tech
Employer:  ST JAMES HEALTHCARE
Location:  BUTTE MT, 59701
Description:  SUMMARY This position provides intra-operative/procedural teamwork
with physicians, nurses, assistants and housekeepers in the Surgical Services
Department.

ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Serves as a role model of excellent
customer service by responding with courtesy and respect to the needs of all
those he/she interacts with on a daily basis. Exhibits flexibility and
adaptability to move from department to department as needed and/or directed to
meet the patient/staffing needs of departments. Demonstrates behaviors
consistent with organizational mission and goals. Follows all applicable
hospital policies and procedures Participates in facility Quality
Improvement/IOP Program Follows policies and procedures for infection control
and facility safety in accordance with regulatory guidelines. Follows "Patients
Rights Policy" at all times. Establishes priorities in organizing
intra-operative/procedural care based on case type and needs of the patient and
health care team. Implements physician preference cards based on case type. Aids
Physician during treatment and examination of patient during surgical and
endoscopy procedures. Demonstrates operational knowledge of equipment, supplies
and instrumentation in the operating rooms, sterile processing, and endoscopy
suites. When not moving to another case, demonstrates ability to assist other
team members in room turnover according to AST guidelines excluding terminal
cleaning. Decontaminates all surgical and clinical instrumentation equipment and
patient care items as directed. Inspects, assembles, packages, sterilizes,
stores, distributes and monitors instrumentation, equipment and patient care
items according to current regulatory standards, manufacturesÃ¢Â¿Â¿
recommendations and departmental protocol. Acts as resource liaison between
Sterile Processing and Surgery. Assists with inventory, ordering, and stocking
of OR supplies Assists with transporting or assisting patients to and from OR
Maintains awareness of comfort and safety needs of the patient. Demonstrates
knowledge of information management as appropriate. Completes annual position
specific competencies in timely manner. Interacts capably with all other
departments to provide the highest level of customer service. EDUCATION Ã¿Â·
Successful completion of an accredited Surgical Technology Training Program.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE/BACKGROUND Ã¿Â· Prefer one year of Surgical Technician
experience in a surgical hospital or outpatient surgery center Ã¿Â· Ability to
communicate effectively and diplomatically within a multi-functional team Ã¿Â·
Strong organizational skills and attention to detail Ã¿Â· Ability to
successfully function in a fast paced, service oriented environment Ã¿Â·
Experience in understanding and usage of computers, including Microsoft Word, as
well as the ability to learn applications relevant to the position.
CERTIFICATES, LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS Ã¿Â· Certified Surgical Technologist
Certification upon hire. Ã¿Â· Current BLS certification required upon hire.
Open

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 1999 Boston College Law School
                           Boston College Law Review

                                  March, 1999

                              40 B.C. L. Rev. 673

LENGTH: 15239 words

NOTE: Due Process Requirements for Emergency Civil Commitments: Safeguarding
Patients' Liberty Without Jeopardizing Health and Safety

NAME: Marybeth Walsh

TEXT:
 [*673]  INTRODUCTION

   Upset about a dying friend, Susan Rockwell was anxious and a bit disheveled
when she arrived at a Massachusetts hospital to attend a support group meeting.
n1 The dirty coat she wore belied her achievements as a law school graduate and
former librarian.  n2 Based on her appearance and a brief conversation, an
emergency room doctor ordered attendants to put Rockwell in a four-point
restraint, inject her with drugs and place her in a locked room in the
hospital's psychiatric ward.  n3 Throughout this ordeal, the hospital refused
Rockwell's pleas to call her psychiatrist, who later said that she would have
argued against admission.  n4 The hospital released Rockwell two-and-a-half days
later.  n5 According to her psychiatrist, Rockwell suffers nightmares and
flashbacks -- symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder -- as a result of this
experience.  n6

   The emergency room physician admitted Susan Rockwell pursuant to
Massachusetts' emergency involuntary commitment statute.  n7 The statute
authorizes a qualified physician to admit a person for ten days of psychiatric
care if the physician believes that failure to admit would create a likelihood
of serious harm to the person or to others.  n8 A physician's decision to admit
a person pursuant to the emergency involuntary commitment statute is not subject
to judicial review.  n9 Rather, a hospital must seek judicial authorization for
commitment only if it desires to keep a patient longer than the ten-day
emergency  [*674]  period.  n10 Since the Massachusetts statute allows courts
fourteen days to schedule a hearing on a hospital's commitment petition, a
person may be involuntarily confined in a psychiatric ward for up to twenty-four
days without judicial review.  n11

   Susan Rockwell's experience illustrates the need for persons subject to
emergency commitment to have a means of challenging physicians' decisions to
admit them.  n12 The emergency commitment process deprives persons of their
liberty, yet contains significantly fewer procedural due process safeguards than
does the justice system at large.  n13 At the same time, however, the emergency
commitment process exists to provide care in a timely manner for persons whose
mental illnesses, physicians believe, pose a likelihood of serious harm to
themselves or others.  n14 The consequences of failing to commit when emergency
commitment is warranted can be fatal. Therefore, an effective emergency
commitment statute must contain both procedural safeguards to protect persons
wrongly committed and provide immediate care for those who need it.

   This Note explores what the goals of procedural due process should be in the
context of emergency commitment.  n15 Part I defines procedural due process and
describes the constitutional status of the law on due process in the emergency
commitment context.  n16 Part I then discusses different perspectives on what
procedural safeguards should be provided in the emergency commitment process.
n17 Part II describes Massachusetts' review of its emergency commitment statute
and one of the proposed procedural schemes resulting from that review.  n18 Part
III analyzes this proposal as a means of addressing the general policy issues
involved.  n19 Part III concludes that the proposal should be adopted because it
protects patients' liberty without compromising clinical interests.  n20
Specifically, Part III argues that providing judicial review for all persons
within forty-eight hours of emergency admission is harmful to the clinical
interests of most patients and, in many cases, does not provide meaningful
protection of liberty interests.  n21  [*675]  The best means of protecting
patients' rights in practice is instead to appoint counsel immediately upon
emergency admission and provide a process for an emergency hearing in cases of
inappropriate commitment.  n22

   I. DUE PROCESS REQUIREMENTS FOR EMERGENCY INVOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS

   This section is divided into three subsections. Subsection A defines
procedural due process and describes how the Supreme Court determines what
procedural safeguards due process requires.  n23 Subsection B discusses the
status of the law on due process requirements for emergency commitment.  n24
Subsection C explores three perspectives on the emergency commitment process.
n25

   A. Procedural Due Process Defined

   The Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution prohibits state
governments from depriving a person of "life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law."  n26 This amendment is rooted in the notion that personal
freedom requires an institutional check on arbitrary government action.  n27
Procedural due process consists of procedural safeguards that accord a person
the right to be heard before being deprived of life, liberty or property as a
result of government action.  n28

   Two competing approaches to procedural due process shape discussions of what
procedural safeguards are constitutionally required -- or even desirable.  n29
The first approach focuses on the intrinsic value of due process as an
opportunity for people to participate in government decisions that affect them
and thereby express their dignity as persons.  n30 Justice Frankfurter supported
this approach by writing that there is no better way "for generating the
feeling, so important to  [*676]  popular government, that justice has been
done."  n31 The United States Supreme Court, however, has adopted an
"instrumental" approach, which views due process as a means of assuring
accuracy, reasoning that the Constitution requires process "to prevent unfair
and mistaken deprivations."  n32

   Pursuant to the instrumental approach, the Supreme Court balances competing
interests when determining the required form of procedural due process.  n33
Thus, in 1976, in Mathews v. Eldridge, the Court noted that "'due process,'
unlike some legal rules, is not a technical conception with a fixed content
unrelated to time, place and circumstances."  n34 In Eldridge, the Court held
that an evidentiary hearing was not required prior to termination of social
security disability benefits.  n35 A person brought an action challenging the
constitutional validity of the administrative procedures used to terminate her
disability benefits because the procedures did not include an evidentiary
hearing prior to termination.  n36 In concluding that due process did not
require an evidentiary hearing prior to termination, the Court identified three
factors that must be weighed to determine what procedural due process requires:
(1) the private interest that will be affected by the official action; (2) the
risk of an erroneous deprivation of the private interest through the procedures
used and the probative value, if any, of additional or substitute procedural
safeguards and (3) the government's interest, including the function involved
and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the additional or substitute
procedural requirements would entail.  n37 Thus, the Court concluded that due
process is flexible and the procedural protections it requires vary according to
the facts and interests of particular situations.  n38

    [*677]  B. Status of Law on Due Process Requirements for Emergency
Involuntary Commitment

   Over the past four decades, changes in the ways mental illness is treated and
perceived have greatly affected civil commitment.  n39 First, the introduction
of psychotropic drugs in the 1950s enabled many previously institutionalized
patients to live outside mental hospitals.  n40 Second, during the 1960s and
1970s, revelations of poor living conditions in state hospitals for the mentally
retarded sensitized the public to the plight of the institutionalized mentally
ill and led to the inclusion of this group in the growing civil rights movement.
n41 Legal reforms during the 1970s reduced the broad discretion previously given
to psychiatrists by restricting involuntary commitment to persons demonstrably
dangerous to themselves or others and applying to the commitment process the due
process safeguards of the criminal justice system.  n42 As a result of these
clinical, social and legal developments, the average number of persons subject
to commitment in state and county mental hospitals per day declined from 560,000
in 1955 to 276,000 in 1972, and to about 138,000 in 1981.  n43

   Despite the attention given to the emergency commitment process in recent
decades, the Supreme Court has not clearly defined the due process requirements
for emergency civil commitment, and as a result, commitment procedures vary
considerably from state to state.  n44 Lower court decisions in the early 1970s
held that due process required a probable cause hearing within forty-eight hours
after commitment.  n45 Subsequent Supreme Court summary affirmances of other
decisions, however, indicate that substantially longer periods of commitment
without judicial review are constitutional.  n46 More recent lower federal
[*678]  court decisions have held that constitutionality depends not on the
specific timing of judicial review, but on the totality of the procedural scheme
provided by the statute.  n47

   One of the first cases to address this issue was Lessard v. Schmidt.  n48 In
1972, in Lessard, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin struck down a Wisconsin statute permitting confinement for 145 days
and held that the maximum period that a person may be detained without a
preliminary hearing is forty-eight hours.  n49 The suit was brought as a class
action on behalf of the plaintiff and all other persons eighteen years of age or
older who were being held involuntarily pursuant to any emergency, temporary or
permanent commitment provision of the Wisconsin involuntary commitment statute.
n50 The complaint sought declaratory and injunctive relief against the
enforcement of certain portions of the statute.  n51 Noting that the interests
of those facing involuntary civil commitment are at least as great as those of
accused criminals, the court reasoned that emergency civil commitment can be
justified only for the length of time necessary to arrange for a probable cause
hearing before a neutral judge.  n52 The court, therefore, held that a
preliminary hearing must be held within forty-eight hours.  n53

   Subsequent decisions gave greater weight to the clinical needs of the
mentally ill.  n54 In the 1970s, the United States Supreme Court summarily
affirmed two lower court decisions upholding substantial periods of commitment.
n55 These decisions effectively overruled Lessard and indicate that a prompt
probable cause hearing is not necessary to satisfy due process requirements.
n56

   First, in 1973, the Supreme Court summarily affirmed Logan v. Arafeh, in
which a three-judge district court panel upheld a Connecticut  [*679]  statute
providing for emergency commitment for up to forty-five days without judicial
review.  n57 In Arafeh, individuals who were, or at one time had been,
involuntary patients at a state mental hospital petitioned the United States
District Court for the District of Connecticut for declaratory and injunctive
relief against the statute's enforcement.  n58 The statute provided that if a
patient is committed involuntarily for more than fifteen days, there must be a
judicial determination of the validity of his or her confinement within
forty-five days from the date of the initial commitment.  n59 The court reasoned
that there was a reasonable connection between the time allowed before judicial
review and the objective sought.  n60 The court noted that the purpose of
commitment is treatment and care, not penal detention, and that physicians need
time to gain knowledge of a patient's mental condition through visual
observation and diagnostic tests.  n61 This period of observation and treatment,
the court observed, also has the positive aspect of allowing the hospital staff
to alleviate the symptoms of the patient's mental illness or determine that the
patient need not be committed.  n62 In such cases, the court reasoned, the
patient avoids the stigma of a court record and the length of confinement is
shortened.  n63 The court also noted that patients may at any time challenge the
legality of their confinement through a habeas corpus proceeding in the state
courts.  n64 Therefore, the court held that the Connecticut statute satisfied
constitutional due process requirements.  n65

   Then, in 1979, the Supreme Court summarily affirmed French v. Blackburn, in
which a three-judge district court panel upheld a North Carolina statute that
permitted a ten-day period between emergency detention and a probable cause
hearing.  n66 In Blackburn, the plaintiff, who had been subjected to an
involuntary commitment procedure that led to a hearing resulting in his release,
petitioned the United States District Court for the Middle District of North
Carolina for declaratory and injunctive relief challenging the validity of the
North Carolina statute.  n67 The statute provided for a final hearing on
commitment  [*680]  within ten days of initial commitment unless the respondent
is given a continuance, which may be for up to five days at a time.  n68 The
court noted that the purpose of the statute was humanitarian and that during the
pre-hearing period of confinement, a patient receives treatment that may aid his
or her mental health and be necessary for an adequate and informed commitment
hearing.  n69 Moreover, the court reasoned that the statute afforded
opportunities for physicians to release a patient prior to the commitment
hearing.  n70 Finally, relying on the Supreme Court's summary affirmance of
Arafeh as binding precedent, the court held that the ten-day commitment period
prior to a hearing did not violate due process.  n71

   More recent lower court decisions have also held that a probable cause
hearing is not necessary to satisfy due process requirements.  n72 For example,
in 1983, in Project Release v. Prevost, the United States Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit upheld New York statutes providing for involuntary commitment
for up to sixty days and emergency commitment for up to fifteen days without a
judicial hearing, unless one is requested.  n73 Project Release is a
not-for-profit corporation that filed a suit seeking a declaratory judgment that
the New York involuntary and emergency commitment statutes violated the
Fourteenth Amendment.  n74 In rejecting the need for a prompt probable cause
hearing, the court considered the layers of professional and judicial review
provided by the statutes and found that the totality of the procedural scheme
comported with due process.  n75 The court noted that civil commitment is not
tantamount to criminal detention and, therefore, does not demand the same
procedural safeguards required in the criminal context.  n76 Finally, noting
that the substantive standards for civil commitment vary from state to state,
the court stressed that the decision by some states to limit pre-hearing
confinement to a shorter period does not mean that such a model is needed or is
even  [*681]  adaptable to the needs of all states.  n77 Thus, the court
concluded that due process does not require a prompt probable cause hearing.
n78

   C. Perspectives on Procedural Requirements for Emergency Commitment

   Constitutionality is only the first step in analyzing any procedural scheme.
Because the United States Constitution sets only minimum due process
requirements, states are free to provide more than the minimum requirements
mandated by the Constitution.  n79 Thus, even though a procedural scheme meets
due process requirements, the question remains whether additional due process
protections should be provided. This subsection will explore this question from
the perspectives of the three interests at stake in the emergency commitment
process: the liberty, the clinical and the public interests.  n80

1. The Liberty Interest

   A civil libertarian approach to procedural due process rejects the idea set
forth in Eldridge that procedural safeguards should be determined by balancing a
person's liberty interest against the government's interest, the risk of
erroneous deprivation of liberty and the probative value of additional or
substitute procedural safeguards.  n81 Under this analysis, for example, the
threat of erroneous deprivation of liberty cannot be outweighed by concerns of
government and judicial resources.  n82 Thus, where a pre-deprivation hearing is
not possible, a prompt post-deprivation hearing should be held as soon as
possible.  n83

   With respect to the emergency commitment process, advocates for prompt
probable cause hearings often draw an analogy to criminal procedure.  n84 Noting
that the law affords accused criminals hearings  [*682]  within twenty-four
hours, they ask why persons committed involuntarily, who are accused of no
crime, should be afforded less due process protection.  n85 Thus, the argument
follows that the liberty interest of a person committed involuntarily is at
least as high as that of an accused criminal.  n86 In support of this argument,
advocates for immediate hearings cite the serious consequences of involuntary
commitment, including humiliation, potential loss of employment and the stigma
attached to commitment.  n87

   Moreover, the absence of prompt judicial review of emergency commitment
ignores the intrinsic value of due process.  n88 A prompt judicial hearing on
commitment would allow persons to have a voice in the decision to deprive them
of their liberty.  n89 Civil libertarians argue that this process is essential
to respect the dignity of those committed involuntarily and to generate a sense
of justice and fairness in the commitment process.  n90

2. The Clinical Interest

   Clinicians emphasize the therapeutic nature of the commitment process,
reasoning that they neither seek to have an adversarial relationship with their
patients nor to deprive patients of their liberty.  n91 They believe, therefore,
that it is inappropriate to impose a criminal model on what is essentially a
therapeutic process.  n92 Rather, it is imperative that a procedural scheme both
safeguard patients' liberty and provide access to clinical care.  n93

    [*683]  In addition to expressing concerns that using a criminal model in
the commitment process needlessly antagonizes the doctor-patient relationship,
many fear that too many procedural safeguards may serve as a barrier to
treatment.  n94 Too much judicial scrutiny may make it difficult to commit many
persons in need of treatment, i.e., the very persons whom the emergency
commitment process was designed to protect.  n95 Thus, while a prompt probable
cause hearing may be the best means of protecting patients' liberty interests,
it may jeopardize their clinical interests.  n96

   Clinicians also express concern about the burdens that hearings place on the
clinical process. In addition to the harm that hearings cause to the
doctor-patient relationship, they place large demands on clinicians' time.  n97
It is not in the best interest of all patients to have clinicians devoting large
amounts of time to commitment procedures -- time that could be spent attending
to the clinical needs of patients.  n98

3. The Public Interest

   Concern about the impact of the emergency commitment procedures on the public
leads others to ask whether layers of judicial review -- providing only minimal
protection -- consume too many limited judicial resources.  n99 According to
this perspective, society cannot  [*684]  focus exclusively on the interests of
the individual whose liberty is deprived.  n100 Rather, the individual's liberty
interest must be considered in a larger context -- one that includes
consideration of the costs and time demands that hearings place on the court
system.  n101 Thus, although the cost of providing a post-deprivation hearing
cannot justify totally denying an opportunity to be heard, such considerations
may factor into a determination of what type of hearing should be held and when.
n102

4. The Liberty, Clinical and Public Interests Compared

   Strict advocacy of any one of the interests involved in the emergency
commitment process presents problems. Critics of the civil libertarian
perspective argue that because the purpose of emergency commitment is
therapeutic, it may be detrimental to the patient to impose a criminal construct
on the process.  n103 While a prompt probable cause hearing may protect a
patient's liberty interest, it may also harm the patient's clinical interest
because it transforms the doctorpatient relationship from a therapeutic to an
adversarial one. Thus, in the first days of a patient's emergency commitment,
the doctor must both treat the patient and oppose him or her in a commitment
hearing. Moreover, too much process may serve as a barrier to treatment because
it may discourage or impede commitment of persons in need of treatment.  n104

   Some commentators believe that a patient's liberty is better protected by a
probable cause hearing held a few days after commitment than one held
immediately upon commitment.  n105 Noting that many acute psychiatric episodes
subside within one to four days, they reason that if hearings were required
immediately, many patients whose conditions would have improved sufficiently for
discharge in a few days would be retained unnecessarily for long commitment
periods.  n106 If, however, hearings were scheduled a few days after commitment,
then many patients would improve sufficiently to be discharged by the hospital
prior to the hearing.  n107 Moreover, in cases of improper commiment,  [*685]  a
delay of a few days may also afford a patient's counsel needed time to marshal
the facts of the case before representing his or her client at a commitment
hearing.  n108

   Critics of the clinical perspective note that it presumes the need for a
clinical relationship.  n109 Where commitment is improper, there is no need for
a clinical relationship, and the doctor-patient relationship is, by definition,
adversarial.  n110 In such cases, concern for a clinical interest that does not
exist jeopardizes the "patient's" liberty interest.  n111

   With respect to the public perspective, civil libertarians argue that liberty
interests should not be balanced against -- much less outweighed by -- concerns
about judicial resources.  n112 Under this analysis, the emergency commitment
process should be designed to safeguard against cases of improper commitment
and, therefore, must include prompt judicial review.  n113 Thus, because the
individual's liberty is of primary importance, it cannot be adequately protected
by balancing it against society's concerns about judicial resources.  n114

   The results of a study of commitment petitions filed in the Cambridge
Division of the Massachusetts District Court, however, offer support for the
public perspective. The study revealed that more than sixty-seven percent of
emergency commitment hearings scheduled in the court during an eighteen-month
period were canceled.  n115 Of the cases that did not go to a hearing, more than
half of the patients were  [*686]  discharged by the hospital.  n116
Approximately five percent of patients were discharged as a result of petitions
for commitment being denied.  n117 This data indicates that involuntary
commitment most likely terminates when the hospital decides to discharge the
patient or when the patient opts to change his or her commitment status.  n118
In light of such data, those concerned with the effect on the public argue that
it is reasonable to consider the amount of practical protection the commitment
hearing process provides relative to the burdens it places on the judicial
system.  n119

II. MASSACHUSETTS REVIEWS ITS EMERGENCY COMMITMENT STATUTE

   In 1997, an article in the Boston Globe (the "Globe") chronicling abuses of
the Massachusetts emergency commitment statute prompted the Commonwealth to
review its emergency commitment procedures.  n120 This section describes that
review and the proposed changes resulting from it. Subsection A describes the
Massachusetts emergency commitment statute and subsection B describes the Globe
article that examined it.  n121 Subsection C discusses the responses to the
Globe article, including the proposed changes to the emergency commitment
statute.  n122

   A. The Massachusetts Emergency Commitment Statute

   In 1970, Massachusetts enacted a statute providing for the emergency
commitment of the mentally ill.  n123 Under this statute, commonly  [*687]
referred to as section 12, a qualified physician may admit a person to a
hospital for a ten-day period "if the physician determines that failure to
hospitalize such person would create a likelihood of serious harm by reason of
mental illness."  n124 If someone other than a qualified physician makes an
application for admission, the person may be admitted only after a qualified
physician gives the person a psychiatric examination and determines that failure
to hospitalize would create a likelihood of serious harm by reason of mental
illness.  n125 The person must then be discharged at the end of the ten-day
period unless the hospital files a petition for further commitment with the
district court.  n126 The law permits a maximum of fourteen days between the
filing of a petition for commitment by the hospital and the time of the judicial
hearing on commitment.  n127 Thus, a person may be committed involuntarily
without judicial review for a maximum of twenty-four days.  n128

   Section 12 contrasts sharply with the statutes of other states, most of which
require, or permit a patient to request, that a hearing be held within five days
after emergency involuntary commitment.  n129 Because emergency commitment
processes vary greatly from state to state with  [*688]  respect to the standard
for commitment, length of commitment and timing of judicial review, it is
difficult to draw broad conclusions based on any one aspect of a state's
procedural scheme.  n130 A state that requires judicial review within
twenty-four hours of commitment may appear to provide more due process
protection than a state that allows commitment for a longer period. If the state
requiring immediate judicial review, however, has a low standard for commitment,
the due process protection it provides is diminished. Nevertheless, according to
a study conducted by the Globe and the American Bar Association's Commission on
Mental and Physical Disability Law, the twenty-four-day period of commitment
without judicial review permissible in Massachusetts is the longest period of
commitment without judicial review in the country.  n131

   B. Boston Globe Article Draws Attention to Section 12

   On May 12, 1997, a front-page article in the Globe on the emergency
commitment process drew public attention to section 12.  n132 The article
described several cases of apparently improper emergency commitments under
section 12, including Susan Rockwell's case, discussed in the Introduction.
n133 The Globe report cited such abuses of section 12 to illustrate the need for
reform of the emergency commitment process.  n134 The Globe investigation
revealed that Massachusetts law permits the longest period of emergency
commitment without judicial review in the nation.  n135 Specifically, the study
conducted by the Globe and the American Bar Association's Commission on Mental
and Physical Disability Law found that twenty-five states and the District of
Columbia require court involvement within seventy-two hours of emergency
involuntary commitment.  n136 Fourteen other states require court involvement
within five days of commitment.  n137 The laws of the remaining states vary,
with most requiring court involvement within six to eight days.  n138

    [*689]  C. Responses to the Boston Globe Series

   The Globe series encouraged the Massachusetts District Court Committee on
Mental Health and Retardation to form an ad hoc committee ("Ad Hoc Committee")
to take an in-depth look at section 12.  n139 The Ad Hoc Committee was comprised
of judges, clinicians, hospital administrators and attorneys representing both
hospital and patient interests.  n140 The Ad Hoc Committee sought to determine
the most efficient and effective time lines to accomplish the purposes of
section 12, while minimizing the length of any involuntary hospitalization
periods for the patients involved.  n141 On October 21, 1997, the Ad Hoc
Committee presented a report ("Majority Report") containing recommendations for
revisions to section 12 to the Massachusetts legislature's Joint Committee on
Human Services and Elderly Affairs.  n142 Because the patient advocates on the
Ad Hoc Committee disagreed with some of these recommendations, they chose to
present their own report ("Minority Report") to the Joint Committee.  n143

1. The Majority Report of the Ad Hoc Committee

   The Majority Report adopted four proposals relating to the section 12
emergency commitment process.  n144 First, it recognized the need for patients
admitted through the emergency commitment process to have immediate access to
counsel to address the many concerns that arise with involuntary
hospitalization.  n145 Accordingly, the report proposed that the Committee for
Public Counsel Services ("CPCS"), which  [*690]  provides representation for
indigent persons, appoint counsel immediately upon admission of a patient and
that the counsel meet with the patient within twenty-four hours of appointment.
n146 The Majority Report stated that immediate appointment of counsel was the
single most effective method of protecting a patient's rights.  n147

   Second, the Majority Report addressed the need for an emergency commitment
procedure to deal with inappropriate cases of involuntary hospitalization, such
as those highlighted in the Globe series.  n148 The Majority Report proposed
that patient's counsel be able to petition the local district court for an
emergency hearing on the issue of appropriateness of commitment when counsel or
the patient feels that the circumstances of admission constituted a misuse of
the involuntary commitment procedures.  n149 The district court would hold
emergency hearings in such cases on the day that the petition is filed in court
or, at the latest, on the next business day.  n150

   Next, the Majority Report proposed that hospitals be required to file a
petition for commitment no later than the close of the third business day
following a patient's emergency admission pursuant to section 12.  n151 The
clinical representatives on the Ad Hoc Committee stated that, in their
professional judgment, this three-business-day period is the minimum amount of
time needed to evaluate a patient appropriately and to make a determination of
the need for continued involuntary hospitalization.  n152

   Finally, the Majority Report recommended that a judicial commitment hearing
on the petition filed by the hospital be held no later than the close of the
fifth business day from the receipt of the petition.  n153 This would reduce the
twenty-four-day period in which a patient can be involuntarily held under
current law without judicial review to a maximum of eight to twelve days.  n154
All of the representatives of the judiciary on the Ad Hoc Committee stated that
a minimum of five  [*691]  business days between the filing of the petition and
the hearing was necessary for the courts to process the petition, prepare the
case file and schedule a judge and other staff to travel to the petitioning
hospital to hold a hearing.  n155

2. The Minority Report of the Ad Hoc Committee

   Three members of the Ad Hoc Committee, all of whom were representatives of
and advocates for persons with mental disabilities, opposed the majority
proposal for two reasons.  n156 First, the majority proposal did not call for a
prompt probable cause hearing in every case of emergency commitment to determine
whether the initial detention was appropriate.  n157 Second, the majority
proposal did not provide a prompt judicial hearing on the need for extended
commitment.  n158

a. Probable Cause Hearing

   The Minority Report advocated a probable cause hearing that would require the
Commonwealth, or its designee (the psychiatrist and/or the hospital), to prove
to a court in every case that the statutory standard for involuntary commitment
was met.  n159 Relying principally on Lessard v. Schmidt, the Minority Report
stated that due process mandates a probable cause hearing as soon as possible
after the patient is deprived of his or her liberty.  n160 Therefore, the
Minority Report rejected the emergency hearing procedure proposed by the
majority because its purpose was restricted to correcting obvious abuses of the
emergency commitment process, rather than providing a judicial forum for the
determination of probable cause in every case of emergency commitment.  n161
Moreover, the Minority Report noted that the emergency hearing process proposed
by the majority requires that the patient request the emergency hearing and,
therefore, bear the burden of proof.  n162

   The Minority Report noted that even though the dissenting members believed
that a prompt probable cause hearing was constitutionally  [*692]  mandated,
they agreed during meetings of the Ad Hoc Committee that a full commitment
hearing within a very short period of time after commitment would obviate the
need for a probable cause hearing in most cases.  n163 The dissenting members
offered this approach as an alternative to the Majority Report.  n164 The Ad Hoc
Committee's final recommendation, however, which rejected the minority's
alternative approach, made the absence of a prompt probable cause hearing
unacceptable to the minority.  n165

b. Length of Time Before Judicial Hearing on Extended Commitment

   The dissenting members also disagreed with the time frame proposed by the
majority for scheduling a hearing on extended commitment, namely, requiring that
the hospital file a petition for commitment within three business days and that
the court schedule a hearing on the hospital's petition within five business
days.  n166 The Minority Report stated that in light of the Ad Hoc Committee's
decision not to recommend a mandatory probable cause hearing, the proposed time
frame for judicial review was unreasonably long.  n167

   As an alternative to the Majority Report, the Minority Report proposed that
the three-business-day time period during which the hospital may file a
commitment petition runs concurrently with the five-business-day time period the
court has to schedule a hearing.  n168 This concurrent approach would reduce the
amount of time a patient may wait for a court hearing from eight business days
to five business days.  n169 Specifically, the minority's concurrent approach
would require that on the first business day after the patient's involuntary
admission, the hospital notify both CPCS, which would promptly appoint an
attorney to represent the person, and the court, which would tentatively
schedule a hearing within five days.  n170 If the hospital then files a
commitment petition, the hearing would be confirmed.  n171 If the hospital does
not file a petition, the hearing would be canceled.  n172

    [*693]  In the Majority Report, the Ad Hoc Committee stated that the
minority's concurrent approach was unacceptable to the majority, including all
of the judiciary department members, because it would require courts to set up
schedules for judges to go to hearings that might never be held. In particular,
the majority described such a system as "an undesirable aberration to the normal
filing process in our busy court system."  n173 The Minority Report stated that
the canceled hearings that would inevitably result under this concurrent
approach already occur in the current commitment process.  n174 Under the
present system, hearings are frequently canceled because the hospital decides to
withdraw its petition or the person agrees to remain at the hospital on a
voluntary basis.  n175 The Minority Report noted that the study of commitment
petitions filed in the Cambridge Division of the Massachusetts District Court
revealed that more than sixty-seven percent of scheduled hearings are canceled
for these reasons under the present system.  n176

4. Constitutionality of Proposed Changes to Section 12

   The Supreme Court's summary affirmances of both Logan v. Arafeh and French v.
Blackburn, in which three-judge panels upheld statutes permitting forty-five and
ten-day periods of commitment without a hearing, respectively, indicate that the
emergency commitment procedures proposed by the Majority Report satisfy due
process requirements.  n177 These decisions suggest that the absence of a prompt
probable cause hearing in these proposals does not violate due process.  n178
Rather, as the Second Circuit reasoned in Project Release, the constitutionality
of a statute should depend on the totality of the procedural scheme.  n179

   The Majority Report calls for a time frame that would provide judicial review
within eight business days of commitment.  n180 Additionally, it advocates for
an emergency system whereby patients could obtain immediate hearings when the
circumstances of admission constitute  [*694]  a misuse of the involuntary
commitment process.  n181 Furthermore, the opportunity for patients to have
counsel appointed immediately will enhance their ability to take full advantage
of these hearings.  n182 Thus, when considered as a whole, the layers of due
process protection provided by this proposal comport with due process.  n183

   The Minority Report's position that due process requires a prompt probable
cause hearing is not supported by case law.  n184 The Minority Report relies
principally on the United States District Court's reasoning in Lessard to
support its contention that due process requires a probable cause hearing as
soon as possible after commitment.  n185 The Supreme Court's affirmances of
Blackburn and Arafeh effectively overruled Lessard.  n186 Thus, the Minority
Report's assertion that due process requires a prompt probable cause hearing is
unfounded.  n187

III. ANALYSIS OF PROPOSED EMERGENCY COMMITMENT PROCEDURES

   An ideal emergency commitment process is one that best protects patients'
rights in practice.  n188 To develop such a process, it is essential to
recognize that in most cases, emergency commitment affects both the liberty
interests and the clinical interests of the patient.  n189 Striking a workable
balance between these competing interests requires consideration of this issue
from the civil libertarian, clinical and public perspectives. The Ad Hoc
Committee's Majority Report, described above, best respects both liberty and
clinical interests because it balances  [*695]  the need for prompt judicial
review after deprivation of liberty with the clinical needs of patients.  n190

   First, the time frame for judicial review proposed by the Majority Report
would effectively serve both clinical and liberty interests.  n191 Requiring
hospitals to file a petition for commitment within three business days of
emergency commitment marks a significant reduction from the present ten-day
period permitted by section 12.  n192 Moreover, because many acute psychiatric
episodes subside within one to four days, the three-business-day period would
allow the hospital to make an informed decision on the need for further
commitment or to decide that the patient has improved sufficiently to be
released.  n193 Second, the Majority Report's recommendation that a judicial
commitment hearing on the petition filed by the hospital be held within five
business days of receipt of the petition represents a fair balancing of the
patient's right to a hearing and the burdens the hearing process places on the
judicial system.  n194 In considering this five-day period, it is important to
note that the Majority Report suggests that these hearings be held at the
hospitals and to recognize the scheduling difficulties that this may pose.  n195
Holding the hearings at the hospitals is less disruptive for patients and makes
the process seem less criminal in nature.  n196 Moreover, by not requiring
physicians to travel to court, it also reduces the amount of time that the
commitment process takes away from physicians' clinical duties.  n197

   Although emergency commitment for eight business days without judicial review
may seem outrageous when compared to the due process procedures afforded by the
criminal justice system, in practice, this  [*696]  time frame provides more due
process protection than would an immediate probable cause hearing.  n198 If a
hearing were held immediately after admission, physicians would be forced to
seek commitment for many patients whose condition might improve sufficiently for
them to be released a few days later.  n199 If a hearing were held after eight
business days, however, such patients would be released prior to court
involvement.  n200 Moreover, because judges seem unwilling to second-guess the
judgment of physicians, immediate probable cause hearings would likely result in
rubber stamps on physicians' commitment petitions.  n201 The Cambridge District
Court study that revealed that only five percent of patients for whom commitment
petitions were filed were discharged as a result of the petitions being denied
indicates that judicial review is not a patient's best means of securing an
early discharge.  n202 Faced with the decision of releasing a patient whose
mental illness, according to a physician, poses a serious harm to him or herself
or others, most judges would defer to the professional judgment of the
physician. Thus, although an immediate probable cause hearing would, in the
abstract, comport more with civil libertarian notions of fairness, in practice,
a hearing held some days after admission would provide greater protection for a
person's liberty.  n203

   Furthermore, the procedure for requesting an emergency hearing when counsel
or the patient feels that the circumstances of admission constitute a misuse of
section 12 would provide an additional layer of protection.  n204 This emergency
hearing process would address the concern that the time frame of the emergency
commitment process presumes a need for a clinical relationship. Thus, in cases
such as Susan Rockwell's, where there was no basis for admission under section
12,  [*697]  patients can petition the court for a hearing to be held no later
than the next business day after the petition is filed.  n205

   One potential problem with such an emergency hearing process, however, is
defining the grounds for requesting a hearing. The Majority Report does not
contain specific guidelines for the emergency hearing process. The criteria for
an emergency hearing must be sufficiently narrow so that these hearings do not
become routine.  n206 Because all section 12 commitments are involuntary, most
patients would undoubtedly feel that their admissions were improper and that
they deserve emergency hearings. A patient's disagreement with his or her
admission under section 12, however, is not necessarily tantamount to an
improper commitment and should not trigger an emergency hearing in every case.
Moreover, if such emergency hearings were to become a substitute for the regular
system of judicial review, they would be counterproductive to the patients'
interests and would overburden the judicial system.  n207 Therefore, emergency
hearings should be available only when the circumstances of the emergency
admission suggest that the admitting physician did not make reasonable efforts
to ensure that commitment was necessary, e.g., when the admitting physician did
not conduct a thorough examination of the patient.

   Of all the elements of the proposals described in Part II, perhaps the most
significant is the element calling for immediate appointment of counsel.  n208
Appointing counsel immediately would serve the interests of patients, physicians
and the courts because it would increase the likelihood of an extra-judicial
resolution of improper section 12 admissions. Where a patient's admission under
section 12 was a clear abuse of the process, the patient's counsel would be able
to work with the physician and the hospital's counsel to resolve the matter
immediately. In Susan Rockwell's case, for example, immediate appointment of
counsel almost certainly would have resulted in her being discharged more
quickly.  n209 Appointed counsel could have facilitated her discharge by
arranging a conference between the admitting physician and Rockwell's
psychiatrist.  n210 Moreover, even in cases of proper admission, immediate
appointment of counsel would enhance patients' rights.  n211 If  [*698]
patients believe that the physicians are not acting in their best interests,
counsel may be the only person whom the patients believe they can trust.  n212
It should be noted, however, that requiring immediate appointment of counsel
would place an added burden on CPCS. Therefore, the Commonwealth should provide
CPCS with sufficient funding so that it would be able to meet this demand.

   It is worthwhile to note that the Minority Report calling for a prompt
probable cause hearing was supported exclusively by patient advocates and
representatives.  n213 This may signal a fundamental clash of perspectives on
what should be the goals of emergency commitment procedures.  n214 Whereas the
Majority Report balances the clinical and liberty interests of patients, the
Minority Report focuses exclusively on the patient's legal rights. The primary
goal of the Minority Report appears to be to design a system that will meet the
needs of the relatively small percent of persons admitted improperly under
section 12.  n215 In doing so, it does not address the clinical needs of the
majority of patients who are properly admitted.  n216 If one looks at the
involuntary commitment process only from the perspective of the criminal justice
system, it is easy to reject the idea that liberty interests should be balanced
against clinical interests.  n217 If, however, one acknowledges the therapeutic
aspect of the involuntary commitment process, consideration of a patient's
clinical needs is essential to protecting a patient's rights.  n218

   CONCLUSION

   An emergency commitment statute should reflect the fact that the emergency
commitment process affects both liberty and clinical interests. Because the
emergency commitment process deprives persons of their liberty, persons subject
to it must have a means of quickly challenging physicians' decisions to admit
them. At the same time, however,  [*699]  it must be remembered that the purpose
of the emergency commitment process is therapeutic and that the consequences of
failing to admit someone when warranted can be severe. The most effective means
of protecting these competing interests is to appoint counsel immediately and to
provide a procedure for requesting an emergency hearing when counsel or the
patient feels that the circumstances of the admission constituted a misuse of
the emergency commitment process. This would allow for fast resolution of cases
of improper commitment in which there are no clinical interests at stake. For
cases of emergency commitment that do not require emergency hearings, judicial
review within eight business days would provide protection of patients' liberty
interests and allow time for possible extra-judicial resolutions of the
involuntary commitments. Equally important, a hearing within eight business days
would provide physicians sufficient time to make informed decisions on the need
for continued commitment and, therefore, best protect patients' clinical
interests.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Civil ProcedureDeclaratory Judgment ActionsFederal JudgmentsGeneral
OverviewConstitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental RightsProcedural Due
ProcessScope of ProtectionPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental Health
ServicesCommitmentInvoluntary Commitment of Adults

FOOTNOTES:




n1  See Mitchell Zuckoff, Flawed Law Turns Patients to Prisoners: 'Section 12'
Admissions Fuel a Booming Hospital Business, BOSTON GLOBE, May 12, 1997, at A1.




n2  See id.




n3  See id.




n4  See id.




n5  See id.




n6  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n7  See id.




n8  See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12 (West 1997).




n9  See id.




n10  See id.




n11  See id. § 7(c).




n12  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n13  See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12 (West 1997).




n14  See id.




n15  See infra Parts I, II and III.




n16  See infra notes 26-78 and accompanying text.




n17  See infra notes 79-119 and accompanying text.




n18  See infra notes 120-87 and accompanying text.




n19  See infra notes 188-218 and accompanying text.




n20  See infra notes 188-218 and accompanying text.




n21  See infra notes 188-218 and accompanying text.




n22  See infra notes 188-218 and accompanying text.




n23  See infra notes 26-38 and accompanying text.




n24  See infra notes 39-78 and accompanying text.




n25  See infra notes 79-119 and accompanying text.




n26  U.S. CONST. amend. XIV, § 1. The Fourteenth Amendment states in relevant
part: "nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law. . . ." Id.




n27  See LAURENCE H. TRIBE, AMERICAN CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 664 (2d ed. 1988).




n28  See Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 332-33 (1976); TRIBE, supra note 27,
at 664.




n29  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 666.




n30  See id.




n31  Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U.S. 123, 172 (1951)
(Frankfurter, J., concurring).




n32  Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U.S. 67, 97 (1972).




n33  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 714-15.




n34  Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 334 (holding that due process does not require
evidentiary hearing prior to termination of disability benefits) (quoting
Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367 U.S. 886, 895 (1961)).




n35  See id. at 349.




n36  See id. at 324-25.




n37  See id. at 335. For a critique of the Eldridge balancing test, see TRIBE,
supra note 27, at 717-18 (arguing that adequate protection cannot be afforded by
"balancing" general interests of majority against those of individual).




n38  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 334.




n39  See Uri Aviram & Robert A. Weyer, Changing Trends in Mental Health
Legislation: Anatomy of Reforming a Civil Commitment Law, 21 J. HEALTH POL.
POL'Y & L. 771, 771-72 (1996); Mary C. McCarron, Comment, The Right to Refuse
Antipsychotic Drugs: Safeguarding the Mentally Incompetent Patient's Right to
Procedural Due Process, 73 MARQ. L. REV. 477, 480-81 (1990); Clifford D.
Stromberg & Alan A. Stone, Statute: A Model State Law on Civil Commitment of the
Mentally Ill, 20 HARV. J. ON LEGIS. 275, 275-78 (1983).




n40  See McCarron, supra note 39, at 480-81. For a discussion of the uses and
effects of psychotropic drugs, see Elizabeth Symonds, Mental Patients' Rights to
Refuse Drugs: Involuntary Medication As Cruel and Unusual Punishment, 7 HASTINGS
CONST. L.Q. 701, 704-11 (1980).




n41  See MICHAEL L. PERLIN, MENTAL DISABILITY LAW: CIVIL AND CRIMINAL 4 (1989);
Aviram & Weyer, supra note 39, at 781-84; Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at
276.




n42  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 276.




n43  See id. at 277.




n44  See ROBERT M. LEVY & LEONARD S. RUBENSTEIN, THE RIGHTS OF PEOPLE WITH
MENTAL DISABILITIES 71 (1996).




n45  See, e.g., Lessard v. Schmidt, 349 F. Supp. 1078, 1091 (E.D. Wis. 1972).




n46  See French v. Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. 1351, 1356 (M.D.N.C. 1977), aff'd
mem., 443 U.S. 901 (1979); Logan v. Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. 1265, 1268 (D. Conn.
1972), aff'd sub nom. Briggs v. Arafeh, 411 U.S. 911 (1973). United States
Supreme Court summary decisions are binding on lower courts. See Hicks v.
Miranda, 422 U.S. 332, 344-45 (1975).




n47  See Project Release v. Prevost, 722 F.2d 960, 975 (2d Cir. 1983).




n48  See Lessard, 349 F. Supp. at 1091.




n49  See id. at 1082, 1091.




n50  See id. at 1082.




n51  See id.




n52  See id. at 1090.




n53  See Lessard, 349 F. Supp. at 1091.




n54  See PERLIN, supra note 41, at 213.




n55  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268.




n56  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268; LEVY &
RUBENSTEIN, supra note 44, at 71. But see PERLIN, supra note 41, at 214 (sharp
split over question of constitutional right to preliminary hearing not settled
entirely by Supreme Court's summary affirmance in Blackburn).




n57  See Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268.




n58  See id. at 1266-67.




n59  See id. at 1267-68.




n60  See id. at 1268.




n61  See id. at 1269.




n62  See Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1269.




n63  See id.




n64  See id.




n65  See id. at 1270.




n66  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356.




n67  See id. at 1353.




n68  See id. at 1355.




n69  See id.




n70  See id.




n71  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356.




n72  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974; Donahue v. Rhode Island Dep't of
Mental Health, 632 F. Supp. 1456, 1470 (D.R.I. 1986) (upholding
constitutionality of statute providing for involuntary commitment of alcoholics
for 10 days without judicial hearing); In re Z.O., 484 A.2d 1287, 1291 (N.J.
Super. Ct. App. Div. 1984) (upholding constitutionality of 27-day commitment
prior to hearing).




n73  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974.




n74  See id. at 963.




n75  See id. at 974, 975.




n76  See id. at 974-75.




n77  See id. at 975 (quoting Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418, 431 (1979)).




n78  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974.




n79  See, e.g., Commonwealth v. Johnson, 650 N.E.2d 1257, 1260 n.5 (Mass. 1995);
ROBERT F. WILLIAMS, STATE CONSTITUTIONAL LAW: CASES AND MATERIALS 68 (1988);
Mark R. Sullivan, Due Process, 27 RUTGERS L.J. 1051, 1053, 1055 (1996).




n80  I was first exposed to many of the ideas in the following sections during
meetings of the Massachusetts District Court's ad hoc committee to review
section 12, for which I served as a research assistant. See infra notes 139-41
and accompanying text.




n81  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 335.




n82  See Minority Report of the Ad Hoc Committee to Review G.L. ch. 123, § 12,
at 3-4 (Oct. 21, 1997) (unpublished, on file with author) [hereinafter Minority
Report] ("The administrative burdens, if any, of this concurrent approach are
simply outweighed by the compelling considerations of shorter involuntary
admissions, greater protection of individual rights, and closer adherence to the
dictates of the Constitution.").




n83  See id. at 1.




n84  See Lessard, 349 F. Supp. at 1090.




n85  See Shoshana's Psychiatric Survivors' Guide, (visited Jan. 30, 1998)
<http://www.harborside.com/home/e/equinox/glossary/htm>. A former patient
defines involuntary commitment as


     an unconstitutional and horrifyingly abused legal process by which --
     in the absence of any destructive activity, and on nothing more than
     the word of a single [mental health professional] -- a [person] can be
     stripped of his civil rights and imprisoned in a psychiatric facility,
     with no form of recourse whatsoever, in most states for a period up to
     72 hours.

See id.




n86  See Lessard, 349 F. Supp. at 1090.




n87  See id. at 1089; Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3; JUDI CHAMBERLIN, ON
OUR OWN: PATIENT-CONTROLLED ALTERNATIVES TO THE MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM 70, 75, 83
(1978).




n88  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 666.




n89  See id.




n90  See id.




n91  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1355; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1269; Donald
H. J. Hermann, Barriers to Providing Effective Treatment: A Critique of
Revisions in Procedural, Substantive, and Dispositional Criteria in Involuntary
Civil Commitment, 39 VAND. L. REV. 83, 94-95 (1986).




n92  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974-75; Hermann, supra note 91, at 94.




n93  See Hermann, supra note 91, at 93-95, 106.




n94  See id.




n95  See id.




n96  See id.




n97  See Thompson v. Commonwealth, 438 N.E.2d 33, 37 (Mass. 1982). In Thompson,
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts upheld chapter 123, section 9(b) of
the Massachusetts General Laws, which authorized persons who have been found
guilty of a criminal charge and committed to the state psychiatric hospital to
apply for discharge. See id. at 34. The statute provided for a prompt judicial
hearing. See id. at 35. The trial court granted the Commonwealth's motion for
summary judgment of the plaintiff's application filed pursuant to section 9(b).
See id. On appeal, the plaintiff argued that due process required the burden to
rest on the Commonwealth in section 9(b) proceedings. See id. In concluding that
allocating the burden of proof to the applicant was constitutional, the court
reasoned, in part, that placing the burden on the Commonwealth would result in
intolerable fiscal and administrative burdens because there would be no
effective means of disposing of or discouraging the filing of frivolous
applications by litigious patients. See id. at 37. The court further reasoned
that psychiatrists would be forced to spend substantially more time preparing
for and attending judicial hearings instead of caring for patients, and that
funds that could be spent for treatment and care of patients would be spent in
conducting numerous adversary hearings. See id. The court, concluded, therefore,
that placing the burden of proof on the applicant in section 9(b) proceedings
did not violate due process. See id.




n98  See id.




n99  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 348; Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37; Report of the Ad
Hoc Committee to Review G.L. ch. 123, § 12, at 6 (Oct. 21, 1997) (unpublished,
on file with author) [hereinafter Majority Report].




n100  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 348; Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37; TRIBE, supra
note 27, at 715.




n101  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 348; Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37; TRIBE, supra
note 27, at 715.




n102  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 348; Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37; TRIBE, supra
note 27, at 715.




n103  See Hermann, supra note 91, at 94-95.




n104  See id.




n105  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 324.




n106  See id.




n107  See id. This argument is consistent with a study of commitment hearings
scheduled in the Cambridge District Court. See infra notes 115-18 and
accompanying text.




n108  See Letter from Hon. Jonathan Brant, Justice, Cambridge District Court, to
Hon. Maurice Richardson, Dedham District Court 2 (July 21, 1997) (on file with
author) [hereinafter Brant].




n109  See CHAMBERLIN, supra note 87, at xiv.




n110  In Susan Rockwell's case, for example, improper commitment deprived her of
her liberty unjustifiably and proved detrimental to her mental health. See supra
notes 1-6 and accompanying text.




n111  See supra notes 1-6 and accompanying text.




n112  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 718.




n113  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 1.




N114  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 718.




n115  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3 n.4. The referenced study was
conducted by Hon. Jonathan Brant, Justice, Cambridge District Court and member
of the Committee. See Brant, supra note 108, at 1. Judge Brant reviewed all
petitions for commitment filed under sections 7 and 8 in Cambridge District
Court during the period from January 1, 1996 to July 15, 1997 -- a total of 289
cases. See id. Slightly fewer than one-third of these petitions actually reached
a hearing. See id. Of the cases that did not reach a hearing, more than half of
the patients were discharged. See id. Thus, approximately 38% of patients were
discharged between the first and 24th day after their admission. See id. Adding
the roughly five percent of patients who were discharged as a result of
petitions for commitment being denied, it appears that 43% of patients were
discharged on or before the 24th day after admission. See Brant, supra note 108,
at 1. Judge Brant noted that these data reflect only the percentage of persons
released after a petition for commitment has been filed and that a significant
percentage of persons admitted under section 12 would have been released without
any petition ever having been filed. See id.




n116  See id.




n117  See id.




n118  See id.




n119  See Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37.




n120  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n121  See infra notes 123-38 and accompanying text.




n122  See infra notes 139-87 and accompanying text.




n123  See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12 (West 1997). Section 12 states in
relevant part:

     (a) Any [qualified] physician . . . who after examining a person has
     reason to believe that failure to hospitalize such person would create
     a likelihood of serious harm by reason of mental illness may restrain
     or authorize the restraint of such person and apply for the
     hospitalization of such person for a ten day period at a public
     facility or at a private facility authorized for such purposes. . . .
     If an examination is not possible because of the emergency nature of
     the case and because of the refusal of the person to consent to such
     examination, the physician, qualified psychologist or qualified
     psychiatric nurse mental health clinical specialist on the basis of
     the facts and circumstances may determine that hospitalization is
     necessary and may apply therefore. In an emergency situation, if a
     physician, qualified psychologist or qualified psychiatric nurse
     mental health clinical specialist is not available, a police officer,
     who believes that failure to hospitalize a person would create a
     likelihood of serious harm by reason of mental illness may restrain
     such person and apply for the hospitalization of such person for a ten
     day period. . . . (b) Only if the application for hospitalization
     under the provisions of this section is made by a physician
     specifically designated to have the authority to admit to a facility
     in accordance with the regulations of the department, shall such
     person be admitted to the facility immediately after his reception. If
     the application is made by someone other than a designated physician,
     such person shall be given a psychiatric examination by a designated
     physician immediately after his reception at such facility. If the
     physician determines that failure to hospitalize such person would
     create a likelihood of serious harm by reason of mental illness he may
     admit such person to the facility for care and treatment.
     . . . .
     (d) A person shall be discharged at the end of the ten-day period
     unless the superintendent applies for a commitment under the
     provisions of sections seven and eight of this chapter or the person
     remains on a voluntary status.

See id.




n124  Id. § 12(a).




n125  See id. § 12(b).




n126  See id. § 12(d).




n127  See id. §§ 7(c), 12(d).




n128  See id. §§ 7(c), 12(d). When enacted in 1970, section 12 required that
hospitals notify district courts of all emergency commitments and provide
evidence that hospitalization was needed to avoid serious harm. See Zuckoff,
supra note 1, at A1. If the evidence was "shaky," an immediate hearing was
required. See id. In 1971, this provision was deleted from the statute. See id.




n129  See id. See generally CONN. GEN. STAT. ANN. § 17a-502(d) (West 1998)
(person detained has right to request hearing that shall be held within 72
hours, excluding weekends and holidays); LA. REV. STAT. ANN. tit. 28 § 53.D.
(West 1998) (person confined has right to demand hearing that shall be held
within five days); N.Y. MENTAL HYG. LAW § 9.39(a) (McKinney 1998) (patient may
request hearing that shall be held not more than five days after such request is
received).




n130  See LEVY & RUBENSTEIN, supra note 44, at 68-72; Hermann, supra note 91, at
92.




n131  See Don Aucoin & Mitchell Zuckoff, Reform of Emergency Committals Urged
Lawmakers Push for Patient's Rights After Series Exposes Abuses of Law, BOSTON
GLOBE, May 13, 1997, at B1.




n132  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n133  See id.




n134  See id.




n135  See id.




n136  See id.




n137  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n138  See id.




n139  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 1.




n140  See id. The members of the Committee were: Paul Barreira, M.D., Deputy
Commissioner for Clinical & Professional Services, Department of Mental Health;
Hon. Jonathan Brant, Justice, Cambridge District Court; Doris Carreiro, Esq.,
Assistant General Counsel, Department of Mental Health; Robert Fleischner, Esq.,
Center for Public Representation; Stan Goldman, Esq., Director of Mental Health
Litigation, Committee for Public Counsel Services; Hon. Timothy Hillman, First
Justice, Worcester District Court; Jennifer Honig, Esq., Mental Health Legal
Advisors' Committee; Catherine Mahoney, Esq., Deputy General Counsel, Beth
Israel-Deaconess Medical Center; Michael C. Miller, M.D., Director of Ambulatory
Services, Department of Psychiatry, Beth Israel-Deaconess Medical Center, East
Campus; Thomas O'Hare, Esq., Legal Counsel, Newton-Wellesley Hospital; Hon.
Maurice H. Richardson, First Justice, Dedham District Court (Chair); Linda
Sahovey, R.N., M.S.N., Clinical Director, Boston Emergency Services Team; Steven
Schwartz, Esq., Center for Public Representation; Paul Summergrad, M.D., Chief
of Inpatient Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital. See id. at attachment.
Liaison, District Court Department was John C. Connors, Esq., Deputy Court
Administrator and the Staff Liaison was Marilyn Wellington, Esq., Director of
Forensic Legal Services, Department of Mental Health. See id.




n141  See id. at 2.




n142  See id. at 1.




n143  See id. at 2.




n144  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 5.




n145  See id. at 2-3.




n146  See id. at 3.




n147  See id. The Committee also proposed that section 12(e) be amended to
require immediate appointment of counsel. See id. Section 12(e) provides that a
district court judge -- after a hearing on a petition and the issuance of a
warrant of apprehension, if necessary -- may order the 10-day involuntary
hospitalization of a person who represents a likelihood of serious harm as a
result of mental illness. See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12(e).




n148  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 3.




n149  See id. at 3-4.




n150  See id.




n151  See id. at 4.




n152  See id.




n153  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 4.




n154  See id. at 5.




n155  See id. at 4.




n156  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 1.




n157  See id.




n158  See id.




n159  See id.




n160  See id.




n161  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 2.




n162  See id.




n163  See id.




n164  See id.




n165  See id.




n166  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3.




n167  See id.




n168  See id.




n169  See id.




n170  See id.




n171  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3.




n172  See id.




n173  Majority Report, supra note 99, at 6.




n174  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3.




n175  See id.




n176  See id. at 2 n.4.




n177  See French v. Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. 1351, 1356 (M.D.N.C. 1977), aff'd
mem., 443 U.S. 901 (1979); Logan v. Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. 1265, 1268 (D. Conn.
1972), aff'd sub nom. Briggs v. Arafeh, 411 U.S. 911 (1973); see also Hicks v.
Miranda, 422 U.S. 332, 344-45 (1975) (United States Supreme Court summary
decisions are binding on lower courts).




n178  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268.




n179  See Project Release v. Prevost, 722 F.2d 960, 974, 975 (2d Cir. 1983).




n180  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 5.




n181  See id. at 3-4.




n182  See id. at 5.




n183  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974, 975.




n184  See id. at 974-75; Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp.
at 1268.




n185  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 1.




n186  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Lessard v. Schmidt, 349 F. Supp.
1078, 1091 (E.D. Wis. 1972); Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268.




n187  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268. The
Minority Report stated that "in a series of consistent constitutional decisions,
numerous federal courts held that states must provide a prompt probable cause
hearing after a person is involuntarily detained." Minority Report, supra note
82, at 1. In support of this statement, the report cited Lessard and Cannon v.
Garland County, 948 F. Supp. 1368 (W.D. Ark. 1996). See id. In Cannon, the
United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas held that an
Arkansas involuntary commitment statute that allowed a hearing to be held up to
11 days after admission violated constitutional due process requirements. See
Cannon, 948 F. Supp. at 1369, 1380. The Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals later
vacated the district court's decision, however, because it concluded that the
plaintiff lacked standing. See Cannon v. Garland County, 141 F.3d 1167, 1998 WL
172612, at *1 (8th Cir. 1998) (unpublished disposition).




n188  See Hermann, supra note 91, at 94-95.




n189  See id.




n190  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 5.




n191  See id.




n192  See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12(d).




n193  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 324.




n194  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 5.




n195  See id. at 4.




n196  Some people who have been involuntarily committed, however, believe that
hearings should be held at courthouses. On April 7, 1998, the Massachusetts
legislature's Joint Committee on Human Services and Elderly Affairs held a
hearing on a bill to revise section 12. The bill incorporated all of the
proposals of the Majority Report. See H.R. 5402, 180th Leg., 2d Spec. Sess.
(Mass. 1998). At the hearing, several persons who had been involuntarily
committed testified that commitment hearings should be held at courthouses. See
An Act to Reform the Civil Commitment Process for Persons with Mental Illness:
Hearing on H.R. 5402, 180th Leg., 2d Spec. Sess. (Mass. 1998) (statement of Judi
Chamberlin). For example, Judi Chamberlin, an advocate for persons with mental
disabilities who was once involuntarily committed herself, stated that hearings
held in hospitals do not make impressions on patients as being judicial process.
See id. Ms. Chamberlin testified that patients want "their day in court." See
id.




n197  See Thompson v. Commonwealth, 438 N.E.2d 33, 37 (Mass. 1982) (expressing
concern about demands judicial hearings place on psychiatrists' time).




n198  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 324.




n199  See id.




n200  See id.; Brant, supra note 108, at 1.




n201  See Brant, supra note 108, at 1 (estimating approximately five percent of
patients discharged as a result of petitions for commitment being denied); see
also Kenneth L. Appelbaum, M.D. & William H. Fisher, Ph.D., Judges' Assumptions
About the Appropriateness of Civil and Forensic Commitment, PSYCHIATRIC
SERVICES, May 1997, at 711. A survey of Massachusetts district court judges
asked if they ever "felt concerned that the mental health system might
inadequately treat or prematurely discharge a patient" who had been civilly
committed. Id. Fifty-four judges, 93.1% of those who responded, acknowledged
having concerns about the adequacy of treatment or confinement in the civil
mental health system. See id. Although this survey does not relate directly to
the likelihood of a judge's denying a commitment petition, it does provide some
insight into judges' views of the commitment process.




n202  See Brant, supra note 108, at 1.




n203  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 324.




n204  See Project Release v. Prevost, 722 F.2d 960, 974 (2d Cir. 1983); Majority
Report, supra note 99, at 3-4.




n205  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 3-4.




n206  Cf. Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37 (noting intolerable fiscal and
administrative burdens that would result if there were no means of disposing or
discouraging filing of frivolous applications pursuant to MASS. GEN. LAWS ch.
123, § 9(b)).




n207  See Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 348 (1976); Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at
37.




n208  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 3.




n209  See supra notes 1-6 and accompanying text.




n210  See supra notes 1-6 and accompanying text.




n211  See CHAMBERLIN, supra note 87, at 39.




n212  See id.




n213  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 1. The introductory paragraph of
the Minority Report states: "Several members of the Committee strongly disagree
with the recommendations of the majority. These members are all representatives
and advocates for persons with mental disabilities." Id.




n214  See id.




n215  See id. at 2. The Minority Report criticized the emergency hearing process
proposed by the Majority Report because its purpose was "restricted to
correcting obvious abuses in the emergency detention process, rather than
providing a judicial forum for all involuntarily detained persons for the
constitutionally-required determination of probable cause." Id.




n216  See Hermann, supra note 91, at 94-95, 106.




n217  See id.




n218  See id.


                              436 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1984 Florida State University Law Review.

                        Florida State University Law Review

                                  SUMMER, 1984

                           12 Fla. St. U.L. Rev. 339

LENGTH: 14013 words

COMMENT: THE MEDICAL STAFF PRIVILEGES PROBLEM IN FLORIDA

NAME: Thomas Katheder

TEXT:
 [*339]  I.  Introduction

   It is now well recognized that a physician's access to a hospital for the
health care of his or her patients is indispensable in view of the enormously
expensive equipment, continually upgraded medical technology, and professional
support staff available in the modern hospital.  n1 Medical staff privileges at
one or more hospitals or similar health care facilities are essential to the
professional and economic survival of most physicians, particularly specialists.
n2 Indeed, one author, a physician-lawyer, remarked that "[a] physician without
privileges is almost certain to become a physician without patients."  n3
Consequently, when staff privileges are denied, terminated, or suspended,
physicians fight back with a vengeance by bringing suits against the hospital,
its governing board, and even their own peers on the hospital's medical staff.
n4 These suits occur  [*340]  in the form of actions alleging state  n5 and
federal  n6 antitrust violations, substantive and procedural due process errors,
n7 defamation,  n8 federal civil rights violations,  n9 conspiracy,  n10 breach
of contractual obligations,  n11 and tortious interference with contractual and
business relationships,  n12 among many other theories of recovery and relief.

   The threat of these suits, which are now well established in voluminous case
law and legal literature,  n13 significantly deters most hospitals from taking
any adverse action with respect to the medical privileges of one of their staff
without well-grounded and verifiable justification.  But the concomitant
exposure to suits by aggrieved  [*341]  former patients blaming the hospital for
its negligent review or retention of an impaired or inadequate physician forces
the hospital into the treacherous, if untenable, position of having to navigate
between potentially monstrous liabilities reminiscent of Scylla and Charybdis.
n14

    [*342]  The purpose of this comment is to explore the medical staff
privileges controversy in Florida, which hitherto has not been examined in any
comprehensive manner.  This is truly unfortunate, particularly because certain
recent Florida decisions regarding medical staff privileges are patently
incorrect and in direct contravention of Florida statutory law, as we shall see.
This analysis of the medical privileges problem in Florida will include numerous
useful references to authorities addressing certain troublesome aspects of this
problem in other jurisdictions, not only by way of comparison, but also with a
view towards assisting the practitioner whose usual metier is not what could be
described under the amorphous ascription: "hospital law."

   II.  Background: Public-Private Distinction

   The traditional rule in most jurisdictions has been that a "public" hospital
is constrained by, among other things, substantive and procedural due process
requirements in dealings with its medical staff, while a "private" hospital, so
long as it does not violate its own internal bylaws,  n15 is free to take
adverse action against the privileges of one of its medical staff essentially at
will.  n16 In West  [*343]  Coast Hospital Association v. Hoare,  n17 the
Florida Supreme Court accepted the following distinction between private and
public hospitals:

   A private hospital is one founded and maintained by private persons or a
corporation, the state or municipality having no voice in the management or
control of its property or the formation of rules for its government.  . . .  A
hospital . . . endowed by the government for general charity is a public
corporation; and a public hospital may be defined in general as an institution
owned by the public and devoted chiefly to public uses and purposes.  n18

   With this definition in mind, the court in Hoare recognized that a private
hospital may in reality be supported by state and local funds and that it is an
entity affected with a public purpose, but the court concluded nevertheless
that, absent legislative enactment, the governing authorities of private
hospitals have virtually unbridled discretion to grant and control the
privileges of their medical staffs.  n19 Similarly, the Third District Court of
Appeal, in Monyek v. Parkway General Hospital, Inc.,  n20 rejected a physician's
[*344]  argument that a private hospital could be considered "quasi-public" and
hence not immune from judicial review with respect to its medical staff
decisions.  Following the supreme courts' lead in the Hoare decision, the Monyek
court refused to deem a private hospital as quasi-public even in the face of
allegations that fifty percent of the hospital's patients received Medicare
benefits and that part of the land used by the hospital was donated by the City
of North Miami Beach.  n21

   Even when the Florida courts do consider a hospital a public institution, and
therefore subject to substantive and procedural due process, hospital boards are
regarded as having "great discretion" in dealing with medical staff privileges:
n22

   Usually, the [public] hospital's discretion is limited only by the
constitutional requirement that the standards for privileges be reasonably
related to furthering the goal of providing high quality patient care, that the
power of the hospital not be exercised in an unreasonably arbitrary and
capricious manner and that the decisions of the hospital be subject to judicial
review.  n23

   In affording substantial deference to public hospital boards in their
decisions concerning medical privileges, the Florida Supreme Court in particular
has staunchly followed a posture which could well be described by the oft-quoted
injunction: "Courts must not attempt to take on the escutcheon of Caduceus."
n24 Early decisions emphasized that the mere fact that a given hospital was
public rather than private conferred no special right of access upon taxpaying
citizen-physicians,  n25 and that medical practice in public hospitals was a
"privilege rather than a right."  n26 The supreme court's last pronouncement in
this area held that public hospitals are essentially exempt from the usual
requirement that professional or occupational licensing authorities have precise
and specific standards of competency and of review.  By way of explanation
[*345]  for this broad latitude, the court stated: "Detailed description of
[physician misconduct] is concededly impossible, perhaps even undesirable in
view of rapidly shifting standards of medical excellence and the fact that a
human life may be and quite often is involved in the ultimate decision of the
board."  n27

   It should be noted that while Florida courts have supported a sharp
public-private distinction among hospitals, other jurisdictions have departed
from this rule, largely because of judicial distaste for the seemingly excessive
and hence potentially unfair power private hospitals have over their medical
staffs.  A few states, most notably California,  n28 Hawaii,  n29 and New
Jersey,  n30 have refused to follow this distinction and, consequently, subject
medical staff decisions of private hospitals to thorough judicial scrutiny.

   California courts, for instance, abolished the public-private distinction
based upon their interpretation of legislative enactment and what is apparently
a California common law notion that a private entity lacks absolute discretion
to deprive one of a substantial right.  n31

   The Supreme Court of New Jersey, on the other hand, looked to that state's
common law to deem a private hospital "quasi-public." The court stated in
Greisman v. Newcomb Hospital: [W]hile the managing officials [of a private
hospital] may have discretionary powers in the selection of the medical staff,
those powers are deeply imbedded in public aspects, and are rightly viewed, for
policy reasons . . ., as fiduciary powers to be exercised reasonably and for the
public good.  n32

   Other courts have followed the lead of California, New Jersey, and Hawaii in
finding that private hospitals, given their public functions and public funding,
are really quasi-public and hence subject to judicial review in their dealings
with their medical staffs.  n33 Some courts, expressly under the influence of
the growing  [*346]  minority of jurisdictions abandoning the public-private
dichotomy, have adopted what amounts to a hybrid approach between absolute
discretion and quasi-public status, thereby subjecting the private hospital to
limited judicial review typically to ensure that professional criteria are
neither imposed nor applied arbitrarily, capriciously, or unreasonably.  n34

   Although the specific reasons offered by the jurisdictions which have
abandoned the public-private dichotomy vary somewhat in scope and character,
n35 all appear to share a fundamental recognition that the absoluteness inherent
in such a dichotomy is unrealistic and Manichaean because

   in this modern era of technical and therefore expensive health care, it is
almost impossible for a hospital to be completely private in its ownership,
operation and funding.  Government grants are necessary for the survival of the
modern hospital and the concommitant [sic] regulation by the government is
increasingly pervasive.  It is this local, state and federal assistance and
involvement with formally private hospitals that provides the basis on which a
court could decide that public involvement has become so great that the private
hospital should be subjected to public treatment.  n36

    [*347]  A phenomenon directly related to judicial recognition of the fallacy
behind the public-private distinction was the appearance during the 1970's of
state and particularly federal  n37 court decisions holding that certain
characteristics of private hospitals, especially heavy state and federal
funding,  n38 rendered them state actors for purposes of the fifth and
fourteenth amendments.  This state action designation in turn implicated due
process guarantees in decisions by private hospitals on medical privileges.
Thus, for instance, until very recently the rule in the Fourth Circuit was that
the mere receipt of Hill-Burton funds  n39 constituted state action such that
otherwise private hospitals must act in accordance with federal precepts of due
process.  n40 But this perception of the constitutional impact of Hill-Burton
and similar funding has been rejected in every other federal circuit that has
confronted the issue, and the former view of the Fourth Circuit  n41 is almost
certainly incorrect in  [*348]  light of the United States Supreme Court's
holdings in Rendell-Baker v. Kohn  n42 and Blum v. Yaretsky,  n43 which were
both decided by the Court on the same day.

   In Blum, the Court looked at private nursing homes participating in a state
program which provided Medicaid assistance to eligible people receiving care in
those homes.  The Court held that although a substantial ream of state and
federal regulations controlled the program, the private nursing homes were not
state actors with respect to their internal decisions regarding the variable
levels of eligibility of those receiving nursing care.  n44 The Supreme Court
also noted that the decision to discharge or to refer the patients to lower
levels of care was a medical judgment which could not be attributed to the state
because it was rendered "in accordance with professional canons of ethics,
rather than dictated by any rule of conduct imposed by the State."  n45 This
remark bears significant relevance for the governing boards of private hospitals
, which are typically composed of laymen who rely heavily on the advice and
recommendations of the hospital's medical staff in their decisions affecting
medical privileges.

   In Rendell-Baker, the receipt by a privately operated school for maladjusted
high school students of public funds accounting for at least ninety percent of
its operating budget did not transform the school into a person acting under
color of state law.  n46 Not surprisingly,  [*349]  federal court decisions
since Blum and Rendell-Baker have soundly rejected assertions that private
hospitals receiving huge amounts of state and federal funding are either acting
under color of state law or operating as state entities under the mandates of
the fourteenth amendment.  n47

   III.  Florida Statutory Imposition of JCAH Standards

   A.  Outline of the JCAH

   In 1975, the Florida legislature enacted section 395.065, Florida Statutes,
which set forth the criteria by which the medical staff of any licensed hospital
could control the staff privileges of its members.  n48 This  [*350]  statute's
current version, section 395.0115, with minor changes from the original,  n49
authorizes the governing board of any "licensed facility" (hence including both
private and public hospitals) to "suspend, deny, revoke, or curtail the staff
privileges" of any physician for "good cause" after considering the
recommendations of its medical staff.  n50 The statute then gives nonexclusive
illustrations of "good cause," which include: incompetence, habitual and
dangerous addiction to intoxicants or drugs, an adjudication of medical
malpractice liability, and mental or physical impairment.  n51 The procedures
required for both public and private hospitals in taking adverse action with
respect to staff privileges "shall comply with the standards outlined" by, among
other organizations, the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals (JCAH).
n52 Finally, subdivision 2 of section 395.0115 immunizes the hospital, its
governing board and its individual members, and the medical staff or other
disciplinary body "for any action taken in good faith and without malice in
carrying out the provisions of this section."  n53 We shall hold any discussion
of this immunity; for now, let us proceed to briefly review the JCAH.

    [*351]  The JCAH is a private, nonprofit corporation founded in 1951 which
provides accreditation services primarily for public and private hospitals but
also for other health related facilities.  n54 JCAH accreditation is
theoretically voluntary, and the JCAH does not view accreditation as a scheme of
public regulation, but rather regards itself as a private quality control
consultant paid by and responsible to the health care industry.  n55 The
hospital or other facility must request of its own volition an accreditation
survey by the JCAH staff, who analyze and record the survey results and then
recommend their decision for or against accreditation to a subcommittee of the
JCAH Board of Commissioners, the organization's governing body.  n56 JCAH
accreditation follows only upon the facility's substantial compliance with JCAH
standards overall, although a facility need not comply substantially with every
JCAH standard.  n57 As Professor Jost explains, JCAH accreditation is only
voluntary in the de jure sense, since "hospital accreditation is either
explicitly or implicitly a requirement for participation in many private or
public licensing, certification and financing programs."  n58 Specifically, for
instance, JCAH accreditation essentially results in automatic qualification,
referred to as "deemed" certification status, of a health care facility for
participation in the Medicare program, thus supplanting the requirement
otherwise for state health departments to survey hospitals in order to assess
their compliance with Medicare regulations.  n59

   Similarly, according to Professor Jost, thirty-eight states have, "to varying
degrees," also "incorporated JCAH standards or accreditation decisions into
their licensing programs for health care institutions."  n60 Florida is one of
these states which specifically accommodates JCAH hospital standards in the
state's hospital licensing program.  Section 395.006, for example, requires the
Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services (HRS) to "accept, in
lieu of its own periodic inspections for licensure, the survey  [*352]  or
inspection of an accrediting organization"  n61 (which by statutory definition
includes the JCAH  n62 ), so long as the facility's accreditation is not
provisional and provided that the facility releases and sends to HRS the
accreditation organization's survey.  n63 In sum, the JCAH is a private entity
which has had and continues to have "a significant impact on the development of
institutional medical care in America, and continues to play a major role in
determining the nature of that care."  n64

   B.  JCAH Medical Staff Standards and Due Process

   We may now ask just what is meant by the Florida statutory mandate that the
"procedures" used for adverse action vis-a-vis a physician's staff privileges
must comply with the "standards outlined" by the JCAH.  n65 The standards
outlined by the JCAH are those found in the now annually updated JCAH
Accreditation Manual for Hospitals and the procedures used are those revealed in
the Manual's chapter entitled "Medical Staff."  n66 The chapter on the Medical
Staff is notable for its distinct lack of anything resembling a model code of
staff bylaws, something formerly attempted by the JCAH but since abandoned.  n67
In fact, the chapter on the Medical Staff for the 1985 edition of the
Accreditation Manual for Hospitals is somewhat more general and abbreviated
where due process-like standards are concerned than its immediate predecessor in
the 1984 edition.  n68 However, the fundamental demands of a fair hearing, basic
evenhandedness among the medical staff, and openness about requisite
professional criteria and the internal  [*353]  structures of the medical staff
-- hallmarks of due process-like requirements -- are still solidly maintained in
the 1985 chapter.  The applicants for medical staff privileges or the staff
physician may not, for instance, be treated arbitrarily: "Professional criteria
specified in the medical staff bylaws and uniformly applied to all applicants or
medical staff members constitute the basis for granting initial or continuing
staff membership."  n69 Moreover, the professional criteria used in assessing
the abilities and background of the medical staff applicant or member must be
reasonably related to the primary JCAH goal of providing high quality patient
care and they must be nondiscriminatory:

   (a) The criteria are designed to assure the medical staff and governing body
that patients will receive quality care.

   (b) The criteria pertain to, at the least, evidence of current licensure,
relevant training and/or experience, current competence, and health status.

   (c) The criteria may also pertain to other reasonable qualifications, such as

   (1) the ability of the hospital to provide adequate facilities and supportive
services for the applicant and his patients;

   (2) patient care needs for additional staff members with the applicant's
skill and training;

   (3) current evidence of adequate professional liability insurance; and

   (4) the geographic location of the applicant.

   (d) Sex, race, creed, or national origin are not used in making decisions
regarding medical staff membership.  n70

   Applications for medical staff appointments must be "acted on within a
reasonable period of time" and the final decision by the governing body on each
application must also be made within "a reasonable period of time." Following an
adverse decision or recommendation regarding an applicant's request for initial
appointment, accredited hospitals must have a "mechanism . . . defined in the
governing body or the medical staff bylaws" for "appropriate action, including a
fair hearing."  n71 These same rules apply to those physicians not necessarily
seeking membership on the medical staff but rather clinical privileges at the
hospital.  n72

    [*354]  The JCAH protections apply, of course, not only to initial
applicants but also to current members of the medical staff, whose bylaws must
"include provisions for at least the following":

   2.  Fair-hearing and appellate review mechanisms, which may differ for
medical staff members and other individuals holding clinical privileges and for
applicants for such membership or privileges.

   3.  Mechanisms for corrective action, including indications and procedures
for automatic and summary suspension of an individual's medical staff membership
and/or clinical privileges.

   4.  A description of the organization of the medical staff, including
categories of medical staff membership, when such exist, and appropriate officer
positions, with the stipulation that each officer is a member of the medical
staff.  The bylaws define

   a) the method of selecting officers;

   b) the qualifications, responsibilities, and tenures of officers; and

   c) the conditions and mechanisms for removing officers from their positions.

   . . . .

   6.  A mechanism designed to assure effective communication among the medical
staff, hospital administration, and governing body.

   7.  A mechanism for adopting and amending the bylaws, rules and regulations,
and policies of the medical staff.

   . . . .

   9.  Medical staff representation and participation in any hospital
deliberation affecting the discharge of medical staff responsibilities.  n73

   By way of comparing and contrasting these JCAH standards with the
requirements of federal due process, one feature in particular of the required
bylaw characteristics listed above is the recognition that "fair-hearing and
appellate review mechanisms . . . may differ for medical staff members and other
individuals holding clinical privileges and for applicants for such membership
or privileges."  n74 In this context, "differ" obviously means less in the way
of due process-like requirements.  The question arises whether this "lesser"
standard of JCAH protection for initial applicants is the same or some different
level of procedural protection which must  [*355]  be afforded an initial
applicant who is rejected by the governing board of a public hospital subject to
the due process constraints of the fifth or fourteenth amendments.  In answering
this question, we begin with the United States Supreme Court's decision in Board
of Regents v. Roth.  n75

   In Roth, a nontenured state university instructor was not rehired, allegedly
because of his vociferous criticism of university practices.  Before considering
Roth's constitutional claims, the Court announced its now familiar standard that
the state action at issue must have deprived Roth of a protected liberty or
property interest, since fourteenth amendment due process guarantees extend only
to those state actions which can be said to deprive one of "life, liberty, or
property."  n76 Violation of a protected liberty interest requires the real
possibility of serious damage to one's individual standing and associations in
his or her community or the imposition of a stigma which would foreclose his or
her freedom to pursue other employment opportunities.  n77 The Court ruled that
because the university made no charge against Roth to damage his community
standing or to stigmatize him in such a way as to foreclose future employment,
Roth therefore had no liberty interest at stake.  n78 Meanwhile, the issue of
whether he had a property interest involved in his employment rested in turn
upon whether it could be said that his contract with the university conferred
upon him certain "specific benefits" arising to the level of a "legitimate claim
of entitlement" to them, regardless of his subjective, "unilateral
expectations."  n79 Since the provisions of Roth's employment contract called
for termination after one year of teaching service without any promise or
suggestion of reappointment, the Court found that there was no specific benefit
and hence no legitimate claim of entitlement to reemployment.  Therefore, there
was no infringement of any property interest upon the university's refusal to
renew the appointment.  n80 Nor did the Court find, apart from the express terms
of the contract, any informal policy or understanding between Roth and the
university regarding reappointment.  n81

    [*356]  In two subsequent decisions, a majority of the Court agreed that a
protected property interest is implicated if the terms of employment provide
that the employee may only be discharged for cause,  n82 but not where the
employee holds his or her position "at the will and pleasure" of the public
employer.  n83 And as regards the protected liberty interest, the Court arguably
narrowed the scope of the Roth decision to the extent that it held in Paul v.
Davis  n84 that reputation alone is not constitutionally protected.  Davis holds
that the protected liberty interest is confined rather to state action which
alters or extinguishes a previously recognized right or status.  n85

   A few illustrations may now be useful in applying Roth and its progeny to the
context of medical staff privileges.  For example, in Stretten v. Wadsworth
Veterans Hospital,  n86 a physician was terminated during a residency program
which he reasonably could have expected to complete given the hospital's past
practices (in other words, he was not employed "at will").  The Ninth Circuit
found that the physician had a protected property interest in his  [*357]
residency.  But where a physician-director of pathology was appointed by a
public hospital upon only an oral contract, absent any understanding of an
entitlement to termination for cause, the Eighth Circuit recently ruled that his
service contract was therefore at will, and that his termination by the hospital
consequently did not violate a protected property interest.  n87

   Since hospital bylaws usually provide that privileges are granted for a
stated term of one or two years,  n88 Stretten typifies the usual case that a
physician will normally have a legitimate expectation of continued employment
during any given term of appointment, while the situation of the physician whose
contract is utterly at will during such a term as discussed in the Eighth
Circuit opinion is somewhat unusual.  n89 Dismissal during a term of service in
which a physician has a legitimate expectation of continued employment must be
distinguished, however, from appointment and reappointment.  Following the end
of his or her specified term of staff appointment, a physician has no property
interest in renewal of appointment.  n90 Similarly, the physician as initial
applicant has no legitimate claim of entitlement and hence no property interest
n91  [*358]  because he or she has no constitutional right to practice medicine
in a public hospital,  n92 and because hospital administrators have broad
discretion to set professional criteria for those physicians whom they appoint
to the medical staff of the hospital.  n93

   Thus, by providing the initial applicant with a comparatively limited right
to a fair hearing and appellate review, the JCAH standards go considerably
beyond the protection of procedural due process.  But if the JCAH standards for
the medical staff purport to offer more, or at least broader, protection from an
unfair or an incorrect decision regarding a physician's staff privileges, one
might reasonably ask why these standards do not address certain specific issues
which have been litigated in staff privileges cases, such as representation by
counsel,  n94 the right to confront and  [*359]  cross-examine witnesses,  n95
notice of hearing and of charges,  n96 and possible conflicts or biases in the
composition of the governing board or medical staff tribunal which conducts a
hearing on privileges,  n97 among many others.  n98 One clear reason is that the
process  [*360]  which is due is a fluid and arguably evolving concept which is
very  [*361]  much a creature of the particular circumstances of a given case.
n99 Other than imposing broad notice and fair hearing standards, there would be
enormous difficulty and prolixity in conjuring up JCAH standards adequate to
cover all or even most of the potential specific issues that could arise once a
court decides that some process is due a physician.  Moreover, such an excessive
code would be imperious and would hardly comport with the goal of the JCAH to
set reasonable standards without requiring oppressive or even ridiculous
uniformity among the various aspects of all hospitals.  Another reason for the
brevity and generality of JCAH medical staff standards is an explicit desire on
the part of the JCAH to accommodate various differences among the diffuse case
law of different jurisdictions.  n100 For example, even among the minority of
jurisdictions which agree on the question of the quasi-public nature of the
modern private hospital, there remains significant dispute over the scope of the
physician's right to an attorney when his or her staff privileges have been or
are about to be adversely affected by the hospital.  n101 But unmistakably, the
JCAH standards on the medical staff demand that the physician receive fair and
unbiased treatment at the hands of the accredited hospital, be it public or
private.  Also, as noted previously, it purposefully avoids "technical
loopholes" in federal due process jurisprudence which, at least in some
jurisdictions, would limit the rejected physician to pursuing other remedies,
such as tortious conspiracy or antitrust.

    [*362]  IV.  The Response of Florida Courts to Statutory Imposition of JCAH
Standards

   The previous discussion impels the conclusion that the statutory imposition
of JCAH standards upon all Florida hospitals was clearly intended to overrule
the judicially created rule of absolute discretion of the private hospital to
grant, deny, or withdraw staff privileges at will.  Accordingly, we may now
evaluate whether Florida courts have understood the meaning of this statutory
mandate.

   The Second District Court of Appeal, in Moles v. White,  n102 addressed the
issue of the public-private dichotomy over one year after the passage and
effective date of section 395.065, compelling JCAH procedural standards.  n103
In Moles, two physicians who were specialists in open heart surgery applied for
medical staff privileges at the Morton F. Plant Hospital, a private institution
which was "the only facility in the Clearwater area authorized to provide open
heart surgery and supportive services."  n104 Both applicants were rejected, and
at least one of them was rejected summarily "without referral of the application
to the Credentials Committee for qualification, or to the medical staff . . .
for a recommendation."  n105 Upon rejection, the physicians sued the hospital,
its corporate owner and manager, the hospital's executive director, and three
members of its medical staff alleging "violation of state antitrust provisions,
denial of due process, restraint of trade or commerce, and breach of a fiduciary
trust and public purpose."  n106

   After dismissing their antitrust claims as not within the province of the
then current Florida antitrust statutes, the Second District also dismissed the
physicians' due process claims, relying on the Florida Supreme Court decision in
West Coast Hospital Association v. Hoare,  n107 which, it will be recalled,
affirmed the immunity of private hospitals "from adhering to the universally
recognized requirements of due process."  n108 The Moles court quoted that
portion of the Hoare decision where the Florida Supreme Court conceded that the
Florida legislature would probably have "the power and authority to regulate
private hospitals" but also noted that it  [*363]  "has not attempted to do so."
n109 The Second District then remarked, purporting to bring the Hoare decision
up to date, that "[o]ur hospital licensing laws have not been substantially
changed since before the Hoare case,"  n110 when, at least insofar as medical
staff privileges were concerned, nothing could have been further from the truth.

   It is not apparent whether the physician-appellants in Moles were aware of
section 395.065 and what it could have meant for them by providing a cause of
action to require due process-like treatment.  n111 It is, of course, fairly
arguable that the Moles court ought not be criticized too harshly for its
decision, since, with few exceptions (e.g., jurisdiction), an appellate court is
under no duty sua sponte to search out the law favorable to one side or the
other, but only to consider those arguments raised before it, and it does not
appear that the physicians even brought up the issue of section 395.065.  But
still, the Second District's loose declaration that Florida's hospital licensing
laws, particularly those dealing with the medical staff, have not changed since
before 1953 is a grossly incorrect statement which the court should have
refrained from making without sufficient knowledge of its certainty.

   The Second District repeated its grievous error in Margolin v. Morton F.
Plant Hospital Association,  n112 a case coincidentally involving the same
private hospital involved in Moles.  n113 In Margolin, a physician who was
removed from the staff of the hospital sought injunctive relief on the theory
that he had been denied procedural due process.  The Second District in a per
curiam response cited its previous opinion in Moles, along with Hoare, in noting
that the hospital was private.  n114 However, because Dr. Margolin also alleged
in his complaint that the hospital had substantially departed from its bylaws,
the Second District followed the established rule that even private hospitals
must follow their own bylaws, such that if the staff bylaws of a private
hospital provide due process-like treatment for its medical staff, these
provisions must be followed by the hospital.  n115

    [*364]  The most recent Second District opinion concerning medical staff
privileges in the context of a private hospital was Hackett v. Metropolitan
General Hospital,  n116 a case in which Dr. Hackett, a urologist, was denied
admission to the all-osteopathic medical staff of a private hospital because of
an alleged conspiracy between the hospital, through its board of trustees, and
the osteopathic physicians on its medical staff to monopolize urology practice
in favor of the one staff member practicing urology and to exclude medical
doctors from the staff for fear of their competition with osteopaths.  n117
Specifically, Dr. Hackett sued under Florida's Antitrust Act of 1980  n118 and
under the Florida law which prohibits discrimination against various medical
disciplines.  n119 The Second District ruled that Florida's antitrust laws,
which had been amended since the Moles decision, clearly encompassed restraints
upon the practice of medicine, and that Dr. Hackett's complaint was adequate to
allege a violation of section 395.0653(1), the prohibition of discrimination
against professional medical disciplines.  But the Hackett court clearly
preserved the validity of the Hoare rule which, in its words, allows private
hospitals "the right to exclude a physician . . . for any reason,"  n120 and
thus the Second District still seemed unaware that the public-private dichotomy
had been legislated out  [*365]  of existence for over seven years at the time
of its decision.  n121

   The apparently oblique message of section 395.065 was not lost upon the
Fourth District Court of Appeal, however, which delivered a highly commendable
opinion in Carida v. Holy Cross Hospital, Inc.  n122 Dr. Carida was a member of
the medical staff of Holy Cross Hospital, a private institution, who was refused
reappointment to the medical staff.  The trial court dismissed his complaint
against the hospital for compensatory and punitive damages on the authority of
the Hoare decision, notwithstanding the trial court's "apparent conclusion" that
the denial of his reappointment was occasioned by malice and effectuated through
severe procedural irregularities.  n123

   The Carida court correctly ruled that section 395.065 "did away with the
public versus private hospital distinction in denying or restricting medical
staff privileges," and accordingly the court reversed the trial court's
dismissal of the complaint.  n124 In support of this ruling, the Fourth District
quoted a portion of the then current JCAH standards on the medical staff which
then, as now, were "predicated on fairness of hearing and appellate review
mechanisms."  n125 The Carida court also noted that Florida Administrative Code
Rule 10D-28.58(2)(d), promulgated by HRS in 1977, "imposed upon all hospitals
the requirements of a hearing and thorough investigation of applications for
appointment and reappointment to medical staffs."  n126

    [*366]  Having finally extinguished the public versus private medical staff
distinction in Florida nearly a decade after section 395.065 was passed by the
Florida legislature, the Fourth District confronted the problem of that
section's grant of limited immunity, which states:

   There shall be no liability on the part of, and no cause of action of any
nature shall arise against, any hospital, hospital medical staff, or hospital
disciplinary body or its agents or employees for any action taken in good faith
and without malice in carrying out the provision of this section.  n127

   Despite this section's seemingly all encompassing language, the Carida court
construed "liability" to mean "responsibility for damages proximately resulting
from a tort" and interpreted the phrase "'cause of action of any nature,' as
referring to and limited by the word 'liability.'"  n128 Because the section
requires an allegation of malice to initially overcome the immunity, the court
recognized that to construe the section "as completely eliminating any cause of
action of any nature against a hospital which gave such inadequate notice of the
reasons reappointment was not being recommended," but which did not act
maliciously in so doing, would bear the anomalous result that any nonmalicious
action taken by a hospital adverse to the privileges of one of its staff, no
matter how arbitrary, capricious or even absurd, "would go totally unanswered."
n129 Such an interpretation was viewed by the court as anathema to Florida's
constitutional guarantee of access to the state's courts for redress of injury.
n130 Thus, the Carida court concluded that section 395.065, along with Rule
10D-28.58(2)(d), allows a physician to sue in a Florida circuit court to compel
a due process-like review of the hospital's decision regarding staff privileges.
If in such a suit the physician does not seek pecuniary damages, but merely due
process-like review, malice need not be alleged or established.  If, on the
other hand, the physician desires, in addition to the due process-like review,
compensatory or punitive damages, malice must be alleged and ultimately proved.
Presumably, a physician-claimant seeking injunctive relief to compel the private
hospital to comply with its own medical staff bylaws without  [*367]  an
attendant prayer for money damages need not allege malice.  n131

   In 1982, the Florida legislature renewed its commitment to its statutory
imposition of JCAH procedural protections by extending the "sunset" expiration
n132 date of the current version of section 395.065 until 1992.  This renewed
version of the statute appears in section 395.0115  n133 with only minor changes
in the language of section 395.065.  An additional provision, however, was added
in the 1982 legislation.  n134 The new provision exempts the "proceedings and
records of committees and governing bodies" of public hospitals from exposure to
Florida's open-government, or "sunshine," laws.  n135 By, in effect, equating
the confidentiality of a public hospital's proceedings and records pertaining to
staff privileges deliberations with the secrecy of the private hospital, section
395.0115 goes even further than its predecessor in abrogating the public-private
hospital dichotomy in Florida.

   One problem which seemed to remain after Carida was the scope of the
statutorily mandated JCAH protections.  Both section 395.065 and its current
version, section 395.0115, require "good cause" limitations on adverse action
taken by the hospital against the privileges of "any staff member," but what
about the staff applicant?  Carida  [*368]  involved the termination of a staff
member's privileges only, rather than the potential staff privileges of an
initial applicant.  This apparent gap is easily closed, however, for two
reasons.  First, both the current and former versions of the statute evince a
clear legislative intent of complete and unadulterated incorporation of JCAH
procedural standards on the medical staff, which, as previously indicated,
include procedural protections for the initial applicant.  In this regard we
might also note, by way of resort to the protean principles of statutory
construction, that the term "deny," as distinguished from the terms "suspend,"
"revoke," or "curtail," is understood to mean either a denial of staff
appointment to an initial applicant or a denial of reappointment to a physician
whose term of staff membership has expired.  n136 Second, and more convincingly,
the licensing agency charged with the interpretation and enforcement of chapter
395 -- HRS -- has through its interpretation of this statute promulgated Rule
10D-28.58(2)(d)  n137 which, as the Carida court noted, requires a "hearing and
thorough investigation of applications" for either initial appointment or
reappointment to the medical staff.  n138

   These two reasons should foreclose the question of whether the applicant for
initial appointment was intended to be included in the statutory incorporation
of JCAH procedural protections.  But even if these arguments concerning the
scope of section 395.0115 are considered unpersuasive by a Florida court, the
question is still indubitably settled by virtue of new procedural protections
for initial physician-applicants to the medical staff which were enacted by the
Florida legislature in 1982.  These protections were appended onto existing
statutory provisions prohibiting professional discrimination against osteopaths,
dentists, and podiatrists.  n139 According to the 1982 amendments, the governing
board of the hospital must now "set standards and procedures to be applied by
the licensed facility and its medical staff in considering and acting upon
applications for staff membership or professional clinical privileges."  n140
And, "[t]hese standards and procedures shall be available for public
inspection."  n141 The standards or professional criteria which are set pursuant
to this requirement must clearly be  [*369]  reasonably related to the primary
hospital goal of providing high quality patient care:

   The applicant's eligibility for staff membership or professional clinical
privileges shall be determined by the applicant's background, experience,
health, training, and demonstrated competency; the applicant's adherence to
applicable professional ethics; the applicant's reputation; and the applicant's
ability to work with others and by such other elements as may be determined by
the governing board, consistent with this part.  n142

   Finally, the hospital is now required to submit in writing its reasons for
rejection of a medical staff applicant to the "applicant's respective licensing
board,"  n143 in addition to providing these reasons for denial to the applicant
within thirty days and upon written request.  n144

   Thus, any doubt which might have arisen following Carida, as to whether the
rejected applicant for staff privileges was required to be accorded certain due
process-like protections similar to those required for staff members, has been
quite commendably resolved by these 1982 amendments.

   V.  Statutory Imposition of Procedural Protections for Physicians in Other
Jurisdictions

   Florida is not unique in requiring its hospitals to comply with JCAH
procedural standards in dealings with the medical staff.  Rhode  [*370]  Island
has a substantially similar law which requires the governing board of any
licensed hospital (hence including both public and private hospitals) to comply
with JCAH procedural standards when it seeks to "suspend, deny, revoke, or
curtail" the privilege of any staff members.  n145 Presumably Rhode Island's
statutory requirement of JCAH procedural standards served to abolish a
public-private hospital dichotomy in that state, thus resolving an issue which
the Supreme Court of Rhode Island had previously left unsettled.  n146

   The California courts, as previously discussed, adopted a common law
"quasi-public" theory of the modern private hospital, thus according physicians
at private hospitals the same procedural protections available to those staff
physicians at public hospitals.  n147 The issue then arose whether a physician
could attack an adverse privileges decision of a private hospital through the
same procedural means employed by public hospital physicians.  More
specifically, the question was whether section 1094.5 of California's Code of
Civil Procedure, a provision which established a specialized review by mandate
of certain types of administrative decisions and which appeared to apply only to
administrative decisions by governmental agencies, was applicable to challenges
lodged by private hospital physicians.  The Supreme Court of California, in
Anton v. San Antonio Community Hospital,  n148 concluded: "It would be
incongruous . . . to hold that the decisions of private hospital boards, which
are required . . . to be based upon a hearing of substantially identical scope
and purport, were to be subject to some different form of review."  n149 Of
several reasons offered in support  [*371]  of this conclusion, the Anton court
took emphatic judicial notice of JCAH procedural standards on the medical staff
and of the fact that hospitals covered by the Local Hospital District Law in
California were expressly subjected to these standards by statute, not unlike
the situation in Florida.  n150 In this regard, the court noted that "the
practical necessity of securing JCAH accreditation has the effect of insuring
that substantially all hospitals in this state, whether public or private, have
bylaws governing hearing and appellate procedures which are designed to comply
with JCAH standards. . . ."  n151 Thus, "the use of the same judicial procedure
for reviewing the adjudicatory decisions of all such hospitals" was deemed by
the Anton court to be "peculiarly appropriate."  n152

   In 1972, the New York legislature enacted a statutory scheme which, among
other things, made it an "improper practice for the governing body of a hospital
" to deny staff membership or to "curtail, terminate or diminish in any way" the
professional privileges of a physician, dentist, or podiatrist "without stating
the reasons therefor, or if the reasons stated are unrelated to standards of
patient care, patient welfare, the objective of the institution or the character
or competency of the applicant."  n153 The scheme allows an aggrieved physician
to file a complaint with the New York Public Health Council, which in turn is
required to make a "prompt investigation" of the hospital's decision.  n154 If
the Council then determines that "cause exists for crediting the allegations of
the complaint," it must notify the governing body of the hospital which rendered
the decision and direct it to review its decision.  n155

    [*372]  In Fritz v. Huntington Hospital,  n156 New York's high state court
interpreted these provisions to mean that New York's previous common law rule
n157 allowing private hospitals sole discretion to exclude physicians from their
staffs for any reason was "effectively limited."  n158 The Fritz decision
involved two osteopathic physicians who were both licensed by the State of New
York and who had both completed accredited internships.  The two applied for
staff privileges at a New York private hospital, but were denied admission to
the medical staff because neither had completed an internship or residency
program approved by the American Medical Association (AMA).  Upon their
rejection they filed a complaint with the New York Public Health Council, and
the Council found that the standards of accredited osteopathic institutions were
comparable to those institutional training programs approved by the AMA.  n159
The Council therefore concluded that the hospital's adverse decisions regarding
the two applicants were not reasonably related to the goal of high quality
patient care.  But following the Council's conclusion and order of remand and
review, the private hospital again adhered to its decision.  n160 It was at that
point that the Fritz court ruled that the physicians had standing to challenge
the hospital decision in state court, because the Council's authority to do
anything in the matter had ended.  n161 On the merits, the court ruled that the
hospital had not shouldered its burden of rebutting the Public Health Council's
findings, which were presumptively  [*373]  correct, by demonstrating that AMA
approved residencies or internships were superior to their accredited
osteopathics counterparts.  n162 The Fritz court concluded:

   By this determination we do not mean to indicate that hospitals are no longer
free to be selective or that they must accept individuals licensed to practice
medicine, regardless of competency, character or institutional objectives.
However, judicial intervention is warranted where, as here, privileges are
denied without proper foundation and without proper reason, and no challenge is
made as to the actual medical credentials and capabilities of the applicants. .
. .  n163

   VI.  Conclusion

   By virtue of statutory mandate, Florida has joined those states which,
through judicial decision or by positive law, require that members or applicants
to the private hospital medical staff receive substantially the same procedural
protections accorded the public hospital staff member or applicant.  In fact,
the required protections for the initial applicant to a private hospital
significantly exceed the scope of federal due process protection available to an
initial applicant to the public hospital, since, as we have seen, the initial
applicant seldom has a protected liberty or property interest at stake.  The
public-private dichotomy in Florida, as elsewhere, amounted to little more than
an absurd legal fiction, and it is hoped that Florida courts will interpret the
new provisions of Florida law affecting physicians and hospitals correctly, as
the Carida court has done.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationAccreditationHealthcare
LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationHospital
PrivilegesRestrictionsHealthcare LawBusiness Administration &
OrganizationJudicial ReviewGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  For an excellent discussion of the symbiotic relationship between the
physician and the hospital, see Note, Health Professionals' Access to Hospitals:
A Retrospective and Prospective Analysis, 34 Vand. L. Rev. 1161, 1179 (1981).




n2.  A useful illustration of the specialist's reliance upon access to a
well-equipped hospital is the practice of open heart surgery.  See, e.g.,
Robinson v. Magovern, 521 F. Supp. 842, 855 (W.D. Pa. 1981).




n3.  Goldsmith, The Present Status of Physician Privileges, 27 Med. Trial Tech.
Q. 121, 121 (1980).

   The physician's dependence on the hospital is apparently not something
peculiar to American health care.  See, e.g., Saltsman, Physicians' Staff
Privileges in Ontario Hospitals, 8 Ottowa L. Rev. 382, 383-84 (1976) ("[a]ccess
to hospital staff appointments is of vital importance to most physicians");
Comment, Hospital Privileges: Re Macdonald and North York General Hospital, 35
U. Toronto Fac. L. Rev. 126, 128 (1977) ("hospital affiliation has become a
professional and economic necessity for the physician").




n4.  In 1977, the Florida legislature enacted a limited statutory immunity for
"peer review" participants, referred to collectively as "medical review
committees," a designation which includes the medical staff of licensed
hospitals.  Fla. Stat. § 768.40 (1983).  The statute insulates all "health care
provider" participants on the committee from any "monetary liability" to the
extent that they act in their capacity as committee members and only so long as
they operate "without malice or fraud." The statute also bars discovery of any
material used or compulsion of any testimony given during the committee
evaluation in a subsequent civil action brought by the subject of the evaluation
and review against committee participants.  An exception may be made where the
material is otherwise available and just happened to be used in the committee
proceeding or where the testimony sought relates to matters already within the
knowledge of the particular witness.

   It should be noted that the discovery bar cannot be raised to preclude such
evidence in the trial of a federal cause of action.  Feminist Women's Health
Center v. Mohammed, 586 F.2d 530, 544 n.9 (5th Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 444
U.S. 924 (1979).

   See generally Comment, Medical Peer Review Protection in the Health Care
Industry, 52 Temp. L.Q. 552 (1979); Comment, The Legal Liability of Medical Peer
Review Participants for Revocation of Hospital Staff Privileges, 28 Drake L.
Rev. 692 (1978).




n5.  See, e.g., Hackett v. Metropolitan Gen. Hosp., 422 So. 2d 986 (Fla. 2d DCA
1982).




n6.  The United States Supreme Court very recently addressed, for the first
time, the issue of the exclusive contract for medical services in Jefferson
Parish Hosp. Dist. v. Hyde, 104 S. Ct. 1551 (1984). In Hyde, the defendant
hospital had a contract with a firm of anesthesiologists requiring all
anesthesiological services for the hospital's patients to be performed by that
firm.  Because of the exclusive contract, an anesthesiologist who applied to the
hospital's medical staff was denied admission.  Following his rejection, he sued
the hospital in federal court alleging that the exclusive contract was an
illegal tying arrangement violative of the Sherman Act.  A majority of the
Court, per Justice Stevens, refused to apply the per se rule of illegality to
the tie of otherwise separate services because the record, according to the
Court, did not convincingly demonstrate that the market power of the defendant
hospital was such that the patients in the hospital's locality were "forced" to
also purchase the contracting firm's anesthesiological services.  Id. at
1566-67. Nor did the record show in the absence of per se liability that the
challenged contract unreasonably restrained competition in the market for
anesthesiological services.  Id. at 1567-68.

   See also Cardio-Medical Ass'n v. Crozer-Chester Medical Center, 721 F.2d 68
(3d Cir. 1983); Feldman v. Jackson Mem. Hosp., 571 F. Supp. 1000 (S.D. Fla.
1983); Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 562 F. Supp. 1259 (W.D. Pa. 1983); Robinson v.
Magovern, 521 F. Supp. 842 (W.D. Pa. 1981); Drexel, The Antitrust Implications
of the Denial of Hospital Staff Privileges, 36 U. Miami L. Rev. 207 (1982);
Grad, The Antitrust Laws and Professional Discipline in Medicine, 1978 Duke L.J.
443; Heitler, Health Care and Antitrust, 14 U. Tol. L. Rev. 577 (1983); Kissam,
Webber, Bigus & Holzgraefe, Antitrust and Hospital Privileges: Testing the
Conventional Wisdom, 70 Calif. L. Rev. 595 (1982).




n7.  See, e.g., Northeast Ga. Radiological Assocs. v. Tidwell, 670 F.2d 507 (5th
Cir. 1982).




n8.  See, e.g., Brandwein v. Gustman, 367 So. 2d 725 (Fla. 3d DCA 1979).




n9.  See, e.g., Pao v. Holy Redeemer Hosp., 547 F. Supp. 484 (E.D. Pa. 1982).




n10.  See, e.g., Buckner v. Lower Fla. Keys Hosp. Dist., 403 So. 2d 1025, 1027
(Fla. 3d DCA 1981) (court said that physician's pleading was "prolix,
duplicitous, scandalous, and impertinent").




n11.  Berberian v. Lancaster Osteo. Hosp. Ass'n, 149 A.2d 456 (Pa. 1959).




n12.  Campbell v. St. Mary's Hosp., 252 N.W.2d 581 (Minn. 1977).




n13.  See, e.g., Cray, Due Process Considerations in Hospital Staff Privileges
Cases, 7 Hastings Const. L.Q. 217 (1979); Horton & Mulholland, The Legal Status
of the Hospital Medical Staff, 22 St. Louis U.L.J. 485 (1978); McCall, A
Hospital's Liability for Denying, Suspending and Granting Staff Privileges, 32
Baylor L. Rev. 175 (1980); Southwick, The Hospital as an Institution --
Expanding Responsibilities Change Its Relationship with the Staff Physician, 9
Cal. W.L. Rev. 429 (1973); Comment, Physician-Hospital Conflict: The Hospital
Staff Privileges Controversy in New York, 60 Cornell L. Rev. 1075 (1975).




n14.  Because doctors were not considered employees of the hospital but rather
independent contractors, the hospital traditionally was not liable to patients
for the negligent acts or omissions of its medical staff under the theory of
respondeat superior.  Combined with charitable immunity this notion effectively
precluded recovery against the hospital for medical malpractice.  But the
arrival of Darling v. Charleston Community Mem. Hosp., 211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill.
1965), spawned the ever increasing line of cases supporting the concept of
"corporate negligence" or institutional liability.  There are significant
differences in the theoretical bases and specific applications of corporate
negligence, but essentially the doctrine refers to the independent duty of the
hospital to use reasonable care in the selection and supervision of its medical
staff, since generally the governing board and not the medical staff or one of
its subcommittees (e.g., the credentials committee) bears the ultimate
responsibility for staff privileges decisions.  See Johnson v. Misericordia
Community Hosp., 301 N.W.2d 156 (Wis. 1981), noted in Note, Johnson v.
Misericordia Community Hospital: Corporate Liability of Hospitals Arrives in
Wisconsin, 1983 Wis. L. Rev. 453; Copeland, Hospital Responsibility for Basic
Care Provided by Medical Staff Members: "Am I My Brother's Keeper?," 5 N. Ky. L.
Rev. 27 (1978); Couch, Hospital Corporate Liability for Inadequate Quality
Assurance in Pennsylvania, 2 J. Legal Med. 14 (1980); Goldberg, The Duty of
Hospitals and Hospital Medical Staffs To Regulate the Quality of Patient Care: A
Legal Perspective, 14 Pac. L.J. 55 (1982); Rubsamen, Even More Legal Controls on
the Physician's Hospital Practice, 292 New Eng. J. Med. 917 (1975); Southwick,
The Hospital's New Responsibility, 17 Clev.-Mar. L. Rev. 146 (1968); Spero,
Hospital Liability, 15 Trial 22 (1979); Walkup & Kelly, Hospital Liability:
Changing Patterns of Responsibility, 8 U.S.F.L. Rev. 247 (1973); Note, Judicial
Recognition of Hospital Independent Duty of Care to Patients: Hannola v. City of
Lakewood, 30 Clev. St. L. Rev. 711 (1981); Comment, The Hospital's
Responsibility for Its Medical Staff: Prospects for Corporate Negligence in
California, 8 Pac. L.J. 141 (1977); Note, Hospital Corporate Liability: An
Effective Solution to Controlling Private Physician Incompetence?, 32 Rutgers L.
Rev. 342 (1979); Comment, Hospital Liability for the Negligence of Physicians:
Some Needed Legal Sutures, 26 U. Fla. L. Rev. 844 (1974); Comment, The Hospital
-Physician Relationship: Hospital Responsibility for Malpractice of Physicians,
50 Wash. L. Rev. 385 (1975).

   For a practical work with "how to do it" suggestions, see Strodel, The
Impaired Physician -- Hospital Corporate Liability, 24 Trial Law.  Guide 488
(1981).

   One author argues flatly that the courts may have imposed corporate
negligence because of the "ever-broadening 'deep pocket' theory of liability,
namely, to place the burden of liability upon the party most able to absorb it.
. . .  [T]he hospital and, therefore, its insurance carrier are more capable of
bearing the loss of malpractice cases." Stanczyk, The Hospital Dilemma -- To
Staff or Not To Staff, 25 Fed'n Ins. Couns. Q. 138, 148 (1975).  A much more
principled and somewhat less cynical criticism of corporate negligence as
applied to hospitals may be found in Comment, Piercing the Doctrine of Corporate
Liability, 17 San Diego L. Rev. 383, 400 (1980), which concludes that "[t]he
most logical defendants are those physicians [on the medical staff] who are on
actual notice of the primary defendant's incompetency." The theory of shifting
away from corporate liability of the hospital in favor of holding liable
individual members of the medical staff with actual knowledge of one of their
peers' incompetency has severe practical difficulties in Florida because of
Forster v. Fishermen's Hosp., 363 So. 2d 840 (Fla. 3d DCA 1978). In Forster, the
chief of the medical staff filed suit against the hospital to challenge the
hospital's reappointment to the medical staff of "a certain physician whose
medical staff privileges had been previously revoked for unprofessionalism and
patient neglect." Id. at 841. The Third District affirmed the trial court's
dismissal for lack of standing because the board of trustees of the hospital
bore ultimate authority and responsibility to reinstate the physician, such that
the chief of staff's individual rights were not challenged.  Id.




n15.  Even in those jurisdictions where the actions of private hospitals in
dealing with their medical staffs are not considered judicially reviewable,
private hospitals must generally still follow their own bylaws; if the bylaws of
a given private hospital accord medical staff members certain procedural
protections to which they would not otherwise be legally entitled, the hospital
must provide these protections.  See Margolin v. Morton F. Plant Hosp. Ass'n,
348 So. 2d 57 (Fla. 2d DCA 1977) (court remanded for possible injunctive relief
against private hospital which violated its bylaws); Nagib v. St. Therese Hosp.,
Inc., 355 N.E.2d 211, 213 (Ill. App. Ct. 1976); McElhinney v. William Booth Mem.
Hosp., 544 S.W.2d 216, 218 (Ky. 1976) ("whether the hospital is public or
private, it must act in accordance with its charter and by-laws").  The usual
reason for this rule is that the bylaws adopted by the medical staff and
approved by the hospital constitute a binding contract between the former and
the latter.  Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp., Inc. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483, 488 (Md.
Ct. Spec. App. 1981); Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 419 A.2d 1191, 1193 (Pa. Super.
Ct. 1981) (court held that hospitals are held to a "standard of strict
compliance" with their bylaws); St. John's Hosp. Medical Staff v. St. John
Regional Medical Center, 245 N.W.2d 472, 474 (S.D. 1976). But cf. Todd v.
Physicians & Surgeons Community Hosp., Inc., 302 S.E.2d 378, 383 (Ga. Ct. App.
1983) (hospital held to have an "absolute right to change the bylaws with
reference to the hospital's use by doctors"); Bello v. South Shore Hosp., 429
N.E.2d 1011, 1016 (Mass. 1981) ("[c]ontractual rights . . . do not arise upon an
application for membership but only when such application is accepted by the
corporation").




n16.  See, e.g., Ascherman v. Presbyterian Hosp., 507 F.2d 1103, 1105 (9th Cir.
1974); Ward v. St. Anthony Hosp., 476 F.2d 671, 675 (10th Cir. 1973); Sokol v.
University Hosp., Inc., 402 F. Supp. 1029, 1032 (D. Mass. 1975); Shulman v.
Washington Hosp. Center, 319 F. Supp. 252, 259-61 (D.D.C. 1970); Moore v.
Andalusia Hosp., Inc., 224 So. 2d 617, 619 (Ala. 1969); Edson v. Griffin Hosp.,
144 A.2d 341, 344 (Conn. Super. Ct. 1958); Todd v. Physicians & Surgeons
Community Hosp., Inc., 302 S.E.2d 378, 383 (Ga. Ct. App. 1983); Settler v.
Hopedale Medical Found., 400 N.E.2d 577, 579 (Ill. Ct. App. 1980); Yarnell v.
Sisters of St. Francis Health Serv., Inc., 446 N.E.2d 359, 361 (Ind. Ct. App.
1983); Natale v. Sisters of Mercy, 52 N.W.2d 701, 709 (Iowa 1952); Clark v.
Physicians & Surgeons Hosp., Inc., 121 So. 2d 752, 754 (La. Ct. App. 1960);
Levin v. Sinai Hosp., 46 A.2d 298, 301 (Md. Ct. App. 1946); Bello v. South Shore
Hosp., 429 N.E.2d 1011, 1015 (Mass. 1981); Hoffman v. Garden City Hosp.-Osteo.,
321 N.W.2d 810, 813 (Mich. Ct. App. 1982); Akopiantz v. Board of County Comm'rs,
333 P.2d 611, 613 (N.M. 1958); Ponca City Hosp., Inc. v. Murphree, 545 P.2d 738,
741 (Okla. 1976); Hagan v. Osteopathic Gen. Hosp., 232 A.2d 596, 600 (R.I.
1967); Strauss v. Marlboro County Gen. Hosp., 194 S.E. 65 (S.C. 1937); Nashville
Mem. Hosp. v. Binkley, 534 S.W.2d 318 (Tenn. 1976); Hodges v. Arlington
Neuropsychiatric Center, Inc., 628 S.W.2d 536, 538 (Tex. Ct. App. 1982); Khoury
v. Community Mem. Hosp., Inc., 123 S.E.2d 533, 539 (Va. 1962); State ex rel.
Sams v. Ohio Valley Gen. Hosp. Ass'n, 140 S.E.2d 457, 462 (W. Va. 1965).




n17.  64 So. 2d 293 (Fla. 1953).




n18.  Id. at 296-97 (quoting 41 C.J.S. Hospitals § 1 (1944)).  This definition
appears to be typical of those offered elsewhere in other jurisdictions.  See,
e.g., Shulman v. Washington Hosp. Center, 222 F. Supp. 59, 61 (D.D.C. 1963),
remanded on other grounds, 348 F.2d 70 (D.C. Cir. 1965).




n19.  Hoare, 64 So. 2d at 297-98. Lest the author be accused of hyperbole in the
use of the description "virtually unbridled discretion" above, the Florida
Supreme Court later itself declared the rule of private hospital control over
its medical staff as one of "absolute discretion" in North Broward Hosp. Dist.
v. Mizell, 148 So. 2d 1, 3 n.6 (Fla. 1962).




n20.  273 So. 2d 430 (Fla. 3d DCA 1973).




n21.  Id. at 432-33.




n22.  Sarasota County Pub. Hosp. Bd. v. Shawhay, 408 So. 2d 644, 647 (Fla. 2d
DCA 1981).




n23.  Id.




n24.  Sosa v. Board of Managers of Val Verde Mem. Hosp., 437 F.2d 173, 177 (5th
Cir. 1971).




n25.  Green v. City of St. Petersburg, 17 So. 2d 517, 518-19 (Fla. 1944).
Justice Chapman, concurring in Green, apparently took special solace in the
city's minimum physician competency rules: "It is clear that these rules close
the door against possible dope fiends, liquor heads, and practitioners not
qualified to perform major surgical operations." Id. at 520.




n26.  Bryant v. City of Lakeland, 28 So. 2d 106, 110 (Fla. 1946).




n27.  North Broward Hosp. Dist. v. Mizell, 148 So. 2d 1, 5 (Fla. 1962).




n28.  See, e.g., Anton v. San Antonio Community Hosp., 140 Cal. Rptr. 442,
448-52 (1977); Ascherman v. San Francisco Medical Soc'y, 114 Cal. Rptr. 681, 696
(Ct. App. 1974).




n29.  See, e.g., Silver v. Castle Mem. Hosp., 497 P.2d 564, 570 (Hawaii), cert.
denied, 409 U.S. 1048 (1972).




n30.  See, e.g., Guerrero v. Burlington County Mem. Hosp., 360 A.2d 334, 340
(N.J. 1976); Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 192 A.2d 817, 822-24 (N.J. 1963).




n31.  See Ascherman, 114 Cal. Rptr. at 695-98.




n32.  Greisman, 192 A.2d at 824 (citing Falcone v. Middlesex County Medical
Soc'y, 170 A.2d 791 (N.J. 1961)).




n33.  See, e.g., Storrs v. Lutheran Hosp. & Homes Soc'y of America, 609 P.2d 24,
28 (Alaska 1980).




n34.  See, e.g., Peterson v. Tucson Gen. Hosp., Inc., 559 P.2d 186, 191 (Ariz.
Ct. App. 1976); Hawkins v. Kinsie, 540 P.2d 345, 349 (Colo. Ct. App. 1975);
Bricker v. Sceva Speare Mem. Hosp., 281 A.2d 589, 592 (N.H.), cert. denied, 404
U.S. 995 (1971); Khan v. Suburban Community Hosp., 340 N.E.2d 398, 401-03 (Ohio
1976); Woodward v. Porter Hosp., Inc., 217 A.2d 37, 40 (Vt. 1966). But see Even
v. Longmont United Hosp. Ass'n, 629 P.2d 1100, 1103 (Colo. Ct. App. 1981) (court
stated that denial of medical staff privileges in a private hospital "is a
matter solely within the discretion of its managing authorities and is not a
proper subject of certiorari review").




n35.  Two excellent works offer well reasoned and compelling arguments in
support of common law approaches to judicial review of staff privileges
decisions by private hospitals.  See McMahon, Judicial Review of Internal Policy
Decisions of Private Nonprofit Hospitals: A Common Law Approach, 3 Am. J. Law &
Med. 149 (1977); Comment, Hospital Medical Staff: When Are Privilege Denials
Judicially Reviewable?, 11 Mich. J.L. Ref. 95 (1977).




n36.  Cray, supra note 13, at 226.  A recent publication by the Florida Hospital
Association offers the following breakdown in Florida:

   Community hospitals comprised 85.3% of Florida hospitals in 1981.  . . .
Nongovernment, not-for-profit community hospitals represented 33.7% of Florida's
hospitals and 38.5% of Florida's hospital beds.  Investor owned community
hospitals had 29% of all hospitals and 23.6% of all hospitals beds in Florida.
State and local government hospitals represented 22.6% of Florida's hospitals
and 18.3% of Florida's hospital beds.  A salient feature of Florida's hospital
industry is its healthy [no pun apparently intended] investor owned sector and
the growth that the sector has experienced from 1972 to 1981.

   Florida Hospital Association, Florida Hospitals: The Facts (2d ed. 1983).
From this very brief breakdown it is obvious that the absurdly simplistic
public-private distinction is unwarranted in Florida, notwithstanding its
perpetuation in Florida case law.




n37.  See, e.g., Schlein v. Milford Hosp., 423 F. Supp. 541, 542 (D. Conn.
1976), aff'd, 561 F.2d 427 (2d Cir. 1977) (affirming result only and disagreeing
with finding of state action).




n38.  The greatest amount of litigation concerning the question of when a
hospital is deemed to be public has revolved around the effect that the receipt
of funds under the Hospital Survey and Construction Act [42 U.S.C.A. § 291-291m
(West 1983)] has on private hospitals.  The purpose of the legislation,
popularly known as the Hill-Burton Act, is to provide states with money to
assist in the construction and modernization of public and private hospitals,
develop new and improved medical facilities and promote research.

   Cray, supra note 13, at 228-29 (footnotes omitted).

   The Hill-Burton Act was merely one component of a package of health care
legislation offered by President Truman beginning in 1946.  The major thrust of
the package was a program of national health insurance, an idea which President
Truman carried forward from the Roosevelt administration and which he
unsuccessfully sought to persuade Congress to enact during both of his terms in
office.  The American Medical Association (AMA) supported the Hill-Burton Act,
but the organization vehemently, if disingenuously, denounced national health
insurance as socialized medicine which, according to one AMA sponsored pamphlet,
would be "the keystone to the arch of the Socialist State." P. Starr, The Social
Transformation of American Medicine 285 (1982).  Indeed, in 1950 alone the AMA
"spent $ 2.25 million in its 'national education campaign' against national
health insurance." Id. at 287.




n39.  See supra note 38.




n40.  Christhif v. Annapolis Emergency Hosp. Ass'n, 496 F.2d 174, 178 (4th Cir.
1974); Simkins v. Moses H. Cone Mem. Hosp., 323 F.2d 959, 967 (4th Cir. 1963),
cert. denied, 376 U.S. 938 (1964).




n41.  The Fourth Circuit abandoned its obdurate view of the effect of
Hill-Burton funding in Modaber v. Culpeper Mem. Hosp., Inc., 674 F.2d 1023 (4th
Cir. 1982), where the court held that a private hospital which, inter alia, was
built with 55% of its construction funds coming from a Hill-Burton grant and
which accepted patients receiving Medicare and Medicaid funds, was not a state
actor for purposes of the fourteenth amendment.  Id. at 1026-27.

   All of the other federal circuits, except the First and Eleventh, which have
yet to address the issue squarely, are in accord with the revised Fourth Circuit
position.  See Loh-Seng Yo v. Cibola Gen. Hosp., 706 F.2d 306, 308 (10th Cir.
1983); Newsome v. Vanderbilt Univ., 653 F.2d 1100 (6th Cir. 1981); Hodge v.
Paoli Mem. Hosp., 576 F.2d 563, 564 (3d Cir. 1978); Musso v. Suriano, 586 F.2d
59, 62-63 (7th Cir.), cert. denied, 440 U.S. 971 (1978); Schlein v. Milford,
Inc., 561 F.2d 427, 431 (2d Cir. 1977); Madry v. Sorel, 558 F.2d 303, 305 (5th
Cir. 1977), cert. denied, 434 U.S. 1086 (1978); Briscoe v. Bock, 540 F.2d 392,
394-96 (8th Cir. 1976); Watkins v. Mercy Medical Center, 520 F.2d 894, 896 (9th
Cir. 1975).




n42.  457 U.S. 830 (1982).




n43.  457 U.S. 991 (1982).




n44.  Blum, 457 U.S. at 1002-12.




n45.  Id. at 1009.




n46.  Rendell-Baker, 457 U.S. at 839-43. Petitioner in the Rendell-Baker case, a
former counselor at the school, sued the director of the school and others under
the federal civil rights statute, 42 U.S.C. § 1983, alleging wrongful discharge
from the school in violation of her first, fifth, and fourteenth amendment
rights.  The Court held, per Chief Justice Burger, that the question of whether
the respondents acted under color of state law for purposes of § 1983 is the
"same question" posed in cases presenting the issue of state action under the
fourteenth amendment.  Rendell-Baker, 457 at 830, 837-38.

   Since Florida's own constitutional due process guarantees, Fla. Const. art.
I, § 9, are interpreted as offering merely the same and not broader protection
as their federal counterparts, the effect of the Rendell-Baker and Blum
decisions therefore controls the same issue under the state constitution.  See
South Fla. Chapter of the Assoc'd Gen. Contrs. of America, Inc. v. Metropolitan
Dade County, 552 F. Supp. 909, 928 (S.D. Fla. 1982), aff'd in part, rev'd in
part, 723 F.2d 846 (11th Cir. 1984); Florida Canners Ass'n v. Department of
Citrus, 371 So. 2d 503, 513 (Fla. 2d DCA 1979), aff'd sub nom., Coca-Cola Co.,
Food Div. v. Department of Citrus, 406 So. 2d 1079 (Fla.), appeal dismissed sub
nom., Kraft, Inc. v. Department of Citrus, 456 U.S. 1002 (1982).




n47.  Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 562 F. Supp. 1259, 1275-78 (W.D. Pa. 1983);
Taylor v. Flint Osteo. Hosp., Inc., 561 F. Supp. 1152, 1157-59 (E.D. Mich.
1983); Chico Fem. Women's Health Center v. Butte Glenn Medical Soc'y, 557 F.
Supp. 1190, 1194-97 (E.D. Cal. 1983); Pao v. Holy Redeemer Hosp., 547 F. Supp.
484, 491-92 (E.D. Pa. 1982).

   It is important to note that the Blum and Rendell-Baker decisions do not
necessarily overrule or even cast doubt on the opinions of those courts which
have ruled that private hospitals are quasi-public, see supra notes 28-35 and
accompanying text, because they, inter alia, receive Hill-Burton funds.  These
decisions are really a matter of state law dealing with such state policy
concepts as the public responsibilities of private fiduciary bodies, e.g.,
hospital boards of trustees.  See, e.g., Davidson v. Youngstown Hosp. Ass'n, 250
N.E.2d 892, 895 (Ohio Ct. App. 1969) ("the power of the [medical] staff of such
a [private] hospital to pass on staff membership applications is a fiduciary
power to be exercised reasonably and for the public good").

   Yet there is bound to be considerable confusion over this because once these
courts arrive at the quasi-public designation in order to provide private
hospital physicians with some measure of procedural protections, they invariably
speak in terms of "due process," when really no process is due at all, at least
in the federal constitutional sense.  See, e.g., Silver v. Castle Mem. Hosp.,
497 P.2d 564, 571-72 (Hawaii), cert. denied, 409 U.S. 1048 (1972). What these
courts actually mean (absent specific reliance upon state constitutional due
process guarantees broader than the fourteenth amendment), is due process-like
protections, conveniently borrowed from federal law to a designation arrived at
through a state common law policy decision.  Some courts clearly understand this
distinction.  See, e.g., Jain v. Northwest Community Hosp., 385 N.E.2d 108, 111
(Ill. App. Ct. 1978). Other courts seem utterly confounded over the difference
between analyzing the impact of Hill-Burton funding for purposes of the
fourteenth amendment and for purposes of the quasi-public designation as a
matter of state law.  See, e.g., North Valley Hosp., Inc. v. Kauffman, 544 P.2d
1219, 1221-24 (Mont. 1976); Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 419 A.2d 1191, 1194-95 (Pa.
Super. Ct. 1980).

   One very good approach for courts that wish to provide procedural protections
for private hospital physicians while avoiding the muddle over the quasi-public
analysis is to interpret the relevant state constitutional provision dealing
with due process more broadly than its federal counterparts in the fifth and
fourteenth amendments.  For a discussion of how a growing number of state courts
are finding real substance in their respective constitutions as a refreshing
alternative (which even comports with the so-called "New Federalism") to
mindlessly following federal constitutional interpretations jot for jot and case
by case, see generally Collins, Rebirth of Reliance on State Charters, Nat'l Law
J., Mar. 12, 1984, at 25.




n48.  See Fla. Stat. § 395.065 (1975) (repealed 1982).




n49.  See infra text accompanying notes 132-35.




n50.  Fla. Stat. § 395.0115 (1983) provides in relevant part:

   (1) The governing board of any licensed facility, after considering the
recommendations of its medical staff, is authorized to suspend, deny, revoke, or
curtail the staff privileges of any staff member for good cause, including, but
not limited to:

   (a) Incompetence.

   (b) Negligence.

   (c) Being found to be a habitual user of intoxicants or drugs to the extent
that he is deemed dangerous to himself or others.

   (d) Being found liable for medical malpractice by a court of competent
jurisdiction.

   (e) Mental or physical impairment which may adversely affect patient care.

   However, the procedures for such actions shall comply with the standards
outlined by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals, the American
Osteopathic Association, the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health
Care, and the "Medicare/Medicaid Conditions of Participation."

   (2) There shall be no liability on the part of, and no cause of action of any
nature shall arise against, any licensed facility, its governing body and
governing body members, medical staff, or disciplinary body, or its agents or
employees for any action taken in good faith and without malice in carrying out
the provisions of this section.




n51.  Id.




n52.  Id.  See Jost, The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals: Private
Regulation of Health Care and the Public Interest, 24 B.C.L. Rev. 835 (1983).




n53.  Fla. Stat. § 395.0115(2) (1983).




n54.  Jost, supra note 52, at 841-42.




n55.  Id. at 842-43.




n56.  Id.




n57.  Id. at 842.




n58.  Id. at 843.




n59.  Id. at 843, 852-57.




n60.  Id. at 844.  JCAH accreditation is very important for a hospital's
"standing in the professional community" and its "public image." See American
Int'l Hosp. v. Chicago Tribune, 458 N.E.2d 1305, 1308 (Ill. App. Ct. 1983) (
hospital sued the JCAH and the Tribune alleging a false report of JCAH's refusal
to accredit the hospital).




n61.  Fla. Stat. § 395.006(2)(a) (1983).




n62.  Id. § 395.002(1).




n63.  Id. § 395.006(2)(a).




n64.  Jost, supra note 52, at 923.  After an extensive overview of the JCAH, the
balance of Professor Jost's article is a critical and comprehensive analysis of
the pros and cons of private regulation of health care offered by the JCAH,
particularly from a public interest and macroeconomic perspective.




n65.  Fla. Stat. § 395.065(1) (1975).




n66.  Joint Committee on Accreditation of Hospitals, Accreditation Manual for
Hospitals 89 (1984) [hereinafter cited as Manual].




n67.  The JCAH once promulgated its Guidelines for the Formulation of Medical
Staff Bylaws, Rules, and Regulations (1971), which still is cited as
authoritative by otherwise excellent works, see, e.g., Cray, supra note 13, at
251 n.202, but which is considered obsolete by the JCAH.




n68.  The Medical Staff Standards for the 1985 edition of the Accreditation
Manual for Hospitals [hereinafter cited as Standards] were approved by the JCAH
Board of Commissioners on December 10, 1983.  See JCAH Board Approves New
Medical Staff Standards, 4 JCAH Perspectives, Jan.-Feb. 1984, at 1.




n69.  Standards, supra note 68, at 2.




n70.  Id.




n71.  Id. at 2-3.




n72.  Id. at 8-11.




n73.  Id. at 4.




n74.  Id. (emphasis added).




n75.  408 U.S. 564 (1972).




n76.  U.S. Const. amend. XIV, § 1.




n77.  Roth, 408 U.S. at 573.




n78.  Id. at 573-74.




n79.  Id. at 576-77.




n80.  Id. at 578.




n81.  In the companion case of Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U.S. 593, 599-602
(1972), the Court ruled that where Perry was rehired annually in the absence of
a formal tenure system, he nevertheless had a legitimate claim of entitlement to
renewal of his employment contract because of a de facto tenure system
predicated upon university practices and explicit understandings between the
faculty and the administration.




n82.  Six members of the Court (i.e., Justices Powell and Blackmun concurring
and dissenting, Justice White concurring and dissenting, along with Justices
Brennan, Douglas, and Marshall dissenting separately) in Arnett v. Kennedy, 416
U.S. 134 (1974), concluded that an entitlement to dismissal for cause is a
protected property interest.




n83.  Bishop v. Wood, 426 U.S. 341, 345 n.8 (1976).




n84.  424 U.S. 693 (1976).




n85.  Id. at 711-12.




n86.  537 F.2d 361, 366-67 (9th Cir. 1976). The Stretten court also held that
the physician's untimely termination, with accompanying reasons therefor, did
not, however, implicate a protected liberty interest because "[l]iberty is not
infringed by a label of incompetence," though liberty is infringed by a "stigma
of moral turpitude." Id. at 366.

   On the other hand, the Supreme Court of Washington ruled that a physician who
was terminated from a public hospital during a term of his one-year renewable
staff appointment did not have a protected property interest in the remainder of
his term of appointment.  Ritter v. Board of Comm'rs, 637 P.2d 940, 944 (Wash.
1981). The effect of the court's ruling was that Dr. Ritter was an at will
member of the medical staff notwithstanding the fact that he "could assume he
would remain a member of the hospital staff absent cause for dismissal, and he
was protected by extensive procedural protections established by the medical
staff bylaws [which were violated in his case]." Id. at 944. The majority in
Ritter cited Suckle v. Madison Gen. Hosp., 499 F.2d 1364 (7th Cir. 1974), in
support of this proposition.  But Suckle is crucially different in that the
issue of whether a property interest existed there involved a denial of
reappointment rather than termination during a term of service.  Id. at 1365.
The Suckle court concluded that absent some legitimate expectation of renewal,
such as in Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U.S. 593 (1972), the physician had no
property interest in reappointment.  The lone dissenting justice in Ritter
emphasized this crucial distinction, and it is submitted that his view is
correct on this point.  See Ritter, 637 P.2d at 951 (Dore, J., Dissenting).




n87.  Englestad v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d 262, 266 (8th Cir. 1983).




n88.  Cray, supra note 13, at 237.




n89.  Englestad, 718 F.2d at 266.




n90.  Cray, supra note 13, at 237.




n91.  Id.  Remarkably, the Fifth Circuit, after correctly noting the rule that
"physicians obtain by mere licensure no constitutional right to staff privileges
at any particular hospital," went on to assume without discussion that a thrice
rejected applicant was entitled to procedural due process following his
rejection by a public hospital.  Truly v. Madison Gen. Hosp., 673 F.2d 763, 765
(5th Cir.), cert. denied, 103 S. Ct. 214 (1982).

   Even more bizarre is the decision in Shaw v. Hospital Auth., 614 F.2d 946
(5th Cir. 1980), where the same circuit (Judge Brown was the only judge common
to both panels, however) issued a per curiam affirmance of a lower court opinion
which was in turn decided upon remand from the Fifth Circuit's earlier opinion
in Shaw v. Hospital Auth., 507 F.2d 625 (5th Cir. 1975). The Shaw cases arose
out of a denial of an application for an initial grant of staff privileges to a
podiatrist by a public hospital.  Id. at 627. The earlier Fifth Circuit opinion
held that the podiatrist "in seeking staff privileges at . . . [the] hospital,
seeks to engage in his occupation as a podiatrist and this is a [protected]
liberty interest." Id. at 628. On remand from this opinion, the lower court
"corrected" itself and stated that it was "clear in the first instance" that the
podiatrist's application invoked a liberty interest "emanating from his state
created right to practice podiatry." Shaw, 614 F.2d at 950 (lower court opinion
is appended to per curiam affirmance).

   Thus, the Shaw opinions equate a mere denial of staff privileges, without
more (and from only one hospital), as an affront to the legitimate liberty
interest to pursue one's occupation.  But the denial of the podiatrist's
application in the Shaw situation did not in any way alter or extinguish Dr.
Shaw's state created right to practice podiatry.  His license was unaffected by
the decision of the governing board of any hospital upon his mere application.
The liberty interest in pursuing one's chosen vocation discussed in the United
States Supreme Court opinion relied upon by the Fifth Circuit, Shaw, 507 F.2d at
628, dealt with a Nebraska statute which totally forbade throughout the state
the teaching in any private or public school of any language other than English
to any child who had not successfully completed the eighth grade.  Meyer v.
Nebraska, 262 U.S. 390, 397-98 (1923). As regards Dr. Shaw, the scenario
envisioned by Meyer and its progeny would occur only if, for instance, a state
examining board suspended his right to practice podiatry at any hospital.  See
Withrow v. Larkin, 421 U.S. 35 (1975); Ampuero v. Department of Prof. Reg., 410
So. 2d 213, 214 (Fla. 3d DCA 1982) (in response to the failure of the Department
to grant a doctor a hearing within six months of an order prohibiting him from
prescribing certain drugs, the court stated: "When the state undertook to
temporarily restrict the petitioner's privilege to practice medicine it had an
affirmative duty to grant a post-suspension hearing and one that would be
concluded without appreciable delay.").

   Not only was Dr. Shaw still free to practice his chosen field of podiatry, he
was already a member of the medical staff of two private hospitals at the time
he filed his complaint.  Shaw, 507 F.2d at 626. It appears, therefore, that the
Shaw cases are substantially incorrect in not distinguishing between "reduced
economic returns" and "permanent exclusion from, or protracted interruption of,
gainful employment." Stretten v. Wadsworth Veterans Hosp., 537 F.2d 361, 366
(9th Cir. 1976).




n92.  Hayman v. City of Galveston, 273 U.S. 414, 416-17 (1927).




n93.  Sosa v. Board of Managers of Val Verde Mem. Hosp., 437 F.2d 173, 177 (5th
Cir. 1971).




n94.  The Supreme Court of New Jersey has opted for what appears thus far to be
the minority view: "In view of the physician's substantial interest in
proceedings of this nature, on balance we believe that the physician should have
the right to have counsel present at mandated hospital hearings with respect to
his application for admission to the staff." Garrow v. Elizabeth Gen. Hosp., 401
A.2d 533, 542 (N.J. 1979).

   The Supreme Court of Hawaii adopted a somewhat contrary view:

   It should be within the discretion of the hospital board as to whether
counsel may attend the hearing and participate in the proceedings.
Participation by counsel would probably not be necessary unless the hospital's
attorney is used in the proceedings or the extreme nature of the charges
involved indicated that representation by an attorney would be advantageous.

   Silver v. Castle Mem. Hosp., 497 P.2d 564, 571-72 (Hawaii), cert. denied, 409
U.S. 1048 (1972). The Supreme Court of California is in accord with the Silver
view.  See Anton v. San Antonio Community Hosp., 140 Cal. Rptr. 442, 457 (1977).
Insofar as the board's discretion on this point is concerned, "[a]n abuse of
discretion should be automatically found where the physician was denied counsel
but there was a hearing officer who was an attorney since such a denial is
patently unfair." Cray, supra note 13, at 254.

   The 1984 JCAH chapter on the Medical Staff states that the medical staff
bylaws should specify "the role, if any, of legal counsel." See Manual, supra
note 66, at 99.  The 1985 Medical Staff Standards, however, are silent on the
role of the attorney.  See Standards, supra note 68, at 4.




n95.  Owing to the rule that administrative proceedings dealing with medical
staff privileges "need not be conducted as full blown trials," Christhilf v.
Annapolis Emergency Hosp. Ass'n, 496 F.2d 174, 179 (4th Cir. 1974),
cross-examination therefore "need not be a part of every hearing in order to
satisfy due process." Woodbury v. McKinnon, 447 F.2d 839, 844 (5th Cir. 1971).
"Whether [cross-examination] is required depends upon the circumstances." Id.
Thus, where the hospital board or the medical staff conducting the hearing has
no subpoena power, "there can be no right to confront and cross-examine persons
who have made adverse statements of a doctor unless such persons testify at the
hearing." Silver v. Castle Mem. Hosp., 497 P.2d at 571. See Koelling v. Board of
Trustees, 146 N.W.2d 284, 294 (Iowa 1966). Similarly, where there were no
witnesses appearing at the hearing because, for instance, it consisted of an
"informal discussion by the medical staff" of the charges against the physician,
procedural due process is not offended.  Woodbury, 447 F.2d at 844. See Kaplan
v. Carney, 404 F. Supp. 161, 164 (E.D. Mo. 1975).




n96.  Due process requires that the physician be notified that a hearing is
available to him and that such notice be timely to allow adequate defense
preparation.  Silver v. Castle Mem. Hosp., 497 P.2d at 571. See Christhilf, 496
F.2d at 177-78.

   With respect to notice of charges, written notice of specific reasons for
denial of privileges, including descriptions of a physician's recent activities,
satisfies procedural due process requirements.  A physician may not require that
notice of charges be so specific that it amounts to the pleading of evidence;
although more particularization might help the physician it is not
constitutionally required.  Truly v. Madison Gen. Hosp., 673 F.2d at 766. Thus,
where a physician was "charged in writing with lack of competence and judgment
to perform surgery and surgical procedures," accompanied by a list of the names
of specific cases and the hospital records thereto, notice of charges was
sufficient even though the physician's request for separate allegations of the
"exact nature of the fault in each case" was denied by the hospital.  Woodbury,
447 F.2d at 843-44. The courts have consistently eschewed any requirement that
the notice of charges be so exact and detailed so as to resemble, for instance,
a criminal indictment.  Id.  The question is simply whether the notice of
charges sufficiently affords the physician with an opportunity to answer and
prepare an informed defense.  See Klinge v. Lutheran Charities Ass'n, 523 F.2d
56, 62 (8th Cir. 1975); Sosa, 437 F.2d at 176; Silver v. Castle Mem. Hosp., 497
P.2d at 571; Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 419 A.2d 1191, 1193-94 (Pa. Super. Ct.
1980).




n97.  A fair hearing before an unbiased tribunal is essential to due process.
Duffield v. Charleston Area Medical Center, 503 F.2d 512, 517 (4th Cir. 1974).
In our context this means that a physician is "entitled to have his case judged
by fair minded doctors who . . . [are] able and willing to . . . decide the case
with 'good faith objectivity.'" Klinge v. Lutheran Charities Ass'n, 523 F.2d 56,
63 (8th Cir. 1975). But the physician is not "entitled to a panel made up of
doctors who had never heard of the case and who knew nothing about the facts of
it or what they supposed the facts to be." Id.  In Duffield, a physician
challenged as violative of due process the fact that certain members of the
hospital's Joint Conference Committee, which was the final arbiter of staff
privileges decisions, had also sat on the Governing Board which rendered a
decision adverse to the physician.  The court ruled that this fact alone did not
necessarily indicate unfair bias, which "must stem from an extrajudicial source
and result in an opinion on the merits on some basis other than what the judge
learned from his participation in the case." Duffield, 503 F.2d at 517. In
support of this holding, the United States Supreme Court has ruled, in a case
involving suspension of a physician's license by a state examining board, that
it is not necessarily a violation of due process for the same agency or body to
perform both an investigative hearing and then ultimately an adjudicative
hearing.  Withrow v. Larkin, 421 U.S. 35, 47-52 (1975). Participants in a later
hearing need not be disqualified "simply because they have been exposed to
evidence presented in non-adversary investigative procedures that were followed
prior to the adversary hearing." Klinge, 523 F.2d at 63. Hence, where a
physician was a witness before a medical hearing committee and was subsequently
also a member of an appellate review body passing upon a staff privileges
recommendation, there was no automatic bias shown; in fact, such illegal bias
must be affirmatively shown by the aggrieved physician alleging it.  Ritter v.
Board of Comm'rs, 637 P.2d 940, 946-47 (Wash. 1981). Similarly, in Ladenheim v.
Union County Hosp. Dist., 394 N.E.2d 770 (Ill. App. Ct. 1979), the fact that a
physician-member of the Credentials Committee assisted the hospital attorney in
the preparation of charges against an accused physician did not, absent a
showing of unfair bias from an extrajudicial source resulting in an opinion on
the merits, infringe upon the charged physician's due process rights.  Id. at
774.




n98.  An example of one surprisingly recurring problem for hospitals is the
disruptive physician.  The Ninth Circuit described this problem well:

   A hospital staff is highly interdependent, both in the sense that one doctor
depends upon the professional skill of other doctors and in the sense that the
collegial nature of the body makes tolerable working relationships an absolute
prerequisite to effective staff performance.  The necessity for a healthy
working relationship is a function of the nature of the work to be done.
Incompatible workers on farms, ranches, or in certain types of factories can
function reasonably well although even there it is doubtful that full efficiency
is achieved.  Effective performance by physicians on the staff of a hospital,
whose tasks require a high degree of cooperation, concentration, creativity, and
the constant exercise of professional judgment, requires a greater degree of
compatibility.

   Stretten v. Wadsworth Veterans Hosp., 537 F.2d 361, 368 (9th Cir. 1976).
Numerous other courts have allowed the hospital wide latitude in requiring that
the physician not be a disruptive force.  See, e.g., Truly v. Madison Gen.
Hosp., 673 F.2d at 765 n.4 (upholding reasonableness of hospital's finding of
doctor's "probable inability to work with administration and staff"); Laje v. R.
E. Thomason Gen. Hosp., 564 F.2d 1159, 1162 (5th Cir. 1977) (allowing
consideration of "ability to function smoothly in a hospital setting" as
legitimate evaluation criterion); Robinson v. Magovern, 521 F. Supp. 842, 918
(W.D. Pa. 1981) (doctor's "alleged inability to work harmoniously with his
fellow surgeons, the residents and the support personnel could have had an
impact on the hospital's effort to achieve its primary objective . . . [of]
outstanding patient care"); Schlein v. Milford Hosp., 423 F. Supp. 541, 544 (D.
Conn. 1976) ("it is entirely consistent with due process for a hospital . . . to
evaluate those personal qualities of a physician that reasonably relate to his
ability to function effectively within a hospital environment"); Ritter v. Board
of Comm'rs, 637 P.2d 940, 948 (Wash. 1981) (bylaw requirement of "ability to
cooperate and satisfactorily relate with others . . . is . . . rationally
related to the effective functioning of a hospital"); Ladenheim v. Union County
Hosp. Dist., 394 N.E.2d 770, 776 (Ill. Ct. App. 1979) (physician's "inability to
work with other members of the hospital staff was in itself sufficient grounds
to deny him staff privileges"); Theissen v. Watonga Mun. Hosp. Bd., 550 P.2d
938, 940 (Okla. 1976) ("problems in getting along with other members of the
Staff" constitute sufficient basis to deny staff privileges); Huffaker v.
Bailey, 540 P.2d 1398, 1400 (Or. 1975) ("ability to work smoothly with others is
reasonably related to hospital's object of ensuring patient welfare").  But see
Miller v. Eisenhower Medical Center, 166 Cal. Rptr. 826, 837 (1980), where the
Supreme Court of California took a much more restrictive view, and said that
rejection of an otherwise qualified physician from the medical staff was
precluded

   unless it can be shown that [a physician] manifests an inability to "work
with others" in the hospital setting which, by reason of its particular
character, presents a real and substantial danger that patients treated by him .
. . might receive other than a "high quality of medical care" if he were
admitted to membership.




n99.  In Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319 (1976), Justice Powell, writing for
the majority, set out the three factors which must be considered in deciding
what particular elements of process are due:

   First, the private interest that will be affected by the official action;
second, the risk of an erroneous deprivation of such interest through the
procedures used, and the probable value, if any, of additional or substitute
procedural safeguards; and finally, the Government's interest, including the
function involved and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the additional
or substitute procedural requirement would entail.

Id. at 335.




n100.  Telephone interview with Dr. Becker of the JCAH Staff on Standards (Mar.
11, 1984).




n101.  See supra note 94.




n102.  336 So. 2d 427 (Fla. 2d DCA 1976).




n103.  See Fla. Stat. § 395.065(1) (1975) (repealed 1982).




n104.  Moles, 336 So. 2d at 429.




n105.  Id.




n106.  Id.




n107.  64 So. 2d 293 (Fla. 1953). See supra notes 17-19 and accompanying text.




n108.  Moles, 336 So. 2d at 429.




n109.  Id.




n110.  Id.




n111.  The Moles court dismissed the other contentions of the physicians having
to do with their restraint of trade and quasi-public arguments.  Id. at 429-31.




n112.  348 So. 2d 57 (Fla. 2d DCA 1977).




n113.  Indeed, the private hospital involved in both the Moles and Margolin
decisions was, incredibly, the same hospital involved over a generation earlier
in the Hoare opinion.




n114.  Margolin, 348 So. 2d at 57.




n115.  See supra note 15.




n116.  422 So. 2d 986 (Fla. 2d DCA 1982).




n117.  Id. at 987.




n118.  Fla. Stat. ch. 542 (1981).




n119.  Fla. Stat. § 395.0653 (1981).  This section was originally enacted in
1979 to abrogate prior holdings which allowed even public hospitals to
discriminate against osteopaths, podiatrists, or dentists in staff privileges
decisions merely on the basis of prejudice against these professions per se.
See Richardson v. City of Miami, 198 So. 51 (Fla. 1940); Taylor v. Horn, 189 So.
2d 198 (Fla. 2d DCA 1966).

   Section 395.0653, as amended up to 1981, prohibited any hospital from
refusing to grant staff or clinical privileges "solely because" the applicant
was licensed as an osteopath, dentist, or a podiatrist.  Fla. Stat. §
395.0653(1) (1981).  Moreover, hospitals were required to consider each
applicant, whether medical doctor or podiatrist, for instance, "on an individual
basis pursuant to criteria applied equally to all other disciplines." Id. §
395.0653(2).  The term "disciplines" refers to "different fields of licensure
rather than the narrower classifications within one of the disciplines."
Sarasota County Pub. Hosp. Bd. v. Shahawy, 408 So. 2d 644, 646 (Fla. 2d DCA
1982). Thus, requiring a medical doctor who is not board certified by the
American Board of Cardiovascular Diseases to demonstrate the higher standard of
being "unusually qualified" because of the applicant's lack of certification is
not discriminatory within the meaning of this statute because board
certification refers to a classification within the discipline of doctor of
medicine.  Id.

   These prohibitions against professional discrimination were carried over by
the 1982 Florida legislative session into the new statute, Fla. Stat. § 395.011
(1983).  This new section expanded the protection given to professional
disciplines in several respects, which shall be discussed above in the text.




n120.  Hackett, 422 So. 2d at 988.




n121.  The Third District Court of Appeal demonstrated its awareness of §
395.065 in Buckner v. Lower Fla. Keys Hosp. Dist., 403 So. 2d 1025, 1028 (Fla.
3d DCA 1981). But the Buckner case involved a physician's suit against a public
hospital, and therefore the issue of the intended effects of § 395.065 upon the
public-private dichotomy did not arise.




n122.  427 So. 2d 803 (Fla. 4th DCa 1983).




n123.  Id. at 805. The procedural irregularities stemmed from the hospital's
blatant failure to follow its own bylaws as well as from certain alleged due
process violations in the form of insufficient notice and denial of
cross-examination.




n124.  Id.




n125.  Id. (footnote omitted).




n126.  Id. at 806 (footnote omitted).  HRS, as the statutorily designated
"licensing agency" for ch. 395, Florida Statutes, titled "Hospital Licensing and
Regulation," Fla. Stat. § 395.01(4) (1977), promulgated Fla. Admin. Code R.
10D-28.58(2)(d) pursuant to its rulemaking authority accorded by Fla. Stat. §
395.07 (1977).  The rule requires:

   Review of all applications for appointment and annual reappointment to all
categories of the medical staff, and recommendations on each to the hospital's
governing authority, including delineation of privileges to be granted in each
case, and right of hearing and appeal.  Recommendation to the governing body for
withdrawal of any privileges of a member of the medical staff or dismissal from
the medical staff will be made only after a thorough investigation by the
medical staff or a committee thereof, with the subject member being given the
right of hearing before the medical staff or a committee thereof.




n127.  Fla. Stat. § 395.065(2) (1975).




n128.  Carida, 427 So. 2d at 806 n.6.




n129.  Id.




n130.  Id.  See Fla. Const. art. I, § 21.




n131.  Cf. Palm Beach-Martin County Medical Center v. Panaro, 431 So. 2d 1023
(Fla. 4th DCA 1983) (court recognized the right of injunctive relief against a
private hospital to compel compliance with its own bylaws, citing Carida, with
no mention of necessity of pleading malice).




n132.  See Fla. Stat. §§ 11.61, 395.0115 n.1 (1983).




n133.  Fla. Stat. § 395.0115 (1983).




N134.  Fla. Stat. § 395.0115(3) (1983) states:

   The proceedings and records of committees and governing bodies which relate
solely to actions taken in carrying out the provisions of this section shall not
under any circumstances be subject to inspection under the provisions of chapter
119; nor shall meetings held pursuant to achieving the objectives of such
committees and governing bodies be open to the public under the provisions of
chapter 286.




n135.  See Fla. Stat. chs. 119, 286 (1983).  Fla. Stat. § 395.0115(3) (1983)
will have a preemptive effect on future decisions which might otherwise have
followed the lead of Gadd v. News-Press Pub. Co., 412 So. 2d 894 (Fla. 2d DCA
1982). The Gadd ruling allowed a newspaper to have access to the personnel files
of present and past physicians at a public hospital, as well as access to the
minutes and other documents relating to the activities of the hospital's
utilization review committee of the medical staff, all pursuant to ch. 119,
Florida Statutes.  The Second District rejected the hospital's argument that the
statutory imposition of JCAH standards forbade such access because those
standards require confidentiality.  The Second District, which as we have seen
has been impervious to the message of § 395.065, concluded: "Simply requiring
compliance with the standards of the JCAH, in our opinion, does not create an
exemption or confidentiality 'provided by law.'" Gadd, 412 So. 2d at 896
(emphasis in original).




n136.  See Cray, supra note 13, at 236-38; McCall, supra note 13, passim.




n137.  See supra note 126.




n138.  Carida, 427 So. 2d at 806.




n139.  See supra note 119.




n140.  Fla. Stat. § 395.011(4) (1983).




n141.  Id.




n142.  Id. § 395.011(3).




n143.  Id. § 395.011(5).  The requirement that the hospital report its reasons
for denial to the applicant's licensing board seems to dovetail with the
separate statutory requirement that hospitals must report the "suspension or any
other disciplinary action" taken by the hospital, its medical staff, or peer
review group against a member of the medical staff.  See id. § 458.337.

   With respect to the earlier discussion in note 91 (concerning the fact that a
mere rejection by a public hospital of an initial applicant for staff
privileges, without more, did not infringe upon the applicant's liberty interest
to pursue his or her chosen occupation), it was emphasized that, absent some
sort of charge, the applicant's license to practice medicine was unaffected by
the rejection of any given hospital.  But the requirement of § 395.011(5) that
the reasons for denial must be submitted to the applicant's licensing board
would seem to directly affect the status of his or her license.  Hence, it would
also infringe upon a protected liberty interest such that if a mere rejection by
a public hospital in Florida, notwithstanding the statutory due process-like
protections now in place, did not previously implicate procedural due process
because the requisite infringement upon the applicant's liberty interest was
lacking, it now seems almost certain that a mere rejection in Florida of such an
application implicates a protected liberty interest per se.




n144.  Id. § 395.011(5).




n145.  R.I. Gen. Laws § 23-17-23 (1979 & Supp. 1983).




n146.  Hagan v. Osteopathic Gen. Hosp., 232 A.2d 596, 600 (R.I. 1967).




n147.  See supra notes 28 & 31 and accompanying text.




n148.  140 Cal. Rptr. 442 (1977).




n149.  Id. at 450 (emphasis in original).  The situation in Florida at this
juncture is very similar to the one which was addressed in Anton.  That is, to
the extent that even though the public-private dichotomy has been abolished
where the right to procedural protections is concerned, there are still two
distinct methods of challenging a hospital's adverse privileges decision,
depending upon whether it is a private or public institution.  Since public
hospitals are not considered administrative agencies within the meaning of
Florida's Administrative Procedure Act, see Fla. Stat. § 120.52 (1983) and
Siddeeq v. Tallahassee Mem. Hosp., 364 So. 2d 99, 100 (Fla. 1st DCA 1978), the
quasi-judicial decisions of their governing boards affecting one's staff
privileges are usually challenged in the state courts by means of a common law
writ of certiorari in the circuit court.  Fla. R. App. P. 9.030(c).  The circuit
court's scope of certiorari review is to determine whether the hospital's
governing board departed from the essential requirements of law and whether its
decision was supported by competent substantial evidence.  De Groot v.
Sheffield, 95 So. 2d 912, 915-16 (Fla. 1957); McCray v. County of Volusia, 400
So. 2d 511, 512 (Fla. 5th DCA 1981). The decision of the circuit court reviewing
the quasi-judicial decision of the governing board is in turn reviewable by the
district court of appeal also through a writ of certiorari, and not by way of
appeal.  City of Deerfield Beach v. Vaillant, 419 So. 2d 624, 626 (Fla. 1982);
Fla. R. App. P. 9.030(b)(2)(B).

   Because both the Carida decisions and the 1982 statutory amendments affecting
physician-applicants to the medical staff are so recent, the procedural methods
for review of a decision of the governing board of a private hospital with
respect to staff privileges are still uncertain.  Presumably such review will be
by way of a suit for injunctive relief and/or damages filed within the original
jurisdiction of the circuit court and not by means of the discretionary writ of
certiorari.  It is of course possible, however, that the Florida Rules of
Appellate Procedure regarding common law writs of certiorari could be construed
as covering the quasi-judicial decisions of private hospital governing boards,
similar to the conclusion reached on the same issue in Anton.




n150.  Anton, 140 Cal. Rptr. at 451.




n151.  Id.




n152.  Id. at 452.




n153.  N.Y. Pub. Health Law § 2801-b(1) (McKinney 1977 & Supp. 1983).




n154.  Id. § 2801-b(2) to (3).




n155.  Id.




n156.  384 N.Y.S.2d 92 (1976).




n157.  See, e.g., Leider v. Beth Israel Hosp. Ass'n, 227 N.Y.S.2d 900 (1962);
Van Campen v. Olean Gen. Hosp., 147 N.E. 219 (N.Y. 1925). In an unusual case the
common law barrier could be set aside where both the economic necessity of the
privileges to the physician and the monopoly power of the hospital were
demonstrated.  See Salter v. New York State Psychological Ass'n, 248 N.Y.S.2d
867 (1964); Moss v. Albany Medical Center Hosp., 403 N.Y.S.2d 568 (App. Div.
1978).




n158.  Fritz, 384 N.Y.S.2d at 96.




n159.  Id. at 95.




n160.  Id.




n161.  In a subsequent case, the New York Court of Appeals refined its view of
the procedural requirements of § 2801-b.  If, upon remand from the Public Health
Council, the hospital still maintains its adverse position regarding the
applicant's request for staff privileges, the next step for the physician is to
file an action pursuant to N.Y. Pub. Health Law § 2801-c (McKinney 1977 & Supp.
1983) "to enjoin the hospital from discriminating against or unjustly denying
professional privileges or staff membership in violation of section 2801-b of
the Public Health Law." Cohoes Mem. Hosp. v. Department of Health, 424 N.Y.S.2d
110, 113 (1979). In the injunction action, the lower court reviews the
privileges controversy de novo in a hearing in which the findings of the Public
Health Council are admissible "only to the extent that [they serve] as prima
facie evidence of any fact or facts found therein." Id. at 113. It is only at
this point that the § 2801-c hearing decision is subject to appellate review at
the request of either the hospital or the physician.  Id.




n162.  Fritz, 384 N.Y.S.2d at 98.




n163.  Id. at 98-99.


                              437 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday

Nurses, other employees picket St. Bernardine Medical Center

BYLINE: Jim Steinberg, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Health

LENGTH: 495 words


SAN BERNARDINO - Chanting "some cuts don't heal" and "this is about patient
care," about 100 nurses and other employees of St. Bernardine Medical Center and
Community Hospital of San Bernardino picketed Thursday morning over what they
said will be staffing and procedural changes that take effect Sunday night.

The protest was held in front of St. Bernardine Medical Center. Many of the
protesters were members of the California Nurses Association-National Nurses
United.

Layoffs were not on the list of concerns voiced by the group.

Rather, it was a decision to shift all nighttime nurse's aides to the day shift,
leaving registered nurses at night to pick up the aides' duties as well as their
own.

Another concern was a new procedure that would require RNs from the floor to
leave their post and take patients from the emergency room, said Carol Koelle, a
charge nurse on a floor with heart patients.

"This is a 30-minute trip and it means that other RNs will need to cover
additional patients and their own," Koelle said.

In a statement Thursday, hospital officials said, "We are disappointed by the
California Nurses Association decision to conduct informational picketing at St.
Bernardine Medical Center and regret any inconvenience this might cause our
patients, physicians and staff.

"Our hospital places the care and safety of our patients first at all times. St.
Bernardine Medical Center, like all Dignity Health hospitals, represents a vital
source of care in our communities. We will continue to provide excellent care
our patients expect and the hospital will remain open with all services
available to meet the needs of the communities we serve.

"St. Bernardine Medical Center and our parent company, Dignity Health, value our
employees and the contributions they make to our patients and community.

"We remain eager and willing to resolve contract issues in a respectful and
professional manner.

"St. Bernardine and Community Hospital meet all mandated staffing levels, as
required by the state of California," said Kimberly VandenBosch, director of
marketing, communications and political advocacy.

Leslie Curtis, a California Nursing Association labor representative for the two
hospitals, said "we want to have the time to be able to take care of our
patients. We want to be able see if there is something wrong."

In December, a spokesman for the two hospitals said the long economic recession
and the subsequent increase in uninsured patients, coupled with cuts to
government insurance programs and declining patient counts, were forcing some
difficult staffing decisions.

Several nurse's aides said Thursday morning that they were concerned that their
hours would be cut with so many working daytime shifts.

"I think management has the mistaken idea that all patients do at night is
sleep," said Patricia Woods, a nursing aide at Community Hospital.

Both St. Bernardine and Community Hospital are owned by San Francisco-based
Dignity Health.

Reach Jim @JSteinbergsRoad.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: About 100 nurses and other hospital employees picketed St. Bernardine
Medical Center early Thursday morning protesting what they said will be staffing
and procedural changes that take effect Sunday night. (Jim Steinberg/staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              438 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Weekend Australian

                    June 14, 2003 Saturday Preprints Edition

Women GPs shun practice in the bush - Rural & Remote Health:NSW

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Daniel Gaffney

SECTION: FEATURES-COLUMN- HEALTH; Pg. C21

LENGTH: 604 words


THE decline of GP numbers in the bush is symptomatic of many problems facing
country communities.

The shortage stems largely from widespread "generational" issues affecting
Australia's workforce and specific disincentives affecting rural and remote
areas.

The latest figures from the NSW Rural Doctors Network list 110 unfilled GP
positions in NSW, of which 80 per cent are in rural and remote locations.

"The average age of rural doctors is increasing and many have brought forward
retirement plans because of uncertainty about medical indemnity insurance,"
Australian Medical Association NSW branch president Dr Choong-Siew Yong says.

While ageing male doctors move into early retirement the rising proportion of
young female doctors -- now 60 per cent of medical graduates -- is compounding
the shortfall of medicos in the bush.

According to new Australian Bureau of Statistics figures, 46 per cent of doctors
aged under 35 are women, and most are reluctant to live in country areas.

As a result only 21 per cent of women GPs work in the bush.

"Like other professions, there are more doctors who want to work part-time,
which further reduces the number of available doctors," Yong says. "For doctors
contemplating a move to country areas, the career aspirations of their spouse or
partner is more important than it was in the past -- another generational
issue."

NSW Rural Doctors Association president Dr Sue Page says women doctors tend to
do less well in the country than men.

"(They) are less likely to work full-time and less likely to do procedural work
in hospitals, and most country practices are only financially viable because
they have a hospital appointment," she says. "But if you're a part-time female
GP with family commitments then you don't necessarily want to be on call for a
24-hour shift at the hospital every second night."

Dr Page believes the higher costs of setting up and running a general practice
in the bush are another disincentive.

"There are a number of costs which are significantly greater in the country,"
she says. "An obvious one of those is the amount of resuscitation equipment you
need.

"If you're in the city, you're going to be close to an ambulance station, so you
don't have the need for a defibrillator machines or resuscitation gear.

"In the country, you might not have an ambulance station in your town, let alone
close to your surgery, so you have to purchase all this equipment."

While medical workforce numbers in the bush continue to haemorrhage -- and with
fewer doctors prepared to bolster the shortfall -- domestic and international
factors are exacerbating the problem.

"There's now an international market in doctors and Australia, like all Western
countries, is running short," Yong says.

"As a result we're actively recruiting overseas doctors to work in rural and
remote areas while overseas nations are actively recruiting to take our doctors
away."

As a result, nearly 3000 Australian doctors are overseas citizens on short-term
working visas, a number that has increased by 400 per cent in the last decade.

"There's been a fall in the number of medical graduates over the last 10 to 15
years, and a conscious decrease in the number of medical school places funded by
the federal Government," Yong says.

"What's more, in regional areas there is less scope now for GPs to do procedural
work like obstetrics or surgery because more specialists are moving into
regional centres.

"For a long time, this procedural work was an important source of job
satisfaction for GPs in the bush, but now it's under threat."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              439 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Duluth News-Tribune (Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

'A huge change' for St. Luke's

BYLINE: John Lundy, Duluth News Tribune

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 795 words


Aug. 05--St. Luke's hospital is relentless in promoting its slogan: "The patient
above all else."

But the Duluth hospital hasn't been able to give patients and their families the
best experience when it comes to operations and procedures, acknowledged Toni
Schultz, director of surgical services.

"It's one big room with curtains dividing it," Schultz said about the
preoperative and postoperative facilities. "It's a lot of up and down for
families. Our family waiting area isn't on the same level as the patients. On
average, six times your family is up and down to see you."

It's a highly charged atmosphere, she said, lacking the privacy and quiet that
patients and their families crave on a stressful day.

All of that will change dramatically on Monday, St. Luke's administrators and
physicians say, when the hospital's expanded surgical and procedural care unit
opens on the fourth level of what the hospital simply calls Building A.

"For our patients, it's going to be a huge change," said Dr. Mary Boylan, a
cardiothoracic surgeon at St. Luke's.

Added Schultz: "We want to give you a quiet, private, peaceful place where you
can hold your loved one's hand."

Schultz and radiology services director Scott Studden showed off the $22.5
million expansion on Tuesday, ahead of an open house today for the
36,000-square-foot facility.

Among other features, hospital administrators are touting:

--Forty-two private pre-op and post-op rooms where family members will be able
to sit with their loved ones in virtually soundproof conditions.

--Free parking immediately adjacent to Building A, just one level below the
surgical center.

--Bedside registration for patients.

--Four suites for endoscopy procedures, one for special procedures and four
universal operating rooms, all state of the art.

Then there's the hybrid operating room, a first in the Northland, Studden said.

At 1,200 square feet, it's "bigger than some of the apartments I lived in when I
was training," Boylan said.

The centerpiece of the cathedral-like space is a $1.5 million Siemens Artis
Zeego, a robot-assisted imaging system that gives the physician
three-dimensional images of the patient's anatomy, Studden said.

Modeled after robots used in automobile manufacturing, the German-engineered
machine provides "super high-quality imaging at a low radiation dose," he said.

The space is designed for minimally invasive procedures, but with the
flexibility to allow the patient to be operated on surgically if that becomes
necessary, he said.

Now, when radiological procedures take place, Schultz has to keep an operating
room open in case it's needed, she said.

"So if they ran into trouble, they would have to wrap their patient up, put them
in an elevator and take them up four flights," she said. "Now we can open right
here. I have uber versatility here."

A control room that looks like something out of NASA faces the hybrid operating
room. Radiology technicians will sit at monitors there, converting data into
images that will simultaneously appear on their screens and in the operating
room. On the other side, a second enormous room one day will be a second hybrid
operating room, Studden explained.

All told, the first hybrid room cost nearly $4 million to equip, he said.

Because of the improved facilities, St. Luke's will be able to perform some
procedures that were sent elsewhere in the past, Studden said.

Added Boylan: "These rooms are designed with that multi-specialty approach to
treat the patient. It's something we couldn't do before."

It will be an improvement for surgeons, who now will be working in
state-of-the-art facilities, she said. It will be an improvement for staff,
because the new facility is designed with convenience in mind.

It especially will be an improvement for patients.

"Right now we see our patients before surgery ... and they're in a big room with
curtains separating one patient from another," Boylan said. "And now everyone
will have their own personal space. We as physicians are very happy to see
that."

Patients will enter surgery in a better frame of mind, she said.

In Boylan's view, it will bring the hospital's physical plant to the level of
care already provided by its doctors and staff, she said.

"It is the launching pad, I think, for St. Luke's for the future," Boylan said.
"This is the foundation that we need in order to keep growing."

If you go:

What: Open house for St. Luke's surgical and procedural care expansion

Where: St. Luke's Building A, 1012 E. Second St.

When: 2 to 6 p.m. today.

Details: Ribbon-cutting ceremony and program at 3:30 p.m. The event is free, and
no registration is required.

___ (c)2015 the Duluth News Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) Visit the Duluth News
Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) at www.duluthnewstribune.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150805-DU-A-huge-change-for-St-Luke-s-0805-20150805

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DU


                       Copyright 2015 Duluth News-Tribune


                              440 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 17, 2017 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Risks Associated with Transcatheter PDA Occlusions in Lower Weight Infants

LENGTH: 635  words


Aug. 17 -- Transcatheter patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) occlusion is one of the
safest interventional cardiac procedures among adults and children. However,
major adverse events are five to 10 times greater among infants who weigh less
than six kilograms, according to a study published August 16 in JACC:
Cardiovascular Interventions.

Using ACC's IMPACT Registry, Carl H. Backes, MD, et al., identified 747 infants
weighing less than six kilograms who underwent transcatheter PDA occlusion
between January 2011 and March 2015. Across 73 hospitals, the procedural success
rate was 94.3 percent, and 96 percent of cases required less than two hours in
the catheterization suite.

Regarding the study population, researchers examined differences by grouping the
infants into three weight categories: extremely low weight (ELW, &lt;2
kilograms), very low weight (VL, 2-&lt;4 kilograms) and low weight (LW, 4-&lt;6
kilograms). A third of the infants studied were born at &lt;30 weeks of
gestation. At catheterization, the median age was 4.3 months and most were LW
(4.6 kilograms). Additionally, more than half of procedures were performed on
females and Caucasians. Less than half of the infants were hospitalized before
the procedure and more than half were on diuretic treatment. Most infants had a
Type A (37 percent) or Type C (42 percent) PDA.

While the majority of attempted PDA closures were successful, approximately 13
percent of the infants experienced major adverse events (MAEs). "In the present
cohort of infants &lt;6 kg, procedural success rates for transcatheter PDA
closure are similar to those in more mature counterparts, but rates of MAE were
5-10 fold greater," note the study authors.

Most common MAEs included acute arterial injury (3.5 percent) and device
embolization (2.4 percent). ELW infants (10.5 percent) had a higher risk of
embolization than VLW or LW infants (1.6 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively;
p = 0.050). Other noted MAEs included arrhythmia requiring intervention,
unplanned cardiac surgery and a major bleeding event (less than 2 percent each).
Infants who experienced an MAE were more likely to stay at the hospital a week
longer than those who did not (13 vs. 20 days, p = 0.01). Additionally, risk of
MAEs (odds ratio [OR], 3.4; 95 percent confidence interval [CI], 1.5-7.9) and
composite failure (OR, 3.1; 95 percent CI, 1.4-6.9) was higher among younger
patients (&lt;30 days).

While the study proves to be an "important first step in understanding the risk
profile of transcatheter PDA occlusion in this subgroup of infants," the authors
note that "conclusions on the optimal treatment among lower weight infants with
a persistent ductus remain unanswered."

"Conservative treatment may reduce unnecessary interventions in many infants,
but the question remains as to what to do if the PDA fails to close following a
period of conservative treatment," they continue.

"Well-designed comparative trials (transcatheter occlusion, surgical ligation,
conservative treatment) that use clearly defined inclusion criteria and
treatment thresholds, standardized protocols for AE surveillance, and long-term
follow-up, are needed."

Clinical Topics: Arrhythmias and Clinical EP, Congenital Heart Disease and
Pediatric Cardiology, Implantable Devices, SCD/Ventricular Arrhythmias, Atrial
Fibrillation/Supraventricular Arrhythmias, Congenital Heart Disease, CHD &
Pediatrics and Arrhythmias, CHD & Pediatrics and Prevention, CHD & Pediatrics
and Quality Improvement, Statins

Keywords: Ductus Arteriosus, Patent, Odds Ratio, Ligation, Confidence Intervals,
Research Personnel, Follow-Up Studies, Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy
Protocols, Cytarabine, Etoposide, Mitoxantrone, Catheterization, Arrhythmias,
Cardiac, Registries, Diuretics

Source: American College of Cardiology Foundation

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              441 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Minnesota Lawyer (Minneapolis, MN)

                                August 18, 2008

Minnesota Supreme Court: In re UnitedHealth Group Inc. Shareholder Derivative
Litigation

BYLINE: Minnesota Lawyer Staff Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 237  words


Special Litigation Committee

1.     Minnesota Rule of Civil Procedure 23.09, which provides that a derivative
suit "shall not be dismissed or compromised without the approval of the court,"
is a procedural rule and therefore cannot be applied by a federal court
exercising supplemental jurisdiction over claims asserted under state law.

2.     A state court addressing a certified question of state law is an improper
forum in which to address the proper interpretation of federal procedural rules.



3.     The Minnesota business judgment rule requires a reviewing court to defer
to a special litigation committee's (SLC) decision to settle a shareholder
derivative action if the proponent of that decision demonstrates that (1) the
members of the committee possessed a disinterested independence and (2) the
committee's investigative procedures and methodologies were adequate,
appropriate, and pursued in good faith.

Certified question answered.

Concurring, Anderson, Paul H., J. "I believe that the Minnesota business
judgment rule requires a court to consider the reasonableness of an SLC's
recommendation as well as the SLC's independence, investigative methods, and
good faith . . . . "

Case Number: A08-114

Case Name: In re UnitedHealth Group Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation

Court: Supreme Court

District: Minnesota

Category: Corporations

Type: Civil Opinions

URL: http://www.minnlawyer.com/userfiles/pdf/OPA080114-0814.htm

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              442 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                             August 5, 2014 Tuesday

MDD's Cardiology Extra

LENGTH: 1811 words

Senior Staff Writer

New technique for PDA

A new technique for repairing the most common cardiac birth defect in newborns,
commonly referred to as "a hole in the heart," has been used to mend the
condition in six premature infants without subjecting the tiny patients to
open-heart surgery.

The technique for repairing the condition, patent ductus arteriosus, also called
PDA, was published online by the peer-reviewed medical journal Catheterization
and Cardiovascular Interventions, the official journal of The Society for
Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions. The study, published in the
journal's July print edition, was developed by a team in the Cedars-Sinai Heart
Institute's (Los Angeles) Guerin Family Congenital Heart Program led by Evan
Zahn, an expert in congenital heart disease.

"Just a few short years ago, the only treatments available for these babies was
an intravenous medication regimen or heart surgery," said Zahn, co-director of
the program. "Yet many of these babies are so fragile that we needed additional
treatment options to ensure that these children have a healthy future ahead of
them."

PDA is a condition in which a blood vessel called the ductus arteriosus, which
routes blood around the baby's lungs prior to birth, does not close naturally as
it should within a couple of days after birth. The opening leads to abnormal
blood flow and can cause symptoms ranging from fast breathing and difficult
feeding to brain hemorrhage and death in premature infants.

The study followed six severely premature infants who were born with patent
ductus arteriosus when they were between 26 and 31 weeks gestation. The babies
in the study were between 16 and 80 days old and weighed between 1.9 and 4.9
pounds. All the infants in the study had successful closure procedures and did
not experience complications, the researchers reported.

Zahn and his team developed a catheter-based technique that employed
sophisticated imaging technologies fluoroscopy and echocardiography to guide the
physicians through the delicate closure procedure.

"The development of new minimally invasive techniques to treat babies with PDA
is a major step forward," said Eduardo Marbán, director of the Cedars-Sinai
Heart Institute. "The tiny size of premature infants renders open-chest surgery
exceedingly risky; Zahn and colleagues can now fix the problem with a catheter,
at the bedside in the neonatal unit, without exposing the internal organs. Lives
have been saved, and many others stand to benefit as this new technology is
disseminated."



Survey finds most satisfied with AVR or TAVR outcomes

A survey, published online in the European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery,
of 13,860 patients who had undergone interventions for aortic valve disease in
Germany has revealed that more than 80% were in the same or a better state of
health one year after the intervention, and were satisfied with the procedural
outcome.

Aortic stenosis, the narrowing of the aortic valve in the heart, is the most
frequent valvular heart disease in the aging Western population, and the
prognosis of this disease in symptomatic patients with conservative therapy is
poor. As a result, surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) has become the
therapeutic gold standard with well-documented benefits in terms of symptom
relief and survival. During the past decade, transcatheter aortic valve
replacement (TAVR) has emerged as a minimally invasive alternative for
higher-risk patients, and the number of these procedures being carried out in
Germany and Europe as a whole has increased in recent years.

Friedrich Mohr and colleagues used the German Aortic Valve Registry (GARY) to
look at the 13,860 registered patients undergoing either AVR or TAVR procedures
from 2011. Enrollment in the registry was voluntary, and took place in 78 German
centers. Baseline, procedural, and outcome data, including quality of life, were
acquired up to one year post-intervention. Vital status at one year was known
for just over 98% of patients.

One-year mortality was 6.7% (6,523) for conventional AVR patients and 11%
(3,464) for patients who underwent AVR with coronary artery bypass grafting.
One-year mortality 20.7% and 28% in transvascular TAVR and transapical TAVR
procedures respectively. However, if patients were stratified into four risk
groups, the highest-risk cohorts showed the same mortality at one year
regardless of type of therapy.

More than 80% of patients in all groups were in the same or better state of
health at one year post-intervention and were satisfied with the procedural
outcome.

"GARY is unique in that it includes all interventional and surgical treatment
options for aortic valve disease that are currently available in Germany," Mohr
said. "Our aim was to obtain a comprehensive and contemporary picture of the
current practice of aortic valve intervention therapy and to create an
independent database that will allow for long-term follow-up of those patients."

He added that continuation of the registry and long-term follow-up will help to
develop robust future risk models to predict patient outcomes for each treatment
option in patients with aortic stenosis.

Canadian hospital reduces SSIs after heart surgery by 77%

A common postoperative complication after open heart operations, infection at
the surgical site, has been reduced by 77% at a Canadian hospital through its
participation in the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality
Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP), according to a new case study presented at the
2014 ACS NSQIP national conference.

Vancouver General Hospital (British Columbia) reportedly reduced its rate of
cardiac surgical site infections (SSIs) using a "best practices bundle," or
combination of scientifically proven, up-to-date methods for reducing these
potentially serious infections. The hospital's new surgical patient safety
program quickly resulted in "a dramatic reduction" of SSIs, said Rael Klein, a
study co-author and an anesthesiologist at the University of British Columbia
(Vancouver).

SSIs affect 2% to 20% of coronary artery bypass graft procedures, the most
common open heart procedure performed in the U.S. An infection can develop in
the surgical wound of either the patient's sternum or leg if a vein was
harvested from the leg for the bypass.

"Sternal infections can be devastating for the patient because it is close to
vital structures such as the heart," Klein said. "Reducing the SSI rate means
fewer postoperative complications and a reduced length of stay in the hospital."

Klein and other members of Vancouver General's multidisciplinary cardiac surgery
quality improvement team led the SSI reduction effort after finding that their
average cardiac NSQIP SSI rate was 7%, about twice that of other comparable
hospitals that participate in ACS NSQIP. The team lowered the infection rate to
a NSQIP average of 1.6% in the nine months after fully instituting the surgical
best practices bundle in July 2013.

The group improved guidelines for prophylactic antibiotic use so that providers
routinely administered the proper, weight-based intravenous dose of antibiotic
at the best time and gave the patient a second dose if needed during long
surgical procedures. Patients also received new types of wound dressings
designed to reduce the chance of infection. The nurse practitioner led the team
in standardizing the postoperative wound care of the surgical sites. Another
change involved active warming of patients to normal body temperature once they
were taken off the cardiac surgery bypass machine.

TAVR cuts hospital stay by 30%

New research from Penn Medicine shows that incisionless transcatheter aortic
valve replacement (TAVR) surgery cuts length of hospital stay by 30% and has no
impact on post-operative vascular complication rates when compared with
conventional transfemoral TAVR, which requires an incision in the groin. The
complete study is available in the current issue of Circulation: Cardiovascular
Interventions.

TAVR involves the replacement of the aortic valve without a traditional
open-heart surgical approach. It is a treatment for aortic stenosis, a narrowing
of the aortic valve opening. The surgery can be performed in two ways, both
involving the insertion of a sheath into the femoral artery which allows the new
valve to be threaded up to the patient's chest via a catheter. The traditional
transfemoral approach requires a several inch incision in the groin. More
recently, physicians have begun to employ an incisionless or percutaneous
approach, which requires no more than a pin-prick to access the femoral artery.
Patients leave the hospital without an incision of any kind and little to no
trace that a surgery was performed.

"It has been our clinical experience that there is little difference in vascular
outcomes between traditional and percutaneous TAVR surgery but we wanted to take
a closer look at the data and understand how these techniques performed in a
side by side comparison on vascular complications, outcomes and hospital length
of stay," said senior author Jay Giri, assistant professor in the division of
Cardiovascular Medicine at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania.

Giri and his co-authors examined 120 patients who underwent TAVR via the
traditional method and 211 patients who had percutaneous TAVR surgery at the
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania or Penn Presbyterian Medical Center
between 2007 and 2013. They observed a shorter post-procedural length of
hospital stay (7.5 vs. 9.9 days) in patients who received percutaneous surgery
versus traditional TAVR surgery and no difference in vascular complication rates
between the two procedures.

Higher rates of vascular complications were also associated with larger valve
introducer sheath outer diameter compared with pati  ents' artery diameter. The
"introducer" sheaths can easily nick or disrupt the vessels in transit and cause
complications for the patient, whether they have traditional or percutaneous
surgery. "While there are clinical circumstances when oversized sheaths must be
used to accomplish a life-saving procedure, we discovered that, contrary to
conventional wisdom, there really is no such thing as a 'safe oversize'," said
Giri."

Previous studies had not examined the association of percutaneous and
traditional surgery approaches with vascular complications in a wide cross
section of patients with the full range of sheath sizes available in the U.S.
This is also the first study to show increasing harm with increasing sheath
oversizing. Vascular complication rates are expected to decrease as technology
advances and sheath sizes continue to decrease in relation to artery diameter.
Currently, however, the authors said, careful pre-procedural planning with
respect to the relationship between sheath size and artery diameter is
warranted.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


          Copyright 2014 Thompson Media Group, LLC d/b/a AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              443 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 1990 The University of Pittsburgh Law Review
                      University of Pittsburgh Law Review

                                  SUMMER, 1990

                            51 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 1025

LENGTH: 15922 words

NOTE: RESTRUCTURING HOSPITAL-PHYSICIAN RELATIONS: PATIENT CARE QUALITY DEPENDS
ON THE HEALTH OF HOSPITAL PEER REVIEW.

NAME: Paul L. Scibetta

TEXT:
I.  INTRODUCTION

   The hospital has undergone a virtual metamorphosis.  In terms of function,
the hospital of just twenty years ago bears little resemblance to today's
complex corporate entity.  In hospitals of the past, each patient's physician
generally worked a solo performance in providing care.  Few critics questioned
the physician's work.  The hospital, apart from a series of one physician-one
patient duos, had little life of its own.  Both the hospital and the patient
were within the physician's exclusive domain.  In contrast, today's hospital is
a sophisticated and dynamic corporation charged with duties and responsibilities
whose suggestion some years ago would have been likely to spur outright
laughter.  Of primary import among the new concerns faced by hospital management
n1 is direct responsibility for the quality of care provided to patients within
hospital facilities.

   The concept of hospitals taking responsibility for the quality of care
received by "hospital patients" is revolutionary.  The notion shatters the
longstanding belief that patients, whether in hospitals or not, are the sole
responsibility of their own physicians.  n2 Yet, incredibly, the revolution in
responsibility for care has already been waged and won.  n3  [*1026]  The
revolution carries vast implications for the role and needs of hospitals in
society.  Today there is widespread agreement that "quality patient care" will
not be complete unless it is achieved at two levels.  n4 On the first tier,
individual physicians must remain responsible for the quality of care they
provide to their patients.  This is patient care in its traditional form.  To
achieve the second and newer tier of patient care quality, hospitals must now
ensure that patients who receive care in their facilities are not subjected to
unnecessary risks of injury that could result from incompetence or unethical
behavior on the part of hospital staff physicians.  This second tier of quality
introduces a new concept that is independent of, and additional to, the notion
that one physician need take responsibility for his or her own patients.  It
introduces the concept of quality on a hospital-wide basis, or "hospital
quality."

   A number of factors catalyzed the revolution which so dramatically expanded
the definition of quality patient care.  n5 The most important factor may have
been the medical malpractice crisis.  Conservative estimates suggest that three
to five percent of doctors practicing in the United States today, some 18,000,
regularly commit malpractice.  n6 Additionally, the American Medical Association
estimates that between five and ten percent of physicians practicing today can
be classified as "impaired."  n7 As previously noted, the practice of medicine
in its traditional form provided for no oversight of the quality of a
physician's  [*1027]  patient care.  The traditional one physician-one patient
system of health care delivery was manifestly unequipped to provide remedies for
physician malpractice.  Moreover, the problems created by this crisis extended
far beyond those patients who endured direct injury.  The crisis caused the cost
of all health care to rise.  The healthy were affected through rising health
care insurance costs.  Perfectly competent physicians felt the impact of
malpractice through skyrocketing malpractice insurance premiums.  Third party
payors such as the government and insurance companies were forced to shell out
ever increasing amounts to enrollees who were injured through malpractice.  Even
employers felt the impact of medical malpractice, through their provision or
subsidization of employee health insurance policies.

   Manifestations of the public's interest in a broader definition of quality --
one that includes provisions for oversight of physician practice -- abound.  The
duty to effect that oversight has fallen largely on the modern hospital.
Patients have voiced what may be the most pressing demand for hospitals to take
responsibility for quality of care.  Courts have recognized that a hospital with
a good reputation for quality will be more competitive in the marketplace.  n8
In today's highly competitive health care market, high quality patient care is a
necessity for hospital survival.  Patients have also expressed their interest in
hospital responsibility for patient care quality by routinely including the
hospital corporation as a defendant in medical malpractice cases.  Widespread
judicial acceptance of the doctrine of corporate negligence provides further
evidence of the increased role hospitals must play in the quality issue.  This
doctrine holds hospitals liable for failure to select and retain only competent
physicians, and for failure to directly monitor the patient care that is being
provided within hospital facilities.  n9 Finally, developments in the political
arena reflect public concern  [*1028]  about "hospital quality." Recent
legislative enactments  n10 and changes in hospital accreditation requirements
n11 have underscored the importance of "hospital quality" as the top priority of
hospital managers.

   To appreciate the importance of the hospital's new role in pursuing quality,
one must first understand the fundamental changes in the provision of care which
have taken place within the hospital.  The procedure of one physician caring for
one patient has been supplemented; the provision of care now more closely
resembles a team enterprise.  The physician,  n12 to be sure, is the captain of
this team.  A growing number of non-physicians,  n13 however, comprise the
remaining members of this team of practitioners.  The team, as a group, provides
care to patients.  Due to the more complex nature of care now provided within
the hospital, the team must be well-managed if quality is to flourish.  A
physician whose clinical skills are masterful but who is abusive to nurses or
other practitioners may cause the hospital to lose some of its best team
players.  n14 Previously, quality could be safely restricted to  [*1029]  each
physician taking full responsibility for the patients he or she brought into the
hospital.  Today, a physician who is intensely concerned with the well-being of
his or her own patients, but refuses to take interest in the safety of other
hospital patients, is considerably less valuable.  Such physicians may have
thrived in the hospital of yester-year, but would provide serious reason for
concern in the modern health care facility.  Whereas an incompetent physician in
the hospitals of years past would be allowed to go unnoticed on the theory that
it was somehow each patient's duty to ensure the competence of his or her
physician, this practice is unacceptable in today's era of "hospital quality."

   It is only a slight overstatement to say that the raison d'etre of modern
hospital management is to create and maintain a competent staff who can work
together in a harmonious environment.  Only in this way can the hospital fulfill
its mandate for quality.  The major vehicles through which hospital management
struggles to build and maintain an effective team of staff physicians are the
hospital's credentialing  n15 and peer review functions.  n16 Credentialing is
the investigation undertaken by hospitals to assist in the determination of
whether to appoint or reappoint physicians to the hospital staff.  Peer review
is an ongoing process whereby physician practice is monitored to identify
patterns of unacceptable patient care.  Credentialing and Peer Review are
closely related in that both provide an opportunity for hospital management to
gain insight into the clinical and personal competence of staff physicians.  As
Section II describes in more detail, the interests of both patients and staff
physicians may be either greatly enhanced by an effective credentialing and peer
review mechanism, or greatly harmed by an ineffective mechanism.  n17

   Thus the importance of medical staff management and oversight has been
greatly increased by changes that have transformed the hospital from an inert
combination of facilities and equipment into an active corporation with a life
and duties all its own.  In the days when quality was defined narrowly as each
physician being concerned only with his or her own patients, the system
permitted the "needs" of the individual physician to reign supreme.  Physicians
were the givers of care, and the  [*1030]  assurers of quality.  While the needs
of physicians are still important, their interest must be reevaluated in light
of the metamorphosis of the modern hospital.  An all new interest -- that of the
hospital in harboring efficient peer review so as to maintain a high quality
team of caregivers -- has grown out of the changes that have occurred.

   The most celebrated "need" of physicians desiring to practice medicine is
access to hospital facilities.  Hospitals continue to house the high technology
and support structures that physicians often require.  Physicians have no
"right" per se to practice their profession in any specific hospital.  n18 Staff
appointment is a privilege.  Yet courts have frequently held that the public
interest in staff appointments deserves protection.  n19 Physicians need a
hospital in order to practice.  Patients, moreover, need physicians in order to
receive treatment and care.  It is not surprising that at a time when care was
defined in terms of one physician looking after one patient, the patient's
primary interest vested in his or her physician's ability to maintain access to
hospital facilities.  n20 Over the years, courts have recognized this need by
reviewing hospital staffing decisions to ensure that physicians are not excluded
arbitrarily from practice in hospitals.  Legal structures embraced to justify
this protection have often been grounded in what amounts to a "due process," or
"fundamental fairness" theory.  n21

   The development of "hospital quality" as a distinct and independent concept
has caused a collision between this interest and the interests of physicians.
In today's hospital, the clashing interests of the purveyors of care
(physicians) and the overseers of quality (hospital  [*1031]  management through
credentialing and peer review) have caused a situation where traditional due
process protection afforded physicians can be antithetical to the interests of "
hospital quality."

   This Note reexamines current judicial and legislative policy as it effects
hospital-medical staff relations in light of the widespread interest in hospital
quality -- the broad effort to advance, on a hospital-wide basis, the quality of
care received by patients.  Section II describes the credentialing and peer
review efforts that constitute the most significant response to needs for
hospital quality.  Particular emphasis is placed on currently existing barriers
to effective implementation and operation of credentialing and peer review.
Chief among these barriers are the costly due process requirements currently
afforded physicians to protect them from arbitrary exclusion from hospital
staff.  The failure of courts, legislators and hospital accrediting bodies to
understand several aspects of these concepts as they are applied to the modern
hospital has allowed the perpetuation of a system which undermines the quality
goals that are uniformly desired.

   Section III briefly reviews two theories, common law due process and
contract, often used by courts to justify their willingness to intervene in the
credentialing and peer review processes.  Relying on these theories, courts are
requiring that hospitals provide trial-like procedural protection prior to
taking any significant action to implement quality goals.  While not
all-encompassing, the due process and contract theories have been held
applicable to a large and growing portion of cases in which due process is
demanded.  Section IV summarizes why these cases are problematic in light of
newly defined quality goals; Section V offers three alternatives to the status
quo.  Each alternative alters one or more components of existing structures to
incorporate the new policy interest in expanding the definition of quality
patient care to include hospital-wide oversight of physician practice, while
retaining adequate protection for hospital physicians.  As the examples
indicate, hospital quality and physician protection can coincide, but we must
act now in order to allow peer review to work effectively.

   II.  THE CORNERSTONES OF HOSPITAL QUALITY: CREDENTIALING AND PEER REVIEW
EFFORTS

A.  Overview

   Today's hospital is a complex corporation whose main administrative body is
the governing board, represented in the hospital by the hospital's Chief
Executive Officer.  Perhaps the most important characteristic  [*1032]  of the
governing board is that it is generally comprised chiefly or solely of
non-physicians.  This fact is critical because it requires the governing board
to rely heavily on staff physicians to carry out credentialing and peer review
efforts.  The effectiveness of these efforts is critical to the achievement of
hospital quality.

   The concepts of credentialing and peer review are quite simple.
Credentialing is the process by which a physician is investigated as part of the
determination whether to grant membership to the hospital staff, and then, every
two years, whether to reappoint the physician to the same.  n22 The
credentialing committee seeks evidence of both displayed clinical competence and
the ability to work harmoniously with fellow staff physicians and other
practitioners.  The committee solicits recommendations from past colleagues and
acquaintances, and from present colleagues and acquaintances at other hospitals
where the applicant may currently maintain a staff position.  The prospective
appointee or reappointee completes an application, providing information on
educational background, licensure to practice, references, and other matters.
Committee members verify this information.  Current or past malpractice lawsuits
are reviewed with special attention given to cases in which judgments were paid
as a result of the physician's failure to provide reasonable care.  Peer review
is very similar to the credentialing process, but occurs on an ongoing basis
within the hospital.  Peer review committee members seek evidence of a pattern
of inadequately provided care.  n23

   While the governing board must take ultimate responsibility for failures in
quality which cause an unreasonable risk of injury to patients,  n24 the
technical review of qualifications and practice can only be carried out by
physicians -- and often only by specialists in the applicant's area of
specialization.  The physician review process is thus a closed game.  Due to the
technical expertise required to make an informed judgment on the clinical
competence of a physician, hospital managers generally rely on physician
dominated committees to make recommendations as to the quality of practice of
applicants and current staff members.

 [*1033]  B.  Impediments to Effective Peer Review

   Significantly, effective peer review  n25 requires one staff physician who
becomes aware of a deficient pattern of care to come forward voluntarily and
recommend that action be taken to protect the other physician's patients.  It is
thus essential that the reviewing physicians on the credentials and peer review
committees do not hesitate, but act swiftly to alleviate potential injury.
Ideally, incompetence is discovered and acted upon at an early stage.
Physicians whose poor patterns of care are discovered early could be
disciplined, counselled, required to take further education, observed, or
assisted in practice to assure that quality of practice is maintained.  When
problems remain undiscovered for long periods of time and the damage grows more
serious, however, the options open to the hospital governing board will
necessarily be more limited.  In the worst case scenario, permanent suspension
would result.  Thus, patients, physicians, and the hospital share a common
interest in the early detection of a problem, permitting a more flexible
response.

   Considering the need for flexibility and early identification and the fact
that peer review physicians are generally unpaid for their efforts, hospitals
have a critical interest in devising a system of peer review void of barriers
n26 that tend to cause peer reviewers to wait unnecessarily long prior to
recommending action.  The same is true of credentialing activities.  If members
of the credentials committee are unduly hesitant about rejecting the application
of a candidate for staff, unnecessary injury could result.  Without enthusiastic
participation of staff physicians in peer review activities, hospital quality
efforts necessarily break down.

   Yet a multitude of barriers currently exist to the efficient operation of
hospital peer review.  The most serious obstacle to effective peer review is the
potential fear felt by the reviewer that participation in an adverse
recommendation will lead to a lawsuit against him or her personally.  n27 At
present this fear is uncomfortably realistic.  Scores of this  [*1034]  type of
lawsuit have been brought recently, on several different grounds, with a large
portion having their basis in theories of antitrust.  n28 Under the antitrust
theory, disciplined physicians claim that peer review actions were taken with
the purpose of reducing the number of competitors in the reviewer's own area of
practice.  Despite a few celebrated cases in which plaintiff-physicians were
granted large judgments,  n29 the antitrust theory has been generally
unsuccessful.  State peer review statutes provide limited immunity in those
suits in which the recommendation of the peer reviewer is made in "good faith."
n30 Unfortunately, while "good faith" immunity usually allows peer reviewers to
win a lawsuit, the prospect of having to defend even a meritless claim can chill
the willingness of many to recommend the action necessary to improve hospital
quality.

   Several other factors severely complicate the effectiveness of hospital peer
review.  First, physicians within a hospital are heavily interdependent.  The
professional and financial success of each physician depends upon his or her
colleagues.  Increasing numbers of physicians  [*1035]  practice in referral
specialties: they must depend on their colleagues to send them patients.
Physicians who make important but difficult decisions effecting fellow
practitioners may find that others are reluctant or unwilling to refer to them.
While the monetary loss associated with lost referrals is difficult to estimate,
such a situation is bound to chill the enthusiasm of potential peer reviewers.
Second, the task of peer review is likely to be approached with a heightened
sense of aggravation since reviewers are seldom compensated for their thankless
efforts.  Physicians on these committees are volunteers.

   Lack of personal compensation might be less significant were it not for a
third factor.  Physicians generally have little financial stake in the success
of the hospital corporation.  Their stake may be limited only to the possibility
of the institution's insolvency.  Physicians today thus face an unmistakable
financial disincentive to combine the quality goals they associate with their
own patients -- who pay the physician's bills -- with those new and important
quality goals of the larger whole.

   Finally, physicians are human.  They tend to develop friendships at their
places of work.  Physicians who conduct the review of a colleague's practice
often have close personal ties to that colleague.  It is not difficult to
surmise the internal conflict that must accompany the initiation of a proceeding
which will be ceratin to engender animosity from a personal friend, and may well
have serious implications for that friend's career.

C.  The Due Process Hearing: A Brief Overview of a Lengthy Process

   Peer reviewers often evaluate potential competitors to their own practice.
This has been a major point articulated by physicians who in antitrust suits
claim the need for extensive government protection of medical staff positions.

   The general failure of antitrust lawsuits to provide an effective avenue of
redress to physicians disciplined through the peer review process is likely to
increase the number of claims -- already numerous -- based on theories
resembling "due process." Physicians use due process theories to challenge a
hospital's decision to either reduce or terminate their status on the hospital
staff, or to refuse to appoint them to the staff.  These decisions follow from
either peer review or credentialing committee investigation.  Physicians
challenging these decisions generally claim that they were denied fair
procedures in the decision-making process that led to the hospital's action.
The due process rights enjoyed by physicians may constitute the single most
potent deterrent  [*1036]  to effective peer review.  n31 This gruelling process
will be outlined here; cases requiring the process will constitute the focus of
the following two sections.

   Courts have relied on a due process theory to require that hospitals provide
physicians with protection from arbitrary exclusion.  In public hospitals, the
due process requirement stems from the fifth and fourteenth amendments to the
United States Constitution.  n32 In private for-profit or non-profit hospitals,
the theories employed to require procedural due process stem from such diverse
sources as the common law,  n33 contract theory,  n34 and the titling of some
non-profit hospitals as "quasi-public," thereby justifying application of
constitutional protection.  Regardless of the theory, the result is the same:
Prior to taking any significant action against a physician who is a member, or
who seeks to be a member, of the hospital staff, hospitals must provide a
hearing and appeal process that disturbingly resembles a trial-type proceeding.
n35 Because courts require these protections, today's hospitals feel compelled
to shower physicians with an excessive display of procedural safeguards whether
or not it is worthwhile.  The provision of these safeguards decreases the
likelihood that the process will have to be repeated in future litigation.  The
cost of avoiding litigation is, however, prohibitive in two ways.  First,
resources spent on providing the hearings are not available for the provision of
peer review.  Second, and more significantly, the prospect of furnishing a
hearing sufficient to deter litigation is enough to convince many of the most
committed physicians not to participate in the formulation of an adverse
recommendation.  n36

   The spectre of judicial review prompts most hospitals to include legal
counsel from the time an adverse recommendation is contemplated [*1037]  To
ensure procedural adequacy, counsel must advise the medical staff committee
evaluating the applicant and assist in construction of the "statement of
reasons" that will provide the aggrieved physician with "notice" as to the
reasons for the adverse recommendation.  At this point, the aggrieved physician
is also generally represented by legal counsel, who demands extensive
documentation.  The hospital's legal counsel participates in the review and
provision of all appropriate documentation.

   Hospital's counsel next prepares those witnesses who will be testifying in
support of the recommendation of the medical staff committee.  Counsel will then
be involved in representation of the hospital and committee at the hearing.
Hearings can sometimes be completed in several hours.  In many instances,
however, they drag on for several days, weeks or even months.  It is not unusual
for hospital legal fees to accumulate into hundreds of thousands of dollars in
the process of pursuing one adverse recommendation.

   Other monetary costs are also significant.  Large sums are routinely spent in
efforts to deter litigation.  To ensure that a well-kept record of the hearing
is maintained, hearings are usually documented and transcribed by a hired court
reporter.  A hearing officer and hearing panel members must be employed to
ensure that the hearing is conducted fairly and to prevent it from dissolving
into a bickering match between the parties' lawyers.  Mountains of documents
must be prepared and copied in preparation for the hearing.  Substantial sums
are paid to outside consultants for review of the applicant's or staff
physician's medical records and practice.  Outside experts are included to
mitigate the antitrust implications of having physicians review the practice and
applicants of potential competitors.

   Perhaps the greatest costs, and the most disturbing in light of the public's
interest in hospital quality, are the monetary and nonmonetary costs borne
throughout the process by physicians conducting the peer review process.  To
make an adverse recommendation, a peer review physician must devote hours to
committee meetings and to telephone conversations with past department
chairpersons.  In addition, reviewers must review the applicant's background and
the medical records of his or her patients.  Next, peer reviewers must often
spend more time with lawyers to prepare to testify at the hearing.  Hours are
then spent at the hearing.  Even if the peer reviewer's testimony on direct
examination is limited, he or she is still subject to cross-examination by the
physician and/or the physician's counsel.

    [*1038]  In return for their efforts, physicians are threatened with
litigation.  In addition to the stress related to the threat of litigation, and
the stress associated with the cross-examination, peer review physicians suffer
actual monetary loss since time spent on a hearing is time away from the
physician's practice.

   Finally, peer review physicians suffer a heavy personal cost -- time away
from family and from other relaxing pursuits.  While nonquantifiable, the
personal cost may constitute one of the most significant reasons why physicians
may be unwilling to go through this gruelling process -- or, after having been
through it once, will be unwilling to participate ever again.

D.  Summary

   Despite the problems associated with conducting effective peer review, there
is general agreement that peer review offers the best opportunity to enhance the
quality of patient care in America's hospitals.  The current system of hospital
care is fraught with conflicts between the physician's personal, professional,
and financial interests and broader goals related to the general interest in
hospital-wide patient care quality.  Even the physician who is driven by quality
in his or her own personal practice is likely to endure much hardship and little
reward in carrying out the hospital's quality care goal.  The stakes are too
high to allow peer review to remain in its present state of disarray.  n37

   To achieve success, a system devised to identify and remedy the problem of
incompetent practitioners must address the impediments to peer review described
in Sections II(B) and II(C).  Yet, neither the unique micro considerations
relating to the inner workings of the hospital (Section II(B)), nor the
tremendous cost of providing physicians with elaborate due process protection
(Section II(C)), are given explicit attention by the legislature and judiciary
in their efforts to create a public policy which fosters high quality hospital
care.  Such consideration is critical to the success of any plan in which
physicians must play a major role.

    [*1039]  III.  PHYSICIAN PROTECTION: CURRENT RATIONALES USED TO SUPPORT THE
REQUIREMENT OF PROCEDURAL DUE PROCESS

A.  Common Law Justifications for Procedural Due Process

   The traditional hospital was dominated in every way by its medical staff.
The operations of such hospitals have been compared to "exclusive social clubs
or secret fraternal societies"  n38 that had the power to exclude applicants for
"ideological, moral or even political reasons,"  n39 or for no reason at all.
Traditionally, the willingness of courts to review decisions made by hospitals
with respect to appointment and reappointment of staff physicians has been
dependent upon whether the hospital was public or private.  n40 If an aggrieved
physician was excluded or suspended from a public hospital, he or she could seek
redress in the courts.  The same grievance would fall upon deaf ears, however,
had the action been taken by a private hospital.

   This was the state of affairs in 1963 when the New Jersey Supreme Court
handed down the seminal case of Greisman v. Newcomb Hospital.  n41 Greisman
involved an osteopath who was excluded from a private hospital in accordance
with a hospital bylaw which required that all applicants for membership on the
courtesy staff be graduates of an American Medical Association approved medical
school.  Normally, the case would have fallen within the rule that internal
decisions of a private hospital were within the sole discretion of the hospital
and were not subject to judicial review.  n42 Refusing to accept the traditional
boundaries between public and private hospitals, the court noted that Newcomb
Hospital "constitutes a virtual monopoly in the area in which it functions and .
. . is in no position to claim immunity from public supervision and control
because of its allegedly private nature."  n43 The court reasoned that the
refusal to grant privileges to Greisman restricted the osteopath's ability to
practice his profession, and that patients had an interest in receiving
treatment.  n44 Absent from the  [*1040]  analysis was any consideration of the
impact of the court's choice to review the hospital's decision on the hospital's
ability to conduct peer review.  This is not surprising.  It does, however, date
the case.  Greisman was decided at a time when hospitals were run by doctors
alone, and when hospital management of patient-care quality was but a whistle in
the wind.

   Greisman was grounded in the common law.  Paradoxically, the court made a
point of describing its view of the most attractive quality of common law
evolution: "The persistent movement of the common law towards satisfying the
needs of the times is soundly marked by gradualness.  Its step-by-step process
affords the light of continual experience to guide its future course."  n45 The
court showed prescience in advocating the need for continual change so as to
ensure that policy goals remain current.  Yet, although Greisman is now over 25
years old, it is still considered a landmark case for its justification of
judicial review over medical staff decisions.  The needs and duties of hospital
management have evolved rapidly over the last quarter of a century.  The
hospital described in Greisman bears little resemblance to the modern corporate
entity whose prime imperative is to ensure, through active hospital management,
the maintenance of a competent team of physician and non-physician
practitioners.  The principles expressed in Greisman no longer justify judicial
intervention.  The modern hospital's newly defined and important interest in
fostering quality may be unduly burdened by judicial involvement.  Courts which
continue to follow Greisman have failed to keep the common law in step with "the
needs of the times." Courts adhering to the common law principle of evolving the
law in "light of continual experience" should recognize the important public
interest in hospital-wide quality and overturn the Greisman decision.

   Standing alone, Greisman could be said to stand for the unremarkable
proposition that courts require hospitals to have a rational explanation for
excluding an entire class of practitioners, such as chiropractors, from hospital
facilities.  In most states, this issue has been resolved by legislative
enactment.  n46 It is the procedural due process requirements  [*1041]
announced in post-Greisman cases in New Jersey and elsewhere which pose a
serious threat to hospital quality.  n47

   In the 1966 case of Sussman v. Overlook Hospital Association,  n48 the
Superior Court of New Jersey recognized that in modern hospitals "considerations
of team spirit and cooperativeness can be as important as technical skill in
recommendations for staff appointment."  n49 This represents a step towards a
judicial policy which encourages modern interests in quality.  Yet, despite the
court's acknowledgement in Sussman that "professional competence in hospital
practice should, according to modern hospital theory, include qualities needed
for cooperative staff work,"  n50 the court held that "denial of a physician's
application upon the basis that his appointment will cause disharmony among the
medical staff must be clearly and persuasively supported by the record."  n51
Furthermore, the record must reflect the presence of a nexus between disharmony
caused in the ranks of the medical staff and an adverse consequence affecting
patient care.  The court placed a heavy burden on the hospital seeking to
exclude a physician in responding to the fear that the physician's reputation
would be damaged by a rejection of his application for staff membership.  The
court took an "innocent until proven guilty" attitude towards Dr. Sussman's
application.  This approach seems especially burdensome on the hospital because
something like "team spirit and cooperativeness" is so difficult to prove.
Thus, while the Sussman court was among the first to articulate an understanding
that the purpose of medical appointment had changed  [*1042]  from "granting
permission to practice" (old view) to "certifying members of the team," (modern
view) the New Jersey court still placed the needs of the individual physician
above those of the hospital.

   Twelve years passed between Sussman and the stunning New Jersey Supreme Court
decision in Garrow v. Elizabeth General Hospital.  n52 In each year between
Sussman and Garrow, hospitals were growing in complexity.  Pressures from courts
and patients were increasing the responsibility levied on hospital management
for the quality of staff competence.  The public's interest in an efficient
medical staff appointment and reappointment mechanism was on a steady rise.  In
Sussman, the Superior Court of New Jersey had denied Dr. Sussman a right to
counsel at the hearing that had to be provided for him.  The court had also
refused to grant Dr. Sussman the right to conduct prehearing discovery.  Given
the evolving needs of hospitals during the years between Sussman and Garrow, one
might reasonably expect that Garrow would increase the flexibility available to
hospitals.  Garrow reversed Sussman, but did so in the opposite direction.  In
Garrow, the New Jersey Supreme Court dramatically reduced the flexibility with
which hospital management could pursue hospital quality.  After granting Dr.
Garrow both prehearing discovery and the right to an attorney, the court in
Garrow distinguished between the hospital-run hearing and litigation only
insofar as the hearing need not precisely follow technical rules of evidence.
n53 In a stroke of irony, the court recognized that "it is obvious that as a
practical matter the hearings before a hospital's board of trustees, which
usually consists of civic-minded citizens serving on a pro bono publico basis,
cannot be conducted as full scale trial-type hearings."  n54 By raising the
procedural safeguards due Dr. Garrow to a scale rivalling full-scale litigation,
n55 the court may have chilled the enthusiasm of any physician pondering the
thought of initiating an adverse recommendation.  The decision purported to
balance the governing board's interests in autonomy, and in maintaining control
over the quality of its staff, with the doctor's interest in having a favorable
response to applications for membership.  The court noted that the ability of
physicians to pursue their profession "may depend on the availability of
necessary hospital facilities."  n56 The court supported its right to  [*1043]
review the hospital's decision by reference to the landmark -- and aged --
Greisman case.  n57 The clear message from Garrow -- that hospitals had better
provide physicians their "day in court" within the hospital or be prepared for a
future trip to court -- threatens peer review committee members in New Jersey
and across the country.  Garrow, to the extent the decision required that
physicians be allowed legal counsel and the right to conduct prehearing
discovery, overruled the decision made in Sussman. Importantly, Garrow increased
the burden placed on hospital peer review physicians at the same time that
patients' interests demand that those burdens be reduced.  It is difficult to
see how this "balance" encourages the modern hospital's public mandate to manage
the quality of its staff.

   The case of Silver v. Castle Memorial Hospital  n58 presents the most obvious
argument for the obsolescence of this line of common law cases.  In Silver, the
Hawaii Supreme Court reinstated a physician who had been denied reappointment on
the grounds that the hospital failed to give him a written statement of the
allegations against him but instead read them to him at his hearing.  Silver is
worthy of note for two reasons.  First, Justice Abe's concurring opinion shows
how ill-represented the needs of the modern hospital are in this line of cases.
Justice Abe wrote, "[w]eighing the very marginal gains to be had by allowing
hospitals to completely exclude licensed physicians against the risks attending
the power, I conclude that hospitals that are subject to the Due Process Clause
have no rational basis for excluding licensed physicians."  n59 In the very next
sentence, Justice Abe states that the "resolution does not create a risk that a
hospital will be liable for the negligence of its physicians, yet lack the
capacity to exclude them."  n60 This, he maintained, was true because corporate
liability was not a valid concern in 1972.  n61 Corporate liability for failure
to maintain a competent medical staff is a prominent concern in 1990.  n62
Modern hospitals must also seek quality as a means of survival in an
increasingly competitive marketplace.  n63

   Silver is also significant for its articulation of the concept that  [*1044]
courts should allow potentially incompetent physicians to be immediately
reinstated in instances where the hospital's actions in removing the physician
contained procedural deficiencies.  This concept is highly questionable.
Decisions like Silver raise the possibility that a physician could be removed
from practice at a hospital for failure to maintain adequate standards of
practice, but be reinstated for the duration of a potentially lengthy hearing.
This practice could create a serious risk of injury to unsuspecting patients.
n64

   Judicial review of modern day hospital decisions, as noted in these cases
holding private hospitals to a fiduciary duty because they are "affected with
the public interest," should not turn on the issue of whether they receive
either Hill-Burton funds or tax-exempt status.  The Hill-Burton Act is a federal
statute providing funds to hospitals for the purpose of construction.  n65
Hospitals are evaluated for tax-exempt status under § 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code based upon whether they make profits.  n66 Courts have employed
both of these measures as tests to determine whether hospitals should be defined
as "public" or "private." Courts have, in turn, used this classification to
justify review of hospital decisions.  n67 While the preceding line of common
law cases correctly declined to apply the artificial public-private distinction,
the cases generally failed to address the underlying issues.  Competing
interests lie at the core of each one of these cases.  On the one hand,
society's interest in receiving high quality health care suggests that both the
peer review physician's and the hospital's fear of litigation, and the
concomitant compulsion to engage in trial-like hearings to avoid litigation,
must be reduced or eliminated.  This fear is caused in large part by the
procedural due process protections that have been utilized to give physicians
what amounts to a virtual "right" to practice medicine at a desired hospital.
Physicians practicing in hospitals have a competing interest.  Many physicians
require or strongly desire hospitals in order to practice their profession to
the fullest.  Some protection of this interest is also in order.  n68

 [*1045]  B.  Medical Staff "Bylaws": Contract and Quasi-Contract Justifications
for Procedural Due Process

   In recent years, courts have become increasingly willing to require that
hospitals comply with medical staff bylaw provisions that set forth procedural
safeguards.  These safeguards are designed to prevent the use of peer review as
a vehicle for the unjustified exclusion of physicians.  n69 There are several
practical reasons why hospitals routinely adopt medical staff bylaws which
include provisions granting physicians "due process" procedural protection.
Basically, hospital management follows the advice of hospital lawyers.  Lawyers
are likely to advise hospital managers of several things.  First, failure to
include due process provisions may result in loss of accreditation.  n70 Second,
failure to do so may result in the loss of limited antitrust immunity for peer
reviewing physicians.  n71 Third, the absence of these provisions may result in
loss of Medicare funding.  n72 Fourth, and perhaps most urgent, the failure to
provide physicians their "day in court" within the hospital may result in
litigation that is even more costly than the in-house hearing process.  This is
not to say that hospitals faced with an environment divorced from the above
"incentives" would not recognize and protect the interests of physicians in
avoiding unjustified exclusion.  To the contrary, the need to protect
physician's interests is uncontroversial.  The significant  [*1046]  fact is
that the existing regulatory environment strongly reinforces the status quo of
protecting physicians through the costly provision of "due process."
Unfortunately, while the status quo has remained stable, the status of the
hospital, and thus its needs, have rapidly changed.

   To achieve the result that hospitals must, in all cases, grant the procedural
safeguards found in their medical staff bylaws prior to taking any significant
action against an incompetent physician, courts have employed several forms of
what essentially amount to a contract theory.  The issue of whether medical
staff bylaws constitute a contract, or an integral part of the contractual
relationship, between hospitals and staff physicians, has engendered debate both
in legal literature and in courts.  n73 While resolution of this issue rests
outside the immediate scope of this Note, a basic understanding of the arguments
made by courts is necessary to the evaluation of alternatives offered by the
author in the following section.

   The 1959 Pennsylvania Supreme Court case of Berberian v. Lancaster
Osteopathic Hospital Association, Inc.,  n74 was among the first to articulate
the concept that

   [t]he relationship between a hospital association and a member of the
hospital's staff is based on contract. . . .  Consequently in a case such as the
present, the nature of the contractual relationship between the assailed staff
member and the hospital association determines whether a hearing on charges
against the staff member is necessary before he can be discharged from a
hospital staff because of such charges.  n75

To substantiate this conclusion, the court comments that it is

   clear that the [hospital governing] board has agreed to follow certain
specified procedures before determining whether to exercise its authority in a
matter of a staff member's expulsion from the hospital. . . .  When the board of
directors approved the staff by-laws, they became an integral part of the
contractual relation between the hospital and the members of its staff.  n76

Berberian, cited by numerous courts for the proposition that the relationship
between a hospital and its staff physicians is one of contract  [*1047]  and
that the medical staff bylaws constitute "an integral part of the contractual
relation,"  n77 has been criticized for failing to distinguish between the
governing board's "approval" of the bylaws, and their "adoption" of them.  n78
The dissenting opinion spells out the opposing argument in this way:

   The Doctors who were members of the general staff adopted a set of by-laws to
govern themselves which were separate and very different from the Directors'
bylaws and in many respects inconsistent therewith.  The Board of Directors
approved the by-laws which the General Staff adopted to govern themselves.  This
approval does not amount . . . to an adoption of the staff by-laws by the Board
of Directors, as the by-laws themselves further demonstrate.  n79

Berberian framed the issue for many future cases: whether medical staff bylaws
are intended to constitute the terms of a binding agreement between the hospital
medical staff and the governing board, or whether they are a set of internal
hospital guidelines adopted by the medical staff for purposes of
self-regulation.  Courts tackling this issue have increasingly resolved it
consistent with the majority in Berberian.  n80

   The 1963 case of Shulman v. Washington Hospital Center  n81 is another
important case on the question of judicial review of hospital staffing
decisions.  Ironically, courts routinely cite Shulman for the general principle
that courts will not review the medical staff decisions of private hospitals.
The irony arises because the court in Shulman created an enormous exception to
this principle for cases in which the hospital fails to conform to the
procedures set forth in "its constitution, bylaws, or rules and regulations."
n82 It is not entirely clear whether the court intended to apply a contract
theory, but the result would be the same regardless of the court's intent.
Shulman explained in detail why review of private hospital decisions is limited
to compliance with bylaws, recognizing that

   [t]he hospital in admitting a physician or surgeon to its facilities extends
a moral imprimatur to him in the eyes of the public.  Moreover not all
professional[s] . . . have a personality that enables them to work in harmony
with others, and to  [*1048]  inspire confidence in their fellows and in
patients.  These factors are of importance and here, too, there is room for
selection.  n83

Despite its articulation of the needs of the modern hospital, the court
apparently failed to understand that judicial demands of strict compliance with
medical staff bylaws has the practical implication of deterring the hospital's
efforts to improve the quality of care received by its patients.  While the
failure of the Shulman court could possibly be explained by the fact that it was
decided before hospital quality had been articulated as a formal goal, several
recent cases accept its conclusion at face value.  n84

   The 1971 New Hampshire Supreme Court case of Bricker v. Sceva Speare Memorial
Hospital,  n85 a case ultimately decided on common law grounds in accordance
with the cases discussed in the previous section, sheds some light on why courts
have been increasingly willing to interpret medical staff bylaws as a binding
contract.  In Bricker, the court noted that other courts had recently recognized
that "the public has a substantial interest in the operation of private
hospitals and that of necessity in the public interest some measure of control
by the courts is called for.  This has led to the rule that exclusion from staff
privileges must be done in accordance with the bylaws of the hospital."  n86 The
court's frank recognition that a strong connection exists between the outdated
line of common law cases referred to in Section III(A) and contract cases is
extremely troubling.  Both theories result in the mandatory provision of
extensive due process.  The court apparently advocates that the issue of whether
medical staff bylaws constitute a contractual agreement between hospitals and
medical staff members be evaluated with an eye to public policy.  The intentions
of the parties should govern this analysis.  Furthermore, the court's
willingness to rely on policy considerations articulated in the outdated common
law cases described in Section III(A) indicates its reliance on an antiquated
policy.  The court's use of outdated policy is unmistakable -- the court relies
on Berberian and Greisman.  n87

    [*1049]  More recent cases similarly evidence a connection between the
decision to hold hospitals to their medical staff bylaws and the common law
cases requiring due process.  In the 1989 case of Gianetti v. Norwalk Hospital,
n88 for instance, the Connecticut Supreme Court held that Norwalk Hospital
violated a medical staff bylaw.  To support this holding, the court stated:

   'Hospital officials must recognize that their powers, particularly those
relating to the selection of staff members, are powers in trust which are always
to be dealt with as such,' and courts will intervene to enforce judicially this
fiduciary concept. . . .  This rationale from Greisman, although . . . not a
case involving a contractual relationship, gives support to the propriety of
reviewing medical staff decisions made under staff bylaws.  n89

This language would add little to a decision simply interpreting the language of
a valid contract.  In fact, public policy considerations underlie the decisions
made in these "contract" cases.  Unfortunately, courts are relying on the
outdated policies reflected in common law cases such as Greisman.  n90 The
courts have failed to respond to new hospital needs that have developed as a
result of the public's endorsement of the goal of hospital quality.

   Courts are not discussing the possible impact on peer review of requiring due
process hearings.  Nor do the courts articulate any understanding of the need to
break down the barriers to effective peer review.  Finally, the courts have
uniformly failed to address issues related to accreditation, Medicare funding
and limited antitrust immunity for peer reviewers.  Modern hospitals include
elaborate procedural protections in their bylaws in the first place in order to
ensure accreditation, funding and immunity.  Thus the decision to hold hospitals
to the specifics of medical staff bylaws places hospital management in a
quandary: Hospitals must provide elaborate due process and allow their peer
review efforts to flounder, or deny elaborate due process and risk losing the
accreditation, funding and immunity, which the hospital may need to survive in
the marketplace.

    [*1050]  IV.  SUMMARY: THE STATUS QUO HINDERS HOSPITAL QUALITY GOALS

   Two conclusions can be drawn from the previous discussion.  First, hospital
quality -- the quality achieved by hospital management through credentialing and
peer review efforts -- has emerged as a top priority in the provision of health
care.  The promotion of hospital quality serves patients by improving care and
reducing patient injury.  Increased quality helps hospitals survive in a
competitive health care market, and reduces malpractice payments for insurers
and other third party payors, as well as for competent physicians in need of
manageable malpractice premiums.  Second, current credentialing and peer review
methods, the cornerstones of modern efforts to achieve quality, are
significantly impeded by the high cost to peer reviewers and hospitals of
affording elaborate due process prior to taking any significant action against
physicians.  Incompetent physicians may continue to commit malpractice
throughout the weeks, months, or even years it takes to complete a hearing
process.  But an even more serious obstacle to quality is the likelihood that a
physician who has undergone the gruelling endurance event once will hesitate --
or downright refuse -- to participate in meaningful peer review in the future.
Regardless of the theory used to justify the required due process hearing --
whether the common law, contract theory, the United States Constitution, or any
other source -- mandatory due process, at least in its current form, hinders a
hospital-wide system of quality.

   Quality is a top health care priority.  In addition, peer review has achieved
widespread acceptance as the basis for achieving that priority within hospitals.
n91 The antiquated nature of current methods of improving quality thus becomes
apparent.  The time has come to seek a new arrangement which will give the
development of efficient peer review  [*1051]  higher rank among competing
public policy goals.  Of course, the effect a given change will have on the
interests of physicians must also be considered.  New policies must be adopted
that meet both the continuing interests of physicians and the more pressing,
ill-represented interests associated with the development of a quality-driven
system of hospital care.  The situation is urgent.  Each day that passes with
hospitals unable to efficiently sift out and discipline incompetent physicians
is a day in which patients undergo an unreasonable risk of serious injury or
death.

   V.  ALTERNATIVES: DESIGNING A QUALITY-DRIVEN SYSTEM OF HOSPITAL CARE

   Outlined below are three alternatives to the existing hospital-medical staff
relationship.  Each alternative promotes hospital quality interests by changing
one of the two mechanisms, physician protection or quality enhancement through
peer review, that currently conflict.  Each alternative has inherent strengths
and weaknesses.  Yet each suggests a realistic design for the creation of a
quality-driven hospital care system.

A.  Changing the Due Process Hearing to Create Quality-Driven Hospital Care

1.  Shifting the Cost of Providing Due Process Hearings

   The high cost of providing physicians with a due process hearing does not, in
and of itself, diminish the effectiveness of peer review.  Rather, peer review
effectiveness is reduced because hospital managers and reviewing physicians must
themselves provide that hearing.  n92 A system that provides due process but
shifts the burden of its provision away from hospitals and their own staff
physicians would at least partially achieve current quality goals.  The
responsibility for providing due process could be removed from hospitals and
placed upon either county or state medical societies, or perhaps upon private
organizations paid to conduct such hearings.

   This system could work as follows.  Hospital physicians would still be
responsible for performing all peer review functions up to the point where an
adverse recommendation is made to the hospital governing board.  If however, the
adversely recommended physician then chooses  [*1052]  to pursue a hearing, the
matter would be immediately transferred to an outside agency.  The outside
agency would investigate the matter and act as "judge" at the hearing.  The
outside agency would communicate its final decision to the governing board in
the form of a recommendation for action.  The recommendation would include
findings of fact and conclusions for the governing board to consider in deciding
what final action (if any) to take.  The governing board would then be in a
position to take whatever action it considered to be in the best interests of
the hospital's patients.

   If the outside hearing proved to be as lengthy and costly as internal
proceedings, this system would not necessarily remedy the problem of incompetent
physicians continuing to practice throughout the hearing process.  n93 In
addition, the threat of litigation could lead outside agencies to provide
hearings that resemble those conducted in hospitals today.  Fear of litigation
could still chill the willingness of hospital managers and peer reviewers to
take necessary action in achieving quality.

   The interests of physician protection would not, however, require that
outside agencies provide physicians with the unnecessarily procedure-dominated
hearings that now plague peer review committees and hospitals.  A chain reaction
has caused hospital management to continue to increase the duration and
formality of due process hearings.  First, hospital management is fully aware
that courts have maintained or increased their willingness to review the
procedural sufficiency of such hearings.  By providing formal, trial-type
hearings, the hospital reduces the risk of having to repeat the hearing process
in court.  The foremost reason, however, why courts review the procedural
sufficiency of hospital hearings is due to a concern that such hearings may not
be impartial.  n94 Partiality, in turn, is feared because of the competitive
relationship that often exists between reviewing physicians and their reviewees.
By taking the hearing outside the hospital, the fear of partiality is mitigated.
Detaching the hearing process from persons within the hospital whose partiality
is feared should reduce or eliminate the concern that currently underlies the
willingness of courts to review hearing procedure.  Consequently, by allaying
the fear of litigation,  [*1053]  outside agencies can fashion the hearing to
meet the needs of the physician facing censure.

   The purpose of a hearing is simply to determine whether the hospital peer
reviewers had a rational foundation for their recommendation.  Extensive
formality is unnecessary and counterproductive.  It is unnecessary because the
goal is to provide the censured physician with an opportunity to be heard prior
to a final decision.  It is counterproductive because provision of extensive due
process harms quality by deterring effective peer review.  In addition,
incompetent physicians may at times continue to practice while a determination
is made.  The interests of physicians must be considered, but so long as the
hearing is impartial, extensive procedures cannot be justified in a system
providing quality health care to patients.

   Conducting hearings outside the hospital has the further desirable effect of
spreading the cost of due process across the entire profession.  Currently,
those hospitals and peer review staffs that conduct the most thorough peer
review procedures sustain the greatest burden in terms of both monetary and
personal costs.  Conversely, in hospitals characterized by lax peer review
efforts, peer review committees stand to gain (or at least to endure lower
costs) while patients continue to suffer.  This phenomenon should be reduced as
the cost of hearings is removed from individual hospitals and spread across the
profession.  Peer review physicians will be free to concentrate more on
conducting quality peer review and less on the associated risks.  Quality peer
review is, of course, directly related to quality patient care.

   Finally, a note is necessary on the relationship of this alternative to
another fear which also contributes to the paralyzation of peer review: the
spectre of antitrust.  Removing responsibility for the physician's hearing from
the hospital will not change the fact that peer review itself will often be
conducted by a potential competitor.  The assurance of an impartial hearing by
an outside agency should, however, reduce the chance that peer review would
result in antitrust violations.  n95 This is noted simply as a favorable
by-product of the decision to place responsibility for hearings outside the
hospital.

    [*1054]  If maintaining due process protection for physicians is deemed
either a legitimate public interest or a political necessity, the change from a
hospital-based hearing to one based outside the hospital offers several
advantages, all related to quality of care.  If due process is to be preserved,
the option of shifting the hearings outside the hospital deserves serious
consideration.  When measured against the existing arrangement this option has
great merit.

2.  Reducing the Cost of Due Process by Eliminating the Formal Hearing

   Due process hearings block the efficient peer review that is essential to
achieving urgent quality goals.  Physicians, are members of a hospital team.
The team's major goal is to provide quality hospital care.  To allow the
protection of one member of the hospital team to thwart the achievement of the
team's collective goal is obviously counterproductive.  Thus, if all other
factors remain equal, due process hearings that hinder achievement of the team's
quality goals must be significantly reduced or eliminated.  Significantly, while
many non-physicians practitioners can claim a "need" for access to hospital
facilities similar to that claimed by physicians, they generally enjoy no due
process protection.  n96 Thus the elimination of the formal due process hearing
for physicians should not be unthinkable.

   It is, however, beneficial to provide physicians with some recourse should
the peer review process run awry.  There are alternatives to the polar extremes
of providing a full-scale hearing and providing no protection at all.  One
option is to provide physicians with a significantly reduced hearing, or an
opportunity to meet with the hospital's board of directors.  Another option is
to allow hospital managers discretion to choose to provide a full-scale hearing
only when the interests of the particular physician so require.  This latter
option seems logical, as the modern hospital must ultimately take responsibility
for the competency and morale of its staff.

   The alternative described below encompasses a combination of the preceding
suggestions.  Specifically, hospitals could contract to provide physicians with
notice of the charges against them and with an opportunity  [*1055]  to meet
informally with the governing board prior to any action by the board.  Failure
of the board to provide either of these protections would constitute breach of
contract.  But procedural formalities -- at least those contracted for -- must
remain at a minimum.

   To supplement these protections the governing board could reserve the right
to grant a more extensive hearing or to mount an investigation.  If an impartial
hearing committee could not be found within the hospital, members could be
brought in from outside, perhaps selected from a pool of specialists collected
at the county or state medical society.  This system would offer considerable
physician protection at a minimum cost.  It would also allow the hospital to
maintain flexibility in taking action to protect its patients.  Under this
arrangement, hospital management would retain the choice of much less dramatic
steps, such as requiring problematic physicians to be counselled, educated, or
assisted in their practice.  Physicians could be temporarily suspended, for
whatever length of time is necessary to ensure that their skills are brought up
to par.  Problem patterns could be identified and remedied at earlier stages
without the fear of attending costs that currently plague the hearing process.

   This alternative both protects physicians and frees peer review efforts from
the fear of costly hearings.  Before this arrangement could be realized,
however, courts, legislatures, and accrediting bodies must recognize the
deleterious effect that due process requirements have upon a hospital-wide
system of quality patient care.  As long as courts and legislatures require
elaborate procedures, hospitals will provide them -- whether or not their
provision is counterproductive to hospital quality.  The fear of litigation may
constitute the single most significant deterrent to effective peer review;
quality cannot be achieved until that fear is lifted.

   For courts that have justified the requirement of procedural due process by
pointing to a common law fiduciary duty  n97 that hospitals owe patients, the
solution is relatively simple.  If hospitals are to fulfill their fiduciary
duty, the courts must enhance the hospital's ability to protect patients from
incompetent physicians, not enhance the protection of physicians against
hospitals.  Judicial intervention on behalf of physicians for failure to provide
elaborate procedural protections runs contrary to the court's own purposes.
Courts must embrace the modern definition of hospital quality.  Courts must
recognize that peer review  [*1056]  constitutes the core component of the
response to the changed definition of quality.

   The spectre of judicial intervention is devastating to peer review efforts.
Peer review is conducted voluntarily, generally by the more progressive
physicians who have committed themselves to the concept of hospital quality.
For quality efforts to succeed, this group must be encouraged.  But the courts
which follow the common law line of cases discussed in Section III(A) are
actively discouraging these physicians, remedying the lesser problem of
arbitrary physician exclusion by establishing disincentives for peer review
efforts.

   It is a more complex problem to remedy the plight of hospitals in
jurisdictions where elaborate due process requirements have been imposed on the
basis of a contract theory.  n98 The complexity stems from accreditation
requirements that cause hospitals to confer due process procedural safeguards
pursuant to medical staff bylaws.  n99 Further complication arises due to the
statutory requirement of due process necessary for physicians to receive limited
antitrust immunity under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act.  n100

   In fact, hospitals are unlikely to lose accreditation for failure to provide
full-scale hearings to aggrieved physicians.  Due process requirements are the
result of attempts by the physician-dominated accreditation body to cling to the
past.  Accreditors have refused to recognize that the nature of physician
responsibilities in modern hospitals must be redefined.  The complete
elimination of all procedural protections from medical staff bylaws is
nonetheless a risk that most hospitals will not take -- especially with
accreditation at stake.  Further, hospital physicians would strongly resist this
measure.  At any rate, such a solution may not be desirable.  A compromise
solution may remedy the situation in those states where courts consider medical
staff bylaws to constitute a binding agreement between hospitals and their staff
physicians.  Hospitals could negotiate with physicians on the issue of
procedural protections.  The medical staff bylaws or employee manual could
delineate these limited protections.  The hospital's failure to provide
procedures specified in the bylaws would constitute actionable breach.  In
addition, the hospital could compile a separate staff manual for use within the
hospital.  This manual would detail a more elaborate set of procedures that
could be provided when it appeared to hospital  [*1057]  management that a
physician had been unfairly treated.  Provisions described in the manual would
be used by hospital managers for reference purposes in managing its staff, but
would not bind hospital behavior.  Procedural safeguards would thus be divided
between those to which physicians would have an absolute right and those which
are in the hospital's discretion.

B.  Changing the Form of Physician Protection to Create Quality-Driven Hospital
Care

1.  Employment Protection as an Alternative to Due Process Protection

   A third alternative to existing hospital-medical staff relations involves
eliminating due process protection and replacing it with employment protection.
By making physicians employees of the hospital, this arrangement permits
physicians to derive protection from employment laws.  The most obvious
advantage of this system, at least with respect to hospital quality, is that it
would foster efficient peer review by eliminating the strong disincentives
currently associated with the provision of due process.  This would occur for
three reasons.

   First, because the physician's duties as a hospital employee would include
participation in the peer review process, physicians would be compensated for
their efforts.  Physicians would thus have an economic incentive to broaden the
role they play in achieving hospital quality.  Their expanded role would ideally
include not only responsibilities to their own patients but also
responsibilities for the quality of patient care generally.  This expansion of
the physician's role is consistent with recent changes in the health care field,
including the requirement that hospitals assume more responsibility for patient
care quality and the fact that patient care is now a product of team enterprise.

   Second, treating physicians as salaried employees provides another
significant advantage that should increase the effectiveness of peer review.  A
second advantage of the physician-employee arrangement is that it eliminates
hospital physicians' dependence on each other for referrals.  By reducing the
financial interdependence that now exists between hospital physicians, this
approach should make physicians more willing to identify incompetent
practitioners.

   Third, the physician-employee arrangement mitigates disincentives to peer
review caused by the fact that peer reviewers often compete with those whose
credentials they must review.  Two benefits result.   [*1058]  First, because
financial incentives leading to possible bias are eliminated, the need for due
process is reduced.  As stated, peer review efficiency increases as due process
"baggage" is eliminated.  In addition, by removing the possibility that peer
review will be utilized to increase one's patient pool at the expense of a
competitor's, the physician employment alternative reduces the likelihood of
antitrust suits.

   Despite these benefits, physicians are likely to initially resist this
alternative.  The hospital employee model infringes significantly upon physician
autonomy.  But the increasing numbers of non-physician practitioners could make
the same claims for autonomy and most of them are employees of the hospital.
Because many physicians who now enjoy a greater degree of autonomy effectively
refuse to engage in meaningful peer review, their autonomy must be reduced to
the extent necessary to allow hospital-wide quality efforts to succeed.

   As the health care field continues to evolve, physicians will less and less
resemble "independent contractors," the role they traditionally played.
Hospitals are now commonly held liable for lapses in the quality of care
provided by staff physicians;  n101 courts are relying on theories that resemble
strict liability.  In this environment, the proposed change in physician
employment agreements would help to reconcile existing hospital-medical staff
relationships with reality.  Hospitals are already liable for the negligence of
staff physicians.  This liability is similar to the liability that employers
have traditionally faced for the negligence of their employees.  Hospitals must
be free to create a system which enhances quality, and thus allows the hospital
to avoid such liability.  Not surprisingly, in recent years many of the nation's
best health care facilities have entered into employment relationships with
physicians.  n102

   VI.  CONCLUSION

   Today's system of hospital care sacrifices the quality of care received by
patients for the sake of an antiquated system designed to protect physicians.
Yet there is agreement that the unhindered pursuit of quality benefits patients,
hospitals, and doctors as well.  The current  [*1059]  system is thus
unacceptable.  Undeniably, physicians deserve some form of protection.  Absolute
protection of physician's interests can only be provided, however, if it does
not conflict with other important goals.  The requirement of due process, at
least in its present form, conflicts directly with the goal of hospital quality.
To design a hospital care system truly driven by the concept of quality, some
difficult choices must be made.

   In evaluating the alternatives, decision makers can no longer define quality
as a physician taking responsibility for his or her own patients.  Patients, the
consumers of care, will no longer accept this narrow definition.  Under the
current system, malpractice -- or its identification -- has skyrocketed.  Poor
quality is also a problem for hospitals.  Courts now routinely hold hospitals
liable for poor care that occurs as a result of the one physician-one patient
relationship.  As courts have recognized, high quality care may be necessary for
a hospital's very survival.  n103 Physicians would also benefit from a broader
definition of quality.  Only when physicians take responsibility for hospital
-wide quality can unacceptable practices be identified and remedied.  This
remedy may constitute a significant step towards finding relief for the
continuing rise in malpractice insurance premiums.

   The peer review concept has developed in response to the need for a broader
definition of quality.  Both peer review and its kin, credentialing, are
critical components of patient care in the modern hospital.  To fully effectuate
quality hospital care, achieving effective peer review and credentialing
processes must be top priorities.

   The alternatives described above will not solve all the problems that
currently plague hospital care.  Each would, however, restructure relations
between hospitals and their staff physicians to better incorporate the quality
dimension in modern hospital care.  Quality issues are certain to remain at the
forefront of concern and debate in the decade to come.  Until hospital-medical
staff relations are restructured, peer review will hobble along, and unnecessary
suffering will continue.  Let courts, legislators, hospitals, and physicians be
forewarned!  The refusal or inability to adapt to change currently presents the
most formidable obstacle to the achievement of hospital care designed with
quality as its driving force.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawActions Against FacilitiesGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawActions
Against Healthcare WorkersGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawAntitrust
ActionsPhysicians

FOOTNOTES:




n1 " Hospital management" will be used throughout this Note to connote the
hospital chief executive officer and administrative staff, as well as the
hospital boards of trustee/directors.  The phrase will not be used to describe
the medical staff leadership, such as executive committee, credentials
committee, and peer review committee chairpersons and members.  For purposes of
convenience, leaders of the medical staff will all be referred to as "peer
reviewers" and "members of the peer review committee" unless otherwise
indicated.




n2  The concept of one physician caring for one patient is deeply imbedded in
case law.  Thus, the primary concern of courts has been to protect access of
physicians to hospital facilities, to ensure that patients can receive care from
a chosen physician.  See infra notes 38-68 and accompanying text.




n3  The days when a patient's physician carried the sole responsibility for the
quality of that patient's care have past.  Justice Burger has noted the
definitiveness of this change: "I would think no 'evidence' is needed to
establish the proposition that the primary mission of every hospital is care and
concern for the patients and that anything which tends to interfere with that
objective cannot be tolerated." N.L.R.B. v. Baptist Hospital, Inc., 442 U.S.
773, 791 (1979) (Burger, J., concurring).  See also Darling v. Charleston
Community Memorial Hosp., 33 Ill. 2d 326, 211 N.E.2d 253 (1965) (establishing
duty of hospitals to exercise reasonable care in the selection, supervision, and
retention of physicians), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966).




n4  Perhaps the most decisive evidence of the need to expand the definition of
quality patient care is found in the enactment of federal legislation designed
to improve the effectiveness of hospital peer review activities.  In the Health
Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, Congress found "an overriding national
need to provide incentive and protection for physicians engaging in effective
professional peer review." 42 U.S.C. § 11101 (Supp. V 1987). Peer review
activities constitute the major response to calls for an expanded definition of
"quality patient care" in hospitals.




n5  In addition to reverberations caused by the medical malpractice crisis
discussed in the accompanying text, the consumer movement helped push quality
issues to the forefront in the purchase of all consumer products and services.
The decline of the view that physicians are an infallible species also
contributed to demands for quality assurance on a hospital-wide basis.




n6  132 CONG. REC. H9954 (daily ed. Oct. 14, 1986) (statement of Rep. Wyden);
see also Waxman, Sounding Board: Medical Malpractice and Quality of Care, 316
NEW ENG. J. MED. 943 (1987).




n7  An impaired physician is one who suffers from psychiatric disorder,
alcoholism or drug dependence.  See A.M.A. Council on Mental Health, The Sick
Physician, 223 J. A.M.A. 684 (Feb. 1973). For an analysis of quality issues
relating to the impaired physician, see generally Hirsh, The Medical-Legal
Implications of the Errant or "Sick" Physician, 1976 MED. TRIAL TECH. Q. 377;
Shapiro, Pinsker & Shaler, The Mentally Ill Physician as Practitioner, 232 J.
A.M.A. 725 (1975); Gordon, Growing Pressure to Act Against Incompetent Doctors,
PHYSICIAN'S MANAGEMENT 56 (May 1975).




n8  Robinson v. Magovern, 521 F.Supp. 842, 919 (W.D. Pa. 1981), aff'd, 688 F.2d
824 (3d Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 971 (1982); see also Coile and
Grossman, Quality, An Idea Whose Time Has Returned, HEALTHCARE FORUM Mar.-Apr.
1987, at 21.  One story told captures the importance an image of quality can
mean in the hospital marketplace:

   A young couple living 40 miles outside of Chicago find themselves confronted
with a crisis.  Their four-month-old baby has sustained a hard bump to the head.
There's a community hospital within ten minutes, but they go toward the city.
They'll pass dozens of other hospitals before arriving at the emergency room of
Children's Memorial Hospital.  And, despite the long drive, a shortage of
parking, wintery streets, surly personnel, and long waits, they'll continue to
return to Children's over the coming months for follow-up care.
Beckham, Getting a Grasp on Quality, HEALTHCARE FORUM Mar.-Apr. 1987, at 13.




n9  The atmosphere in which a hospital conducts its business has in fact changed
from one of almost complete immunity in the 1960's to one of virtual strict
liability for lapses in many aspects of patient care hospital managers are now
seen as directly providing.  The basic theory underlying the doctrine of
corporate negligence is that hospitals will be held liable as a corporate entity
for injury to hospital patients that is caused by staff physicians if the
hospital could in any way have prevented such injury.  Darling v. Charleston
Community Memorial Hosp., 33 Ill. 2d 236, 211 N.E.2d 253 (1965), cert. denied,
383 U.S. 946 (1966). The doctrine has also been used to require that hospitals
use reasonable care to ensure that physicians appointed to the hospital's
medical staff are competent.  A majority of jurisdictions have now recognized
the doctrine of corporate negligence at the appellate level.  See, e.g., Storrs
v. Lutheran Hosps. and Homes Soc'y of America, Inc., 661 P.2d 632 (Alaska 1983);
Purcell v. Zimbelman, 18 Ariz. App. 75, 500 P.2d 335 (1972); Elam v. College
Park Hosp., 132 Cal. App. 3d 332, 183 Cal. Rptr. 156 (1982); Mitchell County
Hosp. Auth. v. Joiner, 229 Ga. 140, 189 S.E.2d 412 (1972); Corleto v. Shore
Memorial Hosp., 138 N.J. Super. 302, 350 A.2d 534 (1975); Pedroza v. Bryant, 101
Wash. 2d 266, 677 P.2d 166 (1984); Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hosp., 99
Wis. 2d 708, 301 N.W.2d 156 (1981).




n10  See The Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101,
11111-11152 (Supp. V 1987).




n11  See Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations,
Accreditation Manual for Hospitals (1990) [hreinafter JCAHO].




n12  The term "physician" as used here would include, in addition to medical
doctors, osteopaths, podiatrists, and dentists.




n13  The list of non-physician practitioners now sharing the hospital with
physicians is virtually endless.  Examples include the nurse, nurse anesthetist,
respiratory therapist, physical therapist, and physician assistant.




n14  See generally Springer and Casale, Hospitals and the Disruptive Health Care
Practitioner -- Is the Inability to Work with Others Enough to Warrant
Exclusion?, 24 DUQ. L. REV. 377 (1985). Courts have long recognized the
legitimacy of a physician's character as a factor in determining the physician's
ability to contribute to quality care in the hospital environment.  "Mere
intellectual power and scientific achievement without uprightness of character
may be more harmful than ignorance.  Highly trained intelligence combined with
disregard of the fundamental virtues is a menace." Lawrence v. Briry, 239 Mass.
424, 132 N.E. 174, 176 (1921). See also Meredith v. Allen County War Memorial
Hosp. Comm'n, 397 F.2d 33 (6th Cir. 1968); Robbins v. Ong, 452 F. Supp. 110
(S.D. Ga. 1978).




n15  See infra text accompanying note 22.




n16  See infra text accompanying note 23.




n17  See infra text accompanying notes 25-27.




n18  Even in public hospitals where state action is present the physician has no
constitutional right to practice medicine.  See, e.g., Hayman v. City of
Galveston, 273 U.S. 414, 417 (1927); Klinge v. Lutheran Charities Ass'n of St.
Louis, 523 F.2d 56 (8th Cir. 1975); Woodbury v. McKinnon, 447 F.2d 839 (5th Cir.
1971).




n19  See infra notes 38-90 and accompanying text.




n20  Regrettably, modern cases provide evidence that the patient's interest in
receiving high quality care in hospitals is often still subjugated to less
urgent interests.  For example, both the physician's need to maintain access to
a particular hospital and the patient's interest in having a guarantee that a
particular physician is allowed to maintain access to hospital facilities
frequently retain priority over efforts taken by hospitals on behalf of patients
in pursuing "hospital quality" goals.  See infra notes 38-90 and accompanying
text.




n21  Only cases advancing constitutional protection of physician position, in
public hospitals or where state action is present, use a true "due process"
theory to justify intervention.  U.S. CONST. amend. V, XIV.  Most cases justify
intervention into a hospital's medical staff decisionmaking using a theory
mirroring due process but deriving from either common law notions of
"fundamental fairness," see infra notes 38-68 and accompanying text, or
contract, see infra notes 69-90 and accompanying text.  The result is identical.
Thus this Note will use the terms interchangably.




n22  See, e.g., Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hosp., 99 Wis. 2d 708, 301
N.W.2d 156, 160-61 (1981).




n23  For a detailed history of peer review in hospitals, see Haines, Hospital
Peer Review Systems: An Overview, HEALTH MATRIX, Winter 1984-85, at 30.
Comment, Medical Peer Review Protection in the Health Care Industry, 52 TEMP.
L.Q. 552, 554-65 (1979).




n24  See supra note 9 and accompanying text.




n25  As noted previously, due to the similar role and legal implications of
credentialing and peer review as they relate to issues of quality, simplicity
warrants that "peer review" be used, unless otherwise indicated, to denote both
hospital efforts.  See supra note 1.




n26  See generally Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. §
11101 (Supp. V 1987); Waxman, supra note 6.




n27  Owens, Peer Review: Is Testifying Worth the Hassle?, MED. ECON. August 20,
1984, at 167.  See also 132 CONG. REC. H11588 (daily ed. Oct. 17, 1986)
(statement of Rep. Waxman) ("At the hearing [held for debate over barriers to
peer review], nearly every witness indicated that the threat of litigation under
current law is a major barrier to effective peer review.").




n28  Many states have enacted statutory privileges to provide limited or full
immunity to peer review participants from liability in civil actions.  The
statutes, however, provide varying degrees of immunity ranging from qualified
immunity in actions for defamation to absolute immunity in all civil suits.
See, e.g., ARK. STAT. ANN. § 20-9-502 (1987); CONN. GEN. STAT. ANN. § 38-19a(b)
-(c) (West 1987); GA. CODE ANN. § 31-7-132 (Supp. 1989); ILL. ANN. STAT. ch. 110
P2-1016 (Smith-Hurd Supp. 1989); IND. CODE ANN. § 16-10-1-6.5 (West Supp. 1989);
LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 37:1287 (West Supp. 1990); MD. HEALTH OCC. CODE ANN. §
14-601 (Supp. 1989); OKLA. STAT. ANN. tit. 76, §§ 25-28 (West Supp. 1990); PA.
STAT. ANN. tit. 63, § 425.3 (Purdon Supp. 1989); R.I. GEN. LAWS § 5-37-1.5
(1987); S.D. CODIFIED LAWS ANN. § 36-4-25 (1986); TENN. CODE ANN. § 63-6-219
(Supp. 1989); UTAH CODE ANN. § 26-25-1 (Supp. 1989); VT. STAT. ANN. tit. 26, §
1442 (Supp. 1988); VA. CODE ANN. § 8.01-581.16 (Supp. 1986); WASH. REV. CODE
ANN. § 4.24.240 (1988); W. VA. CODE § 30-3C-2 (1986); WIS. STAT. ANN. § 164.37
(West 1989).  While legislatures have endeavored to create an environment
relatively free from civil action, peer reviewers still face the prospect of
enduring a gruelling hospital hearing process in order to fulfill legislatively
and judicially mandated procedural process.  At their worst, such hearings rival
litigation.  See, e.g., infra notes 52-57 and accompanying text.  In addition,
state peer review statutes shield participants from losing, but not from having
to defend, a lawsuit.  "'Legally safe' of course doesn't mean you can't be sued,
but only that you'll probably win if [you] are sued." Owens, supra note 27, at
168.




n29  Patrick v. Burget, 486 U.S. 94 (1988); Weiss v. York Hosp., 745 F.2d 786
(3d Cir. 1984), cert. denied, 470 U.S. 1060 (1985); see also Robinson v.
Magovern, 521 F. Supp. 842 (W.D. Pa. 1981), aff'd, 688 F.2d 824 (3d Cir. 1982),
cert. denied, 459 U.S. 971 (1982). For a discussion of the issues relating to
the fear of antitrust and successful peer review, see generally Hosoweiko, If
You Should Lose a Peer Review Suit . . ., MED. ECON. FOR SURGEONS, Jan. 1989, at
38-51; Miles & Philp, Hospitals Caught in the Antitrust Net: An Overview, 24
DUQ. L. REV. 489 (1986); Kissam, Webber, Bigus & Holzgraefe, Antitrust and
Hospital Privileges: Testing the Conventional Wisdom, 70 CALIF. L. REV. 595
(1982).




n30  See supra note 28 and accompanying text.




n31  See Owens, supra note 27.




n32  Sosa v. Board of Managers of Val Verde Memorial Hosp., 437 F.2d 173 (5th
Cir. 1971). See generally Note, Hospital Medical Staff: When Are Privilege
Denials Judicially Reviewable?, 11 U. MICH. J.L. REF. 95 (1977); Comment,
Hospital Medical Staff Privileges: Recent Developments In Procedural Due Process
Requirements, 12 WILLIAMETTE L.J. 137 (1975).




n33  Garrow v. Elizabeth Gen. Hosp., 79 N.J. 549, 401, A.2d 533 (1979).  See
generally Nodzenski, Medical Staff Decisions in Private Hospitals: The Role of
Due Process, 18 LOYOLA U. CHI. L.J. 951, 964-89 (1987).




n34  Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, 395 Pa. 257, 149 A.2d 456
(1959); Knapp v. Palos Community Hosp., 176 Ill. App. 3d 1012, 531 N.E.2d 989
(1988), cert. denied, 110 S. Ct. 141 (1989).




n35  See Klinge v. Lutheran Charities Ass'n, 523 F.2d 56 (8th Cir. 1975)
(constitutional due process protection).




n36  The following description and discussion outlining the inner-workings of
hospital due process hearings derives from several informal interviews with
experts who have participated as legal counsel in literally hundreds of hospital
hearings.




n37 " Even if their colleagues have some evidence of malpracticing doctors'
incompetence, there are tremendous barriers to getting a bad doctor out of our
health-care system." 132 CONG. REC. H9954 (daily ed. Oct. 14, 1986) (statement
of Rep. Wyden).




n38  Joining the Hospital's Professional Social Club, Action Kit for Hospital
Law Newsletter, November 1973, at 3.  See also Note, supra note 32.




n39  Joining the Hospital's Professional Social Club, supra note 38, at 3.




n40  See generally Note, Judicial Review of Private Hospital Activities, 75
MICH. L. REV. 445 (1976); Note, Denial of Hospital Staff Privileges: Hearing and
Judicial Review, 56 IOWA. L. REV. 1351 (1971).




n41  Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 40 N.J. 389, 192 A.2d 817 (1963).




n42  Id., 192 A.2d at 820-21.




n43  Id. at 821.




n44  Id.




n45  Id. at 823.




n46  Equal access to membership on the hospital staff, once limited to
physicians, has been extended by legislative mandate in many jurisdictions to
osteopaths, podiatrists, dentists, and other practitioners.  See, e.g., COLO.
REV. STAT. § 25-3-103.5 (1983); FLA. STAT. ANN § 395.011 (West 1990); IOWA CODE
ANN. § 135B.7 (West 1990); LA. REV. STAT. ANN. §§ 37:1301 (West 1982), 40:2114
(West 1986); MICH. COMP. LAWS ANN. § 333.21513 (West 1989); NEB. REV. STAT. §
71-2048.01 (1989); OHIO REV. CODE ANN. § 3701.35.1 (Anderson 1988); S.C. CODE
ANN. § 44-7-260(d) (Law. Co-op. 1988); WISC. STAT. ANN. § 50.36 (West 1985),
WISC. ADMIN. CODE § HHS 124.05(2)(e) (1988); WYO. STAT. § 35-2-113 (1981).
Issues have thus focused increasingly upon the procedural rights of all parties
in retaining those hospital staff positions.




n47  See, e.g., Reiswig v. St. Joseph's Hosp. & Med. Center, 130 Ariz. 164, 634
P.2d 976 (1981); Ascherman v. St. Francis Memorial Hosp., 45 Cal. App. 3d 507,
119 Cal. Rptr. 507 (1974); Miller v. Nat'l Med. Hosp. of Monterey Park, Inc.,
124 Cal. App. 3d 81, 177 Cal. Rptr. 119 (1965); Silver v. Castle Memorial Hosp.,
53 Haw. 475, 497 P.2d 564 (1972), cert. denied, 409 U.S. 1048 (1972); Silver v.
Queen's Hosp., 63 Haw. 430, 629 P.2d 1116 (1981); Bricker v. Sceva Speare
Memorial Hosp., 111 N.H. 276, 281 A.2d 589 (1971), cert. denied, 404 U.S. 995
(1971); Garrow v. Elizabeth Gen. Hosp. & Dispensary, 79 N.J. 549, 401 A.2d 533
(1979); Sussman v. Overlook Hosp. Ass'n, 92 N.J. Super. 163, 222 A.2d 530
(1966), rev'd, 79 N.J. 549, 401 A.2d 533 (1979); Kelly v. St. Vincent Hosp., 102
N.M. 201, 692 P.2d 1350 (1984); Davidson v. Youngstown Hosp. Ass'n, 19 Ohio App.
2d 246, 250 N.E.2d 892 (1969); Woodard v. Porter Hosp., Inc., 125 Vt. 419, 217
A.2d 37 (1966).




n48  Sussman, 222 A.2d at 530.




n49  Id., 222 A.2d at 540 (quoting Note, Hospital Staff Privileges: The Need for
Legislation, 17 STAN. L. REV. 900 (1965)).




n50  Id.




n51  Id. at 540.




n52  Garrow v. Elizabeth General Hosp., 79 N.J. 549, 401 A.2d 533 (1979).




n53  Id., 401 A.2d at 541.




n54  Id.




n55  Id.




n56  Id. at 537.




n57  Id.




n58  Silver v. Castle Memorial Hosp., 53 Haw. 475, 497 P.2d 564, cert. denied,
409 U.S. 1048 (1972).




n59  Id., 497 P.2d at 573 (Abe, J., concurring).




n60  Id.




n61  Id.




n62  See supra note 9 and accompanying text.




n63  See supra note 8 and accompanying text.




n64  See, e.g., Woodbury v. McKinnon, 447 F.2d 839 (5th Cir. 1974); Anton v. San
Antonio Community Hosp., 19 Cal. 3d 802, 140 Cal. Rptr. 442 (1977); Hackethal v.
Loma Linda Community Hosp. Corp., 91 Cal. App. 3d 59, 153 Cal. Rptr. 783 (1979);
Gotsis v. Lorain Community Hosp., 46 Ohio App. 2d 8, 345 N.E.2d 641 (1974).




n65  42 U.S.C. § 291 (1982). See also Note, supra note 32.




n66  I.R.C. § 501 (1982).




n67  See, e.g., supra note 40.




n68  Alternatives described in Section V of this Note attempt to balance these
interests in a more optimal way to all parties.  See infra notes 92-103 and
accompanying text.




n69  Hoberman v. Lock Haven Hosp., 377 F. Supp. 1178 (M.D. Pa. 1974); Shulman v.
Washington Hosp. Center, 222 F. Supp. 59 (D.D.C. 1963); Margolin v. Morton F.
Plant Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 348 So.2d 57 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1977); Spencer v.
Community Hosp. of Evanston, 87 Ill. App. 3d 214, 408 N.E.2d 981 (1980); Anne
Arundel General Hosp., Inc. v. O'Brien, 49 Md. App. 362, 432 A.2d 483 (1981);
Joseph v. Passaic Hosp. Ass'n, 26 N.J. 557, 141 A.2d 18 (1958); Gotsis v. Lorain
Community Hosp., 46 Ohio App. 2d 8, 345 N.E.2d 641 (1974); Adler v. Montefiore
Hosp. Ass'n of W. Pa., 453 Pa. 60, 311 A.2d 634 (1973), cert. denied, 414 U.S.
1131 (1979); Berberian Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 395 Pa. 257, 149
A.2d 456 (1959); Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 277 Pa. Super. 370, 419 A.2d 1191
(1980); St. John's Hosp. Medical Staff v. St. John Regional Medical Center, 90
S.D. 674, 245 N.W.2d 472 (1976).




n70  See JCAHO, supra note 11, at 102.  JCAHO provisions include requirements
for procedural due process which must be included in the hospital's medical
staff bylaws.  The "fair-hearing procedures" are singled out by the Joint
Commission as one of the "key factors in the accreditation decision process."
Id. Despite its voluntary nature, accreditation is actively sought by hospitals
because it satisfies the conditions of participation in and payment by Medicare.
See 42 U.S.C. § 1395b(a)(1)(2) (Supp. II 1984).  See also Joy, The Health Care
Quality Improvement Act of 1986: A Proposal For Interpretation Of Its
Protection, 20 ST. MARY'S L.J. 955 (1989).




n71  Hospitals which do not provide procedural due process to physicians
censured in peer review actions lose the partial immunity the legislature
provided peer reviewers from antitrust suits.  Paradoxically, the fear of
undergoing the necessary hearing to fulfill due process requirements causes
deterrence similar to that which antitrust immunity is designed to prevent.  See
Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, supra note 10.




n72  See supra note 70.




n73  See HORTY, Medical Staff Appointment & Privileges, HOSPITAL LAW ch. 6 (May
1982).  But see Falk, Delegated Power to Amend Medical Staff Bylaws, 21
WILLIAMETTE L. REV. 1 (1985). See generally Horty & Mulholland, The Legal Status
of the Hospital Medical Staff, 22 ST. LOUIS U.L.J. 485 (1978).




n74  Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 395 Pa. 257, 149 A.2d
456 (1959).




n75  Berberian, 149 A.2d at 458 (citations omitted).




n76  Id. at 458-59.




n77  Id.




n78  Id. at 461.  See HORTY, supra note 73, at 11.




n79  Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 395 Pa. 257, 149 A.2d
456 (1959) (emphasis in original); see also HORTY, supra note 73, at 11.




n80  See, e.g., supra note 69.




n81  Shulman v. Washington Hosp. Center, 222 F. Supp. 59 (D.D.C. 1963).




n82  Id. at 63.




n83  Id. at 64.




n84  See, e.g., Knapp v. Palos Community Hosp., 176 Ill. App. 3d 1012, 531
N.E.2d 989 (1988), cert. denied, 110 S. Ct. 141 (1989).




n85  Bricker v. Sceva Speare Memorial Hosp., 111 N.H. 276, 281 A.2d 589, cert.
denied, 404 U.S. 95 (1971).




n86  Id., 281 A.2d at 592 (citations omitted).




n87  Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Ass'n, Inc., 395 Pa. 257, 149 A.2d 456
(1959); Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 40 N.J. 389, 192 A.2d 817 (1963).




n88  Gianetti v. Norwalk Hospital, 211 Conn. 51, 557 A.2d 1249 (1989).




n89  Id. at 1256 (citing Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 40 N.J. 389, 192 A.2d 817
(1963) (citations omitted)).




n90  See supra notes 38-68 and accompanying text.




n91  Congressional findings under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of
1986 evidence a strong reliance upon peer review as the most significant remedy
available to reduce problems of physician malpractice:

   The Congress finds the following:

   (1) The increasing occurrence of medical malpractice and the need to improve
the quality of medical care have become nationwide problems that warrant greater
efforts than those that can be undertaken by an individual state.

   (3) This nationwide problem can be remedied through effective professional
peer review.

   (5) There is an overriding national need to provide incentive and protection
for physicians engaging in effective professional peer review.
42 U.S.C. § 11101 (Supp. V 1987).




n92  See supra notes 27-37 and accompanying text.




n93  See supra note 64 and accompanying text.




n94  See, e.g., Silver v. Castle Memorial Hospital, 53 Haw. 475, 497 P.2d 564,
572, cert. denied, 409 U.S. 1048 (1972) ("In order for the board to function as
an objective decision making body in its capacity as grantor of staff privileges
it must not be tainted by its own premature decisions prior to the hearing." In
addition to requiring the hearing, the court laid out several criteria which, it
maintained, would ensure objective deliberation of the physician's "case.").




n95  While peer review statutes limit antitrust liability to "bad faith," they
do not limit the ability of disgruntled physicians to bring claims that the peer
reviewers used bad faith.  Thus, protection is from losing, not from having to
defend.  The danger to physicians of bad faith peer reviewers has often been
questioned.  See, e.g., Waxman, supra note 6, at 943.  (The author discusses "a
clear recognition that most peer review is, in fact, conducted by
well-intentioned physicians whose main concern is with quality of care.").




n96  Some non-physician practitioners are employees of the hospital, thus
deriving their protection through employment laws.  Increasingly, however, such
members are seeking -- and attaining -- membership to hospital staff.  Staff
non-physician practitioners arguably have a "need" for access equal to many
physicians, especially general practitioners.  Yet the author's research
indicated that non-physician practitioners, unexplainably, enjoy no such
protection.




n97  See supra notes 38-68 and accompanying text.




n98  See supra notes 69-90 and accompanying text.




n99  See supra notes 69-73 and accompanying text.




n100  42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (Supp. V 1987).




n101  See supra note 9 and accompanying text.




n102  A few examples of hospitals that now enter into employment or contract
relationships with their physicians are the Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland, Ohio
(telephone interview with Karen Shobert, Office of Professional Affairs,
Cleveland Clinic (Oct. 16, 1990)); the Ochsner Clinic in New Orleans, Louisianna
(telephone interview with Jean Amaro, Administrative Assistant to the Medical
Director, Ochsner Clinic (Oct. 15, 1990)); and the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minnesota (telephone interview with Robert K. Smoldt, Secretary, Board of
Governors, Mayo Clinic (Oct. 16, 1990)).




n103  Robinson v. Magovern, 521 F. Supp. 842 (W.D. Pa. 1981), aff'd, 688 F.2d
824 (3d Cir.), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 971 (1982).


                              444 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 8, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Abrams lures fans to 'Fringe';
The man behind 'Lost' revisits the supernatural

BYLINE: Gary Levin

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1230 words


NEW YORK -- Something is out there ...

And it could be a J.J. Abrams show that won't leave casual fans feeling lost.

Fringe, due Tuesday (8 p.m. ET/PT, Fox), is one of the most highly anticipated
shows in a fall season offering few buzzworthy new series. And the latest from
the brand-name producer comes with  a new twist: It melds his penchant for
strong characters and shadowy conspiracies with the sturdy TV case-of-the-week
format that lets less rabid viewers step in and out of a series.

The drama "was designed to be an experiment for us," Abrams says. "We wanted to
do a show that had a procedural template, a sort of structure, but doing a
procedural in the mold of CSI and Law & Order didn't interest me; it's been done
to death."

But he also wanted to avoid the oft-heard complaint from sometime fans of his
earlier shows: "So many people would say to me, 'I was watching Lost or Alias,
but I missed a couple of episodes and I couldn't keep up and get back into it.'"

Lost "is a club," he says, "and I think it is a much more difficult show to pick
up and start watching" midway through. "I wanted to try something where the door
was opened a little wider."

This time, he borrowed from The X-Files, grafting a largermythology onto the
series that rewards loyal viewers but isn't essential to any weekly episode.

Fringe centers on no-nonsense FBI agent Olivia Dunham, played by  Australian
newcomer Anna Torv, 29, who explores odd occurrences of "fringe" science: In the
expanded first episode, a planeload of passengers is dead on arrival in a
gruesome airport scene.

To solve the case, her path leads to brilliant but mad scientist Walter Bishop
(John Noble), who must be extracted from a mental hospital with the help of his
estranged son Peter (Joshua Jackson), dragged reluctantly into the mix. The
three  form an unlikely team that solves other disturbing mysteries each week
and slowly discovers a wider pattern of events and people that might connect
them.

It's a wrinkle sure to please the legions of Abrams fans who besieged him at
July's Comic-Con International in San Diego, where he touted both Fringe and his
upcoming Star Trek feature film, due in May. "It was like being in the court of
the king," Jackson says. "That is definitely his world."

The mystery grows

On a hot day back at the Fringe studios here last month, shooting had just begun
on the season's pivotal fourth episode, the first to deeply explore the larger
mythology and the last to air before a two-week break for the World Series. As
such, it will leave many cliffs hanging, the better to lure viewers back in late
October.

The pilot was filmed in Toronto, but tax breaks lured the show to New York, and
the actors have been busy filming on location in the city's neighborhoods. Here
they checked out the FBI offices, freshly built on a vast soundstage.

In the episode, Walter Bishop has gone AWOL, but he has been rounded up, and in
a six-minute scene -- an eternity for a TV show -- he's being interrogated by
Dunham and his own son about some sort of missing cylinder.

Torv and Jackson, in the dark as most actors are about the show's future
direction, say they've finally gotten some idea where it's going -- and where
their characters came from. "Every question that gets answered will leave three
more at least," Torv says. "You're getting satisfaction, but every time you get
satisfaction, there's more to know." The mystery "keeps getting broader and
wider and bigger."

Along for the ride are Dunham's boyfriend and fellow agent John Scott (Mark
Valley); her stern boss, Phillip Broyles (Lance Reddick); and the manipulative
Nina Sharp (Blair Brown), an executive at a mysterious corporation run by Walter
Bishop's former lab partner.

Jackson plays the resident doubter, with a dash of the sarcastic humor he
displayed as Pacey Witter on teen drama Dawson's Creek. "In a show like this
there has to be a skeptic," he says. "You need someone to be the voice of the
audience going, 'That just doesn't make any sense.'"

But eventually, he says, "you fall into a Mulder and Scully land where it's
like, how can she still be so skeptical of this world -- and I was a huge
X-Files fan -- after eight seasons, when she's seen so much proof to the
contrary?" Peter comes to "believe in the science, he just doesn't believe in
the methodology."

His eccentric-genius dad is key to the puzzle: "Something happened 17 years ago
where he was put into a mental asylum, solitary confinement, shocks, drugs,"
Noble says. "He's really stuffed. He has short-term memory loss. What you have
is these flashes in and out of his memory and his lucidity."

Fox sees flashes of a sci-fi-tinged hit it has been seeking since X-Files left
the air in 2002. That show, along with Twilight Zone and Twin Peaks, served as a
big inspiration for Abrams and his team of writer-producers led by Alex Kurtzman
and Roberto Orci, who worked on Alias and wrote Trek and Transformers.

More 'sci' than sci-fi

The two have mapped out the show's ending: "We know what the pattern is; we had
to know what it was all leading to," Kurtzman says. "It's something that can be
revealed whenever we want to," in 13 episodes or 13 seasons, depending on the
show's success.

Fox immediately jumped at the chance to be in business with Abrams. "We heard
the one-liner -- Indiana Jones meets X-Files -- and that felt like a Fox show to
us," says entertainment president Kevin Reilly.

As for the lead roles, "these are not three stiffs," says network chairman Peter
Liguori. "They are three characters who are incredibly colorful, with faults and
neuroses and just surprises."

The network is providing a big theatrical-film-style marketing push that began
last May. "This is a big event, and that's what Fox does well," Liguori says.
And it's the first to get Fox's "Remote-Free TV" treatment: fewer, shorter
commercial breaks that will expand each hour-long episode's content by six
minutes, to about 50, in a move designed to reduce DVR skipping. (Tuesday's
premiere will run 83 minutes.)

Abrams says Fringe is more "sci" than "sci-fi" in that its stories dwell in the
realm of the possible, however remote.

But "his shows become a victim of their own success," Jackson says. "Especially
Lost, which has an almost frighteningly rabid fan base. People take the show so
personally that if they feel like it's deviating from their own understanding of
it, they're going to be personally insulted. It's harsh because they're your
greatest fans and the trumpeters of their shows ... but they're almost
inevitably going to be pissed off because they're not the writers."

"I know the pitfalls we can fall into," he says, "but I'm so excited to be
working in sci-fi. This show is right up my alley."

Abrams likens a new-series startup to "a massive collaboration of crew and cast
and writers and ambition and practical realities, and above all finding a tone
and groove. You're constantly battling every possible growing pain. I remember
going through exactly the same thing on Felicity and Alias and Lost."

Torv says she tries to ignore the high bar set for the show, given its pedigree.
"If I took any of it on board, I'd just crumple in a ball and not function."

But Jackson is sure about one thing: "People have extremely high expectations of
what a J.J. Abrams show is going to be," he says. "This show can only be very
good or off the air; those are the two choices."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W, Craig Blankenhorn, Fox
PHOTO, B/W, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              445 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 3, 2017 Wednesday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

LENGTH: 175  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE17R0006

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: May 3, 2017

Description: Added: May 03, 2017 7:42 am
This is a sources sought notice.


The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing DePuy Synthes Joint Reconstruction Orthopedic Products for Hips,
Knees, Shoulders, and Joints Implant "procedural packages;" Orthopedic Cement
Products; Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary Products. The product mix that
makes up the "procedural package" varies based on the individual needs of the
patient. The instruments are both "used" during the surgery and return to the
vendor or purchased by the hospital so they are readily available on the
shelves.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): JOHN R JACKSON JOHN.R.JACKSON@DLA.MIL Phone: 2157370850


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              446 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Noosa News (Queensland)

                               February 25, 2011

Medicine Richard's panacea

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 977  words



HIGHLIGHT: This well-known 'tri' fixture is more likely to carry a stethoscope
than a number


AFTER 20 years on the job, Richard Heath is used to being bailed up in
supermarket aisles.

Giving out medical advice between the canned tomatoes and pasta shells is all
part of being one of the few remaining procedural general practitioners on the
Sunshine Coast.

The 52-year-old's talents stretch from obstetrics to general anaesthetics and
minor surgery.

When the average waiting time at the Coast's biggest public hospital emergency
department is eight hours, being multi-skilled means being in demand.

He has more than 45,000 patient records in Noosa Health Centre's database.

This means he has cared, at some time, for about 65% of the district's
population, and their visiting friends and families .

Prior to his arrival in 1991, Dr Heath was a medical superintendent at a Broome
hospital in Western Australia.

He could have had his pick of positions across Australia.

But a love for the "good old-fashioned GP practice" attracted him to this small
corner of the world.

"Noosa, for me, is all about the interesting people and the diverse work," he
said.

"You never know who or what is going to walk through the door.

"This morning, for example, I saw an office worker with a drug problem.

"Then I treated a baby with tummy pain."

After two years in local practice, he became Noosa Triathlon's race medical
director.

A role not to be taken on lightly, there are an average of 20,000 spectators and
8000 competitors.

"Covering this event takes a lot of preparation and help from my staff," he
said.

"It is an extreme sport and people die.

"You can't mess around."

A professional approach to elite sport paved the way for Dr Heath to secure a
position as a treating doctor at the Mooloolaba, Sydney and Hamburg triathlons.

As word spread of his on-the-ground triage and medical management skills Dr
Heath was recruited for Woodford Folk Festival in 2003 and then Gympie Muster in
2005.

He was also instrumental to the establishment of the Noosa After Hours Medical
Centre in 1993 and the associated medical retrieval service.

"This has been my professional highlight in Noosa so far," he said.

"I truly believe we saved many, many lives during the nearly six years that the
after-hours clinic was open because of the improved access to medical care it
gave the community.

"The clinic saw over 85,000 people.

"There were 42 doctors from the district who worked a roster to ensure it was
staffed."

The centre is now at Noosa Private Hospital and continues to be a success
despite recently losing government funding.

The paperwork and red tape to maintain procedural credentials is often
mountainous for Dr Heath, with compulsory training required every three years to
update his skills.

But he reckons in the end it will all be worth it.

"The reason why I keep getting up in the morning is simple really: I enjoy my
job," he said.

"I like caring for people."

Although he is gruff and a little rough around the edges, it is not hard to
believe his passion.

Dr Heath said health services seemed to have come full circle on the Coast.

"When I first moved here people were dying on Main Beach because there was no
hospital in the area," he said.

"Now, instead of having no hospitals, they are overcrowded and on bypass.

"The ambulance officers are run off their feet.

"Provisions for after-hours care are not good. Plus the population has doubled."

Mr Heath said he believed the Coast had sufficient health infrastructure but
that it was being used inefficiently.

"Queensland Health has more bureaucrats than doctors and nurses," he said.

"There is too much red tape.

"In the good old days I could go with a patient to theatre at Nambour with
minimal hassle.

"I could scrub in and hold their hand while they were having their operation.

"Now it is a case of a half dozen emails and even more forms."

As a member of the committee looking at e-health reforms, Dr Heath looks forward
to the advances in the health industry.

"Noosa Health was one of the first private practices in Australia to complete a
virtual amalgamation of medical records," he said.

"Recently, one of my patients was over in Russia having difficulty explaining
the history of his gut ache.

"I was able to email over his records and within minutes the issue was sorted
out."

Dr Heath said ultimately technology would also benefit patients with shorter
waiting times.

"If your gynae checks are all up to date and you're healthy there is no reason
why you should come in every single time and sit around for 20 minutes because
you need a new script for the pill," he said.

"This morning we sent out 10 to15 electronically encrypted prescriptions"

In hasn't all been rose coloured for Dr Heath, though.

In 2001 he was piloting a twin-engine Cessna when it crashed 80 metres short of
the runway at Sunshine Coast Airport, just moments after take-off.

The crash left him and passenger Gerry Geltch with serious injuries.

And it was not the first time he had crashed a light aircraft.

He was charged with operating the plane in a careless or reckless manner and
banned from flying for three years.

"I would say that period of my life was the worst," he said.

His Noosa patients still occasionally remind him to make sure there's "fuel in
the tanks", but their banter is quite loyal.

He's now back flying, thanks to their encouragement.

Dr Heath said every day since that accident he woke up at dawn.

"... Just so I can see the sun rise. I am lucky to be alive," he said.

"With children still at school, I look forward to many more years of procedural
general practice in Noosa."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SNN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              447 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Massachesetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 23, 2012 Sunday

Courts jump through procedural hoops in competency cases

BYLINE: Steve Doane, Cape Cod Times, Hyannis, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1246 words


Dec. 23--Barnstable District Court First Justice W. James O'Neill said he's
never lost sleep over any of his courtroom decisions.

But of the thousands of rulings he makes annually that affect everything from
criminal bail to civil settlements, the cases that really get to him involve the
mentally ill.

"I find the profoundly difficult hearings are when you're putting someone into a
hospital, sometimes against their will," he said.

The mental health care system as a whole has come under scrutiny following the
shootings in Newtown, Conn., earlier this month.

The shooter, Adam Lanza, is suspected to have suffered from one or more mental
illnesses before he broke into the Sandy Hook Elementary School on Dec. 14 and
shot 20 6- and 7-year-olds and six teachers and administrators with an assault
rifle before killing himself.

Lanza's case highlights how those suspected of having a mental illness can go
untreated and how the court system in many ways acts as a catchall for the
mentally ill when they don't get the treatment they need. The Barnstable
District Court, along with other courts on the Cape, has played an increasingly
important role in providing care to the mentally ill recently, according to
statistics.

"We're not the answer for sure," O'Neill said. "We try, and often we're a
gateway from people into DMH (state Department of Mental Health)."

Those suspected of being mentally ill make their way into the legal system in a
variety of ways. The most prominent and often the most tragic is through the
criminal justice system.

COURTS CAN COMPEL TREATMENT

When competency is an issue for someone charged with a crime, there are two
hurdles prosecutors must clear before a trial can take place. A judge must find
the defendant both criminally responsible and mentally competent. Criminal
responsibility refers to the defendant's state of mind at the time of the
alleged crime, whereas mental competency is his or her ability to comprehend the
charges and assist in a defense.

This standard applies in both district and superior court cases. If a judge
finds that a defendant doesn't clear either hurdle, he or she can order the
defendant to a treatment facility for an extended period, O'Neill said.

"If they have committed a crime and there is suspicion psychosis is involved,
it's easier for us to deal with because we have control over them," he said.

When a person suspected of having a mental illness hasn't committed a crime, the
process becomes more complicated.

The court system compels treatment through a variety of means, including civil
commitments and treatment orders, but these are the most extreme measures a
district judge can take and involve a complex hearing process.

These are called civil commitments, and they involve placing someone in a mental
health institution, often against his or her will. The procedure for this is
covered under the Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 123. The initial phase is
an emergency commitment for someone who may pose an immediate threat to
themselves or others. These are known informally as "section 12s," in reference
to their place in the state laws.

A section 12 authorizes the commitment of a potentially dangerous person to a
mental health facility for up to three days, according to state law.

If the facility determines that a patient should stay past those three days, it
may petition the court to have the patient held for a period of six months.
These petitions, known as "section 7 or 8," must be approved in a hearing before
a district judge. The petitioner must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
patient has a mental illness, presents an imminent danger to themselves or
others and that there is no less restrictive way to treat them, such as
outpatient therapy, O'Neill said.

During the hearing, which is conducted at the mental health facility, the
patient is represented by an attorney. The attorney is charged not with
representing the best interests of the patient, which may mean continued
hospitalization, but with what the patient would want if he or she was of sound
mind, O'Neill said.

In addition to the section 7 and 8 hearings, the court can also order a mentally
ill person to undergo medical treatment, which can include using antipsychotic
medication and electroshock therapy.

The court must find that the patient is incapable of making rational decisions
about care and that if the person were of sound mind, he or she would accept
such treatment, according to state law.

WHAT HAPPENS TO JUVENILES?

For the mentally incompetent who aren't at risk of hurting themselves or others,
there are less forceful methods for the courts to get them into treatment or
protect their interests.

For problem children and young adults under age 18, the juvenile court has a
petition called a Child in Need of Services, or CHINS.

A parent, guardian, school administrator or police officer can petition court
for help if they can show a child routinely runs away from home, disobeys a
parent or guardian, is a disruption at school, or doesn't attend at all.

The child doesn't have to have a mental illness for the petition to apply, but
it's a common occurrence, said Matt Selig, the executive director of Health Law
Advocates, a legal assistance group.

If the petition is granted, the child is brought to the court, and he or she
will work out and sign a CHINS agreement with his or her guardian and a
probation officer.

The agreement dictates certain conditions and treatments the child will submit
to for a limited time. The child may also be subject to a hearing if the alleged
offenses are severe enough.

The only real power the juvenile court has is in these situations is the ability
to transfer custody or remand a child to the state Department of Children and
Families, Selig said.

"It's a last resort for parents when they file a CHINS. You'd much rather they
(child) get access to treatment before they get to court," Selig said.

HOW GUARDIANSHIP WORKS

The other option involves the probate courts.

When it comes to mental health issues, the probate system handles the bulk of
involved cases, typically though guardianship proceedings.

"I'd say of the breadth of the Massachusetts court system, the probate court,
sees the majority of cases where mental health is an issue," said John Dugan, a
member of the Massachusetts Bar Association's probate law section and a private
attorney in Franklin.

Guardianship is a form of legal authority the court can grant someone closely
tied to someone with a mental health issue, Dugan said.

Typically a court-appointed guardian has authority only over a mentally ill
person's medical decisions, which can include stipulations for everything from
diet to whether to place the person in a nursing facility, he said.

Guardianship can be granted over any person deemed to be incapable of taking
care of himself or herself. This can include everyone from children to the
elderly, Dugan said.

While a guardian is authorized to make ordinary health care decisions for the
mentally ill person, he or she must petition the court to go forward with any
kind of extreme treatment, such as antipsychotic medication.

These are known as "Rogers hearings" and are similar to the "section 8B"
hearings in the district court except the petitioner doesn't need to demonstrate
an imminent threat if the patient isn't treated, Dugan said.

___ (c)2012 the Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Mass.) Visit the Cape Cod Times
(Hyannis, Mass.) at www.capecodonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121223-CA-Courts-jump-through-procedural
-hoops-in-competency-cases-1223-20121223

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                         Copyright 2012 Cape Code Times


                              448 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 6, 2017 Saturday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

LENGTH: 185  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE17R0006

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: May 5, 2017

Description: Added: May 03, 2017 7:42 am Modified: May 05, 2017 11:21 amTrack
Changes
This is a sources sought notice.


The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing DePuy Synthes Joint Reconstruction Orthopedic Products for Hips,
Knees, Shoulders, Extremity and Other Joints Implant "procedural packages;"
Orthopedic Cement Products; Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary Products. The
product mix that makes up the "procedural package" varies based on the
individual needs of the patient. The instruments are both "used" during the
surgery and return to the vendor or purchased by the hospital so they are
readily available on the shelves.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): JOHN R JACKSON JOHN.R.JACKSON@DLA.MIL Phone: 2157370850


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              449 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 6, 2017 Saturday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

LENGTH: 308  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE17R0006

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: May 5, 2017

Description: The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources
capable of providing DePuy Synthes Joint Reconstruction Orthopedic Products for
Hips, Knees, Shoulders, Extremity and Other Joints Implant "procedural
packages;" Orthopedic Cement Products; Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary
Products. The product mix that makes up the "procedural package" varies based on
the individual needs of the patient. The instruments are both "used" during the
surgery and return to the vendor or purchased by the hospital so they are
readily available on the shelves.


All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural packages" must be delivered
"Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery", and "Consignment". Under
"Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the
manufacturer's field representative who carries the products into the MTF
just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales representative may bring
many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products to the surgery along
with the instrumentation sets. Under "Direct Vendor Delivery" method an order
for products is placed through ECAT and the product is delivered directly to the
customer via any transportation carrier. Under the "Consignment" method, an MTF
will have the products that make up the "procedural packages" consigned to their
facility.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): JOHN R JACKSON JOHN.R.JACKSON@DLA.MIL Phone: 2157370850


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              450 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                           February 25, 2016 Thursday

Doctors defend US-made coding for procedures

BYLINE: Youlendree Appasamy

SECTION: ECONOMY, BUSINESS & FINANCE

LENGTH: 513 words


COULD THIS AFFECT COST, ASKS PANEL
 Treatment plans are limited by what medical aid plan a patient is on
 THE South African Medical Association (Sama) had to defend its decisions on
procedural coding for medical procedures at the Competition Commission's Health
Market Inquiry yesterday.


  Sama owns and administrates the only medical procedural coding in South Africa
and lends this out to regulatory bodies such as the national Department of
Health.
  Sama, the largest and most representative medical professional body in South
Africa, presented its submission at the second day of public hearings on the
state of private healthcare.
 Sama's legal and accounts manager, Julian Botha, explained that the current
coding system is derived from the United States coding system, developed and
peer-reviewed at Harvard University.
 The panel asked multiple questions surrounding the accuracy in transposing US
values to South Africa, raising issues such as currency conversion rates,
geographical modifiers to cost of procedures and the time going into the medical
procedure.
 "Every single association has said that there is a major problem with coding so
we are trying to find where the blockage is," said one of the panellists.
 Dr Mzukisi Grootboom, chairman of Sama, stated that it was due to regulatory
bodies that Sama could not move forward with making unique coding for medical
procedures, specific to the South African healthcare context.
 "Cost studies that have been done by Sama have either been rejected or
completely disregarded by the Department of Health," Botha said.
 At Monday's hearings, medical aid schemes and private hospital procedures were
placed under the microscope by the Occupational Therapy Association of South
Africa (Otasa) and the Pharmaceutical Society of South Africa (PSSA).
  The organisations decried uncompetitive behaviour by medical aid schemes that
were having a negative impact on their industries and the healthcare of patients
they treat.
 Lorraine Osman of the PSSA gave the example of how community pharmacies are not
allowed to mark up their medicines and they can only receive their income
through a dispensing fee.
 The fee is a set percentage of the manufacturer's cost of the medication -
however, due to medical aid schemes refusing to pay the patient or pharmacy, the
dispensary fee is often drastically reduced.
 "Not only is this a low return on investment for the pharmacist but there is
not even any profits to be made," Osman said.
 Otasa said that due to the growing importance of funders, medical aid schemes
were compromising their profession and by consequence compromising the care
given to their patients.
 "Our treatment plans are often limited by what the medical aid plan a patient
is on and often a power imbalance is created," their statement read.
 oappasamyy@sowetan.co.za
  THINKING HEADS: The chairman of the Health Market Inquiry, retired chief
justice Sandile Ngcobo, listens attentively to the SA Medical Association's
submission on coding for medical procedures in Pretoria yesterday
  Photo: Youlendree Appasamy

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    December 7, 1998, Monday, METRO EDITION

Tainted Sick Kids review must be shut down

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 334 words


   James H. Pitblado, chairman of the board for The Hospital for Sick Children,
claims in his Nov. 28 letter that his board is "eager for all the facts to come
out" in the case of Dr. Nancy Olivieri. However, the board's review of the case
virtually guarantees that such result cannot be obtained.

The review, headed by Dr. Arnold Naimark, creates a reasonable apprehension of
bias.

Naimark has had a previous relationship with Apotex, the drug company in
question, and he was president of the University of Manitoba when his university
made donor agreements with Apotex. Conflict of interest is a serious matter.

In addition, the review process has been a patchwork of last-minute decisions.
Naimark was appointed on Sept. 8 to conduct the review.

Only after he had collected hundreds of documents and interviewed dozens of
people on his own were two other members patched into the review process,
creating further procedural irregularities. The board failed to secure the
participation of Olivieri, indicating that an atmosphere of mistrust surrounds
the review.

For all the facts to come out, an open, independent and external inquiry that is
impeachable and has the confidence of all, including Olivieri, must be set up.

The tainted Naimark review must be shut down immediately and the documentation
and interviews embargoed. Charging ahead only can prolong the controversy and
deepen the publicity disaster, to the detriment of all concerned. It is too late
for the board and the University of Toronto to save the appearances.

The Olivieri-Apotex case raises the most serious questions concerning ethics,
research integrity, academic freedom, the privacy of personal correspondence and
the relation between public health and for-profit research.

With an apprehension of bias, and without full procedural safeguards in place,
the Naimark review cannot hope to achieve scientific and public credibility.

William Graham Canadian Association of University Teachers Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              452 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            November 21, 2011 Monday

Kidney transplant tough at home;
Annually 40,000 people in Maharashtra need transplant, but only 400 get it.
Prohibitive organ transplant laws in the country to blame

BYLINE: Rito Paul

LENGTH: 671  words


Gira Soni, 43, has been on dialysis for 11 years after an autoimmune disease
ravaged her kidneys. Recently, she developed Hepatitis C through an infection
contracted during the dialysis process.

Since she doesn't have a family member to donate a kidney, her only hope is a
cadaver transplant. But that too is a long shot.

There are 4 lakh people in India who need a kidney transplant. "Only 1% of that
number or 4,000 people actually get a transplant. And less than 5% of those
4,000 people get a cadaver transplant," said Dr Bharat Shah, senior nephrologist
and transplant specialist.

Gira's brother, Rohit, said his sister would be lucky to get a transplant in the
next 10 years. Apart from Gira, Rohit's two brothers and another sister too
suffer from kidney ailments.

"Around 40,000 people in Maharashtra need a kidney transplant. Out of that, only
1% (400 people) will get one. And less than 5% of the 400 people will get a
cadaver transplant," said Dr Shah.

"The rate of transplants in Maharashtra is pathetic. I was in Ahmedabad where a
single government hospital has performed 300 transplants in a year. But in
Maharashtra, only 30 to 40 transplants take place annually," said Rohit.

According to Dr Shah, the state urgently needs to make amendments to the
Transplantation of Human Organs Act. "Only a few big hospitals based in Mumbai
and Pune are allowed to extract organs from patients who've had brain death. So
if someone dies in a small town or village, then they have to be first shifted
to a big hospital in the city and then the organs can be extracted. Most people
opt not to go through the hassle," said Dr Shah.

The other problem hindering the rate of transplants in the city is lack of
awareness. "Immediate family members are often dissuaded by relatives. Some
people believe that if an organ is taken out of the body then the deceased will
be reborn without the same organs. Such misconceptions are common among people,"
said Jyoti Nagda, a social worker who has worked as a transplant coordinator at
Hinduja Hospital.

Lack of awareness also proves to be a procedural hindrance. In cases of
accidental death where the victim is brain dead, the police have to give
permission to hospitals to extract the organs. "Most police people are not aware
of the benefits of organ donation, so they often refuse permission," said Nagda.

So what is the solution?

Dr Shah said there should be a two-pronged approach. "First, we need to amend
the Transplantation of Human Organs Act to make sure that the permission is
given to more hospitals to extract organs in case of brain death. Second,
awareness of the benefits of donating organs should be spread. A single
brain-dead cadaver cannot only donate kidneys but also heart, lungs and eyes,
saving multiple lives."

4 lakh people in India need a kidney transplant in a year

4,000 people get a transplant

200 is the approximate number of people who get a cadaver transplant

Dialysis versus kidney transplant

A transplant is an expensive procedure up front. It takes about a lakh to get a
complete check up of the donor done. The operation itself costs a minimum of Rs3
lakh. Add to this, the Rs10,000 -15,000 monthly for post-operation medicines and
the figure can be quite daunting.

"However, once the body has accepted the kidney the medicine costs go down
substantially. In around five years, the cost of medicine is only Rs5,000 a
month," said Dr Shah.

The cost of dialysis is Rs25,000 a month for someone who gets it done thrice a
week. "Add to this the loss of work, because of dialysis and the medicine costs
keep rising and it costs you much more in the long run," said Dr Shah.

Getting a transplant is also the healthier option because dialysis only enables
the kidney to function at 10 to 15% of its normal capacity, thereby the longer
you are on dialysis the chances are that your health will get worse.

Lack of awareness is a procedural hindrance. In cases of accidental death where
the victim is brain dead, the police have to give permission to hospitals to
extract the organs.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2011 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              453 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            February 19, 1988 Friday
                                  Late Edition

REGULAR SHORTS

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Letters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 209 words


Rural dilemma

SIR: Rural doctors have returned to work and it could be stated either that they
are happy with their present pay conditions for working in country hospitals or
that the Unsworth Government has beaten them.

I believe that we were not in contest with the Government. I believe that
procedural rural doctors undertake a great responsibility for which they are
very poorly paid. Procedural general practitioners in urban areas, who perform
the same procedures, are paid at a much higher rate.

Country general practitioners who give anaesthetics now receive less than they
received one year ago. During this time, their professional indemnity insurance
has risen considerably. Over the last two years, it has risen some 300 per cent.

Skilled obstetric procedures, such as forceps and breech deliveries, do not
attract any fee above that paid for a normal confinement.

We have been greatly discriminated against. We feel quite unhappy about our
present situation and we would still ask Mr Unsworth and his Government to look
at the service we give and the pay we receive and, in all fairness, to recognise
that procedural rural doctors deserve to be paid equally with their colleagues
in larger centres.

(Dr) J.R.Harris,

Church Street,

February 10 Mudgee.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1988 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              454 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 2007 Walter F. George School of Law, Mercer
                                   University
                               Mercer Law Review

                                  Winter, 2007

                               Mercer Law Review

                             58 Mercer L. Rev. 711

LENGTH: 18619 words

COMMENT: Involuntary Commitment of People with Mental Retardation: Ensuring All
of Georgia's Citizens Receive Adequate Procedural Due Process

NAME: Laura W. Harper


 TEXT:
 [*711]

   I. Introduction

 In the state of Georgia there are approximately three thousand citizens who are
confined to segregated living institutions because of their disabilities. n1
Many of these individuals are placed in institutions involuntarily through legal
proceedings. n2 Some of these individuals have mental retardation, a condition
that occurs during a person's development and results in below normal
intellectual functioning. n3 Many disability advocates argue that segregation
and institutionalization  [*712]  of people with mental retardation is not
needed, n4 although all do not agree. n5 Despite strong advocacy for the rights
of people with disabilities, many continue to be institutionalized, often
because their families can find no other path of treatment for their loved ones.
n6

   This Comment focuses on the procedures used in Georgia to continue the
habilitation n7 of people with mental retardation. In order to commit someone
initially, Georgia's statute requires an adversarial hearing with ample
procedural protections. n8 However, once the initial order for habilitation is
signed, the level of procedural protections for Georgia's citizens drops
dramatically. n9 This Comment first analyzes the procedures currently in place
in Georgia. Next, it analyzes what procedural due process might require in order
for a state to continue its habilitation of a person with mental retardation.
Because there has been no United States Supreme Court decision on point, this
Comment focuses on past procedural due process decisions to outline the possible
requirements. It also analyzes the procedures that other states utilize for
continued habilitation, as the Supreme Court currently considers what procedures
are used by states when determining how much procedure is due.

   After analyzing what procedural due process requires, this Comment discusses
how those constitutional rights can be waived, including what constitutes
adequate notice of rights. After outlining the relevant law, this Comment
analyzes Georgia's procedures to determine (1) whether they comply with the
proposed requirements of procedural due process and (2) whether the statute
provides adequate notice so that failure to exercise those rights results in
waiver. Finally, this Comment suggests possible amendments to Georgia's
procedures so that committed persons receive all of the protections they are
entitled to under the law and so that no person is needlessly confined.

[*713]

   II. Legal Background

   A. Historical Backdrop

 People with mental retardation have faced a history of segregation and
isolation. Many have been confined in state-run institutions, including mental
hospitals and insane asylums. Until recently, many of these facilities had
deplorable conditions. They provided no treatment for people and merely served
as a place to warehouse people with disabilities. People were admitted with very
little oversight and were then left in these facilities until their deaths. n10
This lack of treatment is evident from Alabama's notorious Bryce State Hospital
in Tuscaloosa, which in 1970 had one physician for every 350 patients, one nurse
for every 250 patients, and one psychiatrist for every 1700 patients. n11 Living
conditions were horrific. There were wards full of elderly people whose families
had dumped them. n12 Patients were often restrained, such as one patient who was
straight-jacketed for nine years to prevent thumb-sucking. n13 Patients who died
were buried in unmarked graves behind the institution. n14 There was no fire
safety equipment, as the fire department's hoses could not attach to the fire
hydrants in the institution. n15 Conditions like these in institutions
throughout the United States sparked lawsuits and legislation that led to
increased rights for institutionalized people.

   For example, in Youngberg v. Romeo, n16 a man with mental retardation who was
involuntarily committed to a Pennsylvania institution alleged that he had a
Fourteenth Amendment right to safe conditions, freedom from bodily restraints,
and training. n17 The Supreme Court held that people with disabilities who are
involuntarily committed have these three basic rights as guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment. n18 But, the Court limited the right to training or
habilitation by requiring only training that relates to freedom from bodily
restraints. n19 The  [*714]  Court concluded that because the respondent only
sought training related to safety, the case "[did] not present the difficult
question whether a mentally retarded person, involuntarily committed to a state
institution, has some general constitutional right to training per se." n20
Despite the limitation of the Court's holding, Youngberg was a crucial case
because it alerted states to the possibility that there was a minimal
constitutional level of care required for people with disabilities.

   Congress's first attempt to address the problem of discrimination against
people with disabilities was the passage of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973. n21 The Act required that no program or activity that received
federal funds discriminate on the basis of disability. n22 But, Section 504 only
covers entities that receive federal funds, and the problem of discrimination
was much broader, so in 1990 Congress passed the Americans with Disabilities Act
("ADA"). n23 The ADA bars employers, public entities, and public accommodations,
such as restaurants and hotels, from discriminating against people because of
their disabilities. n24

   Congress's second finding in the ADA is that "historically, society has
tended to isolate and segregate individuals with disabilities, and ... such
forms of discrimination against individuals with disabilities continue to be a
serious and pervasive social problem." n25 One of the most common forms of
isolation and segregation is the institutionalization of people with
disabilities. By enacting the ADA, Congress made it a violation of federal law
to isolate and segregate people simply because they have disabilities. States
must find other ways of treating people that allow them to live outside of
institutions.

   This interpretation of the ADA was cemented with the Supreme Court's decision
in Olmstead v. L.C. n26 In Olmstead the Court reasoned that institutionalization
"perpetuates unwarranted assumptions that persons so isolated are incapable or
unworthy of participating in community life" and "severely diminishes the
everyday life activities of individuals." n27 Olmstead does not signify the end
of institutionalization, but it does require states to become serious about
finding community placements for people who qualify and want to live outside of
an  [*715]  institution. n28 As the Court explained, the ADA only requires that
states make reasonable modifications to their procedures. n29 In Olmstead the
Court reasoned that if a state could demonstrate that "it had a comprehensive,
effectively working plan for placing qualified persons with mental disabilities
in less restrictive settings, and a waiting list that moved at a reasonable pace
not controlled by the state's endeavors to keep its institutions fully
populated, the reasonable-modifications standard would be met." n30

   Many states, including Georgia, attempt to comply with the ADA's requirements
by maintaining an Olmstead list and moving people into community settings at a
reasonable pace. However, many people with disabilities and disability rights
advocates complain that Georgia is not doing all it can to find community based
arrangements for people with disabilities. In Georgia, state-run facilities for
people with mental retardation are known as Intermediate Care Facilities/Mental
Retardation, or IFC/MRs. Every year advocacy groups investigate complaints of
abuse and neglect in Georgia's ICF/MRs. Many critics argue that abuse and
neglect occur because people with disabilities are cut off from society. n31
Because they are hidden, there may be a lack of oversight, which allows inhumane
conditions to go undetected. Thus, advocacy groups, such as The Georgia Advocacy
Office, Georgia Legal Services Program, and the Legal Aid Society, file lawsuits
on behalf of individuals in Georgia who are qualified for community placement.
However, resources for these groups are limited, and litigation is expensive.
Thus, most people are forced to simply wait.

   B. Procedures for Court Ordered Habilitation of People with Mental
Retardation in Georgia

 If a parent, guardian, or someone standing in loco parentis is unable to find
adequate services for someone with mental retardation, they can petition the
court to order that person to receive services from Georgia's Department of
Human Resources. n32 The court reviews the petition, and if it finds probable
cause, issues an order that the person be examined. n33 Notice of that order is
sent to the person and to two court-appointed representatives. n34 The person is
then examined by an  [*716]  evaluation team, and if the majority of that team
believes the client is in need of specialized treatment, they file an
individualized treatment plan with the court. n35 The court holds a hearing on
the petition, giving notice to the petitioner, the person, and his
representatives or guardians. n36

   After a "full and fair hearing," if the court finds that the person has
mental retardation and needs to receive services from a facility, the court may
order habilitation, not to exceed six months. n37 The full and fair hearing
includes the right to counsel and to have counsel appointed by the court if
necessary. n38 At the end of the six months, if the person in charge of the
client's habilitation believes that the client needs further in-facility
treatment, he or she must seek to continue habilitation under Official Code of
Georgia Annotated ("O.C.G.A.") section 37-4-42. n39

   The process for continuing habilitation requires that the regional state
hospital administrator seek an order authorizing continued habilitation. n40 The
administrator must file a notice with the Committee for Continued Habilitation
Review (the "Committee") of his intention to seek continued habilitation of up
to one year. n41 The Committee is made up of no less than five people, and its
duty is to review and evaluate the updated individualized program plans sent to
them by the hospital administrator and make recommendations back to the
administrators. n42

   Within ten days of receiving notice of the hospital administrator's intention
to seek continued habilitation, the Committee must meet to consider the
application. n43 Before the meeting to consider the application, the client and
his representatives are informed of "the purpose of such meeting, the time and
place of such meeting, their right to be present at such meeting, and their
right to present any alternative individualized program plan secured at their
expense." n44 The law does not specify when this notice must be sent. If the
client is not able to attend, one member of the Committee is ordered to "make
all reasonable efforts to interview the client and report to the committee." n45
The Committee reviews an updated individualized plan and then makes its  [*717]
recommendation to the administrator. n46 The report must specify whether the
person has mental retardation and whether continued habilitation is the least
restrictive alternative available for treatment. n47

   After considering the Committee's report, the hospital administrator must
serve the Department of Human Resources and the client with a petition for
continued habilitation, along with the updated individualized program plan and
the Committee report. n48 The petition must contain:



   [A] plain and simple statement that the client or his representatives may
file a request for a hearing with a hearing examiner ... within 15 days after
service of the petition, that the client has a right to counsel at the hearing,
that the client or his representatives may apply immediately to the court to
have counsel appointed if the client cannot afford counsel, and that the court
will appoint counsel for the client unless the client indicates in writing that
he will have retained counsel by the time set for hearing or does not desire to
be represented by counsel. n49

 If a hearing is not requested, the hearing examiner conducts an independent
review of the paperwork and can order continued habilitation of up to one year.
n50

   If a hearing is requested within fifteen days, the hearing examiner must
order a hearing and send notice to the facility, the client, his
representatives, and his attorney. n51 The hearing must be full and fair, except
that the client may not be required to attend. n52

   When these procedures were originally enacted in 1978, the hearing examiner
was required to hold a "full and fair hearing" every time a hospital
administrator sought continued habilitation. n53 This meant that at least once a
year, a hearing was held before a neutral party with full procedural due process
protections, including the right to counsel. n54 This procedure remained largely
the same until a 1985 amendment removed the requirement for a "full and fair
hearing" unless it was requested within fifteen days after service of the
petition. n55

    [*718]  As the Georgia law for court-ordered treatment currently stands,
once someone is ordered into a treatment facility, it is possible he may never
have an opportunity to be heard again. First, the Committee may meet without the
client or any of his representatives, although it is required to give the client
and his representatives notice it plans to meet. n56 If the client cannot
attend, the Committee is merely admonished to make "reasonable efforts" to meet
with the client. n57 However, the law does not create any penalties for failure
to meet with the client, nor does it explain what constitutes "reasonable
efforts." n58

   Second, once the Committee has made its recommendation, it must send that
recommendation to the client, along with notice of the client's right to request
a hearing. n59 The only person required to receive notice of a right to a
hearing is the client, that is, the person receiving treatment in the facility.
n60 It is worth noting that the client has already been determined to have
mental retardation. If no hearing is requested, a hearing examiner reviews all
of the paperwork and then can order continued habilitation of the client for up
to one year. n61 The law places no burden on the hearing examiner to meet the
client. Thus, after the initial habilitation hearing, a person may be ordered to
a facility year after year through a shuffling of papers. n62

   C. Procedural Due Process

 The Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution provides that no state shall
"deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law."
n63 The clause "due process of law" has been interpreted by the courts to
protect two distinct rights - (1) the right to have a fair procedure before a
deprivation occurs and (2) the right to be free from state interference with
certain fundamental rights. The former is known as procedural due process; the
latter is known as substantive due process. Procedural due process focuses on
the procedures used by the state before it deprives someone of his or her life,
liberty, or property. In order for the right of procedural due process to
attach, there are two preliminary requirements: (1) the right being deprived
must be  [*719]  established by the U.S. Constitution or state statute and (2)
the person or entity which seeks to deprive the right must be acting under color
of state law. n64

   Involuntary commitment infringes upon the constitutional right to liberty.
n65 Even if the initial commitment comports with the requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment, confinement may become unconstitutional if the reasons for
the confinement are not present later. In O'Connor v. Donaldson, n66 Donaldson,
a man who was civilly committed by his father, sued the hospital administrator
after he was confined against his will for fifteen years. Donaldson challenged
his continued confinement as unconstitutional because he was neither mentally
ill nor dangerous, and the mental hospital did not provide him any treatment.
The issue before the Court was whether there was a constitutional basis for
continuing to confine a patient who was not mentally ill or dangerous. n67 The
Court reasoned that even if the original commitment was based on a
constitutionally adequate basis, the confinement could not continue after that
basis no longer existed. n68 At the trial level, the jury found that Donaldson
was not dangerous and could easily live and work outside of the institution. n69
Thus, the court held that "a State cannot constitutionally confine without more
a nondangerous individual who is capable of surviving safely in freedom by
himself or with the help of willing and responsible family members or friends."
n70

   Donaldson confirms that where there is a constitutionally valid reason for
institutionalizing someone, that reason must continue to exist throughout the
institutionalization. The right to liberty does not disappear even though there
is a valid civil commitment. If the reason for the initial institutionalization
no longer exists, the state is depriving the individual of their constitutional
right to liberty. Where there is a constitutional right at stake, the state
cannot deprive an individual of it without due process of law. Donaldson does
not address the question of what process is required by the Constitution to
ensure that continued commitment is constitutional.

   1. Three-factor Test for Procedural Due Process.Once a right has been
established, the Supreme Court uses a three-factor test, first  [*720]
established in Mathews v. Eldridge, n71 to analyze whether a state's procedure
for depriving a person of that right provides adequate procedural due process.
The first factor is "the degree of potential deprivation that may be created."
n72 With respect to degree, the Court has noted the difference between permanent
and temporary deprivations. n73 The deprivation of liberty and social
stigmatization that occurs in involuntary commitment is considered very severe.
n74

   The second factor is the "fairness and reliability of the existing ...
procedures, and the probable value, if any, of additional procedural
safeguards." n75 Here, the Court focuses on "the nature of the relevant
inquiry." n76 In other words, the Court considers what decisions and conclusions
must be reached through the procedures and whether the current procedures are
adequate to reach those conclusions. n77 More due process is required when
issues such as witness credibility are relevant than when the issue to be
decided is merely medical. n78

   The third factor is "the public interest ... [including] the administrative
burden and other societal costs" of other procedures. n79 Although increased
cost to the state is not a determining factor, the Court weighs the increased
cost of procedures against the "increased assurance that the action is just."
n80 Presumably the state could always increase its procedures to assure more
fairness, but the amount of increase in procedure is checked by cost factors.
Thus, if increased procedure would be very expensive but not increase fairness
and accuracy, then the procedures are not is not required by the Fourteenth
Amendment.

   2. Supreme Court Procedural Due Process Decisions in the Context of
Institutionalization.The Supreme Court has never clearly articulated what
procedures a state must use to continue the habilitation of someone in order to
comply with procedural due process. But the Court has considered issues similar
to the institutionalization of people with mental retardation and certain trends
emerge.

    [*721]  In Parham v. J.R., n81 a class of children challenged Georgia's
procedures for admitting children to institutions. In Georgia, a parent could
admit their child to a hospital for temporary observation, and then each
hospital followed its own procedures to determine whether continued
hospitalization was warranted. n82 Generally, children were admitted and then
their conditions were reviewed periodically through informal meetings between
doctors and providers. n83 The district court found these procedures to be
unconstitutional because children had a liberty interest in not being
institutionalized, and due process required ""notice to be heard before an
impartial tribunal.'" n84 In reversing the district court, the Supreme Court
held that no formal hearing was required before commitment, but that a neutral
fact finder must determine whether the requirements for institutionalization
were met. n85 The Court reasoned that the relationship between parents and
children was unique and that parents generally acted in the best interest of
their children. n86 The Court further reasoned that "the questions are
essentially medical in character," and therefore, judicial involvement was not
necessary. n87

   The Court did not require a formal hearing before commitment, but the Court
did note the need for periodic review, without giving any specific requirements
for that review. n88 With respect to continuing commitment, the Court held that
"it is necessary that the child's continuing need for commitment be reviewed
periodically by a similarly independent procedure." n89 However, the issue of
whether Georgia's periodic reviews met the constitutional standard of due
process was not before the Court, and it lacked the necessary findings of fact
to make that judgment. n90 The Court directed the district court to make this
determination on remand; there is no record of a subsequent decision. n91

   In Justice Brennan's opinion, which was dissenting in part and concurring in
part, the minority disagreed with the majority's decision, arguing that it
failed to enunciate the requirements of procedural due  [*722]  process after
the children were initially committed. n92 The minority argued that "the right
to at least one postadmission hearing can and should be affirmed now." n93 The
Court reasoned that the factors outlined by the Court in Mathews showed that
"the risk of erroneous commitment is simply too great unless there is some form
of adversary review." n94

   The Court also considered a similar challenge to Pennsylvania's laws for the
commitment of children in Secretary of Public Welfare v. Institutionalized
Juveniles. n95 In Juveniles institutionalized children challenged the voluntary
admission procedures of their state. n96 With respect to children with mental
retardation, admission was only permitted after a referral by a physician and a
mental examination. Additionally, the director of the institution was required
to perform an independent evaluation of the children. n97 The Court held that
these procedures comported with the requirements of due process, as thorough
background investigations were taken and an independent evaluation was
conducted. n98 As in J.R., the Court did not decide whether the state's
postadmission procedures comported with due process requirements. n99

   The minority again disagreed with the majority's approach and would have
condemned Pennsylvania's postadmissions procedures as failing to comply with
procedural due process. n100 The postadmissions procedures required that the
children be informed of their right to a hearing and given the telephone number
of an attorney. n101 However, the procedures placed the burden of contacting
counsel and initiating the hearing on the institutionalized child. n102 The
minority concluded that this procedure did not meet the requirements of due
process because "if ... constitutional rights ... are to be guaranteed in
substance as well as in form and if the commands of the Fourteenth Amendment are
to be satisfied, then waiver of those constitutional rights cannot be inferred
from mere silence or inaction on the part of the institutionalized  [*723]
child." n103 The minority noted that "many of the institutionalized children are
unable to read, write, comprehend the formal explanation of their rights, or use
the telephone. Few, as a consequence, will be able to take the initiative
necessary for them to secure the advice and assistance of a trained
representative." n104

   Another Supreme Court case that provides insight into the requirements of
procedural due process is Vitek v. Jones. n105 The issue in Vitek was whether
prisoners were entitled to procedural protections, such as notice of an
adversarial hearing, before being transferred involuntarily to a state mental
hospital. n106 The Court held that there was a liberty interest in not being
placed in a mental institution needlessly, despite the fact prisoners had
already lost their right to be free from confinement. n107 The only procedure
required before the state transferred an inmate was a certification from a
physician that the inmate suffered from a mental disease or defect and needed
hospital treatment. n108 The Court held that procedural due process required
much more: notice, a hearing, an opportunity to present witnesses and to
cross-examine, an independent decisionmaker, written findings of fact, and legal
counsel. n109 The Court particularly stressed the right to legal counsel because
"[a] prisoner thought to be suffering from a mental disease or defect ... is
more likely to be unable to understand or exercise his rights." n110 The state
was required to provide counsel to indigent prisoners if it sought to place them
in a hospital. n111

   These cases demonstrate several important points. First, with respect to the
institutionalization of children, both the majority and the minority of the
Supreme Court agreed that procedural due process required some periodic review.
However, the Court could not and did not agree on the specific contours of that
review. The minority opinions in Parham and Juveniles stressed the danger of
placing the burden of receiving review on the institutionalized child. But,
these cases both involved juveniles, and the commitment of adults requires more
procedural due process, as discussed below. In the Vitek case, the Court
stressed the importance of counsel so that inmates being committed would not
waive their constitutional rights. The case also illustrates the importance of
the  [*724]  right to be free from unwarranted institutionalization - it is a
right that survives even incarceration and must be protected through procedural
due process.

   3. Georgia Courts' Procedural Due Process Decisions in the Context of
Institutionalization.A district court in Georgia has recognized the right of
involuntarily institutionalized persons to hold an adversarial procedure to
challenge their confinement, and the court differentiated between the rights of
children and adults. n112 In Heichelbech v. Evans, n113 an incapacitated adult
challenged the state's requirement that his guardian consent before either
discharging him or conducting a hearing to determine if he met the criteria to
be an involuntary patient. n114 The state's position was that only the guardian
had the right to exercise due process on behalf of the incapacitated ward. n115
The court held that the state had deprived the plaintiff of his due process
rights by not initiating a hearing after his request to be released. n116 The
court reached its conclusion by distinguishing Parham. The court reasoned that
the relationship between a "parent and his minor child is very different from
the relationship between a guardian and his adult ward." n117 The plaintiff "had
a constitutionally protected interest in being free from involuntary
confinement, and due process requires that he be afforded an adversary
proceeding to challenge his confinement." n118 Therefore, the court in
Heichelbech held that even people who have been declared incompetent have the
right to an adversarial hearing to challenge their confinement in an
institution. n119

   Prior to the 1985 amendments to the continuing habilitation statute, all
clients were given a yearly hearing to determine whether they still met the
requirements for admission. n120 The Georgia Supreme Court indicated in dicta
that those "full and fair hearings" comported with procedural due process. n121
In Clark v. State, n122 a man found not guilty by reason of insanity challenged
Georgia's procedures for  [*725]  admitting him to a mental hospital. n123 After
a jury found the defendant not guilty by reason of insanity, the court had to
determine whether the acquittee met the requirements for civil commitment. n124
The court could defer its decision for thirty days, after which it was not
required to hold a hearing. n125 The court determined that the acquittee had a
right to a hearing, but that the right could be waived by the failure of the
acquittee or their representative to file an application for release. n126 The
court compared this to the right of an individual with a developmental
disability to waive a commitment hearing. n127 Clark indicates there is a right
to a hearing, but so long as the individual receives notice of the right to a
hearing, the individual's procedural rights are protected. The court interprets
the individual's failure to request a hearing as a waiver of their
constitutional right to a hearing. n128 Waiver of constitutional rights is
discussed in Part II.D. of this Comment.

   4. Practices of Other States.In addition to the three-factor analysis, courts
also look to the history of the processes other states provide to determine how
much process is due. This historical and comparative approach was used by the
Supreme Court in Burnham v. Superior Court of California. n129 In Burnham the
Court analyzed whether the practice of "tagging" a person with service of
process in a state comported with the due process requirements of the Fourteenth
Amendment. n130 The establishment of personal jurisdiction by tagging is based
on the theory that a state has personal jurisdiction over any person appearing
within its borders. Thus, if a person can be served with notice of the suit
while in the borders of the state then the state has valid jurisdiction over
them. A man who was tagged with service in California challenged the state's
personal jurisdiction over him based on the Supreme Court's reasoning that a
state could only exercise personal jurisdiction if it satisfies the Due Process
Clause and does not violate ""traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.'" n131 To determine whether tagging comported with the requirements of
fair play  [*726]  and substantial justice, the Court noted that tagging was a
very old method of establishing personal jurisdiction. n132 The Court reasoned
that the practice was used in all of the states and by the federal government,
and the Court upheld the practice. n133 Thus, when determining what due process
requires, the Supreme Court considers the practices of the states and the
federal government. n134 Therefore, an analysis of the processes used in other
states for continuing commitment or habilitation of people with mental
retardation is useful for outlining the requirements of the due process clause.

   Some states do not have judicial proceedings for the admission of people with
mental retardation; however, states such as Arizona n135 and Massachusetts n136
commit people with mental illnesses. Disregarding those states, there are two
major categories of procedures for continuing habilitation or involuntary
commitment in states: (1) a statutory right to a hearing that must be requested
and (2) automatic hearings to determine continuing need for commitment.

   Georgia is in the first category, but the practices of these states vary
widely. Some states, such as Mississippi, are similar to Georgia in that the
only person given notice of their right to a hearing is the person who was
previously committed. n137

   The second category consists of states that hold automatic hearings, such as
Ohio, n138 California, n139 and Louisiana. n140 The amount of time that passes
between the initial commitment and a subsequent judicial hearing varies greatly.
n141 Connecticut takes a unique approach: the client is informed yearly of their
right to request a hearing, but if a hearing has not been requested in five
years, one is held automatically. n142

   Various conclusions can be drawn from looking at how other states deal with
continuing commitment of people with mental retardation.  [*727]  First, many
states do not involuntarily commit people with mental retardation (although they
may commit people with mental illnesses), which indicates there may be a trend
to stop the practice entirely. Second, Georgia's procedures are not among the
worst of states, but they are not among the best - those that provide automatic
judicial review. If the Supreme Court were to analyze what procedures are
required to meet the traditional notions of fairness, it would likely note that
there is no consensus among the states. And if a trend were to be gleaned from
the data, the trend would be a movement away from using involuntary commitment
and towards automatic judicial review when involuntary commitment is used.

   Minnesota is a useful example of one of the states that provide automatic
judicial review, because its automatic review was established by the Minnesota
Supreme Court after a procedural due process challenge. In In re Harhut, n143
the Minnesota Supreme Court analyzed its commitment procedures for people with
mental retardation. n144 Under Minnesota's procedures, people with mental
retardation were committed for an indefinite period of time, and there was no
statutorily required review; however, there was review for people with chemical
dependency or mental illness. n145 The petitioner in the case, a blind man with
mild mental retardation, presented an equal protection argument. n146 He argued
there was no rational basis for the state to differentiate between people with
mental illness and people with mental retardation. The state argued that there
were sufficient safeguards in place because patients had the statutory right to
petition for judicial review and that patients had court-appointed attorneys.
n147 The court rejected the petitioner's equal protection argument but nearly
held that the statute violated procedural due process because "indeterminate
commitment does raise a serious due process issue since the patient's basic
personal liberty is affected." n148 The statute was only held constitutional
because of the state's explanation of the process. n149 The court was satisfied
with the procedure because all patients had counsel, and the court had faith in
the attorney's "responsibility as a vigorous advocate for the client's rights."
n150

    [*728]  But, the court did insist on additional procedural safeguards being
added. First, the court required that all periodic medical reviews be sent to
the court that committed the person, as well as to the person's counsel. n151
The court made clear the importance of having counsel and directed the
committing court to automatically appoint new counsel if the previous counsel
could no longer serve. n152 Second, the court required a judicial review of
every indefinitely committed person at least once every three years. n153 The
court explained that this three year review was in addition to the patient's
right to request a hearing. n154 The exact nature of the hearing would depend
upon the person:



   In many such reviews, the severity of mental retardation may be so manifest
that the court will find it unnecessary to go into great detail or take
adversary testimony. In other cases, where the degree of retardation is not as
great and substantial progress has occurred, full adversary proceedings similar
to that for initial commitment ... may be in order. n155

 The purpose of the hearing would be not only to determine whether the person
met the requirements of commitment, but also whether institutionalization was
the least restrictive alternative treatment available. n156

   Other lower courts that have considered the issue have also concluded that
procedural due process requires periodic judicial review of involuntarily
committed people with mental retardation, though for varying reasons. In Doe v.
Austin, n157 the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a district court's
determination that Kentucky's involuntary commitment procedures violated due
process and equal protection. n158 At the time, Kentucky considered commitments
that were initiated by a parent or guardian to be voluntary, despite the fact
there was no regard for the "the actual wishes of the committed person." n159
The circuit court affirmed the decision of the district court that "the
commitment of mentally retarded adults by the Commonwealth  [*729]  upon
application by a parent or guardian is to be considered involuntary." n160

   However, the circuit court did not agree with the district court that
procedural due process required judicial hearings before Kentucky involuntarily
committed an adult with mental retardation. n161 While the court agreed that
there must be some process with a neutral factfinder, "due process does not
require that the neutral trier of fact be legally trained or a judicial or
administrative officer." n162 Instead, the court relied on the Supreme Court's
reasoning from Vitek, holding that minimum procedures should include notice, a
hearing, an opportunity to present testimony, an independent decisionmaker,
written findings of fact, and independent legal assistance. n163 Following the
same reasoning, the court affirmed that due process required some postcommitment
periodic review but did not require that the review be judicial. n164 Because
preadmission and periodic judicial review were provided to mentally ill
individuals, the court determined there was no legitimate interest that
justified denying people with mental retardation the periodic review provided to
people with mental illness. n165 Thus, the court concluded that judicial review
for people with mental retardation was not required by the Due Process Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, but it was required by the Equal Protection Clause.
n166

   This opinion was partially reversed by the Supreme Court's decision in Heller
v. Doe. n167 In Heller a class of involuntarily committed people with mental
retardation asserted an equal protection challenge against the differences
between Kentucky's commitment schemes for people with mental retardation
compared to people with mental illness. There were two differences in the
commitment schemes. First, the burden of proof for mental retardation was clear
and convincing evidence, while for mental illness it was beyond a reasonable
doubt. Second, guardians and immediate family members could participate as
parties in the commitment proceedings of people with mental retardation, but not
in the proceedings of people with mental illness. n168 The Court analyzed these
differences using a rational-basis test, meaning there must be "a rational
relationship between the disparity of treatment and some legitimate  [*730]
governmental purpose." n169 The Court held that there was a rational basis for
the distinction between people with mental retardation and mental illnesses.
n170 First, mental retardation is easier to diagnose than mental illness, and
thus, the risk of an incorrect decision is reduced. n171 Second, the Court
concluded that the parents and guardians of people with mental retardation would
have valuable insights that should be considered in the commitment process. n172
Therefore, the differences in the procedures used for people with mental
retardation and mental illnesses do not violate the Equal Protection Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. n173 Additionally, the Court held that the party
status of parents and guardians did not violate the procedural Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, either. n174 The Court reasoned that the
accuracy of the proceedings would likely be increased by parental or guardian
involvement, and the parties did not allege that their participation could
decrease the accuracy. n175

   Another state supreme court that considered the issue determined that
procedural due process required periodic judicial reviews for involuntarily
committed people. In Fasulo v. Arafeh, n176 two women petitioned for writs of
habeas corpus, arguing that Connecticut's commitment procedure violated due
process. n177 At the time, once a patient was committed, they could be released
through three possible procedures: (1) the patient could petition for a hearing;
(2) the supervisor of their institution could discharge them; or (3) the patient
could seek habeas corpus relief. n178 In order to evaluate these procedures, the
court noted that it was necessary to "take account of the controlled and often
isolated environment of the mental hospital." n179 The court found the first
procedure - the patient petitioning for release - lacking for two important
reasons. n180 First, only the state has the authority to confine someone when it
proves they meet the qualifications of commitment,  [*731]  thus the burden of
proof must remain on the state. n181 Second, placing the burden on the committed
person ignores the practical considerations of living in an isolated and
segregated environment. n182 The court even doubted whether informing the person
of their right to a hearing was sufficient, stating:



   It ignores the practical difficulties of requiring a mental patient to
overcome the effects of his confinement, his closed environment, his possible
incompetence and the debilitating effects of drugs or other treatment on his
ability to make a decision which may amount to the waiver of his constitutional
right to a review of his status. n183

 The court held that the second method of release - initiated by the manager of
the institution - was lacking because it was too discretionary and could not
guarantee accuracy and fairness. n184 And finally, the court also found habeas
corpus lacking because it placed the legal burden on the patient. n185 Thus,
procedural due process requires periodic state-initiated judicial reviews with
full procedural protection where the burden of proof rests on the state. n186

   In Wyatt v. King, n187 Alabama's lack of postcommitment procedure was held to
violate the Due Process Clause. n188 Wyatt involved a class action against the
Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation challenging the
constitutionality of Alabama's commitment scheme. n189 At the time, Alabama had
1800 residents in its mental hospitals, and ninety percent of them were there
through involuntary commitment. n190 After concluding there was a right to be
free from involuntary commitment if the reason for initial commitment no longer
existed, the court then considered how much process was required to "'minimize
the risk of erroneous decisions.'" n191 The court noted that many other courts
that had considered the issue decided that some periodic review was required.
n192 The court distinguished an Eleventh Circuit decision that held that people
committed after being found not guilty by reason of  [*732]  insanity were not
entitled to periodic proceedings. n193 The liberty interest at stake for someone
who has committed a crime is much less than for someone who has been involuntary
committed. n194 In the end, the court relied not only on the legal precedents of
other courts to consider the issue, but also on the real-life experience of one
of the plaintiffs in the case:



   [The] case of patient "L.M." - who has been involuntarily civilly confined
for over 20 years - by itself provides a compelling reason of why review which
is judicial in nature and reasonably periodic is minimally necessary... . The
least the state owed her over these many years was a periodic formal hearing,
with all the trappings of an initial commitment proceeding, to assure to a
reasonably high degree of certainty that her continued confinement was to her
and society's benefit. n195

 The court concluded that the due process balance falls in favor of periodic
judicial review. n196

   Every court that has considered the issue has determined that the
Constitution requires some form of postcommitment periodic review. However, not
all agree that the review is required by the procedural Due Process Clause, and
not all agree that the review must be judicial. Some are satisfied with an
independent review procedure, even if it is not judicial in nature. Many courts
emphasize the importance of the right to counsel, particularly when the
committed person might waive his or her constitutional right to a hearing.

   D. Waiver of a Constitutional Right

 Assuming arguendo that procedural due process requires that institutionalized
persons be given the right to a hearing, what constitutes a waiver of that
right? Under Georgia's procedure, the institutionalized client is informed in
writing of his right to a hearing. n197 Does the client's failure to request the
hearing constitute a viable waiver of that right?

   The first issue is whether the notice given to people meets the requirements
of due process. In Mullane v. Central Hanover Bank & Trust, n198 the Court set
the standard for sufficient notice under the  [*733]  Fourteenth Amendment. n199
The Court stated: "An elementary and fundamental requirement of due process in
any proceeding which is to be accorded finality is notice reasonably calculated,
under all the circumstances, to apprise interested parties of the pendency of
the action and afford them an opportunity to present their objections." n200 The
Court reasoned that "when notice is a person's due, process which is a mere
gesture is not due process. The means employed must be such as one desirous of
actually informing the absentee might reasonably adopt to accomplish it." n201
The notice must be such that it is reasonably calculated to inform the person of
their right to a hearing. n202

   The Supreme Court has addressed the waiver of the right to procedural due
process in the realm of a property deprivation. In Fuentes v. Shevin, n203 the
Court held that property purchased under a conditional sales contract could not
be seized through replevin without first providing procedural due process. n204
In that case, the contract provided that in the event payments were missed, the
property would be "taken back." n205 The Court reasoned that "a waiver of
constitutional rights in any context must, at the very least, be clear." n206

   In the context of other constitutional rights, such as the right to counsel
for a criminal defendant, the Court requires that the right be waived "knowingly
and intelligently." n207 There can be no waiver from a silent record. n208
Arguably, the right to a hearing falls somewhere in between these two levels of
protection. First, the waiver must be "clear." Second, because there is a
liberty interest at stake, it may be the state's burden to prove that the person
waived their right to a hearing knowingly and intelligently.

   If the failure to request a hearing is to act as a waiver of the
constitutional right to the hearing, then the waiver must be made voluntarily,
intelligently, and knowingly. In Lynch v. Baxley, n209 the court held that
Alabama's procedures for involuntary admission to mental institutions violated
procedural due process. n210 The court held  [*734]  that a precommitment
hearing was required and that only a "knowing and intelligent waiver of
constitutional safeguards" was acceptable. n211 If the person is incapable of
giving consent to the waiver of constitutional rights, then "after appropriate
inquiry and finding of facts, the court may approve such waiver for good cause
shown." n212

   In one interesting case, a court held that the notice given to people with
disabilities violated the Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA"). In
Armstrong v. Davis, n213 the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals considered whether
the California penal system's notification of rights was sufficient for people
with disabilities. n214 While the court did not decide the case on
constitutional grounds, it did rule that the procedures violated the ADA. n215
The court held that the procedures violated the ADA by denying people with
disabilities the benefits of state services. n216 The court reasoned, "At the
notification stage, disabled prisoners and parolees routinely waive their rights
to hearings, frequently because they cannot comprehend the information provided
to them." n217 The penal department made little or no effort to communicate
notification in a way that people with disabilities would understand. For
example, notice of rights was not provided in Braille for people who are blind.
n218 The court confirmed the lower court's injunction requiring that the penal
system improve its methods of communications with people with disabilities so
that they may receive actual notice of their right to a hearing. n219

   The required amount of notice is thus bound by the Due Process Clause as well
as the ADA. Once sufficient notice is given, the state must show that the
person's failure to exercise their right was a knowing and voluntary waiver of
that right. Thus, notice and waiver are linked. If the notice does not
sufficiently inform the person of their right to a hearing, their failure to
request one cannot constitute a waiver of that right.

[*735]

   III. Analysis

 While the Supreme Court has yet to definitively rule on the issue of what
procedures a state must use to continue the involuntary commitment of someone
with mental retardation, some guidelines are clear. First, a person's right to
personal freedom continues to exist even after they have been involuntarily
committed. Because people still have a substantive right, the state must utilize
some procedure in order to continue to deprive them of that right.

   There are two major indicators of what due process requires: first, the
three-factor balancing test of Mathews v. Eldridge, n220 and second, what
procedures states currently use to determine what constitutes "fair play," as
described in Burnham. n221 In this arena, the results of the three-factor test
come down to a basic balancing of two competing interests - the interest of the
individual to be free from unnecessary confinement and the interest of the state
to avoid expensive and unnecessary procedures. In comparison to other states,
Georgia's procedures are similar to the majority of states, although it is
somewhere in the middle of the range of procedures, which range from one extreme
of no statutory review system of any kind to the other extreme of full
adversarial hearings held yearly.

   A. What Procedures are Required for Continued Habilitation to Comport with
the Due Process Clause

 The first factor to be analyzed is "the degree of potential deprivation that
may be created." n222 In commitment cases, the potential deprivation is
continued deprivation of personal liberty. Personal liberty is one of the most
closely protected rights in the Constitution. As such, states can deprive people
of it only when there is substantial procedural protection.

   The second factor is the "fairness and reliability of the existing ...
procedures, and the probable value, if any, of additional procedural
safeguards." n223 Here, the Court focuses on "the nature of the relevant
inquiry." n224 There are two major considerations a court must determine when
deciding whether to order someone to receive continued habilitation: (1) whether
the client has mental retardation and (2)  [*736]  whether they are in need of
treatment in an institutionalized setting. The first question is mainly a
medical determination, and it is not likely to change with the passage of time.
Thus, it is unlikely a judicial hearing is required to make this determination.
n225 However, the second determination, whether the person needs in-facility
treatment, is one that could best be decided through an adversarial hearing. The
court also needs to decide if there is a less restrictive environment for the
person to receive treatment. For example, different experts and evaluators may
disagree on the ability of the person to live independently. Additionally,
family and community members may be able to provide to the person support that
lessens their need for institutionalization. Thus, the second determination is
one in which the courts would benefit from a full hearing.

   To fully evaluate the second factor one must compare the fairness and
reliability of the current procedure - notice to the client of their right to a
hearing - to a hearing that is held automatically. On the one hand, the current
procedures might be fair and reliable for clients who are able to read and
understand their rights and are able to request a hearing. One might argue that
those clients are the ones who are least in need of institutionalization. But
understanding the implications of the right to have a hearing is a complex idea,
and even those who may not fully understand or know how to exercise that right
may be capable of living outside of an institution. The current procedure is
unfair to those clients that do not understand their rights but nonetheless
could live outside of the institution. It is also questionable how reliable the
current procedure is because it places the burden of exercising important rights
on the client. Many courts that have considered their state's process have
voiced concern with placing the burden of exercising a constitutional right
solely on the institutionalized person because to do so ignores the realities of
their situation.

   The third factor is "the public interest ... including the administrative
burden and other societal costs" of having automatic hearings. n226 This factor
is difficult to analyze as there is a lack of data regarding how many people are
involuntarily institutionalized in Georgia. There are at least 3000 Georgians
living in congregate (more than seven-person) segregated living facilities. n227
Even if only half of them are institutionalized against their will, there will
still be an increased cost to automatically hold adversarial hearings yearly.
The cost of these hearings may be prohibitive. One strong indication that the
cost may be prohibitive  [*737]  is that in 1985, Georgia's legislature amended
the continuing habilitation statute to remove automatic hearings. n228 It is
possible that these hearings were becoming expensive and burdensome on the
state; so the legislature decided to remove them.

   Accordingly, after analyzing the factors from Mathews, Georgia's current
procedures fall short of what due process requires. Because the right to liberty
is so fundamental and the fairness and reliability of the current procedure is
lacking, increased procedures are needed. But, the cost of holding automatic
hearings may be burdensome on the state's resources and outweigh the added
benefit of additional due process protection. Thus, to balance the important
concerns of adequate due process and wise allocation of the state's precious
resources, this Comment suggests various compromises, mainly modeled after
Minnesota's procedures.

   B. Problems with Georgia's Current Procedures and Potential Changes

 There are several problems with Georgia's current procedures. First, and most
importantly, the only person who is given notice of the right to a hearing is
the person who is institutionalized. n229 That person has already been judged by
a court to have mental retardation and to be in need of treatment. It is far
from certain that clients have the ability to understand the implications of
their right to a hearing and to have an attorney. The statute requires that the
notice be given in writing and in clear and simple language. n230 However, this
means that a person who cannot read or is blind will receive no notice
whatsoever. The statute does not address what the state must do if the person is
incapable of understanding or reading his or her notice.

   Georgia's notice of right to a hearing falls short of constitutional
standards. The failure to petition for the hearing could only function as a
waiver of the constitutional right to a hearing if that waiver was made
knowingly and intelligently. If the person is incapable of giving informed
consent to waive his or her right to a hearing, the court could grant the waiver
only after an inquiry, findings of facts, and for good cause. Lynch indicates
that the failure to petition for a hearing might not be enough to waive the
right to a hearing if the person does not do so knowingly. n231

    [*738]  Because notice is only given to the client, who has a developmental
disability, it can be soundly argued that this is not "reasonably calculated" to
give notice. Georgia's procedure is accurately described as a mere gesture of
due process and not an attempt to communicate with the person their right to a
hearing. The only provisions in the statute are that the notice must be "plain
and simple." n232 These requirements are not enough to ensure that people with
disabilities understand their rights.

   Similar to Armstrong, the state has failed to "address the needs of [people
in institutions] who have problems understanding complex information or
communicating through the spoken or written word;" n233 thus, the state has
violated the ADA. By not making reasonable accommodations to provide notice in a
way that people with mental retardation can understand, the state is depriving
them of their benefit of a hearing.

   The second major problem with Georgia's statute is that if a hearing is never
requested, one will never take place. After the initial commitment hearing,
there is no guarantee that there will ever again be judicial review of the
commitment. While some might argue that this is justified by the intractability
of mental retardation, there are more issues to be resolved than just whether
the person has mental retardation. In order to commit someone, the court must
also find that the person needs to receive services from a facility. n234 Thus,
the question to be answered is not just whether the person has mental
retardation, but whether they are still in need of treatment from a facility.
People with mental retardation have the ability to learn, and many can develop
the life skills to live outside of an institutionalized setting.

   An additional benefit of automatic hearings is that hearings are another
method to ensure Georgia is complying with the requirements of Olmstead. At the
hearings, the court should analyze whether the person qualifies for community
placement and desires it. If so, the court can use the opportunity provided by
the hearing to question the state regarding why the person has not been moved to
the community. This will ensure that many more institutionalized Georgians have
the opportunity to push the state for a community placement, not just the lucky
few who have lawsuits filed on their behalf by an advocacy group.

   If a person with mental retardation is to live successfully outside of an
institution, it usually takes the support of family members, friends, the
community, or advocates. Those members of the community should also  [*739]
receive notice of the right to a hearing. There are organizations in Georgia
devoted solely to pairing up citizen advocates with people with disabilities,
and these citizen advocates should receive these notices. These advocates can
take it upon themselves to investigate possible alternatives, such as lost or
forgotten family members, group homes, and alternative ways to receive treatment
in noninstitutionalized settings.

   Not only should family members and citizen advocates be given notice of the
right to a hearing, every institutionalized person should have an attorney. If
they do not have an attorney, the committing court should appoint one. That
attorney should be served with the notice as well. It is the duty of all
attorneys to vigorously advocate for the interest of their client. It is
axiomatic that it is in the best interest of every person to live in the least
segregated and least restrictive environment possible. Thus, in order to fulfill
their professional obligations, attorneys would likely meet with their clients,
do background research, and try to relieve their clients of their commitment
orders. To effectively advocate, the attorney should investigate whether the
family can take the person back into their home and analyze what supports might
be needed to make that happen. Additionally, attorneys have specialized
knowledge of the legal field and, thus, will be more effective advocates for
their clients in a hearing.

   Next, the notice that Georgia gives should be designed to actually give the
person notice of the person's rights. If the person cannot read, the notice
should be given orally. If the person is deaf, the notice should be given in
sign language or whatever mode of communication the person understands. And
finally, in the case where the person is not capable of understanding his or her
rights, it is crucial that attorneys and other citizen advocates acting in the
best interest of the person receive notice.

   Finally, a hearing should be held after some number of years if there has not
been a hearing held after the initial assessment. Regardless of whether the
client or any of the client's representatives ever requests a hearing, one
should be held, perhaps every three or five years. At that hearing, the person
should be present, along with the person's attorney and any other
representative. The court should ensure the presence of as many people who are
interested in the well-being of the person as possible. As the Minnesota Supreme
Court described in In re Harhut, the exact contours of the hearing would depend
on the nature of the person's disability. n235 If it is clear that the person
has mental retardation, and there are no alternatives available besides
institutionalization, there will not be a need for adversarial witnesses.
However, in a case  [*740]  where the person has mild mental retardation or
where people come forward who are willing to assist in the care of the person,
an adversarial hearing should be held.

   The suggested mandatory three or five year hearing ensures that no person
slips through the bureaucratic cracks. What is crucial about this hearing is
that it gives the person who will be subject to the continuing habilitation
order an opportunity to be heard by the court before that order is issued. The
person will have the opportunity to explain to the court what the person's life
is like, what treatment the person is receiving, and whether the person wishes
to leave the institution. Even if the person cannot communicate, the court will
at least have the opportunity to see the person, thereby ensuring that the
person is not being abused or neglected. The hearing also ensures that attorneys
are advocating for their clients, as it is unlikely attorneys would appear
before the court without having prepared. It also provides an opportunity for
advocates and family members to develop momentum behind deinstitutionalizing the
person. For example, family members can have the opportunity to explain to the
court what services they might need to enable them to bring the person home.
When presented with a full picture of options available, the court may have
other alternatives to continued institutionalization.

   IV. Conclusion

 For the Author, these additional procedural safeguards are a means to an end -
the end of institutionalization of people with disabilities. That goal is
endorsed not only by disability rights advocates, but also by the Supreme Court.
To force someone to live a segregated life simply because they have a disability
violates the Americans with Disabilities Act. By requiring more than a shuffle
of paperwork to continue the institutionalization of a person with disabilities,
momentum will shift away from institutionalization and towards real homes.
Procedures prevent people from being forgotten and ignored. Their appearance
before a court reduces the likelihood that people will suffer abuse and neglect.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental RightsProcedural Due ProcessScope of
ProtectionHealthcare LawTreatmentIncompetent, Minor & Mentally Disabled
PatientsInstitutionalizationPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental Health
ServicesCommitmentInvoluntary Commitment of Adults

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Steve Gold, DD Institutions - How Many People are Still Institutionalized,
Information Bulletin, http://www.tilrc.org/Real%20Choice%20Website/gold105.htm
(last visited Mar. 15, 2007).





n2.  Diane M. Weidert, Comment, Constitutional Rights of the Involuntarily
Committed Mentally Retarded After Youngberg v. Romeo, 14 St. Mary's L.J. 1113,
1114-15 (1983).





n3.  Id. at 1113.





n4.  Gunnar Dybwad & Stanley S. Herr, Unnecessary Coercion: An End to
Involuntary Civil Commitment of Retarded Persons, 31 Stan. L. Rev. 753 (1979);
Wolf Wolfensberger, A Brief Introduction to Social Role Valonzation 122-24
(Syracuse University 1998).





n5.  See generally Weidert, supra note 2, at 1114.





n6.  Id.





n7.  The terms "continued habilitation" and "involuntary commitment" are used
interchangeably throughout this Comment.





n8.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-40 (1995 & Supp. 2006).





n9.  See id.





n10.  Lauren Wilson Carr, Wyatt v. Stickeny: A Landmark Decision, ADAP
Newsletter (Ala. Disabilities Advocacy Program, Tuscaloosa, Ala), July 2004, at
2.





n11.  Id. at 1.





n12.  Id. at 2.





n13.  Id. at 3.





n14.  Id. at 2.





n15.  Id. at 3.





n16.  457 U.S. 307 (1982).





n17.  Id. at 309.





n18.  Id. at 315-18.





n19.  Id. at 318.





n20.  Id.





n21.  29 U.S.C. §§ 701 to 796 (2000).





n22.  29 U.S.C. § 794(a).





n23.  42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 to 12213 (2000).





n24.  42 U.S.C. §§ 12111(2), 12112(a).





n25.  42 U.S.C. § 12101(a)(2).





n26.  527 U.S. 581 (1999).





n27.  Id. at 600-01.





n28.  See id. at 607.





n29.  Id. at 603.





n30.  Id. at 605-06.





n31.  Wolfensberger, supra note 4, at 12-24.





n32.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-40(a) (Supp. 2006).





n33.  Id. § 37-4-40(b).





n34.  Id.





n35.  Id. § 37-4-40(b)-(d).





n36.  Id. § 37-4-40(d).





n37.  Id. § 37-4-40(e), (f).





n38.  Id. § 37-4-40(d)(2).





n39.  Id. § 37-4-40(f); O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42 (Supp. 2006).





n40.  Id. § 37-4-42(a).





n41.  Id. § 37-4-42(c).





n42.  Id. § 37-4-42(b).





n43.  Id. § 37-4-42(d).





n44.  Id.





n45.  Id.





n46.  Id.





n47.  Id.





n48.  Id. § 37-4-42(f).





n49.  Id.





n50.  Id. § 37-4-42(g).





n51.  Id. § 37-4-42(h).





n52.  Id. The client's counsel may move to allow the client not to attend if the
client is incapable of waiving the right to attend. Id.





n53.  1978 Ga. Laws 1826, 1849.





n54.  Id.





n55.  1985 Ga. Laws 926, 930.





n56.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(a).





n57.  Id.





n58.  See id.





n59.  Id. § 37-4-42(f).





n60.  See id.





n61.  Id. § 37-4-42(g).





n62.  If a child is placed in a facility before they reach age seventeen, it is
possible the child will never have the opportunity to have the initial hearing.
O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(i).





n63.  U.S. Const. amend. XIV, § 1.





n64.  Heichelbech v. Evans, 798 F. Supp. 708, 712 (M.D. Ga. 1992).





n65.  Id.





n66.  422 U.S. 563 (1975).





n67.  Id. at 564-65.





n68.  Id. at 574-75.





n69.  Id. at 573.





n70.  Id. at 576.





n71.  424 U.S. 319 (1976).





n72.  Id. at 341.





n73.  See id. at 340.





n74.  Humphrey v. Cady, 405 U.S. 504, 512 (1972).





n75.  Mathews, 424 U.S. at 343.





n76.  Id.





n77.  Id.





n78.  See id. at 343-44.





n79.  Id. at 347.





n80.  Id. at 348.





n81.  442 U.S. 584 (1979).





n82.  Id. at 591.





n83.  Id. at 592-95.





n84.  Id. at 597 (quoting J.L. v. Parham, 412 F. Supp. 112, 137 (1976)).





n85.  Id. at 606.





n86.  Id. at 602-03.





n87.  Id. at 609.





n88.  Id. at 607.





n89.  Id.





n90.  Id. at 617.





n91.  Id.





n92.  Id. at 625-26 (Brennan, J., dissenting in part and concurring in part).





n93.  Id.





n94.  Id. at 639.





n95.  442 U.S. 640 (1979).





n96.  Id. at 643.





n97.  Id. at 648.





n98.  Id. at 649-50.





n99.  Id. at 650 n.9.





n100.  Id. at 651 (Brennan, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).





n101.  Id.





n102.  Id.





n103.  Id. at 651-52.





n104.  Id. at 651 (citation omitted).





n105.  445 U.S. 480 (1980).





n106.  Id. at 483.





n107.  Id. at 487-88.





n108.  Id. at 489.





n109.  Id. at 494-95.





n110.  Id. at 496-97.





n111.  Id. at 497.





n112.  See Heichelbech v. Evans, 798 F. Supp. 708 (M.D. Ga. 1992).





n113.  798 F. Supp. 708, 712 (M.D. Ga. 1992).





n114.  Id. at 711.





n115.  Id. at 713.





n116.  Id. at 714.





n117.  Id.





n118.  Id.





n119.  See id. at 715.





n120.  See 1979 Ga. Laws 734.





n121.  Clark v. State, 245 Ga. 629, 641, 266 S.E.2d 475 (1980).





n122.  245 Ga. 629, 266 S.E.2d 466 (1980).





n123.  Id. at 631, 266 S.E.2d at 469.





n124.  Id. at 641, 266 S.E.2d at 474-75.





n125.  Id.





n126.  Id.





n127.  Id.





n128.  Id. at 475.





n129.  495 U.S. 604 (1990).





n130.  See id. at 608. "Tagging" is when notice of a suit is served on a person
who is physically present in the state. See id. at 607-08.





n131.  Id. at 608-09 (quoting Int'l Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310, 316
(1945)).





n132.  Id. at 611-14.





n133.  Id. at 615, 628. Not all states still used the process, as some had held
that it was unconstitutional under the Supreme Court's rationale, but the
majority did not count those states. Id. at 615.





n134.  Id. at 615-16.





n135.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 36-560F (2003).





n136.  Dybwad & Herr, supra note 4, at 760.





n137.  Miss. Code Ann. § 41-21-99 (2005).





n138.  Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 5123.761(H)(4) (2001 & Supp. 2006).





n139.  Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 6500 (West 1998).





n140.  La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 28:454.7.A (Supp. 2006).





n141.  Compare Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 5123.761(H)(4) (two years) and Cal. Welf. &
Inst. Code § 6500 (one year).





n142.  Conn. Gen. Stat. § 17(a)-276(d) (2006).





n143.  385 N.W.2d 305 (Minn. 1986).





n144.  Id. at 306.





n145.  Id. at 309 (citing Minn. Stat. Ann. § 253B.12 (2003)).





n146.  Id. at 306, 310.





n147.  Id. at 310.





n148.  Id. at 311.





n149.  Id. at 312.





n150.  Id.





n151.  Id.





n152.  Id.





n153.  Id.





n154.  Id.





n155.  Id.





n156.  Id. at 312-13.





n157.  848 F.2d 1386 (6th Cir. 1988).





n158.  Id. at 1396.





n159.  Id. at 1392.





n160.  Id.





n161.  Id. at 1392-93.





n162.  Id. at 1393.





n163.  Id. at 1393-94.





n164.  Id. at 1394, 1396.





n165.  Id. at 1396.





n166.  Id.





N167.  509 U.S. 312 (1993).





n168.  Id. at 314-15.





n169.  Id. at 319-20.





n170.  Id. at 321.





n171.  Id. at 321-23.





n172.  Id. at 329.





n173.  Id. at 330.





n174.  Id. at 332-33.





n175.  Id. at 333.





n176.  378 A.2d 553 (Conn. 1977).





n177.  Id. at 554.





n178.  Id. at 556, 558.





n179.  Id. at 555.





n180.  Id. at 557.





n181.  Id.





n182.  Id.





n183.  Id.





n184.  Id.





n185.  Id. at 558.





n186.  Id.





n187.  773 F. Supp. 1508 (M.D. Ala. 1991) vacated as moot, No. CIV. A 3195-N,
1998 WL 13830 (M.D. Ala. Jan. 6, 1998).





n188.  Id. at 1517.





n189.  Id. at 1509.





n190.  Id. at 1511.





n191.  Id. at 1513 (quoting Greenholtz v. Inmates of Neb., 442 U.S. 1, 13
(1979)).





n192.  Id. at 1514-15.





n193.  Id. at 1515 (citing Williams v. Wallis, 734 F.2d 1434 (11th Cir. 1984)).





n194.  Id.





n195.  Id. at 1516.





n196.  Id.





n197.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(f) (Supp. 2006).





n198.  339 U.S. 306 (1950).





n199.  Id. at 314.





n200.  Id.





n201.  Id. at 315.





n202.  Id.





n203.  407 U.S. 67 (1972).





n204.  Id. at 96-97.





n205.  Id. at 94.





n206.  Id. at 95.





n207.  Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436, 475 (1966).





n208.  See Swenson v. Bosler, 386 U.S. 258, 260 (1967).





n209.  386 F. Supp. 378 (M.D. Ala. 1974).





n210.  Id. at 397.





n211.  Id. at 396.





n212.  Id.





n213.  275 F.3d 849 (9th Cir. 2001).





n214.  Id. at 856-58.





n215.  Id. at 879.





n216.  Id. at 865.





n217.  Id. at 863.





n218.  Id. at 862-63.





n219.  Id. at 863.





n220.  424 U.S. 319 (1976).





n221.  495 U.S. 604 (1990).





n222.  Mathews, 424 U.S. at 341.





n223.  Id. at 343.





n224.  Id.





n225.  See id. at 343-44.





n226.  Id. at 347.





n227.  Gold, supra note 1.





n228.  See 1985 Ga. Laws 926.





n229.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(f) (Supp. 2006).





n230.  Id.





n231.  Lynch v. Baxley, 386 F. Supp. 378, 396 (M.D. Ala. 1974).





n232.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(f).





n233.  Armstrong v. Davis, 275 F.3d 847, 862 (9th Cir. 2001).





n234.  See O.C.G.A. § 37-4-41(e) (Supp. 2006).





n235.  See In re Harhut, 385 N.W.2d 305 (Minn. 1986).


                              455 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Forbes Advocate

                           September 16, 2016 Friday
                                 Print Edition

Dr Amos returns to Orange Hospital

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 163 words


AN Orange cardiologist who was stood down by the Western NSW Local Health
District (LHD) will return to work today.

The Orange Medical Staff Council said in a statement Dr David Amos was a highly
respected member of the medical community who had the council's support.

"We are pleased that we can finally welcome him back to work this Friday to care
for patients," the statement said.

"The last four months has been a difficult time for all concerned," the
statement said. "Agreement has been reached on the next steps to address the
concerns. This is work in progress."

The MSC executive is working with Orange Health Service and LHD management on a
range of issues.

Dr Amos took the LHD to the Supreme Court earlier this year claiming
investigations concerning he and another doctor, in addition to a warning letter
from OHS general manager Catherine Nowlan, denied him procedural fairness.

The court found procedural fairness had not been given, but the LHD was not
required to give it.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              456 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday

Medtronic CEO: 'business model has to be adjusted'

LENGTH: 922 words

Medical Device Daily Senior Staff Writer

In an economy where people are more careful with their money than ever before,
even the big guys in the industry have to take a disciplined approach with their
business model. That was the take-home message from Medtronic (Minneapolis) CEO
Omar Ishrak Monday at the 30th annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in San
Francisco.

"The business model has to be adjusted without compromising the need for, and
the desire for, higher standard of care," Ishrak told his audience during a
presentation that was also webcast.

Ishrak said Medtronic has identified three key imperatives to improve its
growth: improved execution; optimizing innovation; and globalization.

"We want a business that moves quickly and is agile," he said in explaining the
first of these three imperatives, improved execution.

Doing so requires a business alignment "so that everyone is moving in the same
direction," he added. Things like quarterly assessments and constant market
connection are examples of this, Ishrak said, noting that he makes a point to
meet in person with customers in the U.S. a few days a month. "Me and my
management team want to stay in touch with customers," he said.

In order to optimize innovation, Ishrak said the company will aim to improve its
R&D spend and "optimize" its capability. "This is not about going and getting
engineers to work harder, nor is it about improving our technical capability,"
he said. "It really is more about what we work on and how we work on it . . .
working on things that don't have an effective value proposition has to be
de-focused. If there is no value proposition the innovation is not going to
succeed."

Doing this means providing economic value to customers, Ishrak said, adding that
the company aims to develop products that either improves the hospital's
standard of care, increases procedure volumes, or improves quality of care so
that the hospital's quality metrics go up. "All of this will provide more
revenue to a hospital," he said.

Products that improve workflow for hospitals is another way the company strives
to add value for its customers, Ishrak noted. "Reducing ICU stays . . . moving
the shift of care from one type of physician to another or moving the care from
the hospital to home," are examples of innovation that improves hospital
workflow, he said.

Finally, Ishrak noted, Medtronic will optimize product prices by providing
better value for the same price.

"Customer economics is something that is going to be a screen for all of our new
products," Ishrak said.

Of course the company also recognizes the need to reach emerging markets for
future growth. "Contrary to popular perception, our margins in emerging markets
are actually as good if not better than . . . other markets," Ishrak said.

Also, going forward, Ishrak told the audience that Medtronic will have to be
more disciplined in its approach to acquisitions - as it will be for new product
development and existing products - by first asking: Is it a growth market? Can
Medtronic win in that market? And finally, can Medtronic add value to that
market.

During another webcast presentation from the J.P. Morgan conference, the CEO of
a considerably younger company, CareFusion (San Diego), offered his perspective
on how companies like CareFusion can turn the current challenges in helathcare
into opportunities.

"As all of you know, this is certainly not new news in this room today, this is
certainly a challenging environment in healthcare markets in various parts of
the globe," CareFusion CEO Kieran Gallahue said. Specifically, he noted that
"30% of U.S. hospitals are running at negative operating margins . . . they
understand that they need to make some fundamental changes" including capturing
efficiencies in their supply chain, primarily in the areas of pharmaceuticals
and medical devices.

So while there is a lot of "doom and gloom" out there where healthcare is
concerned, Gallahue says that "actually, for those who can provide solutions
that are clinically differentiated and that are economically differentiated, the
changes that are occurring today and the challenges that are occurring today
actually represent opportunity."

CareFusion was born as a spin off from Cardinal Health (Dublin, Ohio) in 2009 (
Medical Device Daily, June 10, 2009) and the company offers both medical systems
and procedural solutions.

"We think of CareFusion as having three different stages to its life cycle,"
Gallahue said. "The first couple of years, the stand up phase . . . I often
think of it as a teenager moving away from home. We exited that phase in
approximately August of this past year, a landmark occasion for our company . .
. now we have moved into the second phase, which is building the foundation for
growth, and that sets the tone for the next phase, which is the acceleration of
growth."

Gallahue said the company's current phase, building the foundation for growth,
is about simplifying the business the company operates in. "It is not one silver
bullet, it is not one activity," he added.

"In many ways it's about going back to blocking and tackling, it's about
simplifying the business so you can make decisions more quickly," Gallahue said.
"Having a balance of medical systems business and a procedural solutions
business allows us the opportunity to grow in multiple ways . . . our intention
is to use the cash that is freed up in the simplification efforts in order to
drop part of that to the bottom line and what remains to innovation and market
expansion."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2012 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              457 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 1999 University of San Diego School of Law
                      Journal of Contemporary Legal Issues

                                      1999

                         10 J. Contemp. Legal Issues 37

LENGTH: 11658 words

SYMPOSIUM: Therapeutic Jurisprudence and the Civil Commitment Hearing

NAME: BRUCE J. WINICK *

BIO:



   * © 1999 by Bruce J. Winick. Professor of Law, University of Miami School of
Law. I gratefully acknowledge the research assistance of Odia M. Mallard. This
article is an expanded version of my chapter, The Civil Commitment Hearing:
Applying the Law Therapeutically, of a forthcoming book, entitled Mental Health
Law in Evolution: A 25-Year Retrospective 1972-1997 (Lynda E. Frost Clausel &
Richard J. Bonnie eds., forthcoming 2000).

 TEXT:
 [*37]

   I. Introduction

 A continuing controversy in mental health law centers on the value of the civil
commitment hearing. In the 1970s, judges and scholars asked whether such
hearings were merely "time-consuming procedural minuets before the [patient's]
admission" that divert limited clinical resources from diagnosis and treatment,
n1 or instead were valuable legal requirements that have "therapeutic
significance" for the patients subjected to them?  n2 Not only has speculation
about this question been influential in the development of constitutional
doctrine concerning the scope of the civil commitment hearing,  n3 but it also
has occupied the interest of scholars in therapeutic jurisprudence examining the
therapeutic aspects of the legal process.  n4

    [*38]  Therapeutic jurisprudence is an interdisciplinary field of legal
scholarship and approach to law reform that focuses attention upon law's impact
on the mental health and psychological functioning of those it affects.  n5 The
scholarly agenda of therapeutic jurisprudence is to study the therapeutic and
antitherapeutic consequences of law with the tools of the behavioral sciences,
and its law reform agenda is to reshape law so as to minimize its
antitherapeutic consequences and maximize its therapeutic potential when to do
so is consistent with constitutional, justice, and other normative values served
by law. The focus is not only on the therapeutic dimensions of substantive legal
rules and legal procedures, but also on how such rules and procedures are
applied by legal actors, such as judges and attorneys. This article applies the
approach of therapeutic jurisprudence to the civil commitment hearing, examining
not the rules of procedure that apply at such hearings, which have largely been
constitutionalized, but how such rules can be applied by attorneys, judges, and
clinicians testifying at such hearings in order to diminish the antitherapeutic
consequences of the existing civil commitment process and to increase its
therapeutic potential.

   II. Due Process and Civil Commitment

 The Supreme Court has long recognized that civil commitment in any form
involves a substantial curtailment of liberty.  n6 The interest in being free of
external restraint - the core of the liberty protected by the Due Process Clause
- has recently been described by the Supreme Court as a "fundamental" liberty
interest.  n7 When the state seeks to impose involuntary civil commitment, this
liberty interest is directly and profoundly infringed. Yet, in the early period
of civil commitment in America, dating to the late 19th century, involuntary
hospitalization was  [*39]  effectuated simply upon a physician's certification
of need.  n8 Commitment under early statutory provisions was based on the need
of the individual for care and treatment in a hospital, and considerable
deference was accorded to the expertise of psychiatrists on these matters.  n9
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, however, this model of commitment began to be
challenged.

   The civil rights struggle in the early 1960s had produced a new generation of
lawyers committed to protecting and promoting the rights of a variety of
minority groups and other disadvantaged populations, and these lawyers soon
turned their attention to the civil commitment process.  n10 At this time, state
institutions were overcrowded, under-funded, and understaffed. Media exposure of
the abysmal conditions in state institutions coupled with a challenge to
psychiatric expertise and to the wisdom and legitimacy of involuntary
hospitalization set the stage for legal change. Law reform litigation on behalf
of mental patients was brought by such organizations as the New York Civil
Liberties Union and the Washington-based Mental Health Law Project, as well as
by Legal Services programs, pro bono lawyers, and law firms. This litigation
effort succeeded in producing judicial decrees and statutory changes that
tightened the criteria for commitment and created the right to a hearing on
whether those criteria were satisfied. An influential case was the three-judge
federal district court decision in Lessard v. Schmidt, which required various
procedural formalities at the involuntary hospitalization hearing.  n11

   It is now widely accepted that the procedural due process guarantee of  [*40]
the Fourteenth Amendment requires notice and a formal hearing before civil
commitment may occur (or shortly thereafter when commitment is sought on an
emergency basis).  n12 Such a hearing requires the right to counsel, who will be
appointed if the individual is indigent, the right to notice of the proceedings,
a hearing presided over by a fair and impartial judge or hearing examiner, the
right to be present at the hearing, the right to cross-examine adverse witnesses
and to present evidence, and allocation of the burden of proof to the state by
clear and convincing evidence.  n13 In some jurisdictions, the right also
includes the assistance of a court-appointed clinical evaluator to assist in the
defense process.  n14 In short, due process requires a fairly formal adversarial
judicial hearing at which the state is put to its proof.

   III. The Gap Between Theory and Practice

 While due process theory requires a formal adversarial judicial hearing, a
large gulf exists between law on the books and law in action. The formal due
process model is often undermined by the way many attorneys undertaking the
representation of individuals in civil commitment hearings play their roles.
Although our adherence to an adversarial model in this and most other contexts
contemplates competent attorneys who represent their clients' interests
zealously, in fact many counsel in civil commitment cases act in ways that often
do not satisfy this model.  n15 Many attorneys relax their advocacy role and
[*41]  adopt what has been termed a "paternalistic" or "best interests" approach
in which they seek to effectuate what they may perceive their clients' best
interests to be.  n16 Some commentators have even suggested that lawyers should
play a non-adversarial role in order to function in a way that is more consonant
with the paternalistic aims of the civil commitment system.  n17 One study has
shown that even when lawyers are trained in adversarial practice, they
nonetheless continue to play a paternalistic role in civil commitment, seeking
their clients' best interests as they perceive them rather than as their clients
may articulate them.  n18

   To some extent, this paternalistic role represents what Perlin has called
sanism and pretextuality, a deeply ingrained prejudice against those with mental
illness, reinforced by stereotypes, and a basic dishonesty in the civil
commitment process, shared by judges, lawyers, and clinicians.  n19 This
practice has turned the adversarial model into a farce and a mockery in which
procedural rights are accorded in only a formal way so as to effectuate what
judges, lawyers, and clinicians perceive to be the best interests of the
patient.

   In practice, commitment hearings tend to be brief and non-adversarial
episodes in which judges appear to "rubber stamp" the recommendations of
clinical expert witnesses.  n20 Indeed, studies show judicial agreement  [*42]
with expert witnesses in this area ranges from seventy-nine to one hundred
percent, and most frequently exceeds ninety-five percent.  n21 Civil commitment
proceedings are often extremely informal, sometimes occurring in courtrooms set
up at the hospital in which patients appear in hospital garb rather than street
clothes.  n22 Judges frequently fail to advise patients of their rights or
permit them to speak.  n23 Judges often discourage attorneys from taking an
active part in the hearing or themselves take over the role of questioning
witnesses.  n24 These brief, informal hearings at which the judge defers to the
expert witness and seems unconcerned with what the patient or the patient's
lawyer may have to say give many patients the impression that the hearing is an
empty ritual rather than a serious attempt to achieve accuracy and fairness.

   In Parham v. J. R.,  n25 former Chief Justice Burger questioned whether the
supposed protections of the adversary civil commitment hearing were "more
illusory than real," citing studies showing the inadequate job that counsel
usually plays at commitment hearings, which last a mean time of from 3.8 to 9.2
minutes.  n26 These studies are consistent with others showing that civil
commitment hearings are extraordinarily brief, often lasting only minutes.  n27
Civil commitment hearings lasting only several minutes can only be perfunctory
rituals that either presume the existence of mental illness and the need for
hospitalization or only superficially inquire into these issues.

   Lawyers in commitment hearings who take the paternalistic or best interests
approach serve their clients inadequately in a number of respects. They often
defer to the expert witness, performing little or no  [*43]  cross-examination.
n28 They frequently fail even to meet with or interview the client prior to the
hearing, or to perform any investigation of the facts that are alleged to
justify the client's need for hospitalization.  n29 Many fail to controvert the
allegation that the patient is mentally ill.  n30 They fail to explore
alternatives to hospitalization or to obtain benefits for their clients that
might avoid its necessity.  n31 Some attorneys play largely a clerical role,
treating their function as just being "to look through the paperwork to make
sure it is in order, and thus give the false impression that the client has had
the benefit of legal representation."  n32 These lawyers "roll over" in the
hearing, deferring to the expert and even stipulating to the hospital's
allegations and waiving the client's right to testify.  n33 Given these
inadequacies, an individual represented by counsel may have a worse chance of
avoiding commitment at the hearing than an unrepresented one.  n34 In light of
these inadequacies of counsel and the way judges frequently conduct the hearing,
from the patient's perspective, the hearing may resemble the one presided over
by the Queen of Hearts in Alice in Wonderland, "Sentence first - verdict
afterward."  n35

   The paternalistic role played by some counsel in the civil commitment
process, as well as the role often played by the judge, thus undermines and
frustrates the goals of the procedural protections mandated by the Due Process
Clause. Accuracy is undermined because the system assumes that the individual is
a legitimate subject of paternalism when he or she in fact may not satisfy this
condition. Moreover, the practice undermines the participatory or dignitary
value of procedure.  n36 The  [*44]  basic dishonesty of the process can have
severe antitherapeutic consequences for the patient, who will lose trust and
confidence in the judges, lawyers, and clinicians involved and in the
genuineness of their purportedly benevolent intentions. As a result, many will
feel coerced by civil commitment, with potentially negative consequences for the
efficacy of the commitment process.  n37

   IV. The Psychology of Procedural Justice and the Commitment Hearing

 Research on the psychology of procedural justice suggests that people are more
satisfied with and comply more with the outcome of legal proceedings when they
perceive those proceedings to be fair and have an opportunity to participate in
them.  n38 Social psychologist Tom Tyler, applying these principles to the civil
commitment hearing, has argued that increasing the individual's sense of
participation, dignity, and trust during the commitment proceedings is likely to
increase his or her acceptance of the outcome of the hearing, lead to a greater
willingness to accept hospitalization and treatment, and enhance treatment
efficacy.  n39 Civil commitment hearings that appear to patients to be a sham
violate their need to be treated with "respect, politeness, and dignity," and to
feel that "their rights as citizens are acknowledged."  n40 When legal
authorities treat people with dignity in this sense, their status as competent,
equal citizens and human beings is confirmed.  n41 When legal proceedings do not
treat people with dignity, they feel devalued as members of society. When people
attribute this denial of dignity to the legal and political authorities who run
the hearing, the judge and  [*45]  attorneys, this perception threatens their
feelings of self-esteem, self-worth, and sense of personal responsibility.  n42
Because people with mental illness already have been marginalized and
stigmatized by a variety of social mechanisms,  n43 self-respect and their sense
of their value as members of society are of special importance to them. Perhaps
nothing can threaten a person's belief that he or she is an equal member of
society as much as being subjected to a civil commitment hearing.  n44
Individuals involved in civil commitment hearings are particularly sensitive to
issues of participation, dignity, and trust,  n45 and the psychological effects
posited by the literature on the psychology of procedural justice are especially
applicable in this context.

   Civil commitment hearings that are perceived by patients as phony rituals
violate their sense of participation, dignity, and equal citizenship.  n46 The
typical civil commitment hearing, instead of fulfilling the individual's
participatory or dignitary interests,  n47 thus may actually produce feelings of
worthlessness and loss of dignity,  n48 exacerbating the person's mental illness
and perhaps even fostering a form of learned helplessness that can further
diminish performance, motivation, and mood in ways that can be antitherapeutic.
n49

   Tyler's analysis of the psychological effects of the civil commitment hearing
is supported by preliminary empirical work performed by Greer and his
associates.  n50 A pilot study of patient perceptions of the civil commitment
hearing revealed that patients felt that treating physicians who testified at
the hearing failed to listen to them or to show concern for their rights, and
were disrespectful, impolite, and dishonest.  n51 Although the patients felt
that their own lawyers had treated them with dignity, many felt unfairly treated
by the opposing lawyer and the judge and generally felt that they were not
treated with dignity and respect by the legal actors at the civil commitment
hearing.  n52 Patients felt that they  [*46]  had little or no voice in the
proceedings.  n53 At the end of the hearings, the patients felt angry, sad,
displeased, and confused.  n54 They felt "coerced by the process."  n55 The
researchers concluded that the patients' perceptions of the fairness and dignity
of the proceedings "may affect the course and conduct of their treatment in the
hospital."  n56 These feelings, the researchers suggest, do not encourage the
continuation of productive exchange between individuals, and as a result, "do
not advance the therapeutic progress of the patients."  n57 Given the strongly
negative feelings that patients in the study had toward their treating
physicians who testified at the commitment hearing and the likely impact of
these feelings on the treatment process, one question that this study raises is
whether the treating physician should also testify in court.  n58 To the extent
feasible, it would seem preferable that the clinician involved in evaluating the
patient and testifying at the hearing not also be involved in the patient's
treatment.

   The pilot study conducted by Greer and his colleagues supports Tyler's
analysis of the procedural justice value of the commitment hearing, but more
empirical work is needed concerning those aspects of the proceedings that
produce negative feelings on the part of the individual subjected to civil
commitment and the impact of those feelings on the treatment outcome. Tyler's
analysis also finds support in other bodies of psychological research. In a
recent analysis of Tyler's work, Sydeman, Cascardi, Poythress, and Rittenband
suggest that Tyler's conclusion is also supported by principles derived from
both the social cognition and the consumerism literature.  n59

   The social cognition literature places emphasis on "information control," the
perception of control that results when an individual obtains information
relating to a stressful situation or event.  n60 Such information provides the
individual with an opportunity to understand what is happening to him or her.
Properly administered, the civil commitment hearing may provide patients with a
degree of information control, enabling them to understand the reasons for
commitment and the positive expectations that the judge and clinicians
testifying at the  [*47]  hearing have concerning the outcome of
hospitalization. The commitment hearing can thus be seen as an opportunity to
provide information to patients that might relieve their stress, increase their
acceptance of the commitment determination, and create expectancies of positive
treatment results that might, in turn, help to bring them about.

   Participation, dignity, and trust, as well as the opportunity to "tell their
story," are themes often voiced in the mental health consumer (or survivor)
literature.  n61 The consumer's desire for an opportunity to tell his or her
side of the story suggests the applicability in the civil commitment context of
the "voice" effect described in the procedural justice literature.  n62 Allowing
patients at the commitment hearing an opportunity to tell their story therefore
might be an important mechanism for increasing patient perceptions of fairness,
respect, and dignity in the process, with a resulting increase in their
receptivity to treatment.

   V. The Psychological Effects of Coercion and Voluntary Choice

 The recent research by the MacArthur Network on Mental Health and the Law on
patient perceptions of coercion supports the above-stated conclusion.  n63 This
research examined the correlates and determinants of individuals' perceptions of
what makes them feel coerced. Patient perceptions of coercion in the mental
hospital admission process were found to be strongly associated with the degree
to which that process was seen to be characterized by procedural justice. The
MacArthur  [*48]  research found that people feel non-coerced even in coercive
situations such as civil commitment when they perceive the intentions of state
actors to be benevolent and when they are treated with dignity and respect,
given voice and validation, and not treated in bad faith. Patients who are
provided procedural justice in this sense, even if involuntarily committed or
pressured by family members and clinicians to be hospitalized, reported
experiencing considerably less coercion than patients who were not afforded
procedural justice.

   The MacArthur work on coercion is significant when considered in connection
with a body of theoretical work on the psychology of choice that suggests that
people perform more effectively and with greater motivation when they choose
voluntarily to do something, and perform less well, with poor motivation and
sometimes with psychological reactance, when they are coerced into doing it.
n64 Principles of cognitive and social psychology including the goal setting
effect, expectancy theory, intrinsic motivation, the psychology of commitment,
and cognitive dissonance in general support the positive value of choice and the
negative effects of coercion.  n65 In the treatment context, this research
suggests that people who feel less coerced into accepting treatment and who
believe that entering treatment reflects their own choice are more invested in
treatment and benefit more from it than patients who feel coerced and
disrespected by the treatment process. Empirical investigation is needed,
however, to determine the extent to which these general principles apply to
people with severe mental illness.  n66

   Do these principles apply to people in commitment hearings? Sydeman and her
co-authors note that widespread cynicism on the part of mental patients and the
severe symptoms of their psychopathology might interfere with their ability
accurately to perceive the commitment  [*49]  process and the motivation of
others.  n67 They suggest that these factors may diminish the ability of such
patients to experience the procedural justice value of the commitment hearing
that Tyler posits. At least some persons suffering the acute symptoms of
schizophrenia at the time of the hearing may not realize these benefits.
However, many patients, including many with schizophrenia, will not be so
cognitively disorganized or impaired.

   The MacArthur Treatment Competence Study  n68 provides important data that
may shed light on these questions. The study compared a group of hospitalized
mental patients with a group of patients hospitalized for heart disease and a
group of community controls matched on various demographic factors. The groups
were provided with information concerning treatment options and were rated on
their ability to engage in rational treatment decision making. While the group
of mental patients performed significantly less well, this result was
attributable to a small minority in the schizophrenia subgroup. Nearly half of
the schizophrenia subgroup and seventy-six percent of the depression subgroup
were found to perform in the adequate range across all decision making measures,
and a significant portion performed at or above the mean for persons without
mental illness.  n69 A high percentage of recently hospitalized patients with
mental illness, including schizophrenia - the most seriously disturbing of the
major mental illnesses - were thus found to perform in a relatively nonimpaired
range. Moreover, the findings revealed significant variability among patients
within each diagnostic category.

   The MacArthur Treatment Competence Study examined the ability to engage in
rational treatment decision making, including the ability to understand
treatment information, to appreciate it, to think rationally about treatment,
and to express a choice. These abilities may not equate  [*50]  with the ability
of patients at a commitment hearing to follow the proceedings, to understand the
information conveyed, and to make accurate attributions concerning the
motivation of the various actors in the commitment process. However, the general
findings of the MacArthur work concerning the high degree of variability among
patients and the ability of a significant percentage of the group with severe
mental illness to perform in a normal range strongly suggest that, although some
patients at the commitment hearing will be so impaired as to be unable to
realize the procedural justice benefits of the hearing, many and perhaps most
will not be this impaired.

   This conclusion is supported by a study conducted as part of the MacArthur
research on coercion, which found that patient recollections concerning the
admission and hospitalization process were well-grounded in reality.  n70 This
study compared the perceptions of patients about their hospitalizations, both at
admission and one month after discharge, with the perceptions of family members,
admitting clinicians, and the researchers' own most plausible reconstruction of
what had actually transpired based upon personal observations, chart reviews,
and extensive interviews. This study found that the patients' accounts were as
complete, plausible, and consistent as the accounts of family members and
clinicians and overall reflected most closely what actually had happened. These
findings strongly support the conclusion that patients are able accurately to
follow and understand what occurs at the civil commitment hearing. Thus,
patients will be able to experience the procedural justice benefits of the
hearing when they are treated fairly, with dignity and respect, and in good
faith, and to experience the negative effects of not being treated in these
ways.

   That many patients will be able to respond to the procedural justice effects
of the commitment hearing also is suggested by Susman's research on dispute
resolution mechanisms for hospitalized mental patients seeking to refuse
treatment.  n71 Susman found that patients who felt that their argument had been
listened to and given serious consideration were more likely to feel that the
procedure was fair and to accept the outcomes as fair.  n72 While the patients
in Susman's study may not have been as seriously disturbed as are some patients
at the point of commitment, his findings support Tyler's conclusion that many
patients  [*51]  will receive procedural justice benefits from properly
conducted commitment hearings. This conclusion also is supported by the pilot
empirical study of patient perceptions of the civil commitment hearing conducted
by Greer and his colleagues. The researchers found that patients were
"sufficiently aware of the procedural aspects of their hearings and of the
actions of the actors in those hearings and can report those perceptions through
a structured interview administered by an experienced mental health
professional."  n73 Although more empirical work is needed to investigate the
ability of patients in civil commitment hearings to experience these procedural
justice benefits, and to probe the relationship between such benefits and
treatment outcome, there is good reason to conclude that many patients will
experience these benefits, and as a result, will be more receptive to hospital
treatment and respond more favorably to it.

   Many patients facing an involuntary commitment hearing are cynical about the
judicial and hospitalization process. The impact of patient cynicism on the
ability to realize the procedural justice benefits of the hearing also deserves
empirical investigation. Cynicism born of mistreatment in society or at prior
commitment hearings that seemed unfair predictably will have a corrosive effect
on trust and confidence in the benevolent motives of the legal actors in the
commitment process. But the remedy for such cynicism would seem to be more
procedural justice, not less. To break down such cynicism, much of it justified,
patients should be treated fairly, with dignity and respect, and with genuine
tolerance. To the extent that such cynicism may be an impediment to a positive
treatment response, the civil commitment hearing constitutes an opportunity to
remove this barrier to effective treatment.

   Sydeman and her co-authors also point out that Tyler's analysis is open to
the criticism that the civil commitment hearing itself is merely one phase of
the commitment process, and from the patient's perspective, perhaps an
insignificant one.  n74 They suggest that the commitment process can be more
realistically viewed as a series of decision points between the patient and the
physician, including whether to detain the patient for an evaluation, whether to
petition for commitment, how to treat the patient in the hospital, etc. These
decisions, they note, as well as the way in which other disputes between  [*52]
the patient and physician are resolved, "could facilitate or undermine
procedural justice effects during the hearing" or significantly dilute them.
n75 Polite and respectful treatment of the patient during the hearing, they
suggest, therefore, might not have much of an impact if the patient is treated
unfairly and disrespectfully both before and after the hearing by the
psychiatrist and hospital staff.

   It may be that how patients are treated by the committing psychiatrist and
hospital staff is more important than how they are treated at the commitment
hearing. This observation, however, does not argue against conducting the
hearing so as to convey respect and a sense of fair treatment to the individual.
To the contrary, it argues that the actions of the committing psychiatrist
before, during, and after the hearing, as well as that of hospital staff, also
should be restructured along these lines. Clinicians conducting evaluations
concerning the need for commitment, testifying at commitment hearings, and
participating in the treatment process, no less than judges and attorneys,
should recognize the importance of treating patients with dignity and respect,
affording them voice and validation, and insuring that patients perceive their
actions as benevolently motivated. If anything, therefore, the work of Sydeman
and her colleagues suggests not only that the commitment hearing should be
reformed in line with Tyler's analysis but that the entire commitment process
should be changed in this way.

   VI. Restructuring the Role of the Actors in the Commitment Process

 Therapeutic jurisprudence is the study of law's therapeutic consequences.  n76
The rules of law and procedure, as well as how the actors in the legal system
apply them, pose inevitable consequences for the mental health and psychological
functioning of those affected. An important new direction in this approach
focuses attention on how laws are applied and calls for a heightened sensitivity
on the part of legal actors to the way they act in applying the law.  n77 In the
context of the civil commitment process, judges, lawyers, and clinicians need to
understand the potential they have for applying the law therapeutically  [*53]
and should restructure their behavior in order to realize this potential.

   Judges, lawyers, and clinicians need to understand that the way they play
their roles in the civil commitment process has inevitable therapeutic
implications for the patient. They need to heed the admonitions of the MacArthur
work on coercion and reframe their roles and practices in ways that produce in
the patient feelings of noncoercion. They need to make patients feel that they
are being treated fairly, with respect and dignity, and accord to them a greater
sense of voice and validation. Civil commitment proceedings need to be
restructured along this dimension in order to increase the potential therapeutic
value of such hearings and decrease their antitherapeutic consequences.

   The role of counsel in particular needs restructuring. In addition to
teaching counsel adversarial methods and arming them with more information about
the clinical aspects of the commitment process, which Poythress found
insufficient to change behavior,  n78 lawyers need to be provided with
information about the psychology of procedural justice  n79 and the recent
MacArthur work on coercion.  n80 In addition, they need to be provided with
information concerning the recent MacArthur work on competency, which
demonstrates that many people with mental illness, even schizophrenia, are
capable of decision making about mental health treatment within a relatively
normal range.  n81

   The need also exists for a more detailed specification concerning the law's
expectations about the role of counsel in civil commitment. Existing codes of
ethics for attorneys do not define the role of counsel in the representation of
mentally ill clients.  n82 In the absence of such guidance, attorneys
predictably will play their roles in different ways. Some play the traditional
adversarial role, but some relax their advocacy and play a more paternalistic
role.  n83 Every attorney engaged in the representation of individuals at civil
commitment hearings should be familiar with existing guidelines concerning the
obligations of counsel. These guidelines contemplate that the attorney
familiarize himself or herself with the facts of the case, learn the client's
objectives, interview  [*54]  the client, investigate the case, interview other
witnesses, determine the range of available alternatives, advise the client
concerning potential dispositions, engage in negotiations on behalf of the
client, protect the client's procedural rights, engage in effective advocacy at
the hearing, suggest dispositional alternatives to the court, and provide
appropriate post-adjudication representation.  n84

   In addition to training attorneys in their legal responsibilities in the
representation of clients at civil commitment hearings, lawyers need more
guidance on reconciling the interest in protecting their clients' legal rights
with that of promoting their clients' therapeutic needs. The attorney-client
relationship in this context needs to be reconceptualized in ways that augment
its potential therapeutic effects. Promoting the mental health of the client is
not the primary role of counsel. That role is the protection of the client's
legal interests. But the two roles need not be seen as in conflict. In many
ways, acting to promote the client's interest in a fair commitment hearing can
have positive therapeutic value. Indeed, attorneys who relax their advocacy role
in the commitment process based on a paternalistic motive to help the client who
they perceive as mentally ill and in need of hospitalization may do more harm
than good from the perspective of the client's mental health.

   Promoting the client's legal rights can be good for his or her mental health.
Attorneys in civil commitment proceedings should communicate and consult more
with their clients, thereby providing them with an increased sense of
"information control"  n85 and empowering them in ways that can increase their
mental health and psychological functioning. The attorney is a primary vehicle
for effectuating the client's participatory interests and therefore should never
act in ways that suggest betrayal of the client. The attorney also is in an
excellent position to diminish the potential for coercion and its perception by
the client in the admission process.  n86 By effectuating, rather than
compromising, the client's participatory interests in the commitment process,
the attorney can contribute to the client's sense that he or she was treated
fairly and to the client's ability to accept the outcome of the proceeding, even
if adverse, and to comply with the court's decision in ways that can better
achieve the goals of hospitalization.

   The tendency of attorneys to be uncertain concerning the role they should
play in the civil commitment hearing, particularly when they think that the
client is incompetent, can be diminished by increasing the  [*55]  attorneys'
awareness of their ethical responsibilities. Uncertainty also can be diminished
by providing attorneys with additional information about the issue of
competence. For purposes of civil commitment, competence is a legal rather than
a clinical concept.  n87 The standard, however, has been poorly defined in the
case law, resulting in predictable uncertainty in its application.  n88 At a
minimum, the concept of competency requires the ability on the part of the
individual to evidence a reasonably consistent choice.  n89 In addition, it
requires some degree of ability to appreciate information and to engage in
rational decision making.  n90 But how much appreciation and rationality are
required? Attorneys in the civil commitment process should understand that all
clients, even those in other areas of practice, have diminished abilities to
appreciate information and engage in rational decision making.  n91 Too high a
degree of appreciation and rationality should not be insisted upon as a
condition for competence.  n92

   Many attorneys in the civil commitment process tend to apply too demanding a
standard of competency, concluding, as a result, that their clients are
incompetent and that the attorneys, therefore, should not advocate against
mental hospitalization - a seemingly paternalistic intervention. If the client
can evidence a consistent choice concerning hospitalization and can justify it
in ways that are not obviously irrational or otherwise the product of mental
illness, the attorney should consider the client to be competent and should
respect his or her decision either to accept voluntary admission or to oppose
hospitalization.

   When the attorney believes that commitment is likely to be ordered and would
be appropriate for the client, he or she should recommend that course to the
client. When the client assents to voluntary admission or wishes to choose
voluntary admission and the attorney concurs, the  [*56]  attorney should
negotiate with the state the terms under which voluntary admission should occur,
including an agreed upon treatment plan. In this context, counsel can play what
has been described as a mediational role.  n93 This role is not unlike the one
played by criminal defense lawyers in negotiating guilty pleas for clients who
seem likely to be convicted and in attempting to convince them that such a plea
may be more advantageous than a guilty verdict and resulting sentence.  n94

   When the client opposes admission, the attorney should play the adversarial
role contemplated by the due process model, putting the state to its proof and
helping the client to achieve full participatory value from the hearing process.
The analogy of the role of defense counsel in criminal cases again is apt. Even
if the defense lawyer believes a plea bargain would be more advantageous, the
client might disagree. In such cases counsel then will mount a vigorous defense.

   What should the lawyer do when the client appears to be incompetent based
upon the attorney's discussions and consultations with him or her? If the client
is unable to express a consistent choice, the client should be considered
incompetent. When the client's expression of choice seems to the attorney to be
irrational or otherwise based primarily on mental illness, the client also
should be deemed incompetent. In such instances, however, the attorney may need
to have clinical consultation in order to make the judgment of incompetence, and
such consultation should be available at state expense when the client is
indigent.  n95 When the attorney is convinced that the client is incompetent,
voluntary admission should not be possible.  n96 Instead, the adversarial
process should go forth, and counsel should put the state to its proof. In these
cases, incompetence should not be difficult for the state to demonstrate by the
requisite clear and convincing evidence standard, but competency is not the only
issue. Counsel can play a constructive and important role in insisting and
assuring that commitment is in the client's best interests and is the least
restrictive alternative way of protecting the client's needs. If the attorney is
unsuccessful and the client is committed, counsel should attempt to enable the
patient to reframe the commitment experience in a positive way.

    [*57]  This more defined role for counsel can enhance the therapeutic
potential of the commitment process while fulfilling its accuracy, fairness, and
participatory goals. Moreover, it is more likely that counsel trained to play
this role and to understand its therapeutic value will adhere to it rather than
subvert it out of paternalistic motives. Lawyers who relax their adversary role
in order to achieve what they think will be a paternalistic outcome probably do
so because they feel an inner sense of conflict concerning their obligations to
promote their client's best interests as well as their legal rights. Yet a
commitment perceived to be coerced and unfair by the client, who may experience
the attorney's actions as betraying the client's real interests, may be less
therapeutic than one in which the client believed that the attorney was a
genuine ally who assisted in effectuating his or her participatory and dignitary
interests.

   When the attorney plays this adversarial role, he or she can gain the
client's trust and confidence in ways that might enable the attorney to help the
client to achieve whatever benefits hospitalization may offer. Such an attorney
also can play an important role in helping the client avoid future problems. In
this connection, the lawyer should consider having clients execute advance
directive instruments dealing with future instances of mental health treatment
or hospitalization.  n97

   Judges and clinicians also need training to sensitize them to the therapeutic
potential of the roles they play so that their conduct also can enhance the
therapeutic potential of the commitment hearing. Judges and clinicians need
education in the psychology of procedural justice and in the psychological value
of choice and disadvantages of coercion. Judges play an important symbolic role.
The literature on the psychology of procedural justice demonstrates that people
place a high value on how they are treated by legal authorities.  n98 They value
the affirmation of their legal status as competent citizens and human beings
entitled to be treated with dignity and respect. Judges who conduct commitment
hearings in ways that seem to assume that the person is an incompetent subject
of paternalism and that deny him or her respect frustrate the dignitary value of
the hearing. In furthering the dignitary goal, patients should be permitted to
dress appropriately for the hearing,  [*58]  rather than being required to
appear in hospital garb, as sometimes occurs.  n99 Through his or her actions,
the judge should affirm the patient's dignity and humanity. How the judge
conducts the proceeding can convey to the patient that it is a process designed
for his or her welfare and that he or she is valued and will be treated with
fairness and dignity.

   Both the judge and the expert witness can play an important role in providing
the patient with a sense of "information control."  n100 The patient, facing the
uncertainties of a hospital commitment that he or she is objecting to, will
predictably experience a high degree of stress and anxiety at the hearing. The
judge and clinical experts, by reassuring the patient and demonstrating concern
for his or her welfare, can help to relieve at least some of that stress. By
carefully and understandably conveying information to the patient about the
hearing process and what will occur at the hospital if commitment is ordered,
the judge can diffuse much of the stress that the commitment process itself
might produce.

   The patient should not be treated as invisible at the hearing. Rather, the
judge and expert witnesses should address the patient and attempt to communicate
in his or her language rather than in professional jargon. If the expert witness
recommends commitment, the reasons why this would be beneficial should be
explained in ways that are designed to be convincing to the patient. Moreover, a
sense of optimism should be conveyed to the patient. The patient should be told
that although he or she suffers from a mental illness, such illness is very
likely to respond to hospital treatment within a reasonably brief period. The
benefits of psychotropic medication and other forms of treatment should be
explained to the patient in ways that are calculated to persuade the patient as
to their value. The judge should listen attentively to the patient and convey
the impression that what he or she has to say is important and will be given
full consideration. According voice and validation in this way can considerably
enhance the patient's feeling of participation and can inspire trust in the
judge. Too often, the judge conveys the impression that what the patient has to
say will not be considered and that the results of the hearing are a foregone
conclusion. Such an impression can inspire distrust by the patient in the judge
and the belief that he or she is not being treated fairly and in good faith. In
addition to paying close attention to the patient's testimony, the judge should
ask questions of the expert witness in a way that demonstrates that the judge
will make an independent decision, rather than merely "rubber stamping" the
witness's recommendation.

    [*59]  At appropriate points in the proceedings, recesses should be taken to
give the attorney and client an opportunity to consider whether, in light of the
testimony, the client might wish to explore the possibility of a negotiated
voluntary admission in order to avoid what might appear to be the inevitable and
more restrictive and stigmatizing involuntary commitment. If commitment seems to
the attorney to be the likely outcome, counsel can explain the legal and other
advantages of accepting voluntary admission and recommend this option to the
client. Counsel should assure the client, however, that the decision is theirs,
and that if he or she continues to wish to resist hospitalization, that counsel
will attempt to achieve that result, even if it is unlikely. A client's choice
of voluntary admission at this point, as long as the client perceives it as
voluntary, may increase the potential that hospital treatment will be
efficacious.  n101

   If a negotiated settlement in favor of voluntary admission is not possible,
and if the judge concludes that commitment is warranted, the judge may consider
giving the patient a final opportunity to accept voluntary admission in view of
the judgment that the judge feels compelled to make as a result of the
testimony. If this final opportunity is not accepted, the judge should seek to
explain the commitment decision to the patient, addressing the patient directly,
and offering to answer any questions that the patient may have.

   Whenever possible, the treating clinician should not also function as the
expert witness testifying in favor of the patient's commitment. Such testimony
may give the patient the impression that the clinician is an enemy, a perception
that can seriously undermine the clinician's treatment role.  n102 Even if a
clinical expert witness not involved in the patient's treatment testifies in
court, the expert should be sensitive to how he or she is perceived by the
patient. Not only at the hearing, but throughout the commitment and
hospitalization process, clinicians should treat the patient with dignity and
respect and should demonstrate the genuineness of their benevolent motives.
Clinicians should always attempt to persuade rather than coerce, to involve the
patient in the decision making process rather than dictate treatment decisions
unilaterally, and to treat the patient as a person rather than as an object. In
this way, clinicians can inspire trust and confidence on the part of the patient
and form a caring therapeutic alliance, both of which may be  [*60]  essential
to a positive therapeutic outcome.  n103

   One final therapeutic jurisprudence consideration worth noting is the impact
that restructuring the civil commitment hearing in the way suggested could have
on the lawyers, judges, and clinicians who work in the commitment process.
Participating in a sham process that distorts the roles that they are supposed
to play may in the long run pose negative psychological consequences for these
professionals. In contrast, playing their assigned roles in ways that can help
to improve the psychological functioning of their clients/patients and increase
the likelihood that their hospitalization and treatment will be more effective
can bring personal and professional satisfaction that can increase the
professionals' own mental health.

   VII. Conclusion

 Under our basic notions of procedural due process, patients facing involuntary
commitment should be given hearings to protect against inaccurate deprivations
of liberty. In addition, however, hearings in this context serve an important
participatory or dignitary value that should not be neglected. Restructuring the
civil commitment process in the ways suggested can significantly increase
patients' perceptions of fairness, participation, and dignity, thereby
increasing the likelihood that they will accept the outcome of the hearing, will
view that outcome as being in their best interests, and will participate in the
treatment process in ways that will bring about better treatment results. Not
only must the legal rules governing the civil commitment hearing seek to
accomplish these values, but lawyers, judges, and clinicians should learn how to
play their roles so as to apply the law therapeutically and not
antitherapeutically. Restructuring the commitment hearing in these ways can
fulfill the promise of fair process, increase patient satisfaction and
compliance with the outcome of the hearing, and more effectively achieve the
goals of hospitalization when it is necessary.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Civil ProcedureCounselGeneral OverviewCriminal Law & ProcedureCounselRight to
CounselGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental Health
ServicesCommitmentInvoluntary Commitment of Adults

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 605 (1979).




n2.  John J. Ensminger & Thomas D. Liguori, The Therapeutic Significance of the
Civil Commitment Hearing: An Unexamined Potential, 6 J. Psychiatry & L. 5
(1978).




n3.  See generally Parham, 442 U.S. 584.




n4.  David B. Wexler, Therapeutic Jurisprudence: The Law as a Therapeutic Agent
243-305 (1990); Janet B. Abisch, Mediational Lawyering in the Civil Commitment
Context: A Therapeutic Jurisprudence Solution to the Counsel Role Dilemma, 1
Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 120 (1995); Alexander Greer et al., Therapeutic
Jurisprudence and Patients' Perceptions of Procedural Due Process of Civil
Commitment Hearings, in Law in a Therapeutic Key: Developments in Therapeutic
Jurisprudence 923 (David B. Wexler & Bruce J. Winick eds., 1996). See also 1
Michael L. Perlin, Mental disability Law: Civil and Criminal 2B-9, at 249 (2d
ed. 1998) (calling for a weighing of the therapeutic and antitherapeutic
consequences of the civil commitment hearing and the role of counsel).




n5.  See generally Wexler, supra note 4; David B. Wexler & Bruce J. Winick,
Essays in Therapeutic Jurisprudence (1991); Law in a Therapeutic Key:
Developments in Therapeutic Jurisprudence (David B. Wexler & Bruce J. Winick
eds., 1996) [hereinafter Law in a Therapeutic Key]; Bruce J. Winick, Therapeutic
Jurisprudence Applied: Essays on Mental Health Law (1997); Bruce J. Winick, The
Jurisprudence of Therapeutic Jurisprudence, 3 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 184
(1997).




n6.  Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418, 425 (1979); Jackson v. Indiana, 406 U.S.
715, 731-39 (1972); Humphry v. Cady 405 U.S. 504, 509 (1972); Specht v.
Patterson, 386 U.S. 605, 608 (1966).




n7.  Foucha v. Louisiana, 504 U.S. 71, 80 (1992).




n8.  See Sumner J. Sydeman et al., Procedural Justice in the Context of Civil
Commitment: A Critique of Tyler's Analysis, 3 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 207
(1997); Eric Turkheimer & Charles D.H. Parry, Why the Gap? Practice and Policy
in Civil Commitment Hearings, 47 Am. Psychologist 646, 646 (1992). See also John
Q. LaFond, Law and the Delivery of Involuntary Mental Health Services, 64 Am. J.
Orthopsychiatry 209 (1994); Developments in the Law - Civil Commitment of the
Mentally Ill, 87 Harv. L. Rev. 1190, 1193 (1974).




n9.  See sources cited supra note 8.




n10.  See Alexander D. Brooks & Bruce J. Winick, Foreword: Mental Disability Law
Comes of Age, 39 Rutgers L. Rev. 235 (1987); Patricia M. Wald & Paul R.
Friedman, The Politics of Mental Health Advocacy in the United States, 1 Int'l
J.L. & Psychiatry 137 (1978).




n11.  Lessard v. Schmidt, 349 F. Supp. 1078, 1103 (E.D. Wis. 1972), vacated and
remanded on other grounds, 414 U.S. 473 (1974), on remand, 379 F. Supp. 1376
(E.D. Wis. 1974), vacated and remanded on other grounds, 421 U.S. 957 (1975),
reinstated, 413 F. Supp. 1318 (E.D. Wis. 1976).




n12.  See Addington, 441 U.S. 418; Samuel J. Brakel et al., The Mentally
Disabled and the Law 50-73 (3d ed. 1985); Michael L. Perlin, Law and Mental
Disability 53-113 (1994); Developments in the Law - Civil Commitment of the
Mentally Ill, supra note 8, at 1265-313; cf. Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480 (1980)
(specifying procedures required by due process for prison-hospital transfers).




n13.  See Brakel et al., supra note 12, at 50-73; Perlin, supra note 12, at
53-113; Douglas S. Stransky, Civil Commitment and the Right to Refuse Treatment:
Resolving Disputes from a Due Process Perspective, 50 U. Miami L. Rev. 413
(1996).




n14.  Perlin, supra note 12, at 88-89.




n15.  See, e.g., Abisch, supra note 4, at 128-32; Elliot Andalman & David L.
Chambers, Effective Counsel for Persons Facing Civil Commitment: A Survey, a
Polemic and a Proposal, 45 Miss. L.J. 43 (1974); Fred Cohen, The Function of the
Attorney and the Commitment of the Mentally Ill, 44 Tex. L. Rev. 424 (1966); Jan
C. Costello, Why Would I Need A Lawyer? Legal Counsel and Advocacy for People
with Mental Disabilities, in Law, Mental Health and Mental Disorder 15, 30-31
(Bruce D. Sales & Daniel W. Shuman eds., 1996); Virginia A. Hiday, The
Attorney's Role in Involuntary Civil Commitment, 60 N.C. L. Rev. 1027 (1982);
Michael L. Perlin, Fatal Assumption: A Critical Evaluation of the Role of
Counsel in Mental Disability Cases, 16 Law & Hum. Behav. 39, 43-44 (1992);
Turkheimer & Parry, supra note 8, at 646-47; Note, The Role of Counsel in the
Civil Commitment Process: A Theoretical Framework, 84 Yale L.J. 1540, 1542-43
(1975).




n16.  Abisch, supra note 4, at 128-32; Costello, supra note 15, at 30; Perlin,
supra note 15, at 43-44; Michael L. Perlin & Robert L. Sadoff, Ethical Issues in
the Representation of Individuals in the Commitment Process, 45 Law & Contemp.
Probs. 161, 179 (1982 ).




n17.  Paul S. Appelbaum, Paternalism and the Role of the Mental Health Lawyer,
34 Hosp. & Community Psychiatry 211 (1983); Samuel J. Brakel, Legal Aid in
Mental Hospitals, 1981 Am. B. Found. Res. J. 21, 92 (1981).




n18.  Norman G. Poythress, Psychiatric Expertise in Civil Commitment: Training
Attorneys to Cope with Expert Testimony, 2 Law & Hum. Behav. 1 (1978).




n19.  Michael L. Perlin, The Hidden Prejudice: Mental Disability on Trial
(forthcoming 1999); Michael L. Perlin, On "Sanism," 46 SMU L. Rev. 373 (1992)
[hereinafter On "Sanism"]; Michael L. Perlin, The Voluntary Delivery of Mental
Health Services in the Community, in Law, Mental Health, and Mental Disorder 150
(Bruce D. Sales & Daniel W. Shuman eds., 1996); Michael L. Perlin & Deborah A.
Dorfman, Is It More Than "Dodging Lions and Wastin' Time"? Adequacy of Counsel,
Questions of Competence, and the Judicial Process in Individual Right to Refuse
Treatment Cases, 2 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 114 (1996).




n20.  Costello, supra note 15, at 17; Perlin, supra note 15, at 43; Norman G.
Poythress, Mental Health Expert Testimony: Current Problems, 5 J. Psychiatry &
L. 201, 211 (1977).




n21.  Poythress, supra note 20, at 213 (Table 2, summarizing results of
published studies of concordance between judges' decisions and mental health
experts' recommendations in civil commitment hearings).




n22.  Perlin, supra note 12, at 63-64.




n23.  Turkeimer & Parry, supra note 8, at 647.




n24.  Id.




n25.  Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 609 & n.17 (1979).




n26.  Id. The court cited Dale A. Albers & Richard A. Pasewark, Involuntary
Hospitalization: Surrender at the Courthouse, 2 Am. J. Community Psychol. 287,
288 (1974) (averaging 9.2 minutes); Dorothy Miller & Michael Schwartz, County
Lunacy Commission Hearings: Some Observations of Commitments to a State Mental
Hospital, 14 Social Probs. 26, 28 (1966) (averaging 3.8 minutes); Thomas Scheff,
The Societal Reaction to Deviance: Ascriptive Elements in the Psychiatric
Screening of Mental Patients in a Midwestern State, 11 Social Probs. 401, 408
(1964) (averaging 9.2 minutes). See also Perlin & Dorfman, supra note 19, at
125-26 (commenting upon the short duration of hearings in medication refusal
cases involving mental patients).




n27.  See, e,g., Turkheimer & Parry, supra note 8.




n28.  Costello, supra note 15, at 30.




n29.  Id.




n30.  Hiday, supra note 15, at 1039 (discussing study showing that only 2.3% of
appointed counsel challenged finding of mental illness).




n31.  Costello, supra note 15, at 30.




n32.  Id.




n33.  Id.




n34.  Andalman & Chambers, supra note 15, at 45; Costello, supra note 15, at 30.




n35.  Lewis Carroll, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the
Looking-Glass 113 (Hartsdale House n.d.) (1865).




n36.  See Marshall v. Jerricho, 446 U.S. 238, 242 (1980); Morrissey v. Brewer,
408 U.S. 471, 481 (1972); Lawrence H. Tribe, American Constitutional Law 10-7,
at 666 (2d ed. 1988); Jerry L. Mashaw, The Supreme Court's Due Process Calculus
for Administrative Adjudication in Matthews v. Elderidge: Three Factors in
Search of a Theory of Value, 44 U. Chi. L. Rev. 28, 50 (1976); Frank I.
Michelman, Formal and Associational Aims in Procedural Due Process, in 18 NOMOS
126, 127-28 (J. Roland Pennock & John W. Chapman eds., 1977); Bruce J. Winick,
Forfeiture of Attorneys' Fees Under RICO and CCE and the Right to Counsel of
Choice: The Constitutional Dilemma and How to Avoid It, 43 U. Miami L. Rev. 765,
801-03 (1989); see also Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U.S. 254 (1970).




n37.  See Tom R. Tyler, The Psychological Consequences of Judicial Procedures:
Implications for Civil Commitment Hearings, 46 SMU L. Rev. 433 (1992); Bruce J.
Winick, Coercion and Mental Health Treatment, 74 Denver U. L. Rev. 1145, 1155-67
(1997).




n38.  John Thibaut & Laurens Walker, A Theory of Procedure, 66 Calif. L. Rev.
541 (1978); See, e.g., E. Allen Lind & Tom R. Tyler, The Social Psychology of
Procedural Justice (1988); Tom R. Tyler, Why People Obey the Law (1990); E.
Allan Lind et al., Voice, Control, and Procedural Justice: Instrumental and
Noninstrumental Concerns in Fairness Judgements, 59 J. Personality & Soc.
Psychol. 952 (1990).




n39.  Tyler, supra note 37.




n40.  Id. at 440.




n41.  Id.




n42.  Id. at 442.




n43.  See generally On "Sanism," supra note 19.




n44.  Tyler, supra note 37, at 440.




n45.  Greer et al., supra note 4, at 927.




n46.  Id.




n47.  See supra note 36 and accompanying text.




n48.  Greer et al., supra note 4, at 925.




n49.  See Bruce J. Winick, The Side Effects of Incompetency Labeling and the
Implications for Mental Health Law, 1 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 6, 14-23 (1995).




n50.  Greer et al., supra note 4.




n51.  Id. at 930.




n52.  Id.




n53.  Id.




n54.  Id.




n55.  Id.




n56.  Id.




n57.  Id.




n58.  Id. at 932.




n59.  Sydeman et al., supra note 8.




n60.  Susan T. Fiske & Shelley E. Taylor, Social Cognition 122 (1984); Sydeman
et al., supra note 8, at 211; Bruce J. Winick, Sex Offender Law in the 1990s: A
Therapeutic Jurisprudence Analysis, 4 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 505, 553 (1998).




n61.  Sydeman et al., supra note 8, at 210.




n62.  See generally Greer et al., supra note 4, at 930.




n63.  Nancy S. Bennett et al., Inclusion, Motivation, and Good Faith: The
Morality of Coercion in Mental Hospital Admission, 11 Behav. Sci. & L. 295
(1993); William Gardner et al., Two Scales for Measuring Patient Perceptions for
Coercion During Mental Hospital Admission, 11 Behav. Sci. & L. 307 (1993);
Steven K. Hoge et al., Perceptions of Coercion in the Admission of Voluntary and
Involuntary Psychiatric Patients, 20 Int'l J.L. & Psychiatry 167 (1997); Charles
W. Lidz et al., Perceived Coercion in Mental Hospital Admission: Pressures and
Process, 52 Archives Gen. Psychiatry 1034 (1995); John Monahan et al., Coercion
and Commitment: Understanding Involuntary Mental Hospital Admission, 18 Int'l
J.L. & Psychiatry 249 (1995); John Monahan et al., Coercion to Impatient
Treatment: Initial Results and Implications for Assertive Treatment in the
Community, in Coercion and Aggressive Community Treatment: A New Frontier in
Mental Health Law 13 (Deborah L. Dennis & John Monahan eds., 1996); Winick,
supra note 37, at 1158-59.




n64.  Sharon S. Brehm & Jack W. Brehm, Psychological Reactance: A Theory of
Freedom and Control 300-01 (1981); Bruce J. Winick, The right to Refuse Mental
Health Treatment 327-44 (1997); Bruce J. Winick, The Right to Refuse Mental
Health Treatment: A Therapeutic Jurisprudence Analysis, 17 Int'l J.L. &
Psychiatry 99 (1994) [hereinafter Right to Refuse]; Bruce J. Winick, On
Autonomy: Legal and Psychological Perspectives, 37 Vill. L. Rev. 1705 (1992)
[hereinafter On Autonomy]; Bruce J. Winick, Competency to Consent to Treatment:
The Distinction Between Assent and Objection, 28 Hous. L. Rev. 15 (1991)
[hereinafter Competency to Consent]; Bruce J. Winick, Competency to Consent to
Voluntary Hospitalization: A Therapeutic Jurisprudence Analysis of Zinermon v.
Burch, 14 Int'l J.L. & Psychiatry 169 (1991) [hereinafter Voluntary
Hospitalization].




n65.  Winick, supra note 64, at 327-44; Right to Refuse, supra note 64;
Competency to Consent, supra note 64; Voluntary Hospitalization, supra note 64.




n66.  Winick, supra note 64, at 344; Sydeman et al., supra note 8, at 220-21;
Right to Refuse, supra note 64, at 117.




n67.  Sydeman et al., supra note 8, at 216-19.




n68.  Paul S. Appelbaum & Thomas Grisso, The MacArthur Treatment Competence
Study. I: Mental Illness and Competence to Consent to Treatment, 19 Law & Hum.
Behav. 105 (1995); Thomas Grisso & Paul S. Appelbaum, The MacArthur Treatment
Competence Study. III: Abilities of Patients to Consent to Psychiatric and
Medical Treatments, 19 Law & Hum. Behav. 149 (1995). For commentary on the
MacArthur Study, see A Special Theme: A Critical Examination of the MacArthur
Treatment Competence Study: Methodological Issues, Legal Implications, and
Future Directions, 2 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 1-184 (Bruce J. Winick ed., 1996).




n69.  Grisso & Appelbaum, supra note 68, at 171; Bruce J. Winick, The MacArthur
Treatment Competence Study: Legal and Therapeutic Implications, 2 Psychol. Pub.
Pol'y & L. 137, 144 (1996).




n70.  Charles W. Lidz et al., The Validity of Mental Patients' Accounts of
Coercion-Related Behaviors in the Hospital Admission Process, 21 Law & Hum.
Behav. 361 (1997).




n71.  Jack Susman, Resolving Hospital Conflicts: A Study on Therapeutic
Jurisprudence, 22 J. Psychiatry & L. 107 (1994).




n72.  Id. at 115.




n73.  Greer et al., supra note 4, at 930.




n74.  Sydeman et al., supra note 8, at 219-20.




n75.  Id. at 219.




n76.  See supra note 5 and accompanying text.




n77.  E.g., David B. Wexler, Applying the Law Therapeutically, 5 Applied &
Preventive Psychol. 179 (1996); Winick, supra note 5, at 201-03; Winick, supra
note 37, at 1166-67; Dennis P. Stolle et al., Integrating Preventive Law and
Therapeutic Jurisprudence: A Law and Psychology Based Approach to Lawyering, 34
Cal. W. L. Rev. 15 (1997).




n78.  Poythress, supra note 18.




n79.  See supra note 18 and accompanying text.




n80.  See supra note 63 and accompanying text.




n81.  Perlin, supra note 4, 2B-10, at 249; see supra notes 67-74 and
accompanying text.




n82.  Abisch, supra note 4, at 137-38; Costello, supra note 15, at 25; Perlin &
Sadoff, supra note 16, at 162.




n83.  Abisch, supra note 4, at 128-32.




n84.  Perlin, supra note 4, 2B-8.1, at 231-37 (synthesizing various practice
manuals concerning the trial of civil commitment cases).




n85.  See supra note 60 and accompanying text.




n86.  Voluntary Hospitalization, supra note 64, at 205-12.




n87.  Competency to Consent, supra note 64, at 25-26.




n88.  Paul S. Appelbaum et al., Informed Consent: Legal Theory and Clinical
Practice 88 (1987); Thomas Grisso, Evaluating Competencies: Forensic Assessments
and Instruments 314 (1986); Winick, supra note 64, at 349; Paul S. Appelbaum &
Thomas Grisso, Assessing Patients' Capacities to Consent to Treatment, 319 New
Eng. J. Med. 1635, 1636 (1988); Loren H. Roth et al., Tests of Competency to
Consent to Treatment, 134 Am. J. Psychiatry 279, 279 (1977); Competency to
Consent, supra note 64, at 24.




n89.  See sources cited supra note 88.




n90.  See sources cited supra note 88.




n91.  Competency to Consent, supra note 64, at 39-40.




n92.  Winick, supra note 64, at 349-54; Competency to Consent, supra note 64, at
41-44; Voluntary Hospitalization, supra note 64, at 183-85.




n93.  Abisch, supra note 4, at 133-37.




n94.  See Dan A. Lewis et al., The Negotiation of Involuntary Civil Commitment,
18 Law & Soc'y Rev. 629 (1984);Robert D. Miller et al., The Use of Plea
Bargaining in Civil Commitment, 7 Int'l J.L. & Psychiatry 395 (1984).




n95.  See supra note 14 and accompanying text; cf. Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U.S. 68
(1985) (discussing appointment of clinical evaluator to assist counsel in
determining whether to raise an insanity defense).




n96.  See Zinermon v. Burch, 494 U.S. 113 (1990) (holding an incompetent patient
may not consent to voluntary hospitalization).




n97.  See Bruce J. Winick, Advance Directive Instruments for Those with Mental
Illness, 51 U. Miami L. Rev. 57 (1996); see also Symposium, Advance Directive
Instruments for Health and Mental Health Care: Legal, Ethical, and Clinical
Issues, 4 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L . No. 3 (Bruce J. Winick ed., forthcoming
1998).




n98.  Tyler, supra note 38, at 71-84; Tyler, supra note 37, at 440-41.




n99.  See supra note 22 and accompanying text.




n100.  See supra note 60 and accompanying text.




n101.  Voluntary Hospitalization, supra note 64, at 191-99.




n102.  See Greer et al., supra note 4; supra notes 50-58 and accompanying text.




n103.  See Winick, supra note 64, at 338-42; Right to Refuse, supra note 64, at
111-16.


                              458 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Moree Champion

                                January 27, 2012

Honour for Woollard

SECTION: NEWS - GENERAL

LENGTH: 271  words


As a procedural general practitioner at the Balo Street Medical Centre since
1981, Dr Woollard provides obstetric, anaesthetic and emergency services and has
also been a registrar supervisor since 1981.

He is the visiting medical officer at the Moree hospital and was the president
of the Rural Doctors Association of NSW from 2006 to 2008 as well being a member
since 1987.

Dr Woollard is an advocate for the establishment of the Rural New South Wales
General Practitioner Procedural Training Program and has been a member of the
steering committee for many years.

As inaugural director of the New England Area Training Service (NEATS) from 2002
to 2010 he was instrumental in establishing NEATS.

As director of the NSW branch of the Australian College of Rural and Remote
Medicine from 2003 to 2004, Dr Woollard has juggled work and interests with the
hectic pace he keeps.

Through being the director of the Barwon Division of General Practice from 1993
to 2002, chair/medical director in 1998, involvement in the establishment of the
Division and in the establishment of the Remote Vocational Training Scheme, on
which he subsequently served on the board, Dr Woollard continues his efforts for
the country medical profession.

In executive roles on the Rural Doctors Network, as clinical lecturer for
University of Sydney, University of NSW, University of Newcastle and the
University of New England from 1981 to 2007, he has also been involved in the
establishment of the advanced Diploma in Obstetrics for the Royal Australian and
New Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and continues as an
examiner for the Diploma.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              459 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Victoria Advocate (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday

Reallocating EMS personnel

BYLINE: Erin Pradia, Victoria Advocate, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 393 words


Aug. 21--The Victoria Fire Department made procedural changes for a more
efficient response to emergencies last month, and so far the new system is
better, the new fire chief said.

The procedural changes allow battalion chiefs to shift personnel to meet crisis
situations before calling in reinforcements.

"Usually, when you're getting really busy, it's because you have a significant
vehicle accident," Fire Chief Taner Drake said.

If the fire department deploys three of the four full-time ambulances to
transport patients to the hospital, only one is left for the rest of the
community, Drake said.

Before the changes, the fire department would respond to a high volume of
ambulance or fire calls by calling in off-duty personnel to man the vehicle that
is in high demand.

The call-back system created a delay between the call for service and the
availability of personnel to man the vehicles.

The new system, which took effect about 48 days ago, uses the cross-training of
emergency service personnel. Rather than calling in new people, responders can
be shifted to the area they are needed from the vehicle they are assigned to for
that shift.

For instance, someone assigned to work on a fire truck for a particular shift
may be asked to work an ambulance instead. If another fire truck is needed,
someone assigned to work an ambulance shift may be asked to work on the fire
truck.

"Now, we can rotate personnel based on what is going on in the community," Drake
said. "We are trying to create a system so that the battalion chiefs have the
ability to make adjustments based on the call for service."

The new system allows Victoria fire battalion chiefs to reallocate personnel as
needed to match the fluctuating need so the proper vehicle can respond as
quickly as possible.

"It's worked really well. We haven't had to do any more call backs," Drake said.
"It doesn't mean we are not going to have to do that from time to time, but the
goal is to manage with the personnel and equipment we have available on any
given shift."

To see more of Victoria Advocate, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.victoriaadvocate.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Victoria Advocate, Texas
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110821-VI-Reallocating-EMS-personnel-0821-20110821

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VI


                        Copyright 2011 Victoria Advocate


                              460 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The New Zealand Herald

                           December 16, 2003 Tuesday

Police made errors while detaining man, court told

SECTION: NEWS; General; Latest

LENGTH: 529 words


Police made a number of procedural errors dealing with an injured man who died
four days after being released from their custody, Rotorua Coroner's Court was
told yesterday.

However, Tokoroa Senior Sergeant Steve Bullock said he believed the officers
involved had acted in good faith.

Mr Bullock investigated circumstances leading up to the death of Anthony Donald
Bruce McKenzie, 56, of Rotorua.

Police took Mr McKenzie into custody for detoxification on Friday, November 1
last year after they found him in a drunken state.

He was taken to Rotorua Hospital after he fell twice and hit his head. He was
discharged at 3am the next morning and returned to the police station.

Mr McKenzie remained in police custody until the Sunday, when he was sent back
to hospital where he died four days later.

Police have said they were unaware Mr McKenzie was suffering from a head injury
while he was in their custody, mistaking his behaviour for the effects of too
much alcohol.

They had not received any medical information about Mr McKenzie when they picked
him up from hospital.

In his evidence yesterday, Mr Bullock said there were a number of procedural
errors made by police.

There were omissions in an initial charge sheet filled out when Mr McKenzie
arrived at the station and police had also failed to fill out a second charge
sheet when he returned from the hospital.

Although Mr McKenzie was checked 18 times while in police cells, there was a
period of almost eight hours where no checks were recorded, Mr Bullock said.

He made a number of a recommendations including writing clear instructions about
what to do with people who are in police custody for longer than 12 hours.

Despite the errors, Mr Bullock was satisfied police had acted in good faith and
in the best interests of Mr McKenzie.

Police had no option but to keep him in custody because he had nowhere else to
go, he said.

Rotorua Sergeant Colin Peers, who had worked the weekend Mr McKenzie was in
custody, said if faced with the same situation again he would "do things
differently."

Mazen Shasha, the hospital doctor who initially treated Mr McKenzie, said he
checked on him six times before he finished his shift, leaving him in the care
of another doctor.

Cross-examined by the lawyer for Mr McKenzie's family, Mark Hammond, about why a
CAT scan was not carried out Dr Shasha said there was no need because Mr
McKenzie's condition was improving.

Dr Shasha agreed with a suggestion made by Rotorua Coroner David Dowthwaite that
there might have been another incident which caused a head injury while Mr
McKenzie was in police custody after being released from the hospital the first
time.

The second time Dr Shasha saw Mr McKenzie he had bruising to his eye, spine and
chest and was a "totally different person".

Kathleen McNab, a nurse who saw Mr McKenzie, said she discharged him after
speaking to the duty doctor Tom Townend.

Dr Townend had not wanted to see Mr McKenzie.

Ms McNab admitted she should have given police some information about Mr
McKenzie and advised them how to look after him.

Mr Dowthwaite adjourned the inquest until Friday.

- DAILY POST (ROTORUA)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

          Copyright 2003 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.


                              461 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday
                                National Edition

That CN Tower sure gets around; It's not America or Afghanistan, but Toronto
plays them both on TV

BYLINE: Scott Stinson, National Post

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; Scott Stinson; Pg. AL1

LENGTH: 981  words


15 Division, the police station located just northwest of Toronto's Port Lands,
looks fairly typical. The lockers are a gleaming blue. The interrogation room is
suitably outfitted with a two-way mirror. The rack of rifles and shotguns is
properly imposing.

But the divisional map mounted on the wall does not say "Toronto" anywhere. Nor
does the large, ornate crest that looms over the busy squad room. "Metropolitan
Police," it says. The metropolis in question is not identified.

"Just another day in Generica, U.S.A.," says Travis Milne, who plays Chris Diaz
on Rookie Blue, the secondyear drama that is filmed entirely in Toronto but set
in ... nowhere, exactly. Or, perhaps more accurately, anywhere. It's a formula
that is suddenly popular: both Global's Rookie Blue and CTV's Flashpoint have
found success presenting slick cop shows that use Toronto as a none-too-subtle
backdrop -which is intriguing for Canadian viewers -while still keeping the
locale vague enough that American audiences don't think they are watching
something that would send Lou Dobbs into a protectionist lather.

So, when Andy McNally (Missy Peregrym) chases a murder suspect on an eastend
apartment rooftop (why do murder suspects always end up on the roof?) the CN
Tower is quite visible in the background, but when the suspect is tossed in the
back of a cruiser, the car just says "Police" on the side. It's a delicate
balance, but it works: Rookie Blue is simulcast on ABC in the United States,
which would have been unheard of for a Canadian production if not for the fact
that Flashpoint is entering Season 4 of a simulcast arrangement with CBS.

Rookie Blue, though, is not much like Flashpoint. The latter is heavy on police
work and the tension of a SWAT unit. The former is more of a character-driven
drama. As the name suggests, it's about a group of (highly attractive) police
trainees and the troubles they face on and off The Job.

"At the beginning, a lot of people were coming to it with the intention that
this was a really intense police show, and it's not," Peregrym says.

"I don't think I could last in a procedural. I can barely remember exposition as
it is; anytime it's details I'm like, 'Huh? I'm not emotionally connected to
this dialogue!' I cannot remember it all. But if I'm talking about my feelings
in this show, then that's no problem."

There's lots of opportunity to talk about feelings, too, considering all the
romantic cross-pollination among the officers of 15 Division. As Season 2 opens,
McNally has moved in with Detective Callaghan (Eric Johnson), although her
training officer still pines for her. Traci Nash (Enuka Okuma) still has
feelings for her ex, Detective Barber (Noam Jenkins). Trainees Diaz and Peck
(Charlotte Sullivan) are also a couple, and the new arrival, Detective Rosati
(Camille Sullivan), just happens to be the former girlfriend of Det. Callaghan.
Frankly, it's a wonder crime is not rampant in Somewheresville's 15 Division
since the cops are all busy making moony faces at one another.

But while Rookie Blue is not going to blow anyone away with its inventiveness,
it's well-produced and well-acted -and this season's early episodes deliver a
couple of surprising moments, including a big one in the premiere that shall
remain undisclosed for spoiler reasons. (You'll know when it happens.)

There's action, then, but police work is not what it's about.

"I really shouldn't be wearing a ponytail right now, because that would be
dangerous and someone could grab you by the back of the head," Peregrym says.
"But I want to wear a ponytail because I don't want to wear a bun all the time."

No, a police procedural, it is not.

Although Toronto, with the exception of a certain tower, can easily be mistaken
for urban America, it does not share much of anything with Kandahar,
Afghanistan. Still, Toronto is home to the set of Combat Hospital, another
series testing the simulcast waters on Global/ABC.

This one opts to focus on the medical part of the cops/lawyers/doctors themes
that form the Holy Trinity of conventional network drama programming, with a
dash of topical relevance thrown in by placing the doctors at Kandahar Airfield.
(Digital effects are used for the scenery shots that most definitely do not look
like Southern Ontario.)

The premiere sees newbies Rebecca Gordon (Michelle Borth) and Bobby Trang (Terry
Chen) arrive at KAF, where they are almost immediately thrown into work under
the stern gaze of the spectacularly named Colonel Xavier Marks (Elias Koteas).

Much like the unexpectedness of seeing recognizable Toronto or Vancouver sites
pop up on U.S. television, there's something odd about seeing the maple leaf on
the shoulder of key characters: Col. Marks and Major Gordon are Canadian, as is
head nurse Will Royal (Arnold Pinnock). Other characters are American, and
there's a randy Brit as well, neurosurgeon Simon Hill (Luke Mably). It's a
fictional presentation of an actual hospital, the Role 3 Multination Medical
Unit that serves the military in southern Afghanistan.

The pilot suggests that the producers aren't looking to reinvent the medical
procedural so much as relocate it. But at least they are relocating it to a
place that is well-suited to a hospital show. War zones can keep surgeons fairly
busy.

The premiere moves quickly, the cast is likable and the effect is of a show that
could be well received by fans of ER or Grey's Anatomy, which presumably was the
idea all along.

No one is going to confuse these series with the next Mad Men or Breaking Bad,
but the Canadian coproductions are aimed squarely at a mass audience -which
means romance and a bit of drama, or sometimes the equation is reversed. It's
what a lot of viewers want. Combat Hospital and Rookie Blue deliver it.

- Combat Hospital premieres June 21 at 10 p.m. on Global/ABC. Rookie Blue Season
2 begins June 23 at 10 p.m. on Global/ABC.

sstinson@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Missy Peregrym as Rookie Blue's Andy McNally, the finest cop an
unnamed city could ask for.; Shaw Media;  Wait a minute, isn't that the Eaton
Centre? Toronto passes for Kandahar, Afghanistan, in the new TV series Combat
Hospital.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              462 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            November 1, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

House key: 2 questions raised for each posed

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, CanWest News Service

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 982  words


"There is a 15-year-old boy in that character," David Shore says of his most
famous fictional creation, Dr. Gregory House, "but with the power of an adult.
And that, I think, is it."

House -- the TV show -- is that unlikeliest of television success stories: a
character-based medical mystery in which the lead character, a genius in the art
of "differential diagnosis," is as unlikable as they come. Hugh Laurie, an
unlikely actor playing an unlikable doctor, is scalpel-sharp in the role of a
diagnostician who gets a charge out of medical mysteries, but who finds patients
a royal pain.

Shore, the Toronto native who cut his teeth writing scripts for a little-known
show called Due South and the Toronto-based Traders for a year before heading
south himself to try his hand in TV's major leagues, is nothing like his
fictional creation.

In conversation, Shore is affable where House is adversarial. Shore is
comfortable with people; House is a walking case study in misanthropy. Shore is
polite; House is politically incorrect. Shore recently won an Emmy Award for
writing; House is in a constant struggle to keep his job. Shore laughs easily;
House looks as if he's in pain much of the time. Which, come to think of it, he
is -- hence the Vicodin habit.

"House, in my opinion, is only as interesting as the people around him," Shore
said. "If they're not fully dimensional, fully informed characters, he's

diminished. I want to keep them fresh. I want to show what makes them tick and
why they are the way they are, because it would be very easy to just have
somebody yelling at House and have him yelling back."

Shore described his initial pitch to the Fox network as "a bit of a
bait-and-switch." He proposed a CSI-style procedural medical drama -- CSI in a
hospital -- then flipped that into a character study.

"At its core it's a procedural, but obviously it's a character-driven procedural
," Shore said. "I realized going in that the 'what' in a whatdunit isn't that
interesting. After all, the interesting thing about a whodunit is the who and
the why, and why people act the way they do."

Shore was determined to give his main character a fatal flaw, something other
than his brusque manner. That flaw was an addiction to painkillers.

"He had to be damaged in some way," Shore explained. "Once he's damaged, he's
trying not to be damaged. We wanted him to have something that he's dealing with
-- and addiction is certainly interesting. It made sense. It made a lot of
sense."

Every episode -- including last May's Emmy Award-winning Three Stories, in which
House lectures a class of medical students about three hypothetical cases -- is
constructed like a Rubik's Cube, with innumerable interlocking pieces that form
a logical pattern once the riddle is solved.

"The episodes are quite often about the person they're treating," Shore
explained. "Even when we don't see that person that much, their just being there
raises some issue that allows each of our characters to form their own attitude,
based on their life experiences and who they are as people."

House's mercurial rise in the ratings is harder to diagnose. When the program
debuted last November, it drew a respectable, though not overwhelming, seven
million viewers in the U.S. By March, that number was up to 17 million, making
House one of the most-watched programs on television. That was partly because it
followed American Idol on the Fox network in the U.S. -- in Canada, it airs on
Global Television -- but House's numbers remained solid during summer reruns,
when American Idol was no longer on.

This season so far, the audience has ranged from 14 million to 16 million
viewers, strong enough to vault House into the top 20 in the weekly Nielsen
ratings. House returns tonight after a four-week break for baseball playoffs.

From the outset, Shore was determined the medical mysteries not overwhelm the
characters in the story.

"What we've found is that it's less about the medical story and more about the
person who's sick, and what it is about that person that makes the story," Shore
explained. "It has to be something that people aren't expecting, but that makes
sense. It becomes about the personalities involved, and what that reveals about
House and our other doctors."

Once Shore knew what direction he wanted to take House, it was a question of
finding the right actor.

"Growing up in Canada, I was familiar with Hugh Laurie's work. When I heard that
he was auditioning, that he was actually putting himself on tape in Africa" --
Laurie was in Namibia, filming Flight of the Phoenix at the time -- "I thought,
'That's so cool, I'd love to get him in because I'd love to meet him.' But to be
honest, I never thought he'd be the right guy. I had this vision of him as being
this English, hysterically funny, talented actor -- but not House.

And when I saw the tape, he blew me away. It was like nothing I had seen before.
We had auditioned so many people -- but I realized then that those other people
were completely unsuited to the part."

Shore said his year as the head writer of Traders taught him a lot.

"I had a great year, but I also realized that I was not the writer I hoped I
could become, and I had a lot to learn. And yet I was in charge. There really
weren't opportunities to find mentors. When I was in Toronto, the system in
Canada, to be honest, is that the few television shows there were run by true
producers. They weren't run by writers. So I came to Los Angeles to learn,
basically, to become a good writer."

The key to House is simple, Shore insists.

"For every question you answer, you have to raise two more questions. And I
think we're doing that. I still don't really know who House is. And I think if I
ever reach a point where I can summarize him, then it'll be time for me to pack
it in. Because I can't even summarize myself -- and I'm real."

House returns tonight on Global and Fox. Check local time.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Sela Ward plays an ex-girlfriend of House (Hugh Laurie) in the TV medical
mystery.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              463 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Cardiovascular Systems obtains FDA premarket approval for Diamondback 360
coronary OAS

SECTION: GAS STATIONS AND FORECOURT RETAILERS; Cardiovascular Devices

LENGTH: 352 words



HIGHLIGHT: Cardiovascular Systems, a US-based medical device company, has
obtained a premarket approval from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
its Diamondback 360 coronary orbital atherectomy system (OAS), designed to treat
severely calcified coronary arteries.


Using an electrically driven 1.25mm diamond-coated crown, the Diamondback 360
coronary OAS reduces calcified lesions in coronary blood vessels and enables
successful stent deployment.

The Diamondback 360 system's effectiveness is backed by the ORBIT II clinical
data.

Cardiovascular Systems' ORBIT II study has been designed to assess the safety
and effectiveness of its orbital atherectomy technology in treating the
problematic subset of patients with severely calcified coronary lesions.

This study showed positive clinical outcomes in meeting primary safety and
efficacy endpoints.

The ORBIT II study results at 30 days demonstrated patient freedom from major
adverse cardiac events (MACE) was 89.8% and procedural success was 89.1%.

Excluding in-hospital MACE, procedural success was 98.6% with 97.7% of stents
successfully delivered.

Additionally, 92.8% of patients were free from severe angiographic
complications, and core lab assessed final procedure residual stenosis was 4.7%.

Cardiovascular Systems CEO David L Martin noted today is a landmark moment for:
patients suffering from calcified coronary artery disease, their families,
physician operators and everyone at CSI.

"FDA approval of our Diamondback 360 Coronary OAS allows us to bring to market
the first new coronary atherectomy system in more than two decades.

"Severe coronary arterial calcium is an underestimated problem in medicine, with
limited options for treatment. The ORBIT II trial proved our Diamondback
technology is safe and effective in treating this complex disease.

"Securing coronary approval is another key milestone in our mission to provide
primary tools for vascular intervention. I'm proud of our principal physician
investigators and scientific teams. Together, with the CSI team we're excited to
move forward to help a larger physician population treat these previously
underserved patients," Martin added.

With the FDA premarket approval, the company will now initiate a controlled
commercial launch of the Diamondback 360 Coronary OAS.

Image: Diamondback 360 coronary orbital atherectomy system Photo: Courtesy of
Businesswire.



LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              464 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      March 18, 2017 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Late-Breaking Data on Abbott's MitraClip System Show Continued Benefit for
People with Mitral Regurgitation, Most Common Heart Valve Disease

LENGTH: 529  words


March 18 -- Abbott (NYSE: ABT) today announced favorable one-year outcomes from
the largest study of real-world experience for the MitraClip system in
transcatheter mitral valve repair (TMVR) procedures in the United States.
MitraClip treats people with degenerative mitral regurgitation (DMR, also known
as leaky heart valve), a serious condition involving a dysfunction of the
heart's mitral valve, which regulates blood flow into the heart's main pumping
chamber.

The study analyzed data from the Transcatheter Valve Therapy (TVT) registry
involving nearly 3,000 DMR patients who were high-risk for surgery. Following
minimally invasive implantation with MitraClip, patients had significant
improvements, including 92.8 percent of patients achieving post-procedural
mitral regurgitation (MR) severity grade of less than or equal to 2 (acute
procedural success defined as MR 2). In addition, 80.0 percent of MitraClip
patients remained free from heart failure (HF) re-hospitalization in the year
after implantation. Most patients-85.9 percent of people treated-were discharged
to their homes after an average hospital stay of only two days. The average age
of patients was 82.

The data were presented by Paul Sorajja, M.D., director of the Center of Valve
and Structural Heart Disease at Minneapolis Heart Institute, cardiologist at
Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis and principal investigator of the
study, during a late-breaking featured clinical research session of the American
College of Cardiology's (ACC) 66th Annual Scientific Session.

"The consistent one-year results seen in this study validate that treatment with
MitraClip can provide meaningful reduction in the severity of mitral
regurgitation," said Dr. Sorajja. "The consistency of data over time in this
large patient registry underscore the valuable impact MitraClip has on the
overall health of very sick people living with this silent killer."

Mitral regurgitation is a debilitating, progressive and life-threatening disease
in which the leaflets of the mitral valve do not close completely, causing blood
to flow backward and leak into the left atrium of the heart during the cardiac
cycle. The condition can raise the risk of irregular heartbeats, stroke, and
heart failure, which can be deadly.

Nearly one in ten people over the age of 75 have moderate to severe MR1 , which
is frequently difficult to diagnose. Patients often may not be eligible for the
standard-of-care surgery because of advanced age, frailty, multiple
comorbidities or other complicating factors. Until the regulatory approval of
MitraClip, these high surgical risk patients could only manage their symptoms,
such as shortness of breath and fatigue, with medications that did not stop the
progression of the disease.

"Abbott's goal is to improve health, and our MitraClip therapy provides a
much-needed solution for gravely ill people who have very few options," said
Michael Dale, general manager of Abbott's structural heart business. "The
consistency in data across multiple trials reinforce the nearly immediate impact
that MitraClip has on people's quality of life, allowing them to lead fuller,
longer lives."

Source: Abbott

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              465 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                              April 7, 2017 Friday
                               FRI FINAL Edition

Brief filibuster over state budget

BYLINE: Brian Eason

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 790 words


At 10 p.m., there was no end in sight.

In a marathon debate on the state budget Thursday, the Colorado House of
Representatives took preliminary votes to spend millions of dollars to combat
homelessness, increase funding for substance abuse treatment and restore a
controversial film industry incentive program.

But on the day U.S. Senate Republicans invoked the "nuclear option" to abolish
the filibuster for Supreme Court nominees, Colorado House Republicans staged
something akin to a filibuster of their own. Through a procedural move, state
Rep. Dave Williams, R Colorado Springs, forced a clerk to read the 600 plus page
budget bill aloud, effectively derailing the debate just after 8 p.m.

Democrats accused Williams of throwing a "temper tantrum," while his fellow
Republicans defended the maneuver, saying Democrats had been using procedural
moves of their own to stifle debate on two Williams amendments: one to defund
colleges that traffic in aborted fetus parts and another to defund so called
"sanctuary cities" that don't enforce federal immigration law.

But even with dozens of amendments and untold hours of debate to go, the $26.8
billion spending plan was not expected to change significantly from the version
passed last month by the Senate. Even before the filibuster which lasted about
30 minutes House Democrats, who control the chamber, spent the vast majority of
the day on defense, beating back dozens of Republican amendments to boost
funding to roads and schools by cutting a slew of other state programs.

Lawmakers in both parties entered Thursday's debate unhappy with the proposed
budget, which despite growing by 4 percent from this year was balanced through
deep cuts to hospitals and by under funding schools by an estimated $50 million.
But a majority in both chambers have appeared willing to support it in the hope
that the state can address its transportation needs and restore funding to
hospitals through other bills still pending before the legislature.

"There are some major shortfalls in this budget as we've presented," said state
Rep. Millie Hamner, the top Democratic budget writer. " ... It isn't going to
work unless these other measures prevail."

From the outset of Thursday's debate, House Republicans made it clear that they
would use the exercise to make a political point about how the state funds its
roads and schools relative to other programs. The failed attempts to divert
funding included a $13.9 million cut from school testing, a slew of cuts to
Medicaid that included increasing co pays and eliminating coverage for adults
without children, and an across the board cut of a number of state government
agencies that would have sent an additional $314 million to schools.

Speaking on one proposed cut, Assistant Minority Leader Cole Wist likened the
growth of state government over the years to "empire building" and said it was
time to make difficult decisions about what programs to cut.

"It's time for us to start having these discussions, when we don't have money to
fund transportation or education and then wonder why we don't have money," said
Wist, R Centennial. "It's time to funnel the money to the principle functions
that our government should be doing."

Democrats beat back each of the most significant Republican proposals, with
House Speaker Crisanta Duran, D Denver, denouncing the cuts to Medicaid as an
attempt to fund roads "on the backs of the sick."

Democrats also added funding for a pair of Gov. John Hickenlooper's priorities a
$16 million grant program for housing to help the homeless and $1.5 million for
film industry incentives that his office says creates jobs and boosts tourism.
That's half of the $3 million he initially requested for the program, which has
been in place since 2012.

In a rare bipartisan accord, lawmakers also tapped the state's marijuana sales
tax funds to devote $8 million to substance abuse treatment.

The Senate already agreed to the money to assist the homeless, but it's not
clear whether the film incentives program or the substance abuse funding will
stay in the budget when it heads to conference committee to reconcile the
differences.

The dust up over Williams' filibuster was short lived; with as many as 11 people
reading simultaneously from different places, House staffers dispatched with
exercise in about 30 minutes. But tempers flared in the immediate aftermath.
Rep. Joe Salazar, D Thornton, accused the freshman lawmaker of throwing a
"temper tantrum."

"It seems like your nuclear option is pitching a fit," he added.

But Rep. Justin Everett, R Littleton, defended the move as necessary to protect
the right of the minority to debate its priorities.

"This isn't a temper tantrum," Everett said. "This is a valid use of the rules."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              466 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                February 6, 2002

Payout for nurse who suffered depression

BYLINE: sscott

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 467 words


Instructions:sub for p3mo Stuart Scott A FORMER Elgin nurse who was sacked after
being off work for four months suffering from depression has been awarded GBP
4,830 after winning her unfair dismissal claim.

Myra Nixon, 51, of 27 Lesmurdie Road, was sacked from Dr Gray's Hospital in
Elgin on grounds of incapacity after 30 years nursing experience and was
"extremely distressed" after losing her job.

An industrial tribunal held in Inverness on December 5 heard that Grampian
University Hospital NHS Trust had dismissed Ms Nixon on May 4, 2000, after she
was absent from her work for a prolonged period of time.

They claimed she was no longer capable of doing her job as a theatre nurse, and
was not going to return to her work in the foreseeable future.

They added there were no suitable alternative jobs and no vacancies had become
available since her dismissal.

The hearing was told that after her dismissal there was also a deterioration in
the "depressive anxiety state" for which she was being treated at the time.

As a result of her condition, four months after the termination of her
employment Ms Nixon began to lose her hair.

Ms Nixon's representative Frank Lefevre said a psychiatric report by Dr
Henderson and a doctor's report by Dr Stewart supported claims that there was an
"exacerbation of the applicant's mental condition and ability to work".

Dr Stewart confirmed that after the consultation with her, Ms Nixon was unable
to return to theatre work. That was prior to her dismissal on May 4, 2000. Mr
Lefevre added that there was a failure on the part of the respondents to obtain
any independent assessment of the applicant, and if they had something to say
about her condition they could have asked for a report to be carried out.

The tribunal finding said that the crucial procedural failure had been "omitting
to issue a warning of possible dismissal, but further failures were omitting to
obtain an independent medical report, which would have helped to focus on the
applicants health problems at the time".

The tribunal added that the reasons for the finding of unfairness were
procedural and occurred in the period just before and on the day of her
dismissal.

"These procedural omissions were the respondents failure to consult the
applicant, warn her of the possibility of losing her employment, discuss the
matter with her, inform themselves of the true medical position and give her an
opportunity to state her case before the decision to dismiss was taken." The
finding continued: "Had all these steps been taken, the tribunal had little
doubt the applicant would still have been dismissed in any event.

"She had been absent for four months, but no evidence was produced about the
likely further duration of her absence on that occasion."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal


                              467 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 7, 2016 Monday

Real-world US post-FDA approval usage of the Watchman device presented at TCT
2016

LENGTH: 608  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Results from the U.S. real-world, post-FDA approval experience of the Watchman
device found high procedural success and low complication rates despite
implantations by a large percentage of new operators. The Watchman device was
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in March 2015 for left
atrial appendage occlusion (LAAC) to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with
non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF).





 Findings from the Watchman US Post-Approval Experience were reported today at
the 28th annual Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT) scientific
symposium. Sponsored by the Cardiovascular Research Foundation (CRF), TCT is the
world's premier educational meeting specializing in interventional
cardiovascular medicine. The results of the study were also published
simultaneously in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology (JACC).



 "While LAAC avoids the anticoagulant-related lifetime risk of bleeding,
implantation of the device can be associated with upfront complications," said
lead investigator Vivek Y. Reddy, MD. Dr. Reddy is Director of Cardiac
Arrhythmia Services for The Mount Sinai Hospital and the Mount Sinai Health
System, and The Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust Professor of
Medicine in Cardiac Electrophysiology at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount
Sinai. "Thus, enthusiasm for LAAC as a treatment option has been appropriately
tempered, particularly as the therapy is introduced into general clinical
practice."



 Despite the absence of a formal national prospective clinical registry, the
researchers were able to collect procedural data on all LAAC procedures since
FDA approval. The manufacturer required a clinical specialist be present at all
cases, and procedure parameters and major complications were collected and
reported using a standardized process and forms.



 In this multicenter, prospective registry, 3,822 consecutive patients underwent
device implantation by 382 operating physicians in the U.S. The operators
included both those who had previously performed LAAC procedures as part of
clinical trials (29%), as well as "naive" operators (71%) - those physicians who
had not previously performed any Watchman procedures prior to FDA approval. This
latter physician group performed 50% of all procedures in the 3,822 patient
cohort.



 The procedure was successfully performed in 3,653 of 3,822 patients (95.6%)
with an average duration of 50 minutes. The most prevalent complication reported
was pericardial effusion requiring intervention in 39 patients (1.02%).
Procedure-related stroke was 0.08% (n=3) and the mortality rate was 0.08% (n=3).
There were nine (0.24%) instances of device embolization; two-thirds (n=6) of
these required surgical removal, while the remaining third (n=3) were removed
percutaneously. All but one of the device embolizations were identified either
during the procedure (n=5) or while the patient was recovering in the hospital
(n=3).



 "The data shows that the U.S. clinical experience with LACC using the Watchman
device has been favorable," said Dr. Reddy. "Since the device was approved by
the FDA, the technology has been used in increasing numbers of patients and
procedural success rates remain high. In addition, despite a large percentage of
previously inexperienced operators performing the implantation procedures,
complication rates continue to improve compared to earlier clinical trials."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              468 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 7, 2016 Monday

Real-world US post-FDA approval usage of the Watchman device presented at TCT
2016

LENGTH: 608  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Results from the U.S. real-world, post-FDA approval experience of the Watchman
device found high procedural success and low complication rates despite
implantations by a large percentage of new operators. The Watchman device was
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in March 2015 for left
atrial appendage occlusion (LAAC) to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with
non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF).





 Findings from the Watchman US Post-Approval Experience were reported today at
the 28th annual Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT) scientific
symposium. Sponsored by the Cardiovascular Research Foundation (CRF), TCT is the
world's premier educational meeting specializing in interventional
cardiovascular medicine. The results of the study were also published
simultaneously in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology (JACC).



 "While LAAC avoids the anticoagulant-related lifetime risk of bleeding,
implantation of the device can be associated with upfront complications," said
lead investigator Vivek Y. Reddy, MD. Dr. Reddy is Director of Cardiac
Arrhythmia Services for The Mount Sinai Hospital and the Mount Sinai Health
System, and The Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust Professor of
Medicine in Cardiac Electrophysiology at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount
Sinai. "Thus, enthusiasm for LAAC as a treatment option has been appropriately
tempered, particularly as the therapy is introduced into general clinical
practice."



 Despite the absence of a formal national prospective clinical registry, the
researchers were able to collect procedural data on all LAAC procedures since
FDA approval. The manufacturer required a clinical specialist be present at all
cases, and procedure parameters and major complications were collected and
reported using a standardized process and forms.



 In this multicenter, prospective registry, 3,822 consecutive patients underwent
device implantation by 382 operating physicians in the U.S. The operators
included both those who had previously performed LAAC procedures as part of
clinical trials (29%), as well as "naive" operators (71%) - those physicians who
had not previously performed any Watchman procedures prior to FDA approval. This
latter physician group performed 50% of all procedures in the 3,822 patient
cohort.



 The procedure was successfully performed in 3,653 of 3,822 patients (95.6%)
with an average duration of 50 minutes. The most prevalent complication reported
was pericardial effusion requiring intervention in 39 patients (1.02%).
Procedure-related stroke was 0.08% (n=3) and the mortality rate was 0.08% (n=3).
There were nine (0.24%) instances of device embolization; two-thirds (n=6) of
these required surgical removal, while the remaining third (n=3) were removed
percutaneously. All but one of the device embolizations were identified either
during the procedure (n=5) or while the patient was recovering in the hospital
(n=3).



 "The data shows that the U.S. clinical experience with LACC using the Watchman
device has been favorable," said Dr. Reddy. "Since the device was approved by
the FDA, the technology has been used in increasing numbers of patients and
procedural success rates remain high. In addition, despite a large percentage of
previously inexperienced operators performing the implantation procedures,
complication rates continue to improve compared to earlier clinical trials."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              469 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                             August 14, 2009 Friday

Court hears recent changes wouldn't have saved N.S. man; Procedural changes made
since death of mentally ill man inadequate, N.S. inquiry told

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 607  words


A key procedural change made after the death of a mentally ill man while in
custody would not have helped Howard Hyde had it been in place when he was
arrested in 2007, the sheriff of Halifax told a fatality inquiry yesterday.

Laurel Purcell, whose responsibilities include court security and the transfer
of those in custody, was referring to revisions to a document known as a health
information transfer form, or HIT form.

The form, in use since 2002, is filled out each time someone in custody is
transferred from a health-care facility to a court or correctional facility. It
is supposed to alert police, corrections officers and the sheriff's deputies to
important medical information, including instructions for medications.

The use of the form has come under close scrutiny during the inquiry, mainly
because testimony from police and deputy sheriffs has revealed confusion over
instructions included on Hyde's form by an emergency room doctor.

Hyde, a 45-year-old musician with a long history of schizophrenia, died in jail
about 30 hours after he was arrested for an alleged assault and tasered during a
struggle inside a Halifax police station.

Immediately after the tasering, Hyde was taken to hospital. He was released into
police custody about six hours later to be arraigned before a judge.

The note on his HIT form, written by Dr. Janet MacIntyre, instructs police to
return Hyde to hospital if the judge failed to order a forensic psychiatric
examination.

Earlier, MacIntyre testified that she included the note because she wanted to
make sure Hyde received an assessment, something that wasn't done at the
hospital because the doctor was confident the court could provide one after the
arraignment.

Police and deputy sheriffs have testified they didn't have the authority to
bring Hyde back to the hospital, something MacIntyre said she was unaware of.

Purcell testified that on Nov. 21, 2007, one of her deputies called her to ask
about MacIntyre's note after police transferred custody of Hyde to the deputy
sheriffs at a local courthouse.

The sheriff said she told the deputy that regardless of what the note said, the
deputies did not have the authority to detain or transfer Hyde if he was
released or remanded into custody after the court hearing.

"If the court released Mr. Hyde from custody, we would have no authority to
arrest him or to detain him," she told inquiry counsel Dan MacRury. "We're not
even able to offer ... a ride in one of our secure vehicles."

She said the only way the deputies could legally transfer Hyde to the hospital
was if he had a medical emergency.

The deputy sheriffs escorting Hyde did not hand the HIT form to the Crown and
defence lawyers handling the case because the legislation at the time forbade
them from sharing such information with anyone but health-care providers.

In the end, the judge presiding over the arraignment did not order a psychiatric
assessment and Hyde was sent to the Central Nova Scotia Correctional Facility,
where he died the next day after a scuffle with guards.

Yesterday, Purcell testified that changes made to the form after Hyde's death
would not prevent a similar chain of events from happening again.

Under the new policy, the HIT form is to be shared with Crown and defence
lawyers if it contains information about a medical condition "that is unusual or
out of the ordinary."

Purcell said that rule would not apply in Hyde's case.

"I don't think that Mr. Hyde had a medical condition that was unusual," she
said.

"I think the (doctor's) remarks on the health information transfer form may have
been unique ... but I don't believe that the medical condition was unusual. "

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              470 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            November 1, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Canadian expat behind TV's House: David Shore created the irascible doctor

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 1073  words


"There is a 15-year-old boy in that character," David Shore says of his most
famous fictional creation, Dr. Gregory House, "but with the power of an adult.
And that, I think, is it."

House returns to TV tonight (9 p.m., Fox, Global). It's the unlikeliest of
television success stories, a character-based medical mystery in which the lead
character, a genius in the art of "differential diagnosis," is as unlikable as
they come. Hugh Laurie, an unlikely actor playing an unlikable doctor, is
scalpel-sharp in the role of a diagnostician who gets a charge out of medical
mysteries, but who finds patients a royal pain.

Shore, the Toronto native who cut his teeth writing scripts for Due South and
the Toronto-based Traders for a year before heading south himself to try his
hand in TV's major leagues, is nothing like his fictional creation.

In conversation, Shore is affable where House is adversarial. Shore is
comfortable with people; House is a walking case study in misanthropy. Shore is
polite; House is politically incorrect. Shore recently won an Emmy Award for
writing; House is in a constant struggle to keep his job. Shore laughs easily;
House looks as if he's in pain much of the time. Which, come to think of it, he
is -- hence the Vicodin habit.

"House, in my opinion, is only as interesting as the people around him," Shore
said. "If they're not fully dimensional, fully informed characters, he's
diminished. I want to keep them fresh. I want to show what makes them tick and
why they are the way they are, because it would be very easy to just have
somebody yelling at House and have him yelling back."

Shore described his initial pitch to the Fox network as "a bit of a
bait-and-switch" (his words). He proposed a CSI-style procedural medical drama
-- CSI in a hospital -- then flipped that into a character study.

"At its core it's a procedural, but obviously it's a character-driven procedural
," Shore said. "I realized going in that the 'what' in a whatdunit isn't that
interesting. After all, the interesting thing about a whodunit is the who and
the why, and why people act the way they do."

Shore was determined to give his main character a fatal flaw, something other
than his brusque manner. That flaw was an addiction to painkillers.

"He had to be damaged in some way," Shore explained. "Once he's damaged, he's
trying not to be damaged. We wanted him to have something that he's dealing with
-- and addiction is certainly interesting. It made sense. It made a lot of
sense."

Every episode -- including last May's Emmy Award-winning Three Stories, in which
House lectures a class of medical students about three hypothetical cases -- is
constructed like a Rubik's Cube, with innumerable interlocking pieces that form
a logical pattern once the riddle is solved.

"The episodes are quite often about the person they're treating," Shore
explained. "Even when we don't see that person that much, their just being there
raises some issue that allows each of our characters to form their own attitude,
based on their life experiences and who they are as people."

House's mercurial rise in the ratings is harder to diagnose. When the program
debuted in November, it drew a respectable though not overwhelming seven million
viewers in the United States.

By March, that number was up to 17 million, making House one of the most-watched
programs on television. That was partly because it followed American Idol on the
Fox network in the U.S., but House's numbers remained solid during summer
reruns, when American Idol was no longer on. This season so far, the audience
has ranged between 14 million and 16 million viewers, strong enough to vault
House into the Top 20 in the weekly Nielsen ratings. House returns tonight after
a four-week break for baseball playoffs.

From the outset, Shore was determined that the medical mysteries not overwhelm
the characters in the story.

"What we've found is that it's less about the medical story and more about the
person who's sick, and what it is about that person that makes the story," Shore
explained. "It has to be something that people aren't expecting, but that makes
sense. It becomes about the personalities involved, and what that reveals about
House and our other doctors."

Once Shore knew what direction he wanted to take House, it was a question of
finding the right actor.

"Growing up in Canada, I was familiar with Hugh Laurie's work. When I heard that
he was auditioning, that he was actually putting himself on tape in Africa" --
Laurie was in Namibia, filming Flight of the Phoenix at the time -- "I thought,
'That's so cool, I'd love to get him in because I'd love to meet him.' But to be
honest, I never thought he'd be the right guy. I had this vision of him as being
this English, hysterically funny, talented actor -- but not House. And when I
saw the tape, he blew me away. It was like nothing I had seen before. We had
auditioned so many people -- but I realized then that those other people were
completely unsuited to the part."

Shore said his year as the head writer of Traders taught him a lot.

"I had a great year, but I also realized that I was not the writer I hoped I
could become, and I had a lot to learn. And yet I was in charge. There really
weren't opportunities to find mentors. When I was in Toronto, the system in
Canada, to be honest, is that the few television shows there were run by true
producers. They weren't run by writers. So I came to Los Angeles to learn,
basically, to become a good writer."

After moving to Los Angeles, Shore landed writing assignments with some of
television's most prestigious dramas -- Law & Order, for Dick Wolf; NYPD Blue,
for Steven Bochco; The Practice, for David E. Kelley, in that program's debut
season when it won the Emmy as TV's best drama; and for his fellow Canadian and
one-time Due South mentor Paul Haggis, on Haggis' short-lived, critically
acclaimed drama series EZ Streets.

Shore earned a pair of Emmy nominations as a producer of Law & Order. From the
outset, though, he knew House was special. House was his, for one thing. It was
his creation, from the foundation up.

The key to House is simple, Shore insists.

"For every question you answer, you have to raise two more questions. And I
think we're doing that. I still don't really know who House is. And I think if I
ever reach a point where I can summarize him, then it'll be time for me to pack
it in. Because I can't even summarize myself -- and I'm real."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Hugh Laurie as Dr. Greg House in the surprising new series.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              471 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 19, 2012 Monday

Jailed Ukrainian ex-premier urges repeal of new Criminal Procedural Code

LENGTH: 205 words


Text of report by commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 19 November

[Presenter] Former Prime Minister Yuliya Tymoshenko [who is serving a seven-year
sentence in jail] has urged the parliamentary opposition to secure the repeal of
the Criminal Procedural Code.

Her lawyer Serhiy Vlasenko said that the new law would not only destroy the role
of the defence but would also violate the constitutional rights of citizens. In
particular, an individual will not be informed that a criminal case has been
opened against him or her, while law enforcers will be able to conduct secret
video and audio surveillance.

[Vlasenko, at a briefing] Yuliya Volodymyrivna [Tymoshenko] asked me today to
make public her call for all the opposition forces in parliament to put as
quickly as possible the repeal of this instrument for creating a police state,
which the authorities describe as the progressive Criminal Procedural Code, on
the parliamentary agenda.

[Presenter] European Parliament observers Pat Cox and Aleksander Kwasniewski
visited Tymoshenko in her Kharkiv hospital today. They spent two hours in the
medical facility and then left it without any comment for Ukrainian journalists.

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1600 gmt 19 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              472 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

MDD's Cardio Extra

LENGTH: 1652 words


Keeping you up to date on recent headlines in cardiovascular healthcare.


JenaValve completes FIM procedure for TAVI in Germany . . .JenaValve Technology
(Munich, Germany) said it has completed first-in-man (FIM) procedures for its
transapical transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) system. The
procedures and implantations were performed in nine patients at the Heart Center
(Leipzig, Germany), JenaValve said. "I am very pleased that our
interdisciplinary team has achieved FIM for our transapical system. Our product
design and development team deserves our highest recognition for having produced
a safe, next-generation system," said CEO Helmut Straubinger said.

The goals of the study were to assess: (1) the deliverability of the prosthesis,
(2) repositioning and retrievability, and (3) new valve function in elderly,
high-risk patients with severe aortic stenosis and co-morbidities. Primary
endpoints of the trial were 30-day mortality and procedural success. "The
JenaValve FIM is an exciting milestone in the development of TAVI systems," said
Friedrich-Wilhelm Mohr, MD, director of the clinic for cardiac surgery at Hert
Center Leipzig and principal investigator of the trial. "As long-term data are
gathered and the next-generation technology is available, we expect that the
transcatheter approach will replace invasive surgical treatment in many
selective cases and become an alternative for high-risk patients that promises
faster recovery and enhanced quality of life." The trial enrolled a total of 12
patients, nine of whom were successfully treated. The company noted one
procedural failure (Type A dissection) and said two procedures were aborted due
to unsuitable anatomy, but following a catheter design modification continuous
procedural success. The patients' mean age was 86.3, and they were all female.
Implantation time was consecutively reduced from seven minutes to three minutes,
the company said. According to the company, the JenaValve system design enables
the physician to advance, rotate, reposition or retract the unique,
patent-protected feelers as necessary, leading to correct and precise placement
of the prosthesis.

First community hospital-based EP program in U.S. created . . .Lebanon
Cardiology Associates (Lebanon, Pennsylvania) and Good Samaritan Hospital
reported partnering to create the first community hospital-based
electrophysiology (EP) program in the U.S. (and only center in Pennsylvania) to
examine pacemaker and defibrillator device implant demographics and outcomes. A
recently presented study revealed an elderly, ill population with overall rates
of pacemaker and defibrillator implant complications lower than national trials
and available reports from single academic centers, the company said. Contrary
to current perceptions, the data suggest that community centers may subselect an
elderly, ill patient population and can provide high quality, cost-effective,
and more accessible pacemaker and defibrillator care than academic centers in
the U.S., the company noted. "There is a perception (yet very little substantive
data) that community hospitals cherry-pick less ill patients from
higher-performing academic centers. Our goal was to objectively analyze our
pacemaker and defibrillator implant patient demographics and complication rates
to shed light on the experiences in a 'real-world' community hospital," said
Jeffrey Williams, MD, the lead author in the study "Patient Demographics,
Complications, and Hospital Utilization in 250 Consecutive Device Implants of a
New Community Hospital Electrophysiology Program," presented at the American
Heart Association's (Dallas) Quality of Care and Outcomes Research in
Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke 2010 scientific sessions in May. This is the
first U.S. report of the demographics and complication rates of 250 consecutive
pacemaker and defibrillator implant patients (starting with program inception)
in a non-academic, community hospital EP program, according to the researchers.
There was one major early complication (0.4%) and seven minor early
complications (2.8%). Eleven of 250 patients (4.4%) were readmitted within six
weeks of the implant. Four of these eleven readmissions (36.4%) were not
device-related. In addition, the patients in this community hospital cohort were
7-10 years older with worse kidney function than those reported in national
trials and academic centers. The data suggest that Good Samaritan Hospital
subselected a more elderly, ill patient population than found at larger medical
centers and provided high quality, cost-effective, and more accessible pacemaker
and defibrillator care. Biventricular defibrillator implantation is the most
complicated device implant performed in EP laboratories and Good Samaritan had
lower rates of major and minor complications when to compared to national trials
and academic centers. Highly performing "niche" hospitals such as Good Samaritan
may offer improved quality care while reducing costs of pacemaker and
defibrillator implantation. The implementation of their EP program involved more
than two years of leadership analysis, strategic planning and work process
formulation culminating in the presentation of their outcomes, the company
noted.

HeartMate II has lower risk of infection than earlier model, researchers find .
. . A state-of-the-art heart pump recently approved for use in end-stage cardiac
patients has a significantly lower risk for infection than an earlier model of
the device, according to researchers at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. Known as
a left ventricular assist device, the newest version of the HeartMate is much
smaller than the first and uses a tiny turbine with synthetic ruby bearings,
lubricated by the blood itself, to continually push blood through the body. Its
predecessor is larger, heavier, has more moving parts, and is designed to mimic
the pulsing of blood through a healthy heart. Implanting the latest version of
the pump is also less invasive, so researchers at the Henry Ford Heart &
Vascular Institute sought to find whether it offered less risk of infection.
"Left ventricular assist devices have become the standard of care for patients
with end-stage heart failure," said lead author Jeffrey Morgan, MD, associate
director of the Circulatory Assist Device Program and Cardiac Transplantation at
Henry Ford. "However, development of a device-related infection can be a source
of significant morbidity and mortality." The study, which ran from March 2006
through June 2009, included 58 patients with chronic heart failure who were
implanted with either the HeartMate II - which the FDA approved in January for
use in patients with severe heart failure who are not candidates for a heart
transplant - or its predecessor, the larger and more complicated HeartMate I
XVE. Of the study group, 41 patients were implanted with the HeartMate II and 17
with the older model. Those who developed infections were treated with
antibiotics, and the effects of those infections on their short- and long-term
survival were also studied. Two patients, or 4.9% of those who had HeartMate II
pumps, developed infections, compared to four patients, or 23.5% of those whose
hearts were assisted by the previous model. The researchers also found no
significant difference in survival between HM II patients with and without
infection at 30 days and one year. Both devices were developed by Thoratec
(Pleasanton, California).

Good dental hygiene linked to lower risk of heart disease . . . In case you need
another reason to maintain good dental hygiene, a report published in the
British Medical Journal last week found that people who brush their teeth twice
a day have a significantly lower risk of heart disease compared to those with
poor oral hygiene. Over the last couple of decades there has been a growing
interest in the link between heart and gum disease, the researchers noted. While
it has been agreed that inflammation in the body (including mouth and gums)
plays an important role in the accumulation of clogged arteries, this is the
first study to examine whether the number of times individuals brush their teeth
has any impact on the risk of developing heart disease, the researchers say.
Lead author, Richard Watt from University College London, and his team analyzed
data from more than 11,000 adults who took part in the Scottish Healthy Survey.
The team looked at information regarding the adults' lifestyle behaviors, such
as physical activity, oral health routines and smoking. People were asked how
regularly they went to the dentist - once every six months, two years, rarely,
or never. They were also asked how often they brushed their teeth - twice, once,
or fewer times a day. On a separate visit nurses gathered information on medical
and family history of heart disease, blood pressure and blood samples from
consenting adults. The samples helped the researchers to determine levels of
inflammation that were present in the body. The data gathered from the
interviews were linked to hospital admissions and deaths in Scotland until
December 2007. The results showed that oral health behaviors were generally
good, with 62% of participants saying they visit the dentist every six months,
and 71% reporting that they brush their teeth twice daily. Once the data were
adjusted for established cardio risk factors such as social class, obesity,
smoking and family history of heart disease, the authors found that individuals
who reported less frequent toothbrushing had a 70% higher risk of heart disease
compared to individuals who brushed their teeth twice a day, although the
overall risk remained quite low. Participants who had poor oral hygiene also
tested positive for inflammatory markers such as the C-reactive protein and
fibrinogen, the researchers reported.

-- Compiled by Amanda Pedersen, MDD Senior Staff Writer

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2010 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              473 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                            November 1, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Creator Shore the polar opposite of cranky Dr. House: Canadian writer cut his
teeth on Due South, Traders

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, CanWest News Service

SECTION: CULTURE; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1095  words


HOUSE

Starring: Hugh Laurie, Omar Epps, Sela Ward

Time and channel: Tonight at 10 on both Global and Fox

- - -

"There is a 15-year-old boy in that character," David Shore says of his most
famous fictional creation, Dr. Gregory House, "but with the power of an adult.
And that, I think, is it."

House -- the TV show -- is that unlikeliest of television success stories: A
character-based medical mystery in which the lead character, a genius in the art
of "differential diagnosis," is as unlikable as they come. Hugh Laurie, an
unlikely actor playing an unlikable doctor, is scalpel-sharp in the role of a
diagnostician who gets a charge out of medical mysteries, but who finds patients
a royal pain.

Shore, the Toronto native who cut his teeth writing scripts for a little-known
show called Due South and the Toronto-based Traders for a year before heading
south himself to try his hand in TV's major leagues, is nothing like his
fictional creation.

In conversation, Shore is affable where House is adversarial. Shore is
comfortable with people; House is a walking case study in misanthropy. Shore is
polite; House is politically incorrect. Shore recently won an Emmy Award for
writing; House is in a constant struggle to keep his job. Shore laughs easily;
House looks as if he's in pain much of the time. Which, come to think of it, he
is -- hence the Vicodin habit.

"House, in my opinion, is only as interesting as the people around him," Shore
said. "If they're not fully dimensional, fully informed characters, he's
diminished. I want to keep them fresh. I want to show what makes them tick and
why they are the way they are, because it would be very easy to just have
somebody yelling at House and have him yelling back."

Shore described his initial pitch to the Fox network as "a bit of a
bait-and-switch" (his words). He proposed a CSI-style procedural medical drama
-- CSI in a hospital -- then flipped that into a character study.

"At its core it's a procedural, but obviously it's a character-driven procedural
," Shore said. "I realized going in that the 'what' in a whatdunit isn't that
interesting. After all, the interesting thing about a whodunit is the who and
the why, and why people act the way they do."

Shore was determined to give his main character a fatal flaw, something other
than his brusque manner. That flaw was an addiction to painkillers.

"He had to be damaged in some way," Shore explained. "Once he's damaged, he's
trying not to be damaged. We wanted him to have something that he's dealing with
-- and addiction is certainly interesting. It made sense. It made a lot of
sense."

Every episode -- including last May's Emmy Award-winning Three Stories, in which
House lectures a class of medical students about three hypothetical cases -- is
constructed like a Rubik's Cube, with innumerable interlocking pieces that form
a logical pattern once the riddle is solved.

"The episodes are quite often about the person they're treating," Shore said.

"Even when we don't see that person that much, their just being there raises
some issue that allows each of our characters to form their own attitude, based
on their life experiences and who they are as people."

House's mercurial rise in the ratings is harder to diagnose. When the program
debuted last November, it drew a respectable, though not overwhelming, seven
million viewers in the U.S. By March, that number was up to 17 million, making
House one of the most-watched programs on television. That was partly because it
followed American Idol on the Fox network in the U.S. -- in Canada, it airs on
Global Television -- but House's numbers remained solid during summer reruns,
when American Idol was no longer on. This season so far, the audience has ranged
between 14 million and 16 million viewers, strong enough to vault House into the
Top 20 in the weekly Nielsen ratings. House returns tonight after a four-week
break for baseball playoffs.

From the outset, Shore was determined the medical mysteries not overwhelm the
characters in the story.

"What we've found is that it's less about the medical story and more about the
person who's sick, and what it is about that person that makes the story," Shore
explained. "It has to be something that people aren't expecting, but that makes
sense. It becomes about the personalities involved, and what that reveals about
House and our other doctors."

Once Shore knew what direction he wanted to take House, it was a question of
finding the right actor.

"Growing up in Canada, I was familiar with Hugh Laurie's work. When I heard that
he was auditioning, that he was actually putting himself on tape in Africa" --
Laurie was in Namibia, filming Flight of the Phoenix at the time -- "I thought,
'That's so cool, I'd love to get him in because I'd love to meet him.' But to be
honest, I never thought he'd be the right guy. I had this vision of him as being
this English, hysterically funny, talented actor -- but not House. And when I
saw the tape, he blew me away. It was like nothing I had seen before. We had
auditioned so many people -- but I realized then that those other people were
completely unsuited to the part."

Shore said his year as the head writer of Traders taught him a lot.

"I had a great year, but I also realized that I was not the writer I hoped I
could become, and I had a lot to learn. And yet I was in charge. There really
weren't opportunities to find mentors. When I was in Toronto, the system in
Canada, to be honest, is that the few television shows there were run by true
producers. They weren't run by writers. So I came to Los Angeles to learn,
basically, to become a good writer."

After moving to Los Angeles, Shore landed writing assignments with some of
television's most prestigious dramas -- Law & Order for Dick Wolf; NYPD Blue for
Steven Bochco; The Practice for David E. Kelley, in that program's debut season
when it won the Emmy as TV's best drama; and for his fellow Canadian and
one-time Due South mentor, Paul Haggis, on Haggis's short-lived, critically
acclaimed drama series EZ Streets.

Shore earned a pair of Emmy nominations as a producer of Law & Order. From the
outset, though, he knew House was special. House was his, for one thing. It was
his creation, from the foundation up.

The key to House is simple, Shore insists.

"For every question you answer, you have to raise two more questions. And I
think we're doing that. I still don't really know who House is. And I think if I
ever reach a point where I can summarize him, then it'll be time for me to pack
it in. Because I can't even summarize myself -- and I'm real."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Fox, Supplied; British actor Hugh Laurie is the misanthropic Dr. Greg
House.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              474 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 1999 Curators of the University of Missouri
                         Journal of Dispute Resolution

                                      1999

                            1999 J. Disp. Resol. 191

LENGTH: 5848 words

NOTE: FAA Pre-emption: When Should Conflicting State Law Be Pre-empted by the
Faa?: Weston Securities Corp. v. Aykanian n1

NAME: Suzanne H. Johnson

TEXT:
 [*191]  I. INTRODUCTION

   The Federal Arbitration Act ("F.A.A.") was created by Congress to alleviate
the judicial system's historical hostility toward arbitration. n2 To promote
arbitration as a means of alternative dispute resolution, Congress included
section 2 of the F.A.A.,  n3 which "declared a policy favoring arbitration and
withdrew the power of the states to require a judicial forum for the resolution
of claims which the contracting parties agreed to resolve by arbitration."  n4

   Since the creation of the F.A.A., courts, including the United States Supreme
Court, have considered whether the F.A.A. pre-empts conflicting state law.
Although courts generally find that the F.A.A. pre-empts state substantive and
procedural law when it stands as an obstacle to Congress' goal of enforcing
arbitration, n5 the Massachusetts Court of Appeals, in Weston Securities Corp.
v. Aykanian, made its own determination on this issue, since it was a case of
first impression for the court. The court faced the question of whether a
Massachusetts procedural rule, which did not allow an immediate appeal from an
order to arbitrate, was pre-empted by the F.A.A. The court's holding expanded
the federal policy favoring enforcement of arbitration agreements in
Massachusetts by upholding a state procedural rule that promoted arbitration
agreements by disallowing certain judicial appeals. The court, therefore, held
that the rule was not pre-empted by the F.A.A., even though it contradicted the
F.A.A.'s corresponding rule.

    [*192]  II. FACTS AND HOLDING

   Weston Securities Corporation, Douglas A. Biggar, I. Richard Horowitz, and
Joseph Robbat, Jr. are the plaintiffs in this suit. Weston Securities
Corporation is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers
("NASD"). n6 Horowitz and Biggar were registered principals of Weston Securities
Corporation, and Robatt was a registered representative.  n7 All the plaintiffs
signed a Uniform Application for Securities Registration or Transfer Form ("U-4
Form") that stated that they would agree to arbitrate any disputes that were
required to be arbitrated under the "NASD Code of Arbitration Procedure" ("NASD
Code").  n8

   In 1994, the defendants, Ara Aykanian and others, n9 claimed that the
plaintiffs had "violated various Federal and State statutes, breached its
fiduciary duties to the defendants, and concealed and misrepresented certain
material facts."  n10 The defendants each filed a "Uniform Submission Agreement"
for arbitration with the NASD, which bound them to arbitrate all claims they had
against Weston.  n11 Weston claimed, however, that the defendants' claims were
either barred by the six-year rule in the NASD Code,  n12 or else, not
arbitrable under the NASD Code.  n13 Accordingly, Weston refused to adhere to
the Uniform Submission Agreements.  n14

   In April of 1995, Weston called upon the NASD's Director of Arbitration
("director") to dismiss the defendants' arbitration claim. n15 Nevertheless, in
October of 1995, the director stated that the defendants had standing to compel
arbitration because they were "public customers of Weston."  n16 The director
then referred the defendants' claims that arose after June 16, 1988 to a panel
of arbitrators.  n17 Before the arbitration panel considered the claims, the
plaintiffs sued in the superior court to enjoin the defendants' ability to
proceed with arbitration.  n18

   In June 1996, a superior court judge issued a preliminary injunction against
the defendants. The injunction enjoined the defendants from proceeding with the
arbitration. n19 The judge also ordered submission of cross motions for summary
judgment by both parties.  n20 Weston's motion for summary judgment was denied
and  [*193]  the defendants' motion was allowed. n21 The judge then entered an
order compelling Weston to commence arbitration before the NASD.  n22 Weston
filed an appeal from the superior judge's order and a motion to stay arbitration
pending appeal.  n23 The plaintiffs' motion to stay was denied and its appeal
from the denial of its motion was consolidated with its appeal from the order
compelling arbitration.  n24

   In their appeal, the plaintiffs argued that the Massachusetts Uniform
Arbitration Act, which does not permit an immediate appeal from an order
compelling arbitration, was pre-empted by the F.A.A., which does permit such an
appeal. n25 The Massachusetts Court of Appeals held that state procedural law is
pre-empted by the F.A.A. only "to the extent that it is contrary to Congress'
purpose in enacting the F.A.A., which is to enforce arbitration agreements."
n26 The appeal was dismissed because the court found that the Massachusetts rule
promotes enforcement of arbitration agreements by not permitting an immediate
appeal from an order compelling arbitration, notwithstanding the F.A.A.'s
provision allowing the appeal.  n27

   III. LEGAL BACKGROUND

   The F.A.A. was enacted in 1925 to "overrule the judiciary's longstanding
refusal to enforce agreements to arbitrate." n28 Before this time, courts
refused to enforce arbitration agreements,  n29 clinging to ancient notions of
judicial province originating in England when the courts "opposed anything that
would altogether deprive every one of them of jurisdiction."  n30 In fact, the
incentive for Congress to enact the F.A.A. was its desire to change the courts'
"antiarbitration [sic] rule."  n31 The F.A.A. foresaw the potential
confrontation of the F.A.A. and conflicting state law and, therefore,
established federal substantive law, which applied in both state and federal
courts  n32 pursuant to Congress' authority under the Commerce Clause to enact
substantive rules of law.  n33 Thus, the F.A.A. is applicable to any transaction
involving interstate commerce.  n34

   Since the enactment of the F.A.A., courts have decided whether the Act
pre-empts state substantive and procedural law that is contrary to the Act. A
line of  [*194]  federal and state cases have considered this very issue, and
have consistently recognized the F.A.A.'s goal to promote enforcement of
arbitration agreements by stating that state substantive law will be pre-empted
by the F.A.A. when it is contrary to the F.A.A.'s purpose, n35 and that state
procedural law will be pre-empted when the state procedures serve to defeat the
substantive right to arbitration granted under the F.A.A.  n36

   In Hines v. Davidowitz, n37 the United States Supreme Court addressed the
issue of pre-emption, however, it did not specifically consider F.A.A.
pre-emption. Later courts, though, looked to the language of the F.A.A. when
dealing with the issue of F.A.A. pre-emption.  n38 In Hines, the Court decided
whether Pennsylvania's Alien Registration Act "encroached upon legislative
powers constitutionally vested in the federal government" in view of the Federal
Alien Registration Act, and if equal protection of the laws was denied by the
Pennsylvania Act. n39 Its analysis discussed the power of both state and
national governments.  n40 In determining whether the state law was valid in
light of the federal law created by Congress, the Court stated "there is
not--and from the very nature of the problem there cannot be--any rigid formula
or rule which can be used as a universal pattern to determine the meaning and
purpose of every act of Congress."  n41

   It then looked to Savage v. Jones n42 for help in discovering a manner of
determination.  n43 Specifically, Savage stated that if the purpose of the
federal act in question cannot be accomplished or is frustrated by the state
law, "the state law must yield to the regulation of Congress within the sphere
of its delegated power." n44 In light of Savage, the Hines Court stated that its
job was to decide whether the law of Pennsylvania stood as an "obstacle to the
accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress."
n45 The Court concluded that Congress' purpose in enacting the Federal Alien
Registration Act was the creation of a "uniform national registration system"
and, therefore, the Pennsylvania Act could not be enforced  n46 since it would
stand as an obstacle to such a system.

   In Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital v. Mercury Construction Corp., n47 the
Supreme Court not only dealt with the pre-emption issue as it did in Hines, it
specifically dealt with F.A.A. pre-emption. The case involved a dispute between
Moses H. Cone Hospital ("Hospital") and the defendant Mercury Construction
[*195]  Corporation ("Mercury"), which it hired to construct additions to the
hospital. n48 In its analysis of whether the dispute between the parties was
arbitrable, the Court adhered to the proposition that the F.A.A. pre-empts state
law, as it declared that any written arbitration agreement "in any maritime
transaction of a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce . . .
shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at
law or equity for the revocation of any contract."  n49 It further stated,
"section 2 is a congressional declaration of a liberal federal policy favoring
arbitration agreements, notwithstanding any state substantive or procedural
policies to the contrary."  n50 Hence, the Court said that the section
effectively creates "a body of federal substantive law of arbitrability,
applicable to any arbitration agreement within the coverage of the Act."  n51 It
agreed with numerous courts of appeals, which consistently stated that
"questions of arbitrability must be addressed with a healthy regard for federal
policy favoring arbitration."  n52

   In 1984, the Supreme Court continued to adhere to a policy favoring
arbitration when it was again presented with the F.A.A. pre-emption issue. In
Southland Corp. v. Keating, n53 the Court decided whether a California statute,
which did not allow the arbitration of suits brought under its law, could
invalidate a contract which called for arbitration under the F.A.A.  n54 It
concluded that the F.A.A.'s authority comes from Congress' power under the
Commerce Clause, which allows it to enact substantive rules.  n55 The Court
stated that it was implicit in the F.A.A.'s power stemming from the Commerce
Clause that the F.A.A. should apply in both federal and state courts.  n56 It
also noted that the Moses decision "reaffirmed" its stance on the scope of the
substantive federal arbitration law--that it applied to both federal and state
courts. n57 The Court reasoned that Congress would not want the validity of
arbitration provisions to reach different outcomes depending on whether the case
was tried in federal or state court.  n58 The Court, therefore, held that the
F.A.A.'s substantive law pre-empts conflicting state law, and that state
statutes that were anti-arbitration could not be used to defeat the goals of the
F.A.A.  n59

   Two years later, the Supreme Court was again presented with the F.A.A.
pre-emption issue. In Perry v. Thomas, n60 the Court decided whether the
F.A.A.'s policy of mandatory enforcement of agreements to arbitrate pre-empted a
California labor  [*196]  statute that provided for a judicial forum for
collection of wages actions irrespective of any contract to arbitrate. n61 The
petitioners sought arbitration under sections 2 and 4 of the F.A.A.  n62 Their
demand for arbitration stemmed from an arbitration provision in a U-4 Form that
the defendants had signed.  n63 The defendant opposed arbitration because
section 299 of the California Labor Code mandated a judicial forum for his case.
The Supreme Court looked to Moses which stated that section 2 of the F.A.A.
creates substantive law that is applicable to any agreement to arbitrate that
comes within the domain of the F.A.A. n64 It found in favor of arbitration by
looking to Keating, which stated that "Congress intended to foreclose state
legislative attempts to undercut the enforceability of arbitration agreements."
n65 It further stated that Congress' federal policy favoring arbitration took
away state's power to require the judicial hearing of a case when the parties
had contracted to arbitrate.  n66 The parties clearly contracted to arbitrate,
bringing their agreement within the coverage of the F.A.A.  n67 It was also
clear that the federal policy of the F.A.A. was in conflict with section 229 of
the California Code that required litigants to resolve wage disputes in court
and, therefore, the F.A.A. pre-empted the state statute under the Supremacy
Clause.  n68 This outcome revealed that the Supreme Court would continue to
stand firmly behind its pro-arbitration policy by striking down state law that
was contrary to such policy.

   The F.A.A. pre-emption issue surfaced again in Volt Information Sciences,
Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior University. n69 This time
the Supreme Court decided whether state procedural law contrary to the F.A.A.'s
policy applied if the parties contracted to have a certain state law apply to
their contract.  n70 The Court found that the state law would not be pre-empted
since the parties agreed in their contract to strictly be governed by a specific
state law.  n71 In its analysis, the Court first looked to Hines, concluding
that although the F.A.A. did not pre-empt state regulation of arbitration
agreements, state law would have to be pre-empted in one instance. n72 This
instance, the Court stated, occurred when state law ran contrary to the federal
policy of enforcing arbitration agreements and, therefore, was in conflict with
federal law.  n73 It recognized its long-standing adherence to finding that the
F.A.A. pre-empts state laws requiring "a judicial forum for the resolution of
[*197]  claims which the contracting parties agreed to resolve by arbitration."
n74 It noted that the F.A.A. does not prevent the enforcement of arbitration
agreements made under rules that are not within the F.A.A., as such a rule would
run contrary to the F.A.A.'s "primary purpose of ensuring that private
agreements to arbitrate are enforce according to their terms."  n75 The Court
followed that the parties to arbitration agreements have free reign in
structuring the agreements, such as by limiting the disputes that can be
arbitrated.  n76 It stated that as in the case before them where the parties had
agreed that state rules of arbitration would govern, enforcing the rules in
accordance with the agreement would be consistent with the F.A.A.'s goals, even
though by doing so the arbitration would be stayed rather than going forward as
it would under the F.A.A.  n77 The Court summed up its ruling by stating that by
permitting courts to enforce arbitration agreements rigorously in accordance
with their terms,  n78 it "give[s] effect to the contractual rights and
expectations of the parties, without doing violence to the policies behind by
the F.A.A."  n79

   Other courts have also followed the Supreme Court's ruling that state
substantive law contrary to the F.A.A. will pre-empt the F.A.A. However, these
courts have also helped further establish when a state's procedural rule will
pre-empt the F.A.A. The Missouri Court of Appeals stated in Duggan v. Zip Mail
Services, Inc., n80 that the F.A.A. is applicable when a contract involves
commerce.  n81 It asserted that Missouri courts "are not bound by the procedural
provisions of the F.A.A. and state procedural rules may be applied when
arbitration is pursuant to the F.A.A."  n82 The court further stated that "state
procedures may not be applied to defeat the substantive rights granted by the
F.A.A."  n83 However, in determining whether the Missouri act which dealt with
arbitration would be pre-empted by the F.A.A. it stated that applying the
Missouri act would "defeat arbitration in instances where the F.A.A. permits it"
and thus "would place the state act above the federal act, violating the
Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution."  n84 It then concluded by looking to
the Missouri Supreme Court's precedent, that the Missouri act could not be used
to render ineffective an arbitration provision that is covered by the F.A.A.
n85

   This interpretation of state's rights under the F.A.A. was further delineated
in Reis v. Peabody Coal Co. n86 In this case, the Missouri Court of Appeals
found that though the F.A.A. created substantive rights for the state courts to
enforce, the Missouri courts were not bound by F.A.A. procedural provisions,
provided that the  [*198]  Missouri procedural rules did not "defeat the
[substantive] rights granted by Congress." n87

   Missouri's view of the F.A.A.'s procedural pre-emption was echoed by the
Supreme Court of North Dakota in Superpumper, Inc. v. Nerland Oil, Inc. n88 This
court asserted that the F.A.A.'s objectives and purposes  n89 are effected
through its substantive provisions,  n90 and thus "a state is not obligated to
altogether ignore its own procedural requirements in light of the procedural
aspects of the F.A.A., provided the state-enacted procedure does not defeat the
rights granted by Congress."  n91 To the extent that a state enacted uniform
arbitration act "impedes the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes
and objectives of the F.A.A., the U.A.A. is pre-empted by federal law."  n92

   The Oregon Court of Appeals in Marr v. Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co.,
Inc. n93 was presented with the pre-emption question in the case of an appeal
from an order of arbitration. The court's analysis revealed the interweaving of
the F.A.A.'s pre-emption of state procedural and substantive law. The court
stated that federal law pre-empts conflicting state law that affects the party's
substantive rights for arbitration.  n94 Thus, pre-emption occurs when it
conflicts with the Congress' goal of enforcing arbitration agreements. The court
further stated that when the question is purely procedural, "the forum state is
free to apply its own law."  n95 However, the court noted that a state's
procedural law could not be applied if it limits the rights of the party's
federal claim, although the claim is asserted in state court.  n96 Therefore,
the court determined whether applying Oregon law, which did not allow appeal
from an order to arbitrate, would deny the party a federal substantive right.
n97 It held that the timing of the right to appeal is purely procedural and that
the party's substantive right would not be denied because it could appeal after
the arbitration award was made.  n98 Hence, the Oregon court was permitted to
apply its own procedural law since it did not deny a substantive right of the
party in that it allowed the party to have the right to appeal when the
arbitration award judgment was entered in the state proceeding.  n99

   It is clear that the F.A.A. has presented many courts with the pre-emption
question. In the instant case, however, the pre-emption question was one of
first impression for the Massachusetts Court of Appeals.

    [*199]  IV. INSTANT DECISION

   The Massachusetts Court of Appeals looked to the purpose of the F.A.A. to
decide the question of whether section 18 of the Massachusetts procedural rule
denying Weston the ability to immediately appeal an order compelling it to
arbitrate was contrary to the Federal goal of encouraging enforcement of
arbitration. n100 It first noted that the F.A.A. was enacted "to overrule the
judiciary's longstanding refusal to enforce agreements to arbitrate."  n101 The
F.A.A. created a staunch federal policy that favored arbitration by building a
large body of federal substantive law "applicable in state and federal courts."

 n102

   The court then looked to the fact that the F.A.A. does not expressly contain
a pre-emptive provision and that the state and federal courts have concurrent
jurisdiction to enforce the Arbitration Act. n103 It looked to Hines and
concluded that the F.A.A. pre-empts state law only when it is an obstacle to
Congress accomplishing its objectives. n104 The court, by further looking to
Hines and Volt, found that the case law established that states may usually
establish procedural rules for dealing with the arbitration process because
federal policy does not require arbitration to be done under a "certain set of
procedural rules." n105 The only way that the state's procedural rules would be
pre-empted by the F.A.A. is if the effect of the rule was contrary to the "goals
and policies of the F.A.A.," which is to encourage the enforcement of
arbitration agreements.  n106

   In the spirit of Volt, the appellate court determined that the right to
appeal from a court's order that compels arbitration is not a substantive right,
but rather a procedural right. n107 It then stated that Weston's substantive
rights would not be affected by its inability to immediately appeal the order
compelling it to arbitrate, as it would eventually be able to appeal the
defendant's application to confirm their award.  n108 The court's holding was in
line with the rule stated in Marr, Superpumper, Duggan, and Reis, which is that
a state's procedural rule will not be pre-empted by the F.A.A., unless the
procedure is contrary to the substantive rights granted by the F.A.A. n109
Hence, the court stated that since Weston's substantive rights were preserved by
the Massachusetts' procedural rule, the rule did not undermine the Federal goal
encouraging enforcement of agreements to arbitrate, and the rule was not
pre-empted by the F.A.A.  n110

    [*200]  V. COMMENT

   Although Weston was a case of first impression for the Appeals Court of
Massachusetts, the question before it had been presented to many other courts.
The court correctly held that state procedural rules are only pre-empted by the
F.A.A. when they defeat the substantive rights granted by Congress in the F.A.A.
n111 Its decision is consistent with those of other state courts and the United
States Supreme Court.

   The precedent this decision establishes in Massachusetts will serve to
further expand the federal policy of encouraging arbitration where the parties
have agreed to arbitrate. Not only is the court's opinion consistent with the
underlying policy considerations of the F.A.A., as stated before, it is also in
line with the precedent established by other courts which have dealt with the
pre-emption issue.

   Congress' enactment of the F.A.A. created a strong federal policy in favor of
arbitration. Since the creation of the F.A.A., almost all states have "passed
modern arbitration statutes that adopt the F.A.A.'s underlying policy of
promoting and enforcing arbitration agreements . . . ." n112 However, even
though only Mississippi, Alabama, and Nebraska  n113 cling to the "common law
hostility toward arbitration,"  n114 by only enforcing arbitration agreements
when the F.A.A. applies,  n115 there still exists conflict between state and
federal arbitration laws in the states that have embraced the F.A.A.'s policy of
encouraging arbitration. The instant case is an example of a state which is not
anti-arbitration, but which has a procedural rule in conflict with the F.A.A.
The procedural rule, though in direct conflict with the F.A.A. procedural rule,
did not defeat the substantive rights found in the F.A.A. The court, therefore,
refused to hold that the F.A.A. pre-empted the state rule. Though the
Massachusetts rule did not allow "an immediate appeal from the judge's order
compelling it to arbitrate" the court found that this rule was a purely
procedural rule and the timing of the right to appeal neither affected the
substantive right of the defendants to enforce the arbitration agreement, nor
Weston's right not to be bound by an illegal award.  n116 Thus, in effect, the
court's decision denying F.A.A. pre-emption of the state law rule showed its
adherence to the federal policy of enforcing arbitration agreements.

   The United States Supreme Court has stated that allowing a party who
contracted to arbitrate to avoid it by being allowed to bring his claim in a
judicial forum "could lead to prolonged litigation, one of the very risks the
parties, by contracting for arbitration, sought to eliminate." n117 The decision
in the instant case helps alleviate these risks of the contracting parties. A
party who has bargained for  [*201]  the right to arbitrate will not be usurped
by the other party to the arbitration agreement simply seeking relief in the
judicial system before the arbitration award is given. The holding will increase
the use of arbitration by parties who want their disputes remedied by a more
expedient mechanism than the judicial system. Parties can have faith that
arbitration will occur without the added delay of a judicial appeal. In effect,
each party will either get the benefit of its bargain (being able to arbitrate)
or be held to its bargain (being forced to arbitrate rather than use the
judicial system). The likely result is that contracting parties will more
readily place arbitration clauses in their contracts because they will be secure
in knowing that the court will not allow use of judicial proceedings when there
is such a clause.

   The courts, by creating pro-arbitration common law, have helped to further
Congress' policy favoring arbitration and the instant decision continues the
trend. Beginning with the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States in
Moses, n118 the courts have curtailed a state's ability to erect
anti-arbitration statutes to defeat the enforcement of arbitration agreements.
These rulings have helped ensure that parties to an arbitration agreement cannot
escape arbitration by selecting the forum to dispute arbitrability. That is, if
the courts would not have continually upheld the F.A.A.'s pre-emption power,
parties would be able to obtain different results depending on whether the suit
was brought in federal or state court. This would reward and encourage parties
to forum-shop, and, therefore, the better rule is to provide contracting parties
the same remedy in any forum.  n119 The courts have removed any motivation to
forum-shop as state anti-arbitration laws are pre-empted by the F.A.A. and other
courts have enacted pro-arbitration laws. The strong case law behind the F.A.A.
has served to further the federal policy of the F.A.A. by encouraging states to
be pro-arbitration and in the same respect has alleviated any potential
forum-shopping. The instant decision correctly falls within this great line of
legal history, and its decision encourages the enforcement of arbitration when
parties have agreed to do so. The Massachusetts decision will not only serve to
further arbitration in Massachusetts, but when another state court faces this
issue, the Massachusetts' decision will point the court in the right direction.

   VI. CONCLUSION

   The Massachusetts Court of Appeals made the correct decision in Weston, as it
found that the Massachusetts' state law, though in conflict with the F.A.A.,
would not be pre-empted by it. It made its decision by looking at the policy
behind the F.A.A. and to other cases that had dealt with the pre-emption issue.
By finding that its law, which does not allow an appeal before an arbitration
award has been given, was not pre-empted, the court added this case to a long
line of cases which encourage the federal policy of enforcing arbitration
agreements.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Civil ProcedureAlternative Dispute ResolutionMandatory ADRContracts LawContract
Conditions & ProvisionsArbitration ClausesSecurities LawSelf-Regulating
EntitiesNational Association of Securities Dealers

FOOTNOTES:




   n1 703 N.E.2d 1185 (Mass. App. Ct. 1998).


   n2 Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. v. Byrd, 470 U.S. 213, 219-20 (1985).


   n3 Section 2 states:

     A written provision in any maritime transaction or a contract
     evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
     controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction, or
     the refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof, or an agreement
     in writing to submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising
     out of such a contract, transaction, or refusal, shall be valid,
     irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law
     or in equity for the revocation of any contract.

9 U.S.C. § 2 (1994).


   n4 Southland Corp. v. Keating, 465 U.S. 1, 10 (1984).


   n5 Volt Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior
Univ., 489 U.S. 468, 477 (1988). The Supreme Court stated in this case that
state law may "be pre-empted to the extent it actually conflicts with federal
law-that is, to the extent that it 'stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment
and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress.'" Id. (quoting
Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S. 52, 67 (1940) (citing Savage v. Jones, 225 U.S.
501, 533 (1912))).


   n6 Weston Sec. Corp. v. Aykanian, 703 N.E.2d 1185, 1187 (Mass. App. Ct.
1998). Collectively the plaintiffs are called "Weston."


   n7 Id.


   n8 Id. Weston, under section 12(a) of the NASD Code, is required to
"arbitrate any 'dispute, claim or controversy . . . between a customer and a
member and/or associated person arising in connection with the business of such
member or in connection with the activities of such associated persons . . .
upon the demand of the customer.'"


   n9 They were customers of Weston.


   n10 Weston, 703 N.E.2d at 1187 n.3.


   n11 Id. at 1187.


   n12 Id. Section 15 of the NASD Code states that arbitration shall not be
available where six years have lapsed from the event causing the claim.


   n13 Id.


   n14 Id.


   n15 Id.


   n16 Id.


   n17 Id.


   n18 Id.


   n19 Id.


   n20 Id.


   n21 Id.


   n22 Id.


   n23 Id.


   n24 Id.


   n25 Id. at 1187-88.


   n26 Id. at 1188.


   n27 Id. at 1192.


   n28 Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. v. Byrd, 470 U.S. 213, 219-20 (1985).


   n29 Allied-Bruce Terminix Co., Inc. v. Dobson, 513 U.S. 265, 270 (1995)
(citing Volt Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Standford
Junior Univ., 489 U.S. 468, 474 (1989)).


   n30 Id. (quoting Bernhardt v. Polygraphic Co. of America, Inc., 350 U.S. 198,
211 n.5 (1956) (quoting United States Asphalt Ref. Co. v. Trinidad Lake
Petroleum Co., 222 F. 1006, 1007 (S.D.N.Y. 1915) (quoting Scott v. Avery, 5 H.L.
Cas. 811 (1856)))).


   n31 Id. at 270-71 (citing Dean Witter, 470 U.S. at 220).


   n32 Southland Corp. v. Keating, 465 U.S. 1, 12 (1984).


   n33 Id. at 10.


   n34 M & L Power Serv., Inc. v. American Networks Int'l, 44 F. Supp.2d 134,
140 (D.R.I. 1999) (citing 9 U.S.C. § 2 (1994)).


   n35 See Volt Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford
Junior Univ., 489 U.S. 468, 477 (1988) (quoting Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S.
52, 67 (1940)).


   n36 Duggan v. Zip Mail Serv., Inc., 920 S.W.2d 200, 203 (Mo. Ct. App. 1996)
(citing Greenwood v. Sherfield, 895 S.W.2d 169, 172-73 (Mo. Ct. App. 1995)).


   n37 312 U.S. 52 (1941).


   n38 See Volt Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford
Junior Univ., 489 U.S. 468 (1988); Weston Sec. Corp. v. Aykanian, 703 N.E.2d
1185 (Mass. App. Ct. 1998).


   n39 Hines, 312 U.S. at 59-60.


   n40 Id. at 62.


   n41 Id. at 67.


   n42 225 U.S. 501 (1912).


   n43 Hines, 312 U.S. at 67.


   n44 Savage, 225 U.S. at 533.


   n45 Hines, 312 U.S. at 67 (citing Savage, 225 U.S. at 533).


   n46 Id. at 74.


   n47 460 U.S. 1 (1983).


   n48 Id. at 5. Mercury entered into a contract with the Hospital which stated
that "disputes involving interpretation of the contract or performance of the
construction work were to be referred in the first instance to J.N. Pease
Associates, an independent architectural firm hired by the Hospital to design
and oversee the construction project." However, with only a few exceptions, any
dispute, regardless of whether it was decided by the architectural firm, could
be submitted to binding arbitration by either party under an arbitration clause
within the contract.  Id. at 4-5.


   n49 Id. at 24 (quoting 9 U.S.C. § 2 (1994)).


   n50 Id. at 24.


   n51 Id.


   n52 Id. at 24-25.


   n53 465 U.S. 1, 12 (1984).


   n54 Id. at 6.


   n55 Id. at 11.


   n56 Id. at 12.


   n57 Id.


   n58 Id. at 15-16.


   n59 Id.


   n60 482 U.S. 483 (1987).


   n61 Id. at 484.


   n62 Id. at 485. See 9 U.S.C. § 2 (1994) and 9 U.S.C. § 4 (1994) (allowing a
party to petition a United States district court for an order to arbitrate when
the other party to its arbitration agreement refuses to arbitrate).


   n63 Perry, 482 U.S. at 485. The provision stated, "I agree to arbitrate any
dispute, claim or controversy that may arise between me and my firm, or a
customer, or any other person, that is required to be arbitrated under the
rules, constitutions or by-laws of the organizations with which I register. . .
." Id.


   n64 Id. at 489 (citing Moses, 460 U.S. at 24).


   n65 Id. (quoting Keating, 465 U.S. at 16).


   n66 Id. (citing Keating, 465 U.S. at 10).


   n67 Id. at 483.


   n68 Id. at 491.


   n69 489 U.S. 468 (1989).


   n70 Id. at 470.


   n71 Id. at 477.


   n72 Id. (citing Hines, 312 U.S. at 67).


   n73 Id. (citing Hines, 312 U.S. at 67).


   n74 Id. at 478 (quoting Keating, 465 U.S. at 10).


   n75 Id. at 479.


   n76 Id. (citing Mitsubishi Motors Corp. v. Soler Chrysler-Plymouth, Inc., 473
U.S. 614, 628 (1985)).


   n77 Id.


   n78 Id. (citing Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. v. Byrd, 470 U.S. 213, 221 (1985)).


   n79 Id.


   n80 920 S.W.2d 200 (Mo. Ct. App. 1996).


   n81 Id. at 202 (citing 9 U.S.C. § 2 (1970)).


   n82 Id. at 203 (citing Greenwood v. Sherfield, 895 S.W.2d 169, 172 (Mo. Ct.
App. 1995)).


   n83 Id. (citing Greenwood, 895 S.W.2d at 172-73).


   n84 Id.


   n85 Id.


   n86 935 S.W.2d 625 (Mo. Ct. App. 1996).


   n87 Id. at 630 (citing McClellan v. Barrath Constr. Co., 725 S.W.2d 656, 658
(Mo. Ct. App. 1987)).


   n88 582 N.W.2d 647 (N.D. 1998).


   n89 The F.A.A.'s "purpose was to reverse the longstanding judicial hostility
to arbitration agreements that had existed at English common law and had been
adopted by American courts, and to place arbitration agreements upon the same
footing as other contracts." Id. at 650 (citing Gilmer v. Insterstate/Johnson
Lane Corp., 500 U.S. 20, 24 (1991)).


   n90 Id. at 651 (citing Reis, 935 S.W.2d at 630).


   n91 Id. (citing Reis, 935 S.W.2d at 630).


   n92 Id. (citing Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co., Inc. v. Luckie, 647 N.E.2d
1308, 1314 (N.Y. 1995)).


   n93 842 P.2d 801 (Or. Ct. App. 1991).


   n94 Id. at 803.


   n95 Id. (citing Nutbrown v. Munn, 811 P.2d 131 (Or. 1991)).


   n96 Id. (citing Rogers v. Saylor, 760 P.2d 232 (Or. 1988)).


   n97 Id.


   n98 Id. at 804.


   n99 Id.


   n100 Weston Sec. Corp. v. Aykanian, 703 N.E.2d 1185, 1188 (Mass. App. Ct.
1998).


   n101 Id. (citing Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. v. Byrd, 470 U.S. 213, 219-20
(1985)).


   n102 Id.


   n103 Id.


   n104 Id. (citing Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S. 52, 67 (1941)). See also Volt
Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior Univ., 489
U.S. 468, 477 (1988).


   n105 Weston, 703 N.E.2d at 1188 (quoting Volt, 489 U.S. at 476).


   n106 Id. (quoting Volt, 489 U.S. at 477-78).


   n107 Id. at 1189.


   n108 Id. Massachusetts law allows a party to appeal an unfavorable
arbitration award confirmed by a superior court.  MASS. GEN. LAWS ch. 251, §
18(a)(3) (1988).


   n109 Weston, 703 N.E.2d at 1189.


   n110 Id.


   n111 Id.


   n112 Henry C. Strickland, The Federal Arbitration Act's Interstate Commerce
Requirement: What's Left for State Arbitration Law?, 21 HOFSTRA L. REV. 385, 400
(1992) (citing GABRIEL M. WILNER, DOMKE ON COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION 28 & app. 1
(1991)).


   n113 Id. at 460 n.93.


   n114 Id. at 400. The "old common law rule" is that "all pre-dispute
arbitration agreements are void as against public policy." Id. at 460 n.93.


   n115 Id. at 400.


   n116 Weston Sec. Corp. v. Aykanian, 703 N.E.2d 1185, 1189 (Mass. App. Ct.
1998).


   n117 Southland Corp. v. Keating, 465 U.S. 1, 7 (1984).


   n118 460 U.S. 1 (1983).


   n119 Id. at 15.


                              475 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                              March 8, 2010 Monday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

LOOK OUT FOR N.Y.'S HEALTH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 472 words


President Obama is pressing Democrats to ram health care reform through Congress
or to give the bill a merciful death. That puts New York's representatives on
the spot to protect this state from taking a monstrous hammering.

Sens. Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and every member of the House
delegation must refuse to vote for any legislation that deprives New York of
fair Medicaid funding.

The working version of the measure - the bill passed by the Senate - would do
just that by disqualifying New York from Medicaid support provided to other
states and by slashing Medicare payments that allow the city's hospitals to
shoulder a heavy load of uninsured patients.

To his credit, Bronx Rep. Eliot Engel has taken a hard stand against supporting
an anti-New York bill. "I'm for health care reform," Engel said. "But I am not
for any health care reform. And I'm definitely not for health care reform that
makes my state lose money."

Calling the Senate's plan "totally unacceptable," Engel last week arranged a
meeting for the state's delegation with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who is
struggling to build support for moving the legislation through a procedural
maze.

There, he said, the message was that the New Yorkers would dash Obama's hopes
for a massive health care overhaul if the President's dreams were a nightmare
for this state. Bully for Engel.

The threat stems from Schumer's and Gillibrand's earlier backing of a Senate
bill that discriminated against New York.

One provision required states to expand Medicaid coverage up to levels already
provided at a $1 billion annual price tag by New York. States that enrolled new
recipients would get federal aid, but New York would get nothing because the
state had already assumed the same costs.

A second Senate provision would slash special payments to hospitals that treat
high percentages of poor senior citizens covered by Medicare as well as
uninsured patients, who are sicker than average. The president of New
York-Presbyterian Medical Center has projected a loss of up to $45 million
annually - even if health care reform extends insurance to the degree promised.

Obama has released only the outlines of the legislation he hopes to drive
through the Senate on a majority vote. The details of his plan for New York are
thus in doubt. Schumer says he's confident that the specifics, when put down on
paper, will hold the state harmless. They had better.

Engel, meanwhile, said Pelosi "supports what we are saying." He also said he
wants guarantees in writing because, for procedural reasons, the House may be
called on to pass a bill that does not initially include protections for New
York.

"It's not only money, but the language," he said. "And the White House will not
show me the language. I'm not buying a pig in a poke. I don't want a promise, I
want paper." Damn right.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Daily News, L.P.


                              476 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            November 7, 2003 Friday

Groups say ICD-9 irrevocably broken, urge ICD-10 adoption

LENGTH: 902 words


Groups say ICD-9 irrevocably broken, urge ICD-10 adoption

By KEVIN NEW  Medical Device Daily Washington Editor  WASHINGTON - A national
advisory group took a bold step earlier this week in an effort to bring the
nation's procedural and diagnostic medical coding classification system into the
21st century.

The National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics (NCVHS; Washington) has
made key recommendations attempting to end a six-year debate accompanied by
mounting pressure from trade organizations and professional societies and has
urged the government to adopt the latest version of an international coding
system. NCVHS is a statutory public advisory body to the Secretary of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS; Washington).

NCVHS is recommending that HHS issue a notice of proposed rulemaking to replace
the International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision, Clinical
Modification (ICD-9-CM) and its counterpart, the ICD-9, Procedural
Classification System (ICD-9-PCS). The ICD-9-CM is used for diagnoses codes,
while the ICD-9-PCS is used for procedure codes for hospital inpatient services.
The ICD publications are owned by the World Health Organization (WHO; New York).

NCVHS approved a draft letter making the recommendation from John Lumpkin, MD,
chair of the committee and senior vice president and director of the healthcare
group at Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (Princeton, New Jersey), on Nov. 5.

The proposal, if approved, would replace the three volumes of the 9th revision
and constitute the first revision in 23 years, but not without significant
costs. Conversion costs are projected to range between $475 million to $1.15
billion nationally, plus $5 million to $40 million per year in lost
productivity, according to a study from RAND (Santa Monica, California).

The RAND study, commissioned by NCVHS, is believed to be the most thorough and
rigorous of a number of studies attempting to estimate the costs and benefits of
adopting ICD-10-CM and ICD-10-PCS, states the American Hospital Association
(AHA; Chicago, Illinois) in a letter to NCVHS supporting the recommendation.

But while the change would be costly, the RAND study concluded that the benefits
of transition would range from $700 million to as much as $7.7 billion, noted
the AHA.

"The RAND study concluded that the benefits in terms of more accurate payment,
fewer rejected claims, fewer fraudulent claims, better understanding of new
procedures and improved disease management clearly exceed the costs of
implementation," AHA wrote.

At almost a trillion and a half dollars per year, the U.S. healthcare industry
cannot afford to have inadequate information on the health of the population and
the care it receives, AHA said.

AHA isn't alone in its support for transitioning to a modernized coding system.
The Federation of American Hospitals (FAH; Washington), the American Health
Information Management Association (AHIMA; Chicago, Illinois), and the Advanced
Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed; Washington) are among those who have
joined in supporting the recommendation.

The ICD-9-CM system has severely limited reporting capabilities for today's
needs and growth capacity for future needs, Carol Kelly, executive vice
president of healthcare systems and federal legislative policy at AdvaMed, told
Medical Device Daily. The limitations "make it an increasingly unacceptable
coding classification system for the future for both inpatient and outpatient
diagnosis, as well as hospital inpatient services' procedure coding."

Continued use of ICD-9-CM threatens to jeopardize the ability of the U.S.
healthcare industry to effectively collect and use accurate, detailed healthcare
data and information for the betterment of domestic and global healthcare,
according to a position statement from AHIMA, and it added that the current
coding system is "irrevocably broken and must be replaced soon."

Tests on both CM and PCS versions show a vast improvement over ICD-9-CM and more
than satisfy the reporting requirements for hospital inpatient services and
other settings, the AHA said.

Improvements in the ICD-10-CM and ICD-10-PCS include additional content and
format changes. Information was added for ambulatory and managed care
encounters, injury codes were expanded, and combination diagnosis/symptom codes
were created to reduce the number of codes needed to fully describe a condition,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC; Atlanta,
Georgia).

Probably the most ambitious in terms of recommendations, AHIMA would like HHS to
adopt ICD-10-CM for diagnostic coding in all healthcare settings and ICD-10-PCS
for coding hospital inpatient services for implementation in 2005. AHIMA also
supports financial support to HHS and healthcare providers and plans through
Congressional legislative authority, if needed.

The NCVHS advises Secretary Tommy Thompson and HHS on health data and statistics
by serving as a forum where interested private sector groups can interact with
its members on a variety of health issues.

The 18-member committee is made up of experts in health statistics, healthcare
information technology, and purchasing and financing of healthcare services. The
HHS secretary appoints 16 members for a four-year term, resulting in four new
members being appointed each year. The remaining two members are selected by
Congress.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2003 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              477 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 31, 2015 Saturday

EndoGastric Solutions Announces Assignment of Relative Value Units for New CPT
Code Covering TIF Procedure

LENGTH: 638  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following news
release:




 REDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--EndoGastric Solutions&reg; (EGS), a leader in
incisionless procedural therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD),
today announced the Federal Register has posted coding and payment information
specific to the new Current Procedural Terminology (CPT)&reg; code covering the
Transoral Incisionless Fundoplication (TIF&reg;) procedure.




  &ldquo;The APC classification assignment is also a significant step in the
reimbursement process for the TIF procedure. We look forward to the increased
economic value of the procedure for healthcare systems to provide chronic GERD
patients this treatment option&rdquo;

 Physician payment for CPT 43210 EGD esophagogastric fundoplasty has been given
12.43 total relative value units (RVU); using the established Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) CY2016 conversion factor, 35.8279, this translates
to a national unadjusted payment amount of $445.34.
 For hospital outpatient payment, CPT 43210 has been grouped to APC 5331 Complex
GI Procedures. This has a national unadjusted payment amount of $3,613.57. APCs
are the federal government's facility payments for outpatient Medicare services.

 Physicians and hospitals will be able to reference CPT code 43210 EGD
esophagogastric fundoplasty and APC 5331 Complex GI Procedures for TIF
procedures on or after January 1, 2016.
 &ldquo;Now that RVU and APC assignments for the new Category 1 CPT code 43210
have been finalized for use, healthcare providers should have a more effective
pathway to appropriately receive reimbursement,&rdquo; said Philip Macdonald,
Vice President, Healthcare Economics, Policy and Reimbursement. &ldquo;A larger
percentage of GERD sufferers will have access to the TIF procedure as an option
to resolve their chronic symptoms and help improve their quality of life.&rdquo;

 The relative value unit (RVU) assignment is based on the amount of the
physician's work, practice expense and malpractice expense associated with the
procedure. The AMA formed the AMA/Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update
Committee (RUC) to act as an expert panel in developing relative value
recommendations to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). The
purpose of the RUC process is to provide recommendations to CMS for use in
annual updates to the new Medicare RVS. Manufacturers have no impact or input
into the assignment of RVUs.
 &ldquo;EGS invested in obtaining Level 1 evidence from randomized controlled
trials to prove that the TIF procedure is an effective option to treat chronic
acid reflux,&rdquo; said Skip Baldino, President and CEO of EGS. &ldquo;The CPT
application was supported by four key surgical and gastroenterology
societies--American Gastroenterological Association, American College of
Gastroenterology, American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy and the
Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeon--who recognized the
body of clinical evidence supported a dedicated CPT code.&rdquo;
 All outpatient services grouped under a specific APC are annually updated by
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). Each APC is composed of
services that are similar in clinical intensity, resource utilization and cost.
Many service codes are derived directly from the American Medical Association's
CPT&reg;.
 &ldquo;The APC classification assignment is also a significant step in the
reimbursement process for the TIF procedure. We look forward to the increased
economic value of the procedure for healthcare systems to provide chronic GERD
patients this treatment option,&rdquo; concluded Baldino.


 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              478 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 7, 2016 Friday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
New Mexico: CHRISTUS ST. VINCENT REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER,
Plaintiff/Counter-Defendant, v. DISTRICT 1199NM, NATIONAL UNION OF HOSPITAL AND
HEALTHCARE EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO, AFSCME Defendant/Counter-Plaintiff.

LENGTH: 3397  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of New Mexico has
issued the following order:



  IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO
______________________ CHRISTUS ST. VINCENT REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER,
Plaintiff/Counter-Defendant, v. No. 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM DISTRICT 1199NM,
NATIONAL UNION OF HOSPITAL AND HEALTHCARE EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO, AFSCME
Defendant/Counter-Plaintiff. MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT'S
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION and DENYING PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
AS MOOT THIS MATTER comes before the Court upon Defendant's Motion to Compel
Arbitration, filed May 17, 2016 (Doc. 28) and Plaintiff's Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication, filed August 26, 2016
(Doc.

43). Having reviewed the parties' briefs and applicable law, I find that
Defendant's motion to compel has merit and shall be granted, and that
Plaintiff's summary judgment motion shall be denied as moot. BACKGROUND This is
an action arising out of alleged breaches of the parties' 2014 collective
bargaining agreement ("CBA") for the Nurse bargaining unit ("Union"). Federal
jurisdiction is alleged pursuant to §301 of the LMRA, 29 U.S.C. §185 and 29
U.S.C. §185, as well as the National Labor Relations Act, 29 U.S. Code § 151, et
seq.; and the Labor Management Relations Act, 29 U.S. § 141, et seq.1 The
alleged CBA breach centers on the discipline and subsequent 1 29 U.S.C. §185(a)
states: Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 1 of 10 2
termination of employee and Union member Diane Spencer. The Union contends that
Plaintiff ("the Hospital") disciplined Ms. Spencer without just cause and in
retaliation for Ms. Spencer's engaging in Union activities. Count I of the
Complaint seeks a federal declaration of the meaning of a disputed clause of the
CBA, and Count II alleges that Defendant breached that clause, §30.12 of the
CBA, by seeking arbitration of Ms. Spencer's grievances ("Spencer grievances")
when it already selected the National Labor Relations Board ("NLRB") to
adjudicate the matter. Plaintiff contends that as a result, the grievances are
not arbitrable because the Union waived the right to grieve when it elected the
NLRB as an alternative forum to resolve the dispute. Defendant counterclaims
that Plaintiff has rejected the Union's request to arbitrate the Spencer
grievances and seeks a judicial declaration that Plaintiff is obligated to do
so. Doc. 12. The parties also disagree about whether this Court or an Arbitrator
should determine the arbitrability of the parties' dispute. Ms. Spencer was
disciplined on three separate incidents: July 25, 2012, January 17, 2013 and
October 28, 2014, with the latter being a final warning. The Union filed a
grievance about the final warning ("Discipline Grievance"), and on January 28,
2015, the Union filed demand for arbitration with Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service ("FMCS") regarding the Discipline Grievance. On April 8,
2015, the Union also filed an unfair labor practice charge ("ULP's") with Region
28 of the NLRB (the "Charge"). On April 21, 2015, Ms. Spencer was again
disciplined and subsequently terminated from her employment at Christus St.
Vincent. That same day, the Union filed a grievance concerning the termination
(the "Termination Grievance"). May 13, 2015, the Union filed an amended ULP
Suits for violation of contracts between an employer and a labor organization
representing employees in an industry affecting commerce as defined in this
chapter, or between any such labor organizations, may be brought in any district
court of the United States having jurisdiction of the parties, without respect
to the amount in controversy or without regard to the citizenship of the
parties. Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 2 of 10 3
charge with Region 28 of the NLRB (the "Amended Charge"), alleging that
Plaintiff had targeted Ms. Spencer within the last six months for discipline and
termination due to her "outspoken participation" in Union activities. The NLRB
declined to issue a complaint based on the Amended Charge, and the Union
withdrew the Amended Charge. DISCUSSION The threshold question is whether the
Arbitrator has the authority to decide issues of arbitrability, and if the Court
is to decide such matters, then the question is whether the Spencer Grievances
are arbitrable or waived. There are three bargaining units of Plaintiff's
employees which are represented by the Union, each with their own CBA. The
Hospital and the Union are parties to the Nurse CBA effective October 14, 2014
through August 31, 2017. 2 The parties' dispute involves the Nurse CBA. The
Nurse CBA contains a bargained-for provision concerning the parties' respective
rights to pursue grievances through arbitration, specifically, Article 30,
§30.12 of the Nurse CBA which provides as follows: 30.12. It is the intention of
the parties that the grievance procedure set forth herein shall be the sole and
exclusive remedy of the parties for any alleged breach of this Agreement.
Therefore, resort to any other remedy at law or at equity, administrative or
judicial, shall constitute a waiver of the grievance. See Compl., &para;9
(emphasis added); Doc. 12-1 at 2 (Ex. A to counterclaim). This section is also
referred to as the "Election of Forum Clause." Id. Defendant contends that the
Hospital incorrectly relies on §30.12 of the CBA to argue that the Union has
waived the right to arbitration because it did not seek to remedy an "alleged
breach of [the] Agreement" under the Election Forum Clause, but rather it
alleged a violation of federal law under the National Labor Relations Act. The
Union therefore argues that it has not breached that provision in the CBA. 2
Technical workers and Service and Maintenance workers make up the other two
bargaining units. Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 3 of
10 4 I. Arbitrator Should Decide Questions of Arbitrability The Union insists
that this matter is strictly a labor dispute which a long line of federal
precedent requires should be submitted for arbitration. See United Steelworkers
v. American Mfg. Co., 363 U.S. 564 (1960); United Steelworkers v. Warrior & Gulf
Navigation Co., 363 U.S. 574 (1960); United Steelworkers v. Enterprise Wheel &
Car Corp., 363 U.S. 593 (1960) (known collectively as the "Steelworkers
Trilogy"); see also Operating Engineers Local 150 v. Flair Builders, Inc., 406
U.S. 487 (1972). Section 301 of the LMRA assigns the courts the "duty of
determining whether the reluctant party has breached his promise to arbitrate."
Warrior & Gulf Nav. Co., 363 U.S. at 582. There are limits, however, to the
judicial inquiry: . . . arbitration is a matter of contract and a party cannot
be required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed so to
submit. Yet, to be consistent with congressional policy in favor of settlement
of disputes by the parties through the machinery of arbitration, the judicial
inquiry under s 301 must be strictly confined to the question whether the
reluctant party did agree to arbitrate the grievance or did agree to give the
arbitrator power to make the award he made. An order to arbitrate the particular
grievance should not be denied unless it may be said with positive assurance
that the arbitration clause is not susceptible of an interpretation that covers
the asserted dispute. Doubts should be resolved in favor of coverage. Warrior &
Gulf Nav. Co., 363 U.S. at 582-83 (emphasis added). Plaintiff claims that a
result of the parties' negotiation over the grievance and arbitration procedure,
the parties agreed that an arbitrator would not have the authority to decide
issues of arbitrability. Plaintiff points to deposition testimony supporting its
position that certain language in the CBA had been proposed by the Hospital, but
rejected by the Union. Ex. D at 63:15-64:8, 72:7-20; Ex. G. Plaintiff proposed
to add the following provision: The Arbitrator shall decide issues of
arbitrability prior to hearing the merits of the case. If the Arbitrator
determines the case is arbitrable then the Arbitrator shall consider the facts
of the grievance. . . . Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16
Page 4 of 10 5 Id. (emphasis added). Notes taken during negotiations do show
that this provision was crossed out. Doc. 33-7 at 6. Defendant contends that the
Union's rejection of this language cannot be read to indicate that the Union
instead intended for a court to determine arbitrability questions, and explains
that Union's rejection of this language was based on a desire not to have the
Arbitrator consider arbitrability questions "prior to" rather than as a part of
the "hearing on the merits of the case." Defendant argues that Plaintiff's gloss
on that language--that the Union intended for a court to routinely determine
arbitrability issues--would be contrary to background black-letter case law. See
AT&T Technologies, Inc. v. communications Workers of America, 475 U.S. 643, 649
(1986) ("Whether 'arguable' or not, . . . the union's claim that the employer
has violated the collective-bargaining agreement is to be decided, not by the
court asked to order arbitration, but as the parties have agreed, by the
arbitrator."); American Mfg. Co., 363 U.S at 567-568 ("The function of the court
is very limited when the parties have agreed to submit all questions of contract
interpretation to the arbitrator. It is confined to ascertaining whether the
party seeking arbitration is making a claim which on its face is governed by the
contract."). The Court agrees with Defendant's position that the negotiations do
not show an intent to have the courts decide issues of arbitrability, nor have
the parties agreed to have a court decide those issues. Plaintiff advances the
argument that the Court should decide whether the parties have agreed to submit
a particular dispute to arbitration because that question is a "substantive"
matter. Substantive arbitrability deals with whether the dispute relates to
matters that the parties agreed to arbitrate, while procedural arbitrability
addresses whether parties have satisfied conditions that allow them to use
arbitration. Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., 537 U.S. 79, 85 (2002). Here,
the "subject matter" of the dispute is whether the Hospital had just cause to
Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 5 of 10 6 terminate
Diane Spencer's employment, while the "procedural issue" is whether the Union
waived the grievance under §30.12 of the CBA. Plaintiff is correct that
substantive arbitrability--the question of whether parties have agreed to
"submi[t] a particular dispute to arbitration"--is typically an "issue for
judicial determination . . . ." Id. at 83. However, Plaintiff is
over-complicating what is actually a relatively straightforward issue. Here, it
is clear that under the CBA, the parties have agreed to submit "grievances" to
arbitration, and that such "grievances" includes charges "by either party that
the other has violated one or more expressed provisions of this Agreement or a
formal disciplinary action taken against a non-probationary associate which the
grievant alleges was taken without just cause." Doc. 12, Ex. A at §30.2. This
provision would include disputes about whether the employer had just cause to
terminate an employee to the arbitration clause of the CBA. Section 7.1.16 of
the Management Rights Article reserves as a management right "[d]ecisions
concerning the counseling, reprimanding, discipline and discharge of associates
for just cause with the specific understanding that any discipline must be for
just cause and that the Union may grieve and arbitrate any such decision under
this Agreement." Doc. 41-1 at 4 (emphasis added). As part of that same Article,
the Hospital agreed that it would not refuse to arbitrate a grievance "on the
ground that it is not arbitrable under this Agreement." See Doc. 41- 1 at 6.
Further, section 7.5 of the Management Rights Article provides: The exercise of
management rights in this Article is not subject to the grievance and
arbitration procedure of this Agreement, unless the management right is
otherwise restricted by a specific provision of this Agreement. Management will
not refuse to arbitrate a grievance under a specific provision of this Agreement
(outside of the management rights set forth above in this Article unless noted
otherwise above) on the ground that it is not arbitrable under this Agreement.
Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 6 of 10 7 Id.
(Emphasis added). The question whether parties have submitted a particular
dispute to arbitration--that is, the question of arbitrability--is "an issue for
judicial determination [u]nless the parties clearly and unmistakably provide
otherwise." AT & T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications Workers, 475 U.S. at
649. Based on the CBA provisions, it certainly cannot be said "with positive
assurance that the arbitration clause is not susceptible of an interpretation
that covers the asserted dispute." Warrior & Gulf Nav. Co., 363 U.S. at 582-83.
Therefore, the Court finds that the parties have agreed to submit the Spencer
grievance to arbitration and that Defendant's motion to compel shall be granted
on that issue. II. Waiver Issue is Matter for Arbitration Similarly, under the
express provisions of the CBA, the question of whether the Union waived its
right to arbitrate the Spencer grievances is also subject to an arbitrator's
determination. If parties have agreed that the "subject matter" would be
arbitrated, "procedural" questions which grow out of the dispute and bear on its
final disposition should be left to an arbitrator: We think that labor disputes
of the kind involved here cannot be broken down so easily into their
"substantive" and "procedural" aspects. Questions concerning the procedural
prerequisites to arbitration do not arise in a vacuum; they develop in the
context of an actual dispute *557 about the rights of the parties to the
contract or those covered by it. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. v. Livingston, 376 U.S.
543, 556-57 (1964) (rejecting argument that questions regarding whether "
procedural" conditions to arbitration have been met must be decided by the court
and not the arbitrator); Flair Builders, Inc., 406 U.S. 487, 490 (1972) ("
procedural" questions which grow out of the dispute and bear on its final
disposition should be left to the arbitrator). The Hospital's affirmative
defense that the Union waived the grievance pursuant to Section 30.12 is
precisely the type of "procedural" issue that John Wiley & Sons Case
1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 7 of 10 8 requires to be
resolved by an arbitrator. Id. (the policy behind federal labor law requires
that procedural disagreements should be regarded "not as separate disputes but
as aspects of the dispute which called the grievance procedures into play"). The
Hospital also claims that the Spencer grievance is not arbitrable based on its
interpretation of §30.12 of the CBA and the fact that the Union filed a NLRB
charge on Ms. Spencer's behalf which is factually parallel to the claims made in
the grievance. See Resp. at 21. Section 30.12 states that it is the intention of
the parties "that the grievance procedure set forth herein shall be the sole and
exclusive remedy of the parties for any alleged breach of this Agreement" and
resort to any other remedy at law or equity, "administrative or judicial, shall
constitute a waiver of the grievance." Doc. 12-1 (emphasis added). Defendant
contends that the filing of unfair labor practices with the NLRB does not seek
to remedy a claimed breach of the Agreement, but rather federal law, and
analogizes the situation to an employee who pursues statutory remedies if that
employee's termination was upheld by an arbitrator. See, e.g., McDonald v. City
of West Branch, 466 U.S. 284, 292 (1984) (discharged police officer was not
precluded by adverse arbitration decision issued pursuant to a collective
bargaining agreement from pursuing his Section 1983 claims in federal court);
Barrentine v. Arkansas-Best Freight System, 450 U.S. 728, 745 (1981) (adverse
arbitration decision issued pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement did
not preclude an employee's claim pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act);
Alexander v. Gardner-Denver Co., 415 U.S. 36 (1974) (adverse arbitration
decision issued pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement did not preclude
an employee's claim pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964).
Thus, despite the similarity of the factual grounds underlying the Union's claim
with the NLRB, Defendant contends that the Election Forum clause is not
violated. Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 8 of 10 9
The waiver issue rests on the meaning of §30.12 of the CBA as it applies to Ms.
Spencer's grievance, which in turn implicates contract interpretation. Because
§30.12 is susceptible of an interpretation that covers the waiver issue, and
because doubts should be resolved in favor of coverage, the Court finds that an
arbitrator should resolve the issue. See American Mfg. Co., 363 U.S. at 567-568
("Whether the moving party is right or wrong is a question of contract
interpretation for the arbitrator."). Waiver is also the kind of defense that an
arbitrator should decide. See Howsam, 537 U.S. at 79-80 (expectation is that
arbitrator would decide procedural questions such as "allegations of waiver,
delay or a like defense to arbitrability"); Flair Builders, Inc., 406 U.S. at
490-92 (defense of laches is for arbitrator to decide). Accordingly, the meaning
of §30.12 of the CBA as it applies to the Spencer grievance, and whether the
Union has waived arbitrability, is for the arbitrator to decide. Defendant's
motion to compel arbitration is granted on this issue as well. III. Plaintiff's
Motion for Summary Judgment and Defendant's Counterclaims Finally, the Court
turns to Defendant's motion for summary judgment, which needs little discussion.
In that motion, Plaintiff contends that it is entitled to the relief requested
in its complaint for declaratory relief because the undisputed evidence
demonstrates that the Spencer grievances are not arbitrable and also shows that
the Union has breached the CBA by pursuing duplicative claims. Plaintiff's
summary judgment motion must be denied as moot, based on the Court's findings
that Parties have agreed to submit the Spencer grievance to arbitration, and
that the waiver issue is for the arbitrator to decide. Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM
Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 9 of 10 10 In addition, because the relief
requested in Defendant's counterclaims are the same as the relief requested in
Defendant's motion to compel, Defendant's counterclaims are also denied as moot.
CONCLUSION In sum, the Court finds and concludes that under the terms of the
CBA, the parties have agreed to submit the Spencer grievance to arbitration and
that Defendant's motion to compel shall be granted on that issue. The Court
further finds and concludes that the meaning of §30.12 of the CBA as it applies
to the Spencer grievance, and whether the Union has waived arbitrability, is for
the arbitrator to decide, and Defendant's motion to compel is granted on that
issue as well. Finally, Plaintiff's summary judgment motion and Defendant's
counterclaims are denied as moot for reasons described in this Memorandum
Opinion and Order. In addition, because the relief requested in Defendant's
counterclaims are the same as the relief requested in Defendant's motion to
compel, Defendant's counterclaims are also denied as moot. THEREFORE, IT IS
ORDERED that Defendant's Motion to Compel Arbitration (Doc. 28) is hereby
GRANTED for reasons described in this Memorandum Opinion and Order; IT IS
FURTHER ORDERED that Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment or in the
alternative, Summary Adjudication (Doc. 43) is hereby DENIED as MOOT for reasons
described in this Memorandum Opinion and Order. A final judgment will be filed
separately. ________________________________ UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE Case
1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 10 of 10



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              479 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

New Children's Hospital chief quit U.S. job amid controversy

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1163  words


The new president of B.C. Children's Hospital resigned his nine-year CEO post at
a Connecticut hospital after a scathing indictment of hospital management and
policies by the state government's public health commissioner.

Larry Gold, who succeeds the retired Sharon Toohey, was chosen by a selection
panel headed by Lynda Cranston, CEO of the Provincial Health Services Authority
(PHSA), the governing authority over BC Children's Hospital and Sunny Hill
Health Centre, both of which Gold will lead.

Cranston said in an interview that Gold was honest and straightforward about the
events in Connecticut and the actions he took to prevent further occurrences.

Upon his resignation, Gold was praised by his colleagues as a down-to-earth,
energetic leader, revered for his fundraising abilities and interpersonal
skills.

Gold, a 55-year-old married father of two children (aged 21 and 19), is a social
worker who became a hospital executive. He will be paid $238,000 a year.

In 2005, Connecticut health commissioner Dr. Robert Galvin fined Gold's former
hospital, Connecticut Children's Medical Center (CCMC) $250,000 after multiple
unannounced inspections and investigations found numerous problems.

The hospital was placed on two years probation during which time it was ordered
to fix problems that violated state regulations.

In May of 2005, Gold signed a legal "consent agreement" to do that while not
admitting to wrongdoing.

In an interview, Gold said he thought his former hospital met and even exceeded
all standards but the findings were accepted and he resigned because, with
leaders, "the buck stops here."

The problems, over the course of about two years, had to do with care lapses in
the hospital's radiology and emergency departments, security, and trauma
services. The Vancouver Sun obtained a 100-page report detailing the procedural
lapses, which may have caused the deaths of three children and jeopardized other
patients' safety. Gold is not named specifically nor accused of being
responsible for the problems. He resigned seven months later and has spent the
last two years as a consultant.

In one case cited by Galvin, a 15-year-old car accident victim died after it
took a radiologist in the emergency room an hour and a half to read a diagnostic
exam that revealed a heart injury. The boy bled internally and died before
surgery to repair his torn aorta.

Another fatality was caused by a child, visiting a patient, who wandered
unsupervised and unnoticed by hospital staff into another patient's room, picked
up a baby, dropped it and caused its death.

In another security lapse, a drug addicted mother wrongfully removed her baby in
state custody from the hospital and emergency abduction protocols were not used.

In a case of misdiagnosis, a child with sickle cell disease died because of gaps
in emergency department diagnostic delays. The report also details numerous
other lapses including medications not being stored in locked carts, an
operation being done on the wrong side of the body, and fridges that weren't
kept cold enough.

Galvin, still the health commissioner, declined to be interviewed but had a
hospital spokesman send this e-mail statement: "During Mr. Gold's time with
CCMC, he was known as a strong advocate for the hospital and [Galvin] wishes Mr.
Gold success in his new position."

Before listing off situations in Toronto and Winnipeg where children died
because of procedural flaws and negligent care, Cranston said, "We have to
recognize there are no perfect hospitals out there."

She was reminded that a decade ago, when she was president of B.C. Children's
Hospital, she offered a tearful public apology to the parents of a
seven-year-old cancer patient who died after a doctor mistakenly injected a
chemotherapy drug into her spine instead of her veins. It was not the first time
a drug had been incorrectly administered but previous cases had not resulted in
deaths.

At a news conference at the time, Cranston admitted the hospital was
responsible.

She said: "There are no words that can adequately communicate our apologies or
regret to this girl's family. There is nothing that can bring their child back
to them, and we are devastated by that knowledge."

Cranston said she can relate to what Gold went through and hospital leaders have
to accept the ultimate blame when things go wrong.

"That's right, I had my own experience. So I am someone who has walked through
the fire and tried to make significant changes so that we came out better at the
other end," she said.

"There are 10,000 employees at PHSA and any day of the week untoward things can
happen in a highly labour intensive business because of the human factor," she
added.

Cranston said Gold was the best of several candidates because of his 30 years of
experience at pediatric hospitals.

Several months before Gold resigned, Galvin was quoted in the Hartford Courant
newspaper as saying: "We see a more than reasonable amount of supervisory
confusion over there. They simply have to get the place straightened out and put
on a full court press to do it."

Galvin said hospital leaders seemed unaware that a "bulldozer, not a shovel" was
necessary to protect children. When asked if he'd take his own grandchildren to
the hospital, he said no, adding "We have not seen to date the positive changes
I want to see there."

Apart from security concerns, Galvin said the 129-bed hospital (similar in size
to B.C. Children's) needed electronic medical records, more staff in the
emergency department, better security, more supervision of medical trainees,
more training in advanced trauma, cardiac and life support, and more clarity of
executive functions.

Cranston said she's not overly concerned Gold hails from the U.S.

"I'm a little biased as my preference is to find a Canadian whenever possible.
But after interviewing as many as 30 candidates that were brought to us by a
search firm, and then whittling the list down to six or seven, Larry rose to the
top," she said, referring to the selection process conducted by about 20 various
PHSA managers, doctors and nurses.

"There are just a few dozen pediatric hospitals in North America, so someone
with 30 years of experience is significant," Cranston added.

In fact, there are more than 100 pediatric hospitals in North America, including
about a dozen in Canada. In a recent issue of U.S. News and World Report,
pediatric hospitals in the U.S. are ranked. The Connecticut hospital where Gold
worked does not place in the top 30 hospitals in the areas of general
pediatrics, cancer, cardiac care and surgery, neonatal neurology and
neurosurgery, or respiratory disorders. But it does place 30th in digestive
disorders care.

Rankings are measured on hospital reputations (according to doctors surveyed),
nurse staffing levels, advanced technologies, patient volumes and re-admission
rates (patients who have to go back to hospital after discharge due to
complications or unresolved matters.)

Sun Health Issues Reporter

pfayerman@png.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              480 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2017 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved
                              GlobalData - Events

                                  May 1, 2017

                              VIDA Diagnostics Inc

                 2500 Crosspark Road, BioVentures Center, W250
                                Coralville 52241
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * EVENTS * * * * * * * * * *


OneMedNet and VIDA Announce Global Partnership

   Dec 28, 2016

   OneMedNet Corporation, a leader in the provision of innovative Image Exchange
Solutions, announced a partnership with VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. (VIDA), the
leader in precision pulmonary imaging. Under the agreement, OneMedNet and VIDA
will incorporate image exchange into current and future diagnostic and
therapeutic procedural workflows to manage patients with pulmonary diseases.VIDA
will create an embedded VIDA|exchange data sharing solution within its
VIDA|visionTM software, using the BEAM SW and Network offering of OneMedNet to
provide their customers a seamless mechanism for exchange of studies for the
purposes of precision analysis provided by VIDA .&ldquoPrecision healthcare
requires precision informatics. We are delighted to be teaming up with OneMedNet
to simplify pulmonologists&rsquoaccess to advanced imaging analysis,&rdquosaid
Sandra Stapleton, COO of VIDA. &ldquoThe partnership enables integrated and
streamlined procedural workflows, essential for higher-value precision
care.&rdquo The collaboration covers North America, Europe, and Australia.
According to Catherine Forrester, Vice President, Operations of OneMedNet,
&ldquoOur companies share an overlapping healthcare vision and our complimentary
solutions blend seamlessly together, which certainly make for an ideal
relationship. We are pleased to expand our successful partnership program with
yet another industry segment leader.&rdquo


VIDA Diagnostics names new COO

   Dec 12, 2016

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc., a provider of clinical imaging software and analysis
services, has named Sandra Stapleton as COO.Sandra will strengthen VIDA&#39s
operations and executive management team to support growth in pulmonary clinical
software and services."We are delighted to welcome Sandra to VIDA and strengthen
our operational and strategic core," said Susan A. Wood, Ph.D, President and CEO
of VIDA. &nbsp"Sandra is an established leader with a successful track record in
a confluence of sectors that influence our business: imaging informatics,
decision support and pulmonary medicine. Her strong and successful leadership is
a critical addition to VIDA for our next phase of growth." Sandra Stapleton has
over 20 years of experience successfully incorporating innovative clinical
solutions into the marketplace. &nbspShe has led strategic, clinical, operations
and technology functions, and post-acquisition transitional teams. &nbspShe
comes to VIDA from Lexmark International (following acquisition of Claron
Technology, Inc.), where she led the imaging platform business, corporate
quality and regulatory, and visualization engineering functions for Lexmark.
Prior to Claron, Sandra served as VP of Technology at R2 Technology (R2), where
she led development of R2&#39s mammography and lung computer-aided detection
products, both receiving FDA PMA approval. "I&#39m excited to be joining
VIDA&#39s executive team as we advance precision information into clinical
practice," said Sandra. "With the clinical evidence supporting its software and
services, VIDA is poised to improve the standard of pulmonary care."


VIDA and Olympus Expand Strategic Partnership

   May 16, 2016

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc., the leader in precision pulmonary imaging, announced
an expanded collaboration with Olympus Respiratory America, a leading developer
of devices for the treatment of acute and chronic conditions of the lung and a
subsidiary of Olympus Corporation, at the 2016 American Thoracic Society
Meeting. Under the agreement, VIDA and Olympus will incorporate precision
informatics into current and future diagnostic and therapeutic procedural
workflows to manage patients with pulmonary diseases."Olympus' goals are to
develop more comprehensive technologies and tools to localize, diagnose and
treat the small pulmonary nodule," said Katsuyuki Saito, Executive Officer,
Olympus Corporation. "By unifying advanced procedural selection and planning
techniques using VIDA, we aim to offer a high value, efficient solution for the
physician and patient." The collaboration covers North America and Europe and
will include marketing and development programs in interventional pulmonology,
tightly integrating imaging informatics software and services to drive
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. "Precision medicine requires precision
information and we are delighted to expand our partnership with Olympus to
advance interventional pulmonology," said Susan A. Wood, Ph.D., President and
CEO of VIDA. "The partnership enables integrated and streamlined procedural
workflows, essential for higher-value precision care and builds on the successes
of our Olympus partnership to date."


University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics Selects Local Startup, VIDA, for
Precision Pulmonology Imaging Solution

   Jan 05, 2016

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. ("VIDA"), the leader in precision pulmonary imaging,
announced an engagement to provide clinical imaging software and analysis
services to the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics. "VIDA's leadership
position was born from a vision of taking precision imaging from bench to
bedside," said Susan A. Wood, Ph.D., President and CEO of VIDA. "It is both
thrilling and fitting that the University of Iowa is VIDA's first direct
clinical sale. Together we will ensure that every pulmonary patient gets
precision care."VIDA's solution will support key pulmonary care initiatives at
University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, including lung cancer screening,
interventional pulmonology and other precision healthcare efforts. VIDA provides
a quality-controlled image analysis service, with advanced analytical software,
to provide clinicians rich quantitative lung measures that inform critical care
decisions. "The University of Iowa has always pursued advancements in pulmonary
care," said Joseph Zabner, M.D., Professor and Director, Division of Pulmonary,
Critical Care & Occupational Medicine. "Bringing advanced pulmonary analysis to
the bedside was always the focus of Geoff McLennan, M.D., who was critical to
our early successes in interventional bronchoscopy." VIDA's strong
commercialization momentum is an early outcome of support from the Iowa Economic
Development Authority (IEDA). VIDA was granted an IEDA Accelerate loan in
February 2015 through the Iowa Innovation Acceleration Fund to aid the company
in marketing and sales efforts. This loan was used to invest in early
commercialization efforts and this opportunity with the University of Iowa marks
the first commercial sale resulting from the State investment. "Iowa has worked
hard to create a continuum of innovation funding to help companies start and
grow in our state. We are thrilled that the investment in VIDA has enabled them
to advance their commercial efforts so rapidly and provide best-in-breed
opportunities for patients with or at risk of pulmonary disease," said Debi
Durham, director of the IEDA.


VIDA Wins Product of Outstanding Interest Award for Precision Pulmonary Imaging
Solution

   Sep 30, 2015

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. ("VIDA"), the leader in precision pulmonary imaging,
today announced it has received the European Respiratory Society's Product of
Outstanding Interest (POINT) award. The honor recognizes innovation in the area
of respiratory healthcare, with a focus on solutions solving clinical care
challenges."We are delighted and honored to receive the POINT award here at
ERS," said Susan A. Wood, Ph.D, President and CEO of VIDA. "We thank the ERS for
recognizing and supporting our mission of improving patient outcomes through
precision imaging."VIDA's solution transforms raw imaging data into concise,
quantified measures that inform highly personalized care decisions. For example,
VIDA's Lung Volume Reduction (LVR) workflow provides individual metrics for
fissure integrity, disease severity by lobe, and disease heterogeneity, all of
which are critical input in selecting and planning therapy. VIDA is
demonstrating this workflow and others at ERS, with its next-generation viewing
platform, VIDA|visionâ¢. "VIDA's solution captures the personalized medicine
theme of ERS," said Felix Herth, MD, Ph.D, Chairman, Department of Pneumology
and Critical Care Medicine at ThoraxKlinik, University of Heidelberg. "An
informed decision process is increasingly necessary as pulmonary diagnoses and
therapeutics become more personalized. VIDA takes into account the uniqueness of
the patient and helps us plan a unique care path to match."


VIDA Diagnostics Announces Expanded Board of Directors

   Dec 02, 2014

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. announced the expansion of its board of directors
appointing three new members.Craig Ibsen, Michael Minette, and Philip Smith,
join VIDA's board to add critical industry and financial expertise to help guide
VIDA's next phase of strategic growth."As VIDA advances its leading pulmonary
imaging informatics solution into routine clinical care, it is of great benefit
to have the advice of industry and financial leaders with unique understanding
of the role of advanced imaging analytics in healthcare," says Susan A. Wood,
Ph.D., President and CEO of VIDA. "I am grateful for the support and advice of
Craig, Mike and Phil as VIDA continues its growth trajectory." About Craig
IbsenCraig has over 25 years of investment, entrepreneurial and senior
management experience in the US and globally. He is a founder of Next Level
Ventures, a new $30M late stage venture capital firm located in Des Moines,
investing in growing companies that are based in Iowa. Craig currently serves as
Director of Industry People Group, Fitness on Request and was the former
Chairman of Global ID Group which was acquired by Inverness Graham in 2013. He
holds an MBA from Drake University and a BA from Luther College. About Michael
MinetteMike is a Vice President of Corporate Development & Strategy, supporting
and leading global growth and acquisition initiatives for Exact Sciences, and
formally for Covidien's Early Technologies division. With over sixteen years in
healthcare and transactions, Mike provides diverse operational experiences that
include: sales, marketing, project management, product development, general
management, and strategy consulting. He has executed over 40 M&A / transactions
in his career. Prior to Exact Sciences and Covidien, Mike led and managed
business development and M&A transactions across General Electric Healthcare's
portfolio of businesses. Mike holds a Bachelor of Arts in Finance from the
University of Northern Iowa, Master of Business Administration in Strategy,
Finance & Management from Loyola University of Chicago, and graduate of
University of Chicago's Mergers & Acquisition program. About Philip SmithPhil
has amassed extensive healthcare transaction expertise during his career as both
an investment banker and an executive officer of emerging medtech companies.
Prior to joining Greene Holcomb Fisher, he spent 11 years in various executive
roles in strategy and business development, and as CEO. In these capacities and
as a consumer of investment banking services, Phil obtained significant
acquisition and strategic partnering experience from the operating client
perspective. He has also served on boards both as an independent director and as
CEO. Previously, Phil was a healthcare investment banker at Piper Jaffray, where
he was heavily involved in M&A and public equity transactions with
industry-leading medical technology and health services organizations. Phil
holds an MBA from the Wharton School of Business and an BS in electrical
engineering from the University of Florida.


VIDA Diagnostics Appoints Philippe Raffy As CTO

   Mar 28, 2012

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. (VIDA) appointed Dr Philippe Raffy as CTO. Dr Raffy's
inclusion to the VIDA management team strengthens the technical leadership and
expertise in pulmonary image analysis.Prior to VIDA, Dr Raffy held technical and
management leadership positions at R2 Technologies, Inc. and Vital Images, Inc.,
where he was instrumental in commercializing innovative medical imaging
technologies. Dr Raffy has a masters and PhD in electrical engineering from
University of Nice-Sophia Antipolis and a postdoctoral fellowship at Stanford
University's Information Systems Laboratory. He is an inventor of seven US and
EEU patents and 37 peer reviewed publications.Dr Susan A Wood, president and CEO
of VIDA, said, "Dr. Raffy's unique background and experience in pulmonary
imaging and machine vision solidify VIDA's position as leading experts in
quantitative imaging of the lung. Philippe's experience in commercializing
medical imaging technologies into developing markets is an essential inclusion
to our team as VIDA continues its growth trajectory." Dr Raffy said, "I welcome
the opportunity to expand VIDA's quantitative imaging solutions for the early
detection, diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary disease into clinical practice.
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Diseases (COPD) and lung cancer cause increasingly
prominent public health disorders, creating major economic challenges for our
societies and healthcare systems. They require disruptive approaches to targeted
diagnoses and treatment planning."


VIDA Diagnostics Earns ISO 13485 And CE Certifications

   Sep 19, 2011

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. achieved International Organization for
Standardization (ISO 13485) certification and CE certification for its flagship
product, Apollo. The CE certification permits VIDA to sell Apollo for clinical
use in the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland. Apollo currently has
FDA 510(k) approval for clinical use in the US.Apollo is VIDA's recently
released, pulmonary image analysis solution designed to assess pulmonary disease
objectively and repeatedly with unprecedented speed and accuracy. Used for the
early detection, evaluation and aiding of treatment of pulmonary disease
including COPD, emphysema, lung cancer, and asthmaVIDA's analysis methodology
has been successfully tested in multiple academic and clinical trials.Dr Susan A
Wood, president and CEO of VIDA Diagnostics, said, "Receiving these
certifications are significant milestones for VIDA Diagnostics in establishing
high quality standards and generating a solid platform for commercialization in
the worldwide market. We are excited to expand the reach of VIDA solutions."


Vida Enters Into Agreement With Veran Medical

   Nov 29, 2009




VIDA Diagnostics Appoints Susan A. Wood As President And CEO

   Sep 28, 2009

   VIDA Diagnostics Inc. (VIDA Diagnostics), a US-based developer of
quantitative imaging software for the advanced analysis of pulmonary diseases,
has appointed Susan A. Wood as president and chief executive officer (CEO). Wood
will focus on the continued development and commercialization of the Company's
FDA-cleared pulmonary applications and establishing quantitative pulmonary
imaging into routine clinical practice.Wood succeeds John Garber, who during his
tenure helped build VIDA from an academic concept to the leading pulmonary image
analysis tool in clinical research. Wood Brings extensive clinical and
commercial expertise in quantitative thoracic image analysis.Dr. Wood's
pulmonary research and imaging industry experience have helped establish the
seminal need for volumetric, quantitative CT imaging for pulmonary diagnosis and
treatment planning. We are delighted to add her domain knowledge and industry
experience to further build on VIDA's leadership position, and to establish
objective, quantitative measures for diagnosis, interventional therapies and
therapeutic response assessment, said Geoffrey McLennan,a founder of VIDA and a
practicing pulmonologist at the University of Iowa Healthcare. Used by over 40
research and clinical sites worldwide with more than 25,000 CT exams processed,
VIDA's PW2 is one of the most clinically validated quantitative pulmonary
analysis solutions in its class. I am thrilled with the opportunity to advance
VIDA to the next stage and to ingrain quantitative pulmonary review into routine
clinical practice, said Wood. John Garber successfully executed on the founders
vision and established a tremendous platform for VIDA, tapping into one of the
world's most talented teams of engineers, physiologists and clinicians focused
exclusively on pulmonary imaging. This talent and focus is a great platform from
which to advance the company. Wood, who joined VIDA's board in 2008, has a
proven track record in developing and marketing innovative medical technologies
into clinical practice. Her last position was executive vice president of
Marketing and Technology at Vital Images, where she was responsible for the
development and commercialization of the company's first clinical applications
for Toshiba's Aquilionâ¢ ONE, dynamic volume CT. Previously, Wood led marketing
and new product development at R2 Technology, now part of Hologic. In this role,
Wood championed the product and market development of the first-ever FDA-cleared
computer-aided detection (CAD) product for lung nodule detection in MDCT. She
earned her doctorate from the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, based on the
thesis, Analysis of Three-Dimensional Airway Trees during Inflation Using
Computed Tomography.
* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *
Company Investment Analysis             Company Overview
Events                                  Investments
Key Employees                           Key Facts
Major Products and Services             Top Competitors

 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *

   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its
information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and
expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company
websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of
this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted
in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts
of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot
be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations
that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith
from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a
position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for
actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be
incorrect.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017


                              481 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         Portola Reporter (California)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  July 7, 2010

PDH board declines to give CEO a new contract

BYLINE: Linda Satchwell

LENGTH: 827  words


Plumas District Hospital board president Dr. Mark Satterfield explained the
background leading up to a possible vote on a new contract for Chief Executive
Officer Dick Hathaway at the July 1 board meeting.

In February, the board had become aware that "a CEO agreement can last no longer
than four years in a district hospital." Hathaway's contract had been in effect
for nine years, so the board "began the process of negotiating and securing a
new contract."

Hathaway's current contract, signed in April 2002, includes a starting salary of
$134,365, increasing to $139,365 in July 2002, with possible upward adjustments
taking place each January at the board's discretion.

In addition, Hathaway receives a bonus based on 10 percent of base salary for

"goals accomplished" during the previous year. The board also determines the
bonus on an annual basis. This year, the board declined to give Hathaway a
bonus.

He receives medical and life insurance and a retirement plan. Finally, if he is
"involuntarily terminated without cause," he receives "severance pay in a total
amount equal to six months' salary and benefits."

Alluding to the ongoing hospital tax debacle, Satterfield said that despite
"other distractions" the board had made good progress towards a new contract. In
fact, board members met in closed session twice -- June 10 and 18 -- and had
appointed board members Valerie Flanigan and Bill Elliott to negotiate with
Hathaway's attorney regarding contract details.

Over the past few weeks, some board members -- because of the dismal April PDH
financials, the economy in general and the volatility the hospital is
experiencing

on the tax issue -- felt increasingly uncomfortable with approving a more
expensive contract for Hathaway.

Ongoing negotiations had experienced "a couple of wrinkles toward the end here,"
said Satterfield. "We're trying to consider where to go with that."

Flanigan, one of the two negotiators, said, "With respect to Mr. Hathaway, who
deserves an updated contract, given the situation that we're not in agreement
(on the new contract), I can at least make a motion that we (update) the
outdated contract ... so he's at least not operating without a contract."

Board member Fred Thon made a motion to table discussion on the new contract and
extend the existing contract until September. He wanted to see the results of
the August tax cap election before he voted on a new contract he said.

Elliott amended Thon's

motion to extend the current contract for 18 months, "to the end of 2011, but
with an agreement that in January of 2011, once the elections have been settled,
we all have a better sense of hospital finances -- which are looking much more
encouraging," the board can revisit the issue.

In the meantime, an extension would at least provide a level of security for
Hathaway, he said.

Elliott explained he felt September was too soon to make an informed decision,
because he wanted to see if the dismal financials of April were an anomaly.
(Chief Financial Officer John Nadone reported there had been a significant
upswing in May and June.) Also, Elliott wanted to see if any of the three board
members up for election -- himself, Flanigan and Thon -- were replaced. In that
case, he felt the community deserved to have the new board members in on the
CEO's contract negotiation.

Thon disagreed with letting a new board make the decision on a new contract.
Elliott said, however, that was why he wanted to see Hathaway receive the
protection that extending the existing contract until December 2011 would
afford.

Board member John Kimmel pointed out that the board could, in fact, chose to
revisit the new contract issue at any time -- "you can always install a new
contract," he said.

Elliott's amendment went to a vote with Elliott, Flanigan, Satterfield and
Kimmel voting for it, and Thon abstaining.

There was some procedural confusion surrounding the vote, but Satterfield
reiterated what the board had voted for: "Bill's amendment would be to
reconsider (the new CEO contract) in January and to offer an extension of the
current contract with new dates, etc., until the end of 2011."

Flanigan said if "time and opportunity is changed with regards to finances and
all," the board should consider addressing the new contract issue again before
January, "so as not to keep Mr. Hathaway waiting."

Satterfield agreed, but said Elliott's concern regarding the hospital's
"financial uncertainty" and the upcoming board election (which could potentially
replace a majority of members) was warranted.

"I think there's some value to acknowledging the public's right to participate
in all of this."

Hathaway was visibly upset by the board's action, but made no comment during the
meeting, and he was unavailable for comment by press time.

After the meeting, Satterfield said there had been some question regarding "
procedural process in order to secure this action," and the board would likely
make some "clarification of action taken" later.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Local Government

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: POR

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                        Copyright 2010 Portola Reporter


                              482 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 29, 2015 Saturday

New York: Failure teaches best when blame is hard to pin down, study finds

LENGTH: 1057  words

DATELINE: Albany


Academy of Management has issued the following news release:

Which company problem is more likely to get fixed - one attributable to a
particular person or department or one with wider roots? Common sense would
suggest the former, since the solution in that case may involve nothing more
complicated than changing the way a single unit is run or setting an individual
or a few people straight.

But some new research casts doubt on this reasoning, obvious though it may seem.

In the words of a paper in the current issue of the Academy of Management
Journal,"concentrated failures prompt narrower attributions of responsibility
which, whether accurate or not, ultimately lead to less thorough investigations
and fewer of the system wide changes that are typically required to address
organizational performance problems."

The study goes on to explain that, "following multiple failures at the same
location or involving the same individuals, organizational leaders have a
well-recognized tendency to merely dismiss culpable parties or make other
relatively localized changes. While these simple changes may be sufficient in
some cases, the present study suggests the need for deeper exploration."

The paper, by Vinit Desai, an associate professor of management at the
University of Colorado Denver, comes to these conclusions through an analysis of
failures that are literally a matter of life and death - the improvement or lack
of it in death rates resulting from cardiac-bypass surgery in more than 115
hospitals in California, where the state gathers copious data on these
surgeries. The hospitals that made the greatest strides were those in which
deaths were dispersed among patients of a number of surgeons rather than being
concentrated in patients of one or just a few. The chance that the degree of
concentration did not influence death rates was less than 5%.

Asked for specific examples, Prof. Desai hesitates to draw conclusions about the
results of any single institution as distinct from the sample as a whole. With
this caveat, he cites the case of a hospital where over a two-year period about
half the surgeons lost patients who underwent this procedure, called Coronary
Artery Bypass Graft (CABG). According to the hospital, it responded with broad
procedural changes that involved "[putting] evidence-based protocols in place,
[providing] educational and skills-based training for staff, and [forming]
multidisciplinary committees to identify and resolve quality issues." The
following year, no patients died following CABG at the hospital, even though
about the usual number of procedures was carried out.

What about hospitals where bypass deaths were concentrated among a small
minority of surgeons? How the departure of subpar physicians affected such
institutions individually would be difficult to tell, the professor says. But
outcomes were quite clear for the study sample as a whole: greater concentration
of failures was associated with more subsequent departures but not with reduced
CABG deaths. In short, the exit of less competent surgeons did not, in general,
solve the problem.

Research, the study notes, "has identified a pervasive tendency to overweight
individual or dispositional factors and underweight situational ones...When
repeated failures primarily involve the same group or employee, organizational
decision-makers might suspect that the involved party played a causal or at
least a contributory role. This may initially seem reasonable, given the
frequency of failures involving this party and the relative rarity of failures
involving others within the organization. However, work on defensive
attributions would suggest the tendency for decision-makers in this situation to
ignore or undervalue any contributing situational factors, and even to
overweight the importance of individual or dispositional characteristics."

The paper is based on the performance of 116 to 118 hospitals (the number varies
over the length of the study) in two-year segments of the period 2003 through
2010. A mean of about five surgeons per hospital, but as many as 10, performed
CABG operations, with the doctors averaging about 63 such procedures per year. A
little less than three percent of patients died during or after surgery.

Desai analyzed the relationship between failure concentration (how failure was
apportioned among surgeons) in one period, say 2003-04, and the change in the
incidence of CABG deaths between those two years and the following two years,
say 2005-06. In all, the analysis embraced 468 hospital-period observations,
with findings including the following:

[#x25a0]   The more concentrated failure was in one period, the greater the
failure rate in the following period.

[#x25a0]  This relationship was stronger in larger hospitals, where
concentrations of poor performers stood out more than in smaller places. It was
weaker in institutions with CABG death rates either well above or well below the
average, the former group being highly motivated to improve their results and
the latter group to perpetuate their superiority.

[#x25a0]  Concentrated failure was associated, too, with increased incidence of
surgeon departures and fewer hospital efforts to refine CABG procedures.

Asked to sum up the study's principal lesson, Prof. Desai says, "Don't be too
quick to assign blame. In all likelihood, there is more to be lost in doing so
than there is in looking for a deeper cause. Difficult though they may be, deep
searches for underlying structural solutions or procedural changes can pay off
in a big way even in high-functioning organizations."

Indeed, in a 2011 study of the global launch-vehicle industry published in the
Academy of Management Journal, Prof. Desai and Peter Madsen of Brigham Young
University had occasion to cite a catastrophic instance of this - the tragic
loss of seven astronauts aboard the Columbia space shuttle from a structural
flaw that had been noticed in a previous shuttle liftoff but went uncorrected
because the earlier flight was successful. Organizations, the study concluded,
learn more effectively from failure than from success. Now the new research
takes the matter a step further, identifying the circumstances in which failure
teaches most effectively.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              483 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday

Dutch fertility clinic checks for possible sperm mix-up;
Couples may have incorrect donor in IVF procedure.;
NETHERLANDS

BYLINE: Nina Siegal

SECTION: ; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 440 words


AMSTERDAM - Twenty-six couples in the Netherlands are waiting to find out if the
sperm that was used to fertilize their eggs at a reproductive technology clinic
might have come from the wrong men.

The clinic, at the University Medical Center in Utrecht, said Wednesday that a
procedural error might have led to a mix-up in sperm.

"In each of these cases there is a small risk, small but it cannot be ruled out,
that during the procedure, sperm cells of the mother's own partner have been
mixed with remaining sperm from a previous procedure," Paul Geurts, a spokesman
for the hospital, said in an interview.

In most cases, the egg will most likely have been fertilized by the intended
sperm, but "we will have to see" to know for certain, he said.

The situation was discovered in November, according to Geurts, when a technician
at the clinic noticed a problem in a kind of in vitro fertilization treatment
known as intracytoplasmic sperm injection, or ICSI, and reported it.

That procedural error might have occurred for couples treated from April 2015 to
November 2016, according to the clinic. Half the couples who had fertility
treatment during that time have already had children or are expecting them. The
other half have fertilized eggs that are frozen. The oldest child who might have
been conceived as a result of the possible mix-up is about a year old.

All of the couples possibly affected have been informed and have been offered
DNA tests, the clinic said.

Primarily used in cases of male infertility, ICSI involves injecting a single
sperm directly into a mother's egg. The technician, guided by a microscope,
injects the sperm using a glass pipette. The tip of the pipette is then
discarded.

Thetechnician,uponcompleting the procedure, discovered that there was still
genetic material on the tip of the pipette, Geurts said. She notified the
supervising technician, and upon further investigation, they discovered that
sperm from a previous procedure had somehow gotten into the pipette - evidently
because the technician had mistakenly used the wrong kind of rubber apparatus on
the end of the pipette.

Geurts declined to say whether the technician had been punished, calling it a
confidential personnel matter.

"The hospital regrets, of course, what has happened to the couples involved, and
we will provide counseling and a meeting with the medical staff with all of
these couples to work their way forward," Geurts said. "It was just an
unfortunate event."

Jesper Smeenk, a gynecologist and spokesman for the Dutch Federation of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, said there were about 7,600 ICSI procedures
every year in the Netherlands.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              484 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday

Dutch fertility clinic checks for possible sperm mix-up;
Couples may have incorrect donor in IVF procedure.;
NETHERLANDS

BYLINE: Nina Siegal

SECTION: ; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 440 words


AMSTERDAM - Twenty-six couples in the Netherlands are waiting to find out if the
sperm that was used to fertilize their eggs at a reproductive technology clinic
might have come from the wrong men.

The clinic, at the University Medical Center in Utrecht, said Wednesday that a
procedural error might have led to a mix-up in sperm.

"In each of these cases there is a small risk, small but it cannot be ruled out,
that during the procedure, sperm cells of the mother's own partner have been
mixed with remaining sperm from a previous procedure," Paul Geurts, a spokesman
for the hospital, said in an interview.

In most cases, the egg will most likely have been fertilized by the intended
sperm, but "we will have to see" to know for certain, he said.

The situation was discovered in November, according to Geurts, when a technician
at the clinic noticed a problem in a kind of in vitro fertilization treatment
known as intracytoplasmic sperm injection, or ICSI, and reported it.

That procedural error might have occurred for couples treated from April 2015 to
November 2016, according to the clinic. Half the couples who had fertility
treatment during that time have already had children or are expecting them. The
other half have fertilized eggs that are frozen. The oldest child who might have
been conceived as a result of the possible mix-up is about a year old.

All of the couples possibly affected have been informed and have been offered
DNA tests, the clinic said.

Primarily used in cases of male infertility, ICSI involves injecting a single
sperm directly into a mother's egg. The technician, guided by a microscope,
injects the sperm using a glass pipette. The tip of the pipette is then
discarded.

Thetechnician,uponcompleting the procedure, discovered that there was still
genetic material on the tip of the pipette, Geurts said. She notified the
supervising technician, and upon further investigation, they discovered that
sperm from a previous procedure had somehow gotten into the pipette - evidently
because the technician had mistakenly used the wrong kind of rubber apparatus on
the end of the pipette.

Geurts declined to say whether the technician had been punished, calling it a
confidential personnel matter.

"The hospital regrets, of course, what has happened to the couples involved, and
we will provide counseling and a meeting with the medical staff with all of
these couples to work their way forward," Geurts said. "It was just an
unfortunate event."

Jesper Smeenk, a gynecologist and spokesman for the Dutch Federation of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, said there were about 7,600 ICSI procedures
every year in the Netherlands.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              485 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1993

                         Vol. 26, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 126

LENGTH: 410 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: STAFF PRIVILEGES: Exclusive contract no basis for terminating
another physician's privileges



AUTHOR: C. C./T. K.
Submitted by: John D. Buchanan, Jr., Tallahassee, Florida

TEXT:

   The Florida Circuit Court granted an injunction preventing the constructive
revocation of plaintiff physician's clinical privileges at defendant hospital.
The court enjoined defendant from using a subsequent exclusive contract with
another physician to revoke plaintiff's clinical privileges in therapeutic
radiology.

   As a member of defendant's medical staff, plaintiff performed medical
procedures consistent with his authorized clinical privileges.  Plaintiff's
clinical privileges in therapeutic radiology required access to defendant's
equipment, facilities, and personnel.  Defendant hospital contracted with
another physician to provide radiation therapy services at the hospital.
However, the contract permitted only the contract physician, or physicians hired
by him, to render radiation therapy services to patients using defendant's
equipment, facilities, and personnel.  The physician did not offer or intend to
offer plaintiff a position as a radiation therapy physician, which effectively
barred plaintiff from exercising his clinical privileges.  Plaintiff requested a
hearing pursuant to defendant's medical staff bylaws.  Defendant denied the
hearing because it did not intend to deviate from the contract arrangement.

   Plaintiff sued for injunctive relief, claiming procedural and substantive due
process provisions in defendant's bylaws protected his existing clinical
privileges.  Defendant argued plaintiff's loss of privileges constituted a
legitimate "ancillary effect" of its decision to enter into an exclusive
contract with another physician.

   The court addressed the issue whether the contract between defendant and the
physician constructively revoked plaintiff's clinical privileges.  The court
held the contract constituted a de facto or constructive revocation of
plaintiff's privileges and resulted in a denial of plaintiff's procedural and
substantive due process rights granted in defendant's staff bylaws.  The court
found defendant's bylaws a binding and enforceable contract between plaintiff
and defendant, protecting plaintiff's clinical privileges from revocation or
impairment without due process.  The court ordered defendant permanently
enjoined from any acts restricting plaintiff's medical staff membership or
clinical privileges in therapeutic radiology, and ordered plaintiff's access to
defendant's facilities, equipment and personnel be in accord with the full
exercise of his clinical privileges.

REFERENCE: Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-973,
(Fla. Cir. Ct. Apr. 29, 1991).


                              486 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      October 11, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

US Procedure Numbers for Medical Imaging Devices 2016 - Research and Markets

LENGTH: 417  words


Oct. 11 -- Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "US Procedure
Numbers for Medical Imaging Devices 2016 - MedPro" report to their offering.

The following report is a summary of the major procedural codes that were
investigated and analyzed for consideration in the generation of procedural and
market estimates and forecasts in this report.

Imaging will continue to be relied on by physicians and healthcare facilities as
a diagnostic tool, and advancements in imaging technology will drive the number
of procedures that are performed. As the population ages, more imaging
procedures will be required as elderly patients are more likely to be diagnosed
with conditions that require imaging. Computed tomography (CT) imaging and
ultrasound imaging will represent the fastest-growing type of imaging procedures
over the forecast period.

Ultrasound systems are growing in preference due to their rising technology and
clinical applications as well as their low level of invasiveness for patients.
Despite growing concerns of radiation dosages to patients, CT and other
radiation-based modalities continue to remain popular as new devices integrate
low-dose technology.

The number of procedures reported in this report is built from a bottom-up
technique by investigating the number of procedural claims at an outpatient and
inpatient level. Procedural claims for a total of 568 CPT codes and 101 ICD-9-CM
vol.3 codes were investigated and considered as part of this analysis.

Key Topics Covered:

1. Research Methodology

2. Medical Imaging Procedure Numbers

2.1 List of Procedural Codes

2.2 Procedure Overview

2.3 Procedure Analysis and Forecast

2.3.1 X-ray Procedures

2.3.2 Breast Imaging Procedures

2.3.3 MRI Procedures

2.3.4 Ultrasound Procedures

2.3.5 CT Procedures

2.3.6 Nuclear Medicine Procedures

Companies Mentioned

* Accutome

* Agfa Healthcare

* Amrad Medical

* Analogic

* Arcoma-IMIX

* Assured Imaging Mobile Mammography

* BK Medical

* Bayer

* Bracco

* Del Medical

* Digirad

* Dilon Technologies

* Ellex/Innovative Imaging

* Esaote

* FONAR

* Fischer-Giotto

* Fujifilm

* Imaging Dynamics Company

* Konica Minolta

* Lakeshore Technologies Inc.

* Lantheus Medical Imaging

* MILabs

* Machnet B.V.

* Mallinckrodt

* Mindray

* Neusoft Medical Systems

* Paradigm

* Philips Healthcare

* Shimadzu

* Siemens Healthcare

* Spectrum Dynamics Medical

* SuperSonic Imagine

* Terason

* Tomey

* Toshiba Medical Systems

For more information about this report visit
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/n5d6qq/us_procedure.

Source: Research and Markets

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              487 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             August 20, 1990 Monday

The major factors

LENGTH: 393 words


IN 1985, country doctors formed a committee aided by the Australian Medical
Association to redress severe stresses incurred by Federal Health Commission
policies. The only gains made for country doctors since then have been those
initiated by this committee or doctors in the Iron Triangle.

As explained by Advertiser correspondents, we now face a manpower shortage and
further country health budget reductions which are placing impossible strains on
hospital and nursing staff.

It is interesting to hear of Dr Hopgood's "several projects to better the
position of country doctors" (The Advertiser,

15/8/90).

The country doctors' elected negotiating committee has yet to meet him, and
therein lies the root cause of our plans for a national Rural Doctors
Association. It is fallacy to expect further inquiries into rural practice to
help. What is needed is practising country doctor representation on both the
Country Health Services division and those bodies involved in teaching and
preparation for rural practice.

Dr Hopgood has not stated that the most important factor in provision and
retention of country doctors is adequate procedural training to meet the
expectations and demands of the communities they serve.

The South Australian branch of the Family Medicine Program also has recognised
this and in the past two years has taken many steps to redress the problem. It
does not have control, however, over the allocation of hospital training
positions and the procedures or level of responsibility offered to FMP trainees
who gain these posts.

The RDA wants to work with the FMP and the teaching institutions to provide a
fail-safe plan to train doctors for longer in procedural skills to match their
locational demands for competent, confident obstetrics, anesthetics and surgery.

The specialist colleges have to recognise that time, roads and distance remain
major factors in medical service provision, not an elusive all-weather air
evacuation service to specialists gathered in major regional centres or the
city.

The teaching hospitals and specialists in Queensland have come to terms with
this; the Health Commission is making the right moves at last, and we, the
country doctors of South Australia, need to work together with the FMP to keep
up with the initiatives in Queensland.

(Dr) JOHN SHEPHERD, Jamestown.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              488 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             August 20, 1990 Monday

The major factors

LENGTH: 393 words


IN 1985, country doctors formed a committee aided by the Australian Medical
Association to redress severe stresses incurred by Federal Health Commission
policies. The only gains made for country doctors since then have been those
initiated by this committee or doctors in the Iron Triangle.

As explained by Advertiser correspondents, we now face a manpower shortage and
further country health budget reductions which are placing impossible strains on
hospital and nursing staff.

It is interesting to hear of Dr Hopgood's "several projects to better the
position of country doctors" (The Advertiser,

15/8/90).

The country doctors' elected negotiating committee has yet to meet him, and
therein lies the root cause of our plans for a national Rural Doctors
Association. It is fallacy to expect further inquiries into rural practice to
help. What is needed is practising country doctor representation on both the
Country Health Services division and those bodies involved in teaching and
preparation for rural practice.

Dr Hopgood has not stated that the most important factor in provision and
retention of country doctors is adequate procedural training to meet the
expectations and demands of the communities they serve.

The South Australian branch of the Family Medicine Program also has recognised
this and in the past two years has taken many steps to redress the problem. It
does not have control, however, over the allocation of hospital training
positions and the procedures or level of responsibility offered to FMP trainees
who gain these posts.

The RDA wants to work with the FMP and the teaching institutions to provide a
fail-safe plan to train doctors for longer in procedural skills to match their
locational demands for competent, confident obstetrics, anesthetics and surgery.

The specialist colleges have to recognise that time, roads and distance remain
major factors in medical service provision, not an elusive all-weather air
evacuation service to specialists gathered in major regional centres or the
city.

The teaching hospitals and specialists in Queensland have come to terms with
this; the Health Commission is making the right moves at last, and we, the
country doctors of South Australia, need to work together with the FMP to keep
up with the initiatives in Queensland.

(Dr) JOHN SHEPHERD, Jamestown.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              489 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Hong Kong Government News

                    December 14, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

LCQ15: Government Attaches Great Importance to Needs of Sexual Violence Victims

LENGTH: 1116  words


Dec. 14 -- Following is a question by the Dr Hon Fernando Cheung and a written
reply by the Secretary for Security, Mr Lai Tung-kwok, in the Legislative
Council today (December 14):

Question:

According to the Information to Adult Sexual Violence Victims published by the
Hong Kong Police Force in June this year, when victims of sexual violence, after
making a Police report, have been sent to any public hospital for consultation
and treatment and if the situation allows, they may choose to give their witness
statements and undergo forensic examinations in the same hospital.  In this
connection, will the Government inform this Council:

(1) whether victims of sexual violence may give their witness statements and
undergo forensic examinations in any public hospital at present; of the places
in a hospital where victims of sexual violence in general give their witness
statements and undergo forensic examinations;

(2) whether victims of sexual violence may first go to a public hospital on
their own for consultation, then make Police report, give their witness
statements and undergo forensic examinations there;

(3) of the criteria adopted by the Police for determining whether a situation
allows victims of sexual violence to give their witness statements and undergo
forensic examinations in a hospital, and the respective situations that allow
and do not allow such arrangements; and

(4) whether it has assessed if the places and facilities in various public
hospitals where victims of sexual violence give their witness statements and
undergo forensic examinations conform to the relevant guidelines of the World
Health Organization (WHO); if it has assessed and the outcome is in the
affirmative, of the details of such places and facilities, and whether it can
furnish the relevant photographs to this Council; if the assessment outcome is
in the negative, whether the authorities have plans to upgrade such places and
facilities so that they comply with WHO's relevant guidelines; if they have such
plans, of the implementation timetable?

Reply:

President,

The Government attaches great importance to the needs of sexual violence
victims.  In respect of sexual violence cases, police investigation will be
conducted in such a way that the victims will not be further traumatised.  The
Police will also introduce to the victims the counselling and support services
of the Social Welfare Department (SWD) and other relevant non-governmental
organisations.  Subject to the victims' consent, the Police will arrange for
referrals to appropriate follow-up services.

To provide victims reporting sexual violence cases with relevant information in
a timely manner, the Police compiled the "Information to Adult Sexual Violence
Victims" in June this year.  It explains the victims' rights and the procedures
that they may have to go through while assisting the police investigations.
This includes the arrangement under the One-Stop Service Model that a victim,
upon being sent to a public hospital for medical services after making a report,
may choose to give a witness statement and undergo forensic examinations at the
same hospital if the situation allows.  This service model has been put in place
since 2007.  It features a multi-disciplinary approach to ensure close
co-operation and collaboration amongst various professionals for the provision
of a customer-oriented and one-stop service, which enables the victims to
receive services and go through relevant procedures in a convenient, safe,
confidential and protected environment, thus minimising the need for them to
repeat their unpleasant experience.  For the implementation of the service
model, the SWD, in collaboration with related social service units, the Hospital
Authority (HA), the Hong Kong Police Force and the Forensic Pathology Service of
the Department of Health etc, has formulated an effective workflow and the "
Procedural Guidelines for Handling Adult Sexual Violence Cases".

The consolidated reply, prepared in consultation with the Labour and Welfare
Bureau and the Food and Health Bureau, to the Dr Hon Fernando Cheung's question
is as follows:

(1) At present, if an adult sexual violence victim chooses to give a witness
statement and/or undergo forensic examinations at the same time when receiving
medical services in any Hpublic hospitals with Accident and Emergency (A&E)
Departments, the Police will make arrangements accordingly.

Urgent medical services are provided at all A&E departments of Hhospitals for
victims of sexual violence where necessary.  With the victim's consent, the
designated nursing staff and/or medical officer will, ensuring the protection of
the victim's privacy, arrange a suitable place in the A&E department for the
forensic pathologist to conduct forensic examination and the Police to take a
statement.

(2) Upon receipt of a report by a victim (whether reported to the Police before
the victim is sent to a public hospital or when the victim is receiving medical
services at the A&E Department of a public hospital), the Police will, in the
light of the circumstances of the case, explain to the victim the investigation
procedures and his/her rights.  Should the victim opt for the one-stop service,
the Police will make appropriate arrangements for the victim to give a witness
statement and/or undergo forensic examinations at the same hospital.

(3) Whether a victim will give his/her statement and undergo forensic
examination at the same hospital is subject to the preference of the victim and
the professional advice of the medical officers.

(4) According to the Guidelines for Medico-legal Care for Victims of Sexual
Violence of the World Health Organization, the place for statement-taking and
forensic examination should be private, clean, secure and with 24-hour
accessibility to necessary services to provide victims with the necessary
protection.  The A&E departments under the Hprovide round-the-clock service with
police officers on duty and strict infection control measures in place to ensure
protection in the above-mentioned aspects.

According to the "Procedural Guidelines for Handling Adult Sexual Violence
Cases" issued by the SWD, if the victim has reported the case to the Police, the
Police will arrange forensic examination when situation warrants.  If it is
necessary to collect evidence at the hospital, the Hwill arrange a suitable
place for the forensic pathologist to conduct forensic examination and the
Police to take a statement.  In case forensic examination has to be performed in
the examination suites of the Forensic Pathology Service, the Police will
arrange transportation and provide escort service for the victim.

Source: Hong Kong SAR Government

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


      Copyright 2016 Hong Kong Government News, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              490 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Stradis Healthcare Announces Definitive Acquisition Agreement with Medikmark,
Leading Provider of Medical Procedural Kits

LENGTH: 445  words


Nov. 7 -- US-based Stradis Healthcare issued the following news release:

Stradis Healthcare is pleased to announce that it has entered into a definitive
acquisition agreement with Medikmark, a leading provider of healthcare kits
based in Waukegan, IL, under which Stradis will acquire all shares of Medikmark.

Stradis provides large, custom procedural kits for the endovenous, oral health,
ophthalmic, plastic, tissue bank, OB/GYN, among other surgical markets, while
Medikmark is a leader in high volume production of smaller kits for wound
care/dressing change, IV start, suture removal, catheter/irrigation, trach care,
staff protection and other markets.   Combining the companies provides our
customers with a more extensive portfolio of solutions for virtually every
procedure.  Both companies have considerable talent and experience in all areas
of the industry. Stradis and Medikmark serve a vast array of customers in
ambulatory surgery centers, alternate care, private practices, hospital networks
and GPOs through a combination of direct channels and distributors.

"Our companies will work closely with our customers, suppliers, and employees to
make the integration process as smooth as possible.  During the integration, our
customers will continue to receive the same high quality service they have come
to expect," said Derrell James, Stradis Healthcare's President and Chief
Executive Officer.  "Stradis has proven itself as a leader in the custom
surgical packs market, and is well positioned to continue exceptional growth
into adjacent markets and with a growing portfolio of products and services.
With Medikmark, our commitment is to bring the right tools and support to the
medical community to ensure the best possible surgical outcomes for our clients
and the ultimate customer, the patient."

Jim Ronk, President of Medikmark stated, "We are particularly pleased to be
working with the quality of people that are part of Stradis Healthcare.  The
combination of Stradis Healthcare and Medikmark will offer customers the
advantage of one stop shopping for both small kits as well as large kits.
Furthermore, material acquisition cost savings will result from our enhanced
purchasing power."

Jeff Jacobs, Chairman of Stradis Healthcare, said "the acquisition of Medikmark
fits perfectly into our strategy of building our product portfolio and enhancing
the value we offer to our customers. The combination of these two great
companies puts Stradis in the position to further its reputation as a market
leader. We are committed to providing the solutions and products our customers
need to succeed in this new era of healthcare."

Source: Stradis Healthcare

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              491 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 10, 1999

Parents' campaign 'success';
Suspension of doctor who used video evidence to identify abused children was '
procedural' says hospital

BYLINE: Sarah Boseley Health Correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 627 words


Sarah Boseley Health Correspondent

Parents who have been campaigning against David Southall for several years were
jubilant yesterday at news of his suspension, which they claim vindicates their
stand even though the hospital says the suspension is procedural.

Although all sorts of accusations have been levelled against Professor Southall,
at the heart of it all has been the issue of Munchausen's syndrome by proxy -
mothers who harm their babies to seek attention for themselves.

Even medical opinion is divided over the existence of this syndrome, but Prof
Southall has no doubts. He pioneered covert video surveillance of mothers
suspected of abuse. The women and their babies were invited to stay for a few
nights in the hospital on a pretext, and their interactions were recorded on
film. Since 1986, on the basis of evidence gathered in this way and presented to
the courts, Prof Southall has been instrumental in the removal of abused
children from their families. Some of the children had siblings whose reported
cot death on re-examination was established as suffocation.

One published paper described 39 cases of children who arrived in hospital with
unexplained, life-threatening conditions. Evidence from the filming helped
establish 30 cases of intentional suffocation, two of poisoning, one deliberate
fracture and one of starvation. He has worked with 109 families, he said
recently, in which there have been 43 deaths and 184 children have been taken
into care.

In 1992, the campaign against him began. At its core are parents whose children
were removed from them, but they have been joined by other parents and some
semi-professional campaigners who refuse to believe in Munchausen's, are
convinced that families have been wrongly broken up and parents imprisoned.

The North Staffordshire hospitals NHS trust has been inundated with complaints
from the campaigners. One project under scrutiny has been the CNEP machine
(continuous negative extrathoracic pressure) - an innovative ventilator for
premature babies that Prof Southall and his team were trialling in the hospital
on tiny, sick infants. The changing pressure in the machine expanded the babies
lungs to help them breathe as an alternative to pushing tubes down very delicate
throats in the conventional ventilator.

Some babies died on the machine, but not significantly more than died on the
conventional ventilator. But recently parents have come forward to claim that
their babies were put in the CNEP without their consent. Some have alleged the
signatures on the consent forms were forgeries.

In response to the allegations against Prof Southall's work, a raft of inquiries
has been set up - some by the trust, one by government and others by the General
Medical Council and the UK Central Council for Nursing, Midwifery and Health
Visitors who have also had complaints from parents.

The Griffiths inquiry, requested by the department of health in response to the
allegations over lack of consent for the CNEP trial, but which has looked at
many other issues too, has finished and the report is with ministers. The GMC
and the UKCC are waiting for the results of Griffiths before they proceed much
further. A hospital inquiry into Prof Southall's personal conduct has cleared
him of any wrongdoing.

The trust says the suspensions are necessary because it is now going through an
internal disciplinary inquiry. It will not say what it is about, save that it
will look at 'a huge range of complex issues'.

But the parents say it is the Munchausen work, the covert video surveillance and
research work into experimental monitors for establishing the truth of cot
deaths that are under scrutiny. It is what they have wanted all along.


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              492 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The 'CSI' Treatment for the E.R.

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1094 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


SOMETHING terrible is about to happen to the two beautiful people who are
cruising down a street in South Beach in the first moments of ''Miami Medical.''

Maybe the convertible will be totaled by a tanker truck, or perhaps a bridge
will collapse beneath them. But whatever transpires, we know that tragedy will
befall them, because this is a Jerry Bruckheimer series.

Mr. Bruckheimer, the hugely successful film producer (''Pirates of the
Caribbean'' and ''National Treasure,'' to name two franchises), is also a
prolific player in the television business.  His name already adorns five CBS
series, making him the biggest individual supplier to the network.  On Friday he
adds a sixth on CBS, ''Miami Medical,'' about trauma-center doctors.

''Miami Medical'' has the same Bruckheimer signatures as ''CSI'' and its
spinoffs: a cinematic style and a by-the-numbers formula.  Episodes begin with a
violent act, the characters grapple with the aftermath, and most if not all of
the loose ends are wrapped up before the closing credits, leaving little to be
explained in future episodes. The formula is easy to malign, but little on TV is
more popular than the three ''CSI'' series, which all rank among the Top 20
shows on television each week. (Another Bruckheimer production, ''Cold Case,''
places 38th so far this television season.)

''Procedurals have done really well for us,'' Mr. Bruckheimer said casually in
an interview between casting sessions for the fourth ''Pirates of the
Caribbean'' movie.

But ''Miami Medical'' does represent a new twist on the Bruckheimer formula. Its
previous procedurals have focused on law enforcement; now, for the first time,
his production company is entering the well-trod medical genre.

Jeffrey Lieber, the day-to-day executive producer of ''Miami Medical,'' isn't
particularly interested in the medicine. He sees the world of hospitals and very
good looking doctors  as an entryway into the characters' stories.

''I've tried as hard as possible not to know how the body actually works,'' he
said while sipping matzo ball soup at a deli in Westwood last week.

In the first episode, for instance, Mr. Lieber created a scene involving a
pregnant woman in an elevator at the hospital. He recalled approaching the
show's medical consultant and saying: ''I've just written a scene where she's
bleeding out of her ears and nose. What could that be?''

Eventually a scenario was concocted. ''I knew what the act-out was going to be,
and I reverse-engineered from there,'' he said.

The characters Mr. Lieber is working with on ''Miami Medical'' include Dr.
Matthew Proctor, the enigmatic new head of the trauma unit, played by Jeremy
Northam; Dr. Eva Zambrano, the second in command, played by Lana Parrilla; and
Tuck Brody, a charge nurse played by Omar Gooding. ''These are the rock stars of
the medical profession,'' Mr. Bruckheimer said as he described the series,
repeating what Mr. Gooding's character says in the first episode.

For Mr. Lieber the signature of a Bruckheimer series is a visual one. ''They
expect a level of visual gloss that is the starting point,'' he said.

The producers achieve that look by relying on many of the same DP's, short for
directors of photography, across the Bruckheimer shows and films. ''We
cross-pollinate people,'' Mr. Bruckheimer said.

The director of photography for the first episodes of ''Miami Medical'' was
Eagle Egilsson, who had just finished filming a Bruckheimer series for TNT,
''Dark Blue.''

''They find the people who can do film on a TV timeline,'' which means a much
quicker turnaround, ''and they keep them hired, which works for everybody,'' Mr.
Lieber said.

''Miami Medical'' also leaned on Matthew Mungle, a longtime special-effects
artist for ''CSI,'' for its sometimes messy surgery scenes.

Mr. Bruckheimer said the talent sharing also applies in front of the camera:
''We meet so many actors when we're casting these movies. We find some terrific
people that we can slide into TV and the other way around.'' From there Mr.
Bruckheimer gives each program a wide berth.

In one instance Omar Miller, an actor Mr. Bruckheimer cast in ''The Sorcerer's
Apprentice,'' was added to the cast of ''CSI: Miami''  last fall.

Mr. Bruckheimer has branched out to other networks in recent years, placing
''Dark Blue'' on TNT last summer and ''The Forgotten'' at ABC last fall. But
except for ''The Amazing Race,'' his Emmy-winning reality show on CBS, Mr.
Bruckheimer has not ventured far from his television comfort zone. His two
pilots for the coming season are both procedurals:  ''Chase,'' about United
States  marshals, for NBC, and ''The Whole Truth,'' about court cases, for ABC.

''Miami Medical'' will have its premiere on a Friday night, generally an
afterthought of the weekly television  schedule. But CBS has managed to nurture
new shows on Fridays, including ''CSI,'' which had its introduction on that day
of the week. The producers have already finished eight episodes for the spring
and five more for a second season.

Mr. Lieber suggested that he and Mr. Bruckheimer did not set out to enter the
medical genre; the setting, he said, was a ''byproduct of the ideas on the
table.''

After being announced but before getting onto the air, the show underwent a name
change. Originally called ''Miami Trauma,'' CBS changed it to ''Miami Medical''
to distinguish it from the NBC paramedics drama ''Trauma,'' which made its debut
last fall and has teetered on the brink of cancellation ever since.

By any measure Mr. Bruckheimer spends more time on film than on television;
asked why he remains in the television  production business, he said, ''because
movies take forever to get made.''

Mr. Lieber said, ''Jerry is very efficient.''

Mr. Bruckheimer was only on the ''Miami Medical'' set for about an hour for the
pilot episode, and isn't heavy-handed with his production notes. But ''he brings
an every-man's eye to things,'' Mr. Lieber said.

While work was under way on a potential Season 2 episode, involving a sinkhole
at a construction site, the script called for a trauma doctor to tell a victim
that ''we're going to have to cut off your leg'' just before the commercial
break. Mr. Bruckheimer recommended an edit; he thought the statement was a step
too far for a Friday-at-10-p.m. audience because, as Mr. Lieber put it, ''you
know you're going to see a guy's leg get cut off at the other end of the act
break.''

''He's got an ability to look at things very simply and say, 'That might be too
much for people,' '' Mr. Lieber said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeremy Northam, center,  head of the trauma unit in ''Miami
Medical,'' Jerry Bruckheimer's new series that brings his crime-show formula to
a medical setting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY  ADAM TAYLOR/WARNER BROTHERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              493 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                             April 29, 2005 Friday

Deals roundup

LENGTH: 765 words


Deals roundup

IDX to buy RealTimeImage in deal valued at about $15.5M

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report  IDX Systems (Burlington, Vermont) reported
that it has agreed to acquire the assets of RealTimeImage (RTI; San Bruno,
California/Tel Aviv, Israel), a developer of web-based medical specialty imaging
solutions, for an estimated deal value of $15.5 million.

RT's Pixels-on-Demand image streaming and multi-frame, cinemotion image viewing
technology is integrated into the recently unveiled IDX Imagecast for cardiology
product offering, and IDX said the agreement is part of its strategy to acquire
"leading-edge technology and expertise."

With RTI technology, Imagecast for Cardiology integrates cardiology information
and imaging data across multiple modalities and locations. IDX said that the
technology extends its own technology, named Infrastructure for Procedural
Medicine, which it terms "a strategy for providing specialists with procedural
medicine and workflow-based solutions operating on a common architecture."

James Crook Jr., CEO of IDX, called the proposed purchase of RealTimeImage "the
latest milestone in our 36-year track record of innovation . . . The Imagecast
product offerings have been ranked as a leading solution in the diagnostic
imaging market. We expect that increased focus in this area will result in
greater customer success and enhanced value for our shareholders."

Zvi Eintracht, CEO of RTI, said that the merger enables his company to take its
technology to a wider market. "Our company's vision for delivering cardiologists
secure, real-time access to image data over any network connection can be
realized through integration into IDX's leading healthcare technology
solutions."

Imagecast for Cardiology's PACS system features unified database architecture
with the Imagecast workflow product line. This approach provides role-based
workflow and access to all related images.

The deal is expected to close in the second quarter.

RTI was established in 1996 and reports more than 500 organizations using its
technology.

Founded in 1969, IDX Systems reports its systems are used by about 150,000
physicians and that they are installed at more than 3,400 sites, including more
than 850 group practices and about 370 integrated delivery networks serving more
than 500 hospitals.

In other dealmaking news:

· Speech recognition specialist Wizzard Software (Pittsburgh) reported being "in
the final stages" of due diligence to acquire the assets of Interim Health Care
of Wyoming (Casper) for its MedivoxRx Technologies subsidiary. Interim provides
visiting nurse services to the elderly, wounded and sick. Interim is the largest
home healthcare agency in central Wyoming and is one of the 300 home health
agencies comprising Interim Health Care.

Wizzard said it has noted that the healthcare industry has proven to be an
aggressive adopter of speech technologies and that over the next 18 months it
plans to acquire several more home health agencies to complement its speech and
talking pill bottle products. Wizzard pointed to "major opportunities" in speech
recognition for visiting nurses; for patient medication reminder services; and
for its "talking products," such as blood pressure monitors, medication alerts
and other talking medical devices.

·ResCare (Louisville, Kentucky), a provider of education and support services
for people with disabilities and special needs, said it has signed agreements to
purchase the operations and certain assets of Home Caregiver Services in four
states: California, Nevada, Colorado and Illinois. The acquisition will total 12
operations with expected combined revenues of about $13.2 million annually.

Ronald Geary, ResCare's president and CEO, said that Home Care-giver Services
provides ResCare "a platform for building our periodic in-home services into
four more ResCare states and further expands our private pay revenues."

ResCare offers services to about 34,000 people in 33 states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada.

· Diagnostics firm Motion DNA (Phoenix) yesterday reported that Formula 51-2, an
Arizona investment company, has made an offer to acquire all of the firm's
outstanding shares for $2.50 a share. Motion DNA said that its board is
considering the offer, which requires a response or counteroffer by today.Motion
DNA says that its biomechanical analyses testing and reports provide solutions
for preventing injuries, identifying physical limitations, diagnosing
pre-existing injuries related to biomechanics and improving physical performance
levels.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2005 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              494 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday

MCI warning falls on Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences' deaf ears

SECTION: RANCHI

LENGTH: 401 words


RANCHI: A week after the health department directed Rajendra Institute of
Medical Sciences (Rims) to fast-track the recruitment of faculty members by
month end, Rims authorities are yet to start the process.

The college authorities have not rolled out notices for hiring despite the
Medical Council of India (MCI) threatening to slash all the 60 out of 150 seats.

Earlier this month, the MCI had written to the state health department seeking a
report on the work done so far in three medical colleges - the Mahatma Gandhi
Memorial Medical College (MGMMC) Jamshedpur, the Pataliputra Medical College and
Hospital (PMCH) Dhanbad and Rims - to improve infrastructure since it had
recommended slashing of seats in Jharkhand.

Responding to the query, principal health K Vidyasagar asked for detailed
reports from the college authorities on March 16 and then ordered immediate
recruitment.

The colleges were asked to roll out advertisement within three days.

However, save the ongoing recruitments in its cardiology, urology and
cardiothoracic departments, no advertisements have been released by the Rims
management yet, which has blamed it on procedural delay.

"We have not been able to come up with ads, which has been a resultant of
procedural delay. We are working on it," Rims acting director Dr S K Choudhary
said on Sunday. However, Choudhary did not elucidate the procedural obstacles.

In sync with the shortage of faculty, the MCI had recommended the slashing of
150 seats in Jharkhand last August. Jharkhand High Court though has stayed the
recommendation, Rims since then has not been able to complete recruitments.

Out of the 150 medical seats in Jharkhand, 60 were of Rims. Though it recruited
24 senior residents in February, close to 35 posts are yet to be filled up.

The college management has blamed it on the poor pay which failed to attract
applicants. That apart, many faculty members have opted for voluntary retirement
that has further added to the sore.

The deadline for finishing the recruitments is March 30. The parameters if not
met , the college will become vulnerable to MCI axe despite government's
protective efforts.

A senior official in the health department said the situation was closely being
monitored. "The instructions have been given and it is the college's prerogative
to carry them out. We are watching and necessary action will be taken," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              495 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                             April 23, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Body of Proof on life support

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, Postmedia News

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Fine Tuning; Pg. C16

LENGTH: 459 words


It's hard to prove something until it actually happens. Take Body of Proof, for
example. The third-year forensic procedural stars Dana Delany as Dr. Megan Hunt,
a disgraced former neurosurgeon now forced to make ends meet as a forensic
examiner. She can't be trusted with live bodies, you see, so now she has to
apply her medical knowledge to dead ones.

Body of Proof kicked around on the schedule its first two seasons, like so much
dead weight.

Its return was delayed until midseason, earlier this year - never a good sign -
and it struggled to make an impression. There are so many forensic procedurals
on TV now, it's hard to keep track. The prognosis didn't look good for Proof's
future beyond this season, which ends May 28. The last-minute addition of new
cast members - Human Target's Mark Valley as Det. Tommy Sullivan, to name just
one - didn't have much of an effect on viewers used to watching Bones, Castle
and all the others.

It wasn't long before Proof appeared on lists of shows expected to be cancelled.
Cancellation decisions aren't final until they're announced, however. And last
week, for the fourth consecutive Tuesday, Proof topped all competitors in the
same time period in the U.S. ratings, including highly touted new police drama
Golden Boy, which airs on CTV here at home.

The large broadcast networks often look at factors other than same-night viewing
when deciding whether to keep a show. They often look at how a show was
performing on the same day and time the previous year, for example, and in this
case Body of Proof improved over the same night last year by nearly 40 per cent.
What this means is that its condition has gone from critical to fair in less
time than some new series manage to stay on the air.

Proof is still on life support, but at least there are signs of life. And
there's no question the injection of new characters and bigger, bolder stories
has helped keep what audience it had to begin with. Tonight's episode finds Hunt
and Sullivan talking to the residents, doctors and patients at a mental
institution after a schizophrenic teenage girl is found murdered. Another young
patient (guest star Hannah Leigh) claims to have seen the killer, and insists
she was the intended victim. She's articulate and calm, and seems perfectly
sane, but they start to wonder after the ward doctor (Craig Bierko) obstructs
the investigation. (Citytv - 8 p.m., ABC - 11 p.m.)

Look Who's Talking

10 a.m. 3 5 Live! With Kelly and Michael Kate Hudson; Christina Hendricks. (N)

Noon 13 The Ellen DeGeneres Show Diane Keaton; Jon Bon Jovi; Bon Jovi. (N)

12: 34 a.m. 13 16 The Tonight Show With Jay Leno Carol Burnett; Stephen Amell.
(N)

12: 35 a.m. 12 Late Show With David Letterman Jenna Fischer; Steve Martin and
Edie Brickell. (N)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Delany: signs of life;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              496 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Stamford Mercury

                            January 2, 2014 Thursday

Whitefriars care home in Stamford fined £140,000 over woman's death

LENGTH: 498  words


The owners of a Stamford care home where an elderly woman died have been fined
£140,000 and ordered to pay £65,000 costs.

Staff at the Whitefriars Care Home in St George's Avenue failed to notice that
pensioner Dorothy Spicer, 84, had gone missing on the evening of November 25,
2009.

She was found eight hours later lying on the ground in the garden of the home
still wearing her day clothes.

Yesterday at Lincoln Crown Court, The Order of St John Care Trust, which owns
the home, admitted failing to ensure the safety of Mrs Spicer in breach of the
Health and Safety at Work Act in November, 2009.

The court was told that Mrs Spicer had apparently walked out of a door which had
its alarm disabled.

No check had been carried out to establish the whereabouts of any of the
residents when the day shift handed responsibility over to the night shift at
the home.

And the alarm system should have triggered pager messages to staff if a resident
left the premises but this did not happen because the individual door alarm was
not on.

Mrs Spicer was discovered at 5.20 am but staff simply took her inside the home
and tried to warm her up. No ambulance was called for another 80 minutes and
when she was finally  admitted to Peterborough Hospital she was suffering from
hypothermia.

She never fully recovered and although she was later transferred to Stamford
Hospital she passed away two months later in January, 2010.

Judge Michael Heath, passing sentence, said: "In this case there were corporate,
systematic and procedural failings which were ultimately a significant and
substantial cause of Mrs Spicer's death.

"The trust fell far short of providing a safe standard. Serious injury or worse
was plainly foreseeable.

"It is only a matter of good fortune that no tragedy occurred before that which
befell Mrs Spicer."

Bernard Thorogood, prosecuting for South Kesteven District Council, said Mrs
Spicer was last noticed at 8.30pm on the evening of November 25, 2009 sitting in
her usual chair in a communal lounge at the care home. No-one saw her leave and
she was only found the following morning.

Mr Thorogood said "This was exposure of vulnerable residents of a care home to
avoidable risks.

"The investigation found failings that were corporate, systematic and procedural
. These were a substantial cause of the loss of Mrs Spicer's life.

"There was a lack of adequate leadership. There was a failing by management at
the care home and from higher up within the trust."

Prashant Popat QC, in mitigation, said the trust had an exemplary health and
safety record prior to the incident and had since taken all steps to ensure a
similar tragedy did not happen again.

He told the court: "The trust did consider and assess the risks to safety. It
had in place a number of measures that it considered were sufficient to provide
adequate protection. It could and should have done more.

"It's health and safety record is excellent. The tragic incident involving Mrs
Spicer is the first in it's 22-year history."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MSMP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              497 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            April 10, 1986 Thursday

MANSLAUGHTER CHARGE A PROCEDURAL MATTER, SAY POLICE

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPGROUP

LENGTH: 207 words


Manslaughter charge a procedural matter, say police SYDNEY._ Police have charged
a youth with manslaughter after an alleged schoolyard brawl, despite the
protests of the victim's father. A police spokesman, Constable Mick Drylie, said
the manslaughter charge was a procedural matter: ""We've got to go through the
due processes and it may not even get to trial." Two youths, both 16, allegedly
bought a pie and chocolate milk from the canteen at Gorokan High School, on the
New South Wales central coast, and then began arguing over 40 cent change.
Police said that punches were thrown and Year 11 pupil David Cutler, from
Noraville, near Gosford, fell to the ground and became unconscious. David was
taken to the school sick bay and then to hospital but died without regaining
consciousness about 5 p.m. Yesterday David's father, Mr Alan Cutler, described
the manslaughter charge as ""ridiculous". He said the two boys were ""best
mates" who played in the same cricket team and often were ""clowning around". Mr
Cutler said he and his wife, Kerrie, did not know that David had a condition
""the doctors said was like a bomb which could go off at any time". A youth is
due to appear in Wyong Children's Court on May 8. DAVID CUTLER

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PIC SHOWS DAVID CUTLER

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1986 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              498 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily Record of Rochester (Rochester, NY)

                            February 15, 2013 Friday

U.S. Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit Case Summaries: February 15, 2013

BYLINE: Daily Record Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 229  words


Involuntary Civil Commitment

Sexually Violent Predators -- Due Process Bailey v. Pataki 10-2563 Judges
McLaughlin, Sack and Hall

Background: The defendants appealed from an order denying their motion for
summary judgment dismissing the plaintiffs' section 1983 procedural due process
claims. The defendants argued they were entitled to qualified immunity as, even
if the civil commitment proceedings against the plaintiffs failed to comply with
procedural due process, no reasonable person in the defendants' position would
have known that he was violating the plaintiffs' constitutional rights. Ruling:
The Second Circuit affirmed. The court found that the plaintiffs' commitments
were effected not through the state's normal civil commitment procedures, but by
means of an executive-branch effort aimed at preventing the release of sexually
violent predators. New York state's governor had directed the Office of Mental
Health and the Department of Correctional Services to develop a plan to
involuntarily commit selected SVPs to state psychiatric facilities. Ameer Benno
of Benno & Associates for the plaintiffs-appellees; Cecelia C. Chang of the New
York State Office of the Attorney General for the defendants-appellants

http://www.nydailyrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/">Click here for more from
this resource. </a>

8 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              499 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

Regulatory update: The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio; OHIO EDISON COMPANY
, has submitted (14-1297-EL-SSO) Joint Motion to Reopen the Hearing Record and
to Establish a Procedural Schedule in Light of the Recently Filed Third
Supplemental Stipulation and Recommendation and Supporting Testimony
electronically filed by Mrs. Gretchen L. Petrucci on behalf of Buckeye
Association of School Administrators and Constellation NewEnergy, Inc. and
Electric Power Supply Association and Exelon Generatio

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbus: The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio has issued the following
document:



 BEFORE

 THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO

 In the Matter of the Application of Ohio

 Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric

 Illuminating Company, and The Toledo

 Edison Company for Authority to Provide

 for a Standard Service Offer Pursuant to

 R.C. 4928.143 in the Form of an Electric

 Security Plan.



 )

 )

 )

 ) Case No. 14-1297-EL-SSO

 ))

 )

 )

 JOINT MOTION OF

 BUCKEYE ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS,

 CONSTELLATION NEWENERGY INC.,

 ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY ASSOCIATION,

 EXELON GENERATION COMPANY LLC,

 INTERSTATE GAS SUPPLY, INC.,

 NORTHEAST OHIO PUBLIC ENERGY COUNCIL,

 OHIO ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL BUSINESS OFFICIALS,

 OHIO CONSUMERS' COUNSEL,

 OHIO HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION,

 OHIO MANUFACTURERS' ASSOCIATION ENERGY GROUP,

 OHIO SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION,

 OHIO SCHOOLS COUNCIL,

 PJM POWER PROVIDERS GROUP,

 RETAIL ENERGY SUPPLY ASSOCIATION

 AND

 SIERRA CLUB

 TO REOPEN THE HEARING RECORD AND TO ESTABLISH A PROCEDURAL

 SCHEDULE IN LIGHT OF THE RECENTLY FILED THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL

 STIPULATION AND RECOMMENDATION AND SUPPORTING TESTIMONY

 Buckeye Association of School Administrators, Constellation NewEnergy Inc., the


 Electric Power Supply Association, Exelon Generation Company LLC, Interstate
Gas Supply,

 Inc., Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council, Ohio Association of School Business
Officials,

 Ohio Consumers' Counsel, Ohio Hospital Association, Ohio Manufacturers'
Association Energy

 Group, Ohio Sehool Boards Association, Ohio Schools Council, PJM Power
Providers Group,

 1Retail Energy Supply Association, and Sierra Club (collectively, &ldquo;Joint
Movants&rdquo;) are full

 parties of record in the matter at bar and have actively participated
throughout this proceeding.

 On December 1, 2015, after the close of the hearing record, the applicants
filed the Third

 Supplemental Stipulation and Recommendation (&ldquo;third supplemental
stipulation&rdquo;) and

 supporting testimony for the Commission's consideration. The new stipulation
presents issues

 and facts that are not part of the current record. For instance, the third
supplemental stipulation

 contains new provisions, inter alia, setting different parameters for the
purchase power

 agreement, presents a proposed grid modernization plan, introduces energy
efficiency initiatives

 including CO2 reductions and renewable resources, and proposes changes to how
residential

 customers' distribution rates will be collected. These issues deserve to be
thoroughly examined

 and vetted. In light of this filing, the Joint Movants request, pursuant to
Rule 4901-1-34, Ohio

 Administrative Code, a new hearing schedule be adopted that provides for (a)
discovery

 regarding the elements of the new stipulation, (b) the right to file testimony
in opposition to the

 new stipulation and (c) a change in the briefing schedule to permit integration
of the evidence

 both supporting and opposing the third supplemental stipulation into the
record. Specifically, the

 Joint Movants request the following procedural schedule:

 &bull; Discovery requests related to the third supplemental stipulation (except
as

 to notices of deposition) be permitted through Monday, December 21,

 2015, with responses to written discovery requests provided within seven

 calendar days, consistent with the Attorney Examiner's July 2, 2015

 ruling.

 &bull; Testimony from opposing parties be filed by Friday, January 8, 2016.

 &bull; Hearing reconvened for testimony in support and in opposition to the
third

 supplemental stipulation on Tuesday, January 19, 2016.

 &bull; Initial Briefs be filed by Wednesday, February 10, 2016.

 &bull; Reply Briefs be filed by Wednesday, February 24, 2016.

 Further arguments supporting this Joint Motion are set forth in the attached
Memorandum in

 Support.

 2Respectfully submitted,

 M. Howard Petricoff

 Michael J. Settineri

 Gretchen L. Petrucci

 Vorys, Sater, Se)miour and Pease LLP

 52 E. Gay Street

 Columbus, OH 43215

 614-464-5414

 mhpetricoff@vorys. com

 mj settineri@vorys.com

 glpetrucci@vorys.com

 Attorneys for the PJM Power Providers Group, the

 Electric Power Supply Association, the Retail

 Energy Supply Association, Constellation

 NewEnergy Inc. and Exelon Generation Company

 LLC

 Larry S. Sauer ^ 0

 Maureen R. Grady

 Michael J. Schuler

 William J. Michael

 Ajay Kumar

 Office of the Ohio Consumers' Counsel

 10 West Broad Street, Suite 1800

 Columbus, OH 43215-3485

 larry. sauer@occ. ohio. go v

 maureen. grady@occ. ohio. gov

 william. michael@occ. ohio. gov

 aj ay .kumar @0 cc .ohio. gov

 On behalf of the Ohio Consumers' Counsel

 IGS Energy

 6100 Emerald Parkway

 Dublin, OH 43016

 j oliker@igsener gy. com

 On behalf of Interstate Gas Supply, Inc.

 3



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
