                               6 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 23, 2016 Tuesday

Outcomes of Patients With Atrial Fibrillation Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary
Intervention

LENGTH: 434  words

DATELINE: New York



 Santa Fe: Air Conditioning Contractors of America Association, Inc has issued
the following news release:



 Background  Atrial fibrillation (AF) is increasing in prevalence, and patients
with a history of AF commonly undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
There is a paucity of contemporary data on the association between AF and
clinical outcomes after PCI.





 Objectives  The study sought to evaluate the association between AF and in-
hospital adverse outcomes using a large, prospective multicenter registry.



 Methods  Data for consecutive PCI cases from 47 hospitals performed between
April 2011 and December 2014 were utilized for the analysis. Propensity-matched
multivariate analysis was used to adjust for differences in baseline
characteristics between patients with and without a history of AF.



 Results  Of 113,283 PCI cases during the study period, a history of AF was
present in 13,912 patients (12%), which varied by institution (range 2.5% to
18.4%). At baseline, patients with a history of AF were older and were more
likely to have comorbid congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy,
cerebrovascular disease, and chronic lung disease. Patients with a history of AF
were more likely to have in-hospital complications, including in-hospital
mortality (3% vs. 1%). In propensity-matched analysis, patients with a history
of AF were more likely to be treated with a bare-metal stent (27% vs. 18%). In
the propensity-matched model, AF remained independently associated with an
increased risk of developing post-procedural bleeding (odds ratio [OR]: 1.32;
95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.15 to 1.52), heart failure (OR: 1.33; 95% CI:
1.17 to 1.52), cardiogenic shock (OR: 1.26; 95% CI: 1.08 to 1.48), and in-
hospital mortality (OR: 1.41; 95% CI: 1.18 to 1.68).



 Conclusions  AF is common among patients undergoing PCI. AF is associated with
older age, the presence of other comorbidities, and independently associated
with in-hospital post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock, and
mortality.

 Perspectives



 COMPETENCY IN PATIENT CARE AND PROCEDURAL SKILLS: A history of AF in patients
undergoing PCI is associated with an increased risk of in-hospital adverse
outcomes, including bleeding, post-procedural heart failure, cardiogenic shock,
and mortality.



 TRANSLATIONAL OUTLOOK: Prospective clinical studies are needed to evaluate the
impact of prophylactic therapies on post-procedural morbidity and mortality in
patients with a history of AF undergoing PCI.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


