                              150 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                      January 7, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Gangnam District Court First to Start the Trial
Process Information Disclosure Platform

LENGTH: 400  words


Beijing, Jan. 7 -- Dongfeng With the introduction of innovative reform
initiatives. January 7 morning, the hospital held a trial platform for the
launch of the process of information disclosure in Nanning Municipal Court's
first "big trial tube" work patterns in order to achieve judicial process
management standardization and systematization of purpose, according to the law
on the protection of judges independent handling, to ensure judicial fairness,
impartiality, openness is important.



* The relevant provisions of the southern district court, "the Court of Justice
on promoting Guangxi platform open three pilot implementation details,"
according to the High Court of the autonomous region, the first public use of
judicial process information platform, and actively build "big trial tube"
pattern. School Party decided that the terms of reference and the hospital staff
tried to re-configure the management office of the division. Trial Management
Office after the reform has two centers, one litigation process service centers;
Second trial management center. Litigation Process Services Center is
responsible for procedural matters, which consists of process groups, service
groups and security groups. Trial management center is responsible for the flow
of information disclosure platform running trial supervision and inspection,
performance evaluation of performance indicators which analyzes judicial
statistics, perform trial run trend analysis, trial management, online
investigators, the sun of justice, the Judicial Committee of transaction
management and jurisdiction limits management.

* After the trial process information disclosure platform construction starts,
the hospital built by the "big trial tube" pattern, relying on the regulatory
implementation of systems management software, and promote judicial process
management, and the trial will be an effective solution to the management of
cross-jurisdiction, procedural and transactional work overlapping entities
trial, trial decentralized management responsibilities and other issues, in
favor of the judge homing conducive to the judge handling the case independently
according to law, in favor of a unified trial management responsibilities, help
the parties to grasp the dynamics of the case, to meet the needs of the people
of justice, to achieve " four in favor, "the purpose, in order to achieve true"
sun of justice. "

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


