                              165 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 29, 2016 Monday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
Columbia: CLARIAN HEALTH WEST, LLC, Plaintiff, v. SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL,
Defendant.

LENGTH: 15588  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of Columbia has
issued the following order:



  UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ) CLARIAN HEALTH
WEST, LLC, ) ) Plaintiff, ) ) v. ) Civil Action No. 14-cv-0339 (KBJ) ) SYLVIA
MATHEWS BURWELL, ) ) Defendant. ) ) MEMORANDUM OPINION The Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services ("CMS") is the sub-agency within the Department of Health
and Human Services ("HHS") that administers the federal health insurance program
known as Medicare. In 2012, an agent of CMS informed Plaintiff Clarian Health
West, LLC ("Clarian"), an Indiana hospital, that it needed to repay more than $2
million in Medicare reimbursement funds that the hospital had received under the
Medicare program, due to a reconciliation process that CMS had performed with
respect to certain Medicare payments. Clarian objected to CMS's repayment
demand, and filed the instant action against Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the
Secretary of HHS, to contest the agency's contentions.

Clarian's one-count complaint cites the Administrative Procedure Act ("APA"), 5
U.S.C. §§ 701-706, and the Medicare statute's review provisions, 42 U.S.C. §
1395oo(f)(1), and asserts that the agency lacks the statutory and regulatory
authority to make Clarian repay the money because the regulation that authorizes
the reconciliation process ("the 2003 Rule") and the guidelines that implement
that rule ("the 2010 guidelines" or "the 2010 manual") Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 1 of 46 2 were improperly promulgated and are
contrary to the terms of the Medicare statute. Before this Court at present are
the parties' cross-motions for summary judgment. (Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J.
("Pl.'s Mot."), ECF No. 13; Def.'s Mot. for Summ. J. ("Def.'s Mot."), ECF No.
14.) In its motion, Clarian contends, among other things, that CMS's decision to
recoup the $2 million was procedurally defective because the agency failed to
employ required notice-and-comment procedures prior to adopting the guidelines
that establish the criteria for identifying which hospitals should be subjected
to the reconciliation process. (See Pl.'s Mem. in Supp. of Pl.'s Mot. ("Pl.'s
Mem."), ECF No. 13-1, at 29-36.) 1 The Secretary's cross-motion argues that
there is nothing procedurally or substantively improper about the rule that
relates to the reconciliation process or its implementation. (See Def.'s Mem. in
Supp. of Def.'s Mot. ("Def.'s Mem."), ECF No. 14-1, at 24-49.) Upon
consideration of the parties' arguments, this Court agrees with Clarian that the
qualifying criteria contained in the implementing manual were the sort of
substantive rule that must go through notice-and-comment rulemaking, and on that
ground alone, Clarian's motion for summary judgment will be GRANTED, and the
Secretary's motion for summary judgment will be DENIED. A separate order
consistent with this opinion will follow. I. BACKGROUND A. The Applicable
Statutory And Regulatory Framework The Medicare program "was established in 1965
and provides health care 1 Page numbers herein refer to those that the Court's
electronic case filing system automatically assigns. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 2 of 46 3 coverage for persons age 65 and older,
disabled persons, and persons with end stage renal disease who meet certain
eligibility requirements." Allina Health Servs. v. Burwell, No. 14-cv-1415, 2016
WL 4409181, at *1 (D.D.C. Aug. 17, 2016) (citing 42 U.S.C. §§ 426, 426a).
Medicare reimbursements are governed by federal law, and the obtuse text of the
Medicare statute has produced much inspired grappling among judges, many of whom
have described the legal provisions that govern the Medicare system as a
"maze[,]" Hall v. Sebelius, 667 F.3d 1293, 1301 n.9 (D.C. Cir. 2012) (Henderson,
J., dissenting), a "legislative and regulatory thicket[,]" Adirondack Med. Ctr.
v. Sebelius, 29 F. Supp. 3d 25, 28 (D.D.C. 2014), aff'd sub nom. Adirondack Med.
Ctr. v. Burwell, 782 F.3d 707 (D.C. Cir. 2015), and a "labyrinth[,]" Biloxi
Reg'l Med. Ctr. v. Bowen, 835 F.2d 345, 349 (D.C. Cir. 1987), among other
things. 2 The instant lawsuit centers on the government's reimbursement of
inpatient hospital care under Medicare Part A, pursuant to which the federal
government provides direct reimbursements to healthcare providers to cover the
bulk of the expenses that a patient with Medicare insurance (called a
"beneficiary") incurs for inpatient hospital care. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395d; see
also Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., Pub. No. 100-01, Medicare General
Information, Eligibility, and Entitlement Manual, Ch. 3 §§ 10.2-10.3. 1.
Medicare's Prospective Payment System The complexity of the Medicare scheme is
partly due to the intricacies of the prospective payment system that Congress
has adopted with respect to Part A 2 See also Rehab. Ass'n of Va. v. Kozlowski,
42 F.3d 1444, 1450 (4th Cir. 1994) (calling the Medicare statute "among the most
completely impenetrable texts within human experience"); Catholic Health
Initiatives-Iowa, Corp. v. Sebelius, 841 F. Supp. 2d 270, 271 (D.D.C. 2012)
(inviting the reader to "[p]icture a law written by James Joyce and edited by
E.E. Cummings[,]" and remarking that "[s]uch is the Medicare statute"), rev'd,
718 F.3d 914 (D.C. Cir. 2013). Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16
Page 3 of 46 4 reimbursements--a payment system that Congress developed in
reaction to the failures of the cost-based payment system that was used when
Medicare was first enacted. See Dist. Hosp. Partners, L.P. v. Burwell, 786 F.3d
46, 49 (D.C. Cir. 2015). Under the prior regime, hospitals and other health care
providers were reimbursed for all "reasonable costs" that the provider incurred
in treating beneficiaries, Good Samaritan Hosp. v. Shalala, 508 U.S. 402, 405
(1993), but that cost-based system "deteriorated over time . . . because it
provided little incentive for hospitals to keep costs down, as the more they
spent, the more they were reimbursed[,]" Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 49
(internal quotation marks and citation omitted); see also H.R. Rep. No. 98-25,
at 132 (1983), reprinted in 1983 U.S.C.C.A.N. 219, 351 (asserting that the
cost-based payment system "lack[ed] incentives for efficiency" because the
federal government would "simply respond[] to hospital cost increases by
providing increased reimbursement"). In 1983, Congress replaced Medicare's
cost-based payment system with the prospective payment scheme that has given
rise to many legal disputes and that is at the heart of the present action. See
Social Security Amendments of 1983, Pub. L. No. 98-21, § 601, 97 Stat. 65,
149-63. Under the prospective payment system, in contrast to the cost-based
system, the federal government pays the hospital a set reimbursement amount that
is established in advance of the hospital's expenditures and that is generally
based upon the government's ex ante assessment of what it costs to care for an
individual with the Medicare beneficiary's specific diagnosis, regardless of how
much the hospital actually spends to care for a beneficiary. See Cape Cod Hosp.
v. Sebelius, 630 F.3d 203, 205 (D.C. Cir. 2011); see also Dist. Hosp. Partners,
786 F.3d at 49 (explaining that Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 4 of 46 5 prospective payments incentivize hospitals to reduce the
cost of inpatient care because any reduction in cost directly profits the
hospitals, while increases in the cost of care beyond the predetermined amount
are borne by the hospitals rather than the federal government). The prospective
payments that hospitals receive for treating Medicare patients are calculated by
private health care insurers known as Medicare Administrative Contractors
("MACs") pursuant to a multifactor formula that begins with a "standardized
amount," which generally "reflects the average cost incurred by hospitals
nationwide for each patient they treat and then discharge." Cape Cod Hosp., 630
F.3d at 205. 3 In order to ensure that the prospective payment system fairly
approximates the actual cost of the care provided, the MACs adjust the
standardized amount to account for various factors, including the relative cost
of the care associated with different patient diagnoses. See Dist. Hosp.
Partners, 786 F.3d at 49; Cape Cod Hosp., 630 F.3d at 205. Per the Medicare
statute, HHS has classified the care that can be afforded to every type of
hospital patient into Diagnosis Related Groups ("DRGs"), see 42 U.S.C. §
1395ww(d)(4)(A), and each DRG is weighted in accordance with "the estimated
relative cost of hospital resources used with respect to discharges classified
within that group compared to discharges classified within other groups[,]" 42
C.F.R. § 412.60(b). 4 This means, for example, that the DRG classification that
includes a heart transplant 3 The standardized amount was initially determined
as of 1984, after the prospective payment system came into being; this baseline
has been adjusted for inflation each year subsequently. See Cape Cod Hosp., 630
F.3d at 205. 4 There are other factors that contribute to the calculation of the
DRG weight, see, e.g., Adirondack Med. Ctr. v. Sebelius, 935 F. Supp. 2d 121,
123-24 (D.D.C. 2013) (describing the need for a budget neutrality adjustment),
but these details are not relevant to this case. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document
26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 5 of 46 6 will be weighted more heavily than one for a
non-invasive procedure--i.e., the "DRG weight" will be greater--because heart
surgery uses more resources and imposes higher costs on the hospital. Cty. of
Los Angeles v. Shalala, 192 F.3d 1005, 1008 (D.C. Cir. 1999). And the greater
the DRG weight, the higher the rate of reimbursement; indeed, the DRG weight
adjustment is such an important factor in determining the rate of reimbursement
under the prospective payment system that the Medicare statute itself refers to
reimbursements as the "DRG prospective payment rate." See, e.g., 42 U.S.C. §
1395ww(d)(5)(A)(ii). Significantly for present purposes, Medicare's prospective
payment system not only seems to provide incentives for hospitals to control
costs while accounting for the variable care costs that are associated with
different patient diagnoses, it also recognizes that the costs of healthcare can
sometimes be unpredictable, and that a purely prospective system would unfairly
omit reimbursements for the high costs a hospital can incur when a particular
beneficiary's care ends up being unduly expensive through no fault of the
hospital, as sometimes happens. See Cty. of Los Angeles, 192 F.3d at 1009
("Despite the anticipated virtues of [the prospective payment system], Congress
recognized that health-care providers would inevitably care for some patients
whose hospitalization would be extraordinarily costly or lengthy."). To prevent
hospitals from facing significant losses for providing care to patients in such
"outlier" cases--i.e., situations in which the cost of the care provided to a
Medicare beneficiary far exceeds the prospective reimbursement rate for a
particular diagnosis--Congress authorized HHS to reimburse hospitals for these
costs through a system of "outlier payments." See 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A);
H.R. Rep. No. 98-25, at 154, reprinted Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 6 of 46 7 in 1983 U.S.C.C.A.N. 219, 373. It is the manner in which
CMS calculates, assesses, and retroactively reconciles such outlier payments
that is at issue in this case. 2. Outlier-Payment Calculations Section
1395ww(d)(5)(A)(ii) of Title 42 of the U.S. Code permits a hospital to "request
additional payments" (above and beyond the standardized payments that are
provided pursuant to the prospective payment system) in certain instances, and
the statute identifies the particular circumstances under which such a request
is warranted. Specifically, per the statute, "[a] hospital is eligible for an
outlier payment 'in any case where charges, adjusted to cost, exceed . . . the
sum of the applicable DRG prospective payment rate . . . plus a fixed dollar
amount determined by the Secretary.'" Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 49
(alterations in original) (quoting 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(ii)); see also 42
U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii) (stating that the amount of the outlier payment
"shall be determined by the Secretary and shall . . . approximate the marginal
cost of care beyond" the otherwise applicable "cutoff point"). In practice, this
statutory command has spawned an "elaborate process" for calculating outlier
payments, which involves the intersection of three distinct concepts: (1)
charges, adjusted to cost, (2) the outlier threshold, and (3) the marginal cost
factor. Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 49. The "charges, adjusted to cost"
figure ensures that the outlier payment reflects the actual cost of the care
provided to a beneficiary, and that the government "does not simply reimburse a
hospital for the charges reflected on a patient's invoice[.]" Dist. Hosp.
Partners, 786 F.3d at 50. It is calculated by multiplying two different numbers:
the first is the amount that the hospital charged for the service provided to
the beneficiary, and the second is the "cost-to-charge ratio," which is "a
fraction that Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 7 of 46 8
represents the estimated amount that [a hospital] incurs in costs for every
dollar that it bills in charges." (Def.'s Mem. at 13.) In other words, the
cost-to-charge ratio is "a number representing a hospital's average markup[.]"
Appalachian Reg'l Healthcare, Inc. v. Shalala, 131 F.3d 1050, 1052 (D.C. Cir.
1997). The outlier threshold is also a combination of numbers, but the numbers
are added rather than multiplied. 5 The first figure is "the applicable DRG
prospective payment rate[,]" 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(ii), which is the
payment that the hospital would ordinarily receive under Medicare's
reimbursement process for a nonoutlier case. The second number is the "fixed
loss threshold," which is a fixed amount that the Secretary sets anew each year.
Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 50. 6 The fixed loss threshold essentially
"acts like an insurance deductible[,]" id. (quoting Boca Raton Cmty. Hosp., Inc.
v. Tenet Health Care Corp., 582 F.3d 1227, 1229 (11th Cir. 2009)) (internal
quotation mark omitted), in that it reflects an amount that the hospital simply
has to bear in order to receive any outlier payments. The final component that
factors into the calculation of an outlier payment is the marginal cost factor.
This factor represents the "marginal cost" of offering extra care to outlier
patients, 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii), and by regulation, this factor is
set at 80%, see 42 C.F.R. § 412.84(k). 5 The outlier threshold can include a
number of other factors beyond the two discussed here, such as when a hospital
has a disproportionate share of low-income patients, see 42 U.S.C. §
1395ww(d)(5)(F), or is a teaching hospital, see id. § 1395ww(d)(5)(B). Because
none of these additional factors are implicated by the present case, discussion
of them has been omitted. 6 The fixed loss threshold is calculated such that
outlier payments for the following year will amount to between 5% and 6% of the
Medicare system's total aggregate reimbursement. See 42 U.S.C. §
1395ww(d)(5)(iv). Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 8 of 46
9 Putting these all together, the amount of an outlier payment is determined by
taking the cost-adjusted charges (which are determined by multiplying the charge
for the outlier treatment by the hospital's cost-to-charge ratio), subtracting
the outlier threshold (which is determined by adding the standard reimbursement
payment for the services provided and the fixed loss threshold), and multiplying
that number by the marginal cost factor (which is always 80%). 7 In a recent
opinion, the D.C. Circuit provided a helpful example that explains how this
formula works in practice, and also illustrates the fact that outlier payments
cover some, but not all, of the costs associated with treating outlier cases:
Assume that the Secretary sets the fixed loss threshold at $10,000. Assume also
that a hospital treats a Medicare patient for a broken bone and that the DRG
rate for the treatment is $3,000. The Medicare patient required unusually
extensive treatment which caused the hospital to impose $23,000 in cost-adjusted
charges. If no other statutory factor is triggered, . . . the hospital is
eligible for an outlier payment of $8,000, which is 80% of the difference
between its cost-adjusted charges ($23,000) and the outlier threshold ($13,000).
Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at 50-51. B. The 2003 Rule And The 2010
Implementation 1. The Road To Reconciliation Of Past Outlier Payments In the
early 2000s, many hospitals were attempting to game the outlier-payment process
through a sophisticated form of overbilling known as "turbocharging." See Banner
Health v. Burwell, 126 F. Supp. 3d 28, 48 (D.D.C. 2015). Through the practice of
turbocharging, which exploits a tension that arises when the cost-adjusted
charges 7 The following formula generally captures the interaction between these
various concepts: Outlier Payment = (Cost-Adjusted Charges - Outlier Threshold)
x Marginal Cost Factor Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 9
of 46 10 are calculated, a hospital can generate outlier payments that are
significantly greater than would otherwise be expected under the formula
discussed above. This can happen because, as explained, the cost-adjusted
charges are determined by multiplying the amount the hospital actually charged
for a particular type of care by the hospital's costto-charge ratio. However,
there can be a temporal disconnect between these two numbers, given that the
amount charged for a type of care is determined as of the time that the care is
provided, while the cost-to-charge ratio is based on the most recently settled
cost report, and cost reports can take several years to settle. See Dist. Hosp.
Partners, L.P. v. Sebelius, 973 F. Supp. 2d 1, 14 (D.D.C. 2014), aff'd in part,
rev'd in part sub nom. Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d 46. Thus, the
cost-to-charge ratio that is used for purposes of calculating outlier payments
in any given year is based on data that lags behind the hospital's actual
cost-to-charge ratio for that year, see id., and a hospital can manipulate the
cost-adjusted charge factor in the outlier-payment calculation by drastically
increasing the amount that it charges for inpatient care, out of all proportion
to the actual increase in costs associated with that care. In other words, when
current (heavily inflated) charges are multiplied by an out-of-date (relatively
deflated) cost-to-charge ratio, the hospital's cost-adjusted charges figure
increases, and the hospital ends up being reimbursed for outlier payments at
ever higher rates despite no obvious increase in the quality or cost of care.
(See Pl.'s Mem. at 15-17.) See also Elizabeth A. Weeks, Gauging the Cost of
Loopholes: Health Care Pricing and Medicare Regulation in the Post-Enron Era, 40
Wake Forest L. Rev. 1215, 1248-50 (2005) (describing this process). 8 8 Notably,
the outlier-payment system is uniquely susceptible to this kind of manipulation
because, as explained above, outlier payments are partially cost-based--i.e.,
outlier payments reference the amount Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 10 of 46 11 By 2003, HHS had discovered that turbocharging
practices were widespread among hospitals, and issued a proposed rule regarding
a change in the methodology for determining outlier payments partly to address
the turbocharging problem. See Medicare Program; Proposed Change in Methodology
for Determining Payment for Extraordinarily High-Cost Cases (Cost Outlier) Under
the Acute Care Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System, 68 Fed. Reg.
10,420 (March 5, 2003). The agency received notice and comment, and promulgated
the final rule--referred to herein as the "2003 Rule"--on June 9, 2003. See
Medicare Program; Change in Methodology for Determining Payment for
Extraordinarily High-Cost Cases (Cost Outliers) Under the Acute Care Hospital
Inpatient and Long-Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment Systems, 68 Fed. Reg.
34,494 (June 9, 2003). The 2003 Rule revised "the methodology for determining
payments for extraordinarily high-cost cases (cost outliers) . . . under the . .
. prospective payment system[.]" Id. at 34,494. Notably, the 2003 Rule did not
alter the underlying formula for calculating outlier payments, but it did
include a host of measures designed to combat turbocharging. For example,
instead of relying on the most recent settled cost report, the rule provided
that a MAC can consider "the most recent tentative settled cost report" when
determining the applicable cost-to-charge ratio for the following year. See id.
at 34,499 (emphasis added); see also 42 C.F.R. § 412.84. 9 Furthermore, and that
a hospital actually charges for patient care rather than by a predetermined,
standardized amount-- and cost-based repayment systems tend to incentivize
providers to increase the cost of care, unmoored from any improvements in the
quality of care being offered. Cf. Alice G. Gosfield, Medicare and Medicaid
Fraud and Abuse § 1:7 (2014) (describing various types of Medicare fraud and
abuse in the context of physician reimbursement, which is governed by a
cost-based reimbursement system). 9 Using the most recent tentative report
results in less of a lag time between the cost-to-charge ratio applied to a
provider and that provider's actual cost-to-charge ratio. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 11 of 46 12 most relevant to the present case,
the 2003 Rule provided for the "reconciliation" of outlier payments after the
cost report for the relevant period has been finalized. See Change in
Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at 34,501 ("[W]e proposed to add a provision to our
regulations to provide that outlier payments would become subject to
reconciliation when hospitals' cost reports are settled."); 42 C.F.R. §
412.84(i)(4) ("[A]ny reconciliation of outlier payments will be based on
operating and capital cost-to-charge ratios calculated based on a ratio of costs
to charges computed from the relevant cost report and charge data determined at
the time the cost report coinciding with the discharge is settled."). Pursuant
to this new reconciliation process, MACs were authorized to revisit outlier
payments once a hospital's actual cost-to-charge ratio for a particular year had
been determined--despite the fact that the necessary data for making that
determination is ordinarily not available until years after the pertinent
outlier payments have been disbursed--and to revise outlier payments
retroactively. 2. The 2010 CMS Manual And The Qualifying Criteria For Being
Subjected To The Outlier Payment Reconciliation Process The core of Clarian's
complaint revolves around the fact that the 2003 Rule only generally authorized
the reconciliation process and specified that any reconciliation would be based
on the cost and charge data contained in the hospital's final settled cost
report, and did not proceed to detail how the reconciliation process would
operate in practice. See 42 C.F.R. § 412.84(i)(4). In fact, in response to a
number of comments that asked the agency to set certain "parameters" in order to
guide the implementation of the newly authorized reconciliation process, the
Secretary expressly acknowledged that the agency would not be addressing the
specific circumstances under which reconciliation would be appropriate at the
time the rule was promulgated. See Change Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26
Filed 08/26/16 Page 12 of 46 13 in Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at 34,503. The
Secretary made crystal clear that the agency's plan was to issue implementation
guidelines at some later point in time, id. (stating that HHS "intend[s] to
issue a program instruction in the near future . . . [containing] thresholds for
fiscal intermediates to reconcile outlier payments for other hospitals during FY
2003") and, in the context of the 2003 Rule, the Secretary's preamble merely
mentioned that the agency was "considering" certain thresholds for "cost
reporting periods beginning during FY 2004[,]" id. In December of 2010--more
than seven years after the 2003 Rule took effect-- the HHS finally provided
specific standards for MACs to use when administering the reconciliation
process: it published instructions for reconciliation in a CMS manual governing
Medicare claims processing. See Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., Pub. No.
100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Ch. 3 § 20.1.2.5. Importantly,
according to this 2010 manual, a hospital's outlier payments are potentially
subject to reconciliation if two criteria are met: (1) the provider's "actual
operating [cost-to-charge ratio] is found to be plus or minus 10 percentage
points from the [cost-to-charge ratio] used [to calculate a provider's] outlier
payments," and (2) the provider's "[t]otal outlier payments in that cost
reporting period exceed $500,000." Id. § 20.1.2.5(A). The manual instructs that
a MAC must follow a step-by-step procedure for initiating reconciliation if
these two criteria are satisfied. See id. ("If the criteria for reconciliation
are met, Medicare contractors shall follow the instructions below in §
20.1.2.7."); see also id. § 20.1.2.7 (detailing the 14-step reconciliation
process). And as part of that process, the MAC must alert the CMS Central Office
that the offending hospital has met the reconciliation criteria and provide a
bevy of Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 13 of 46 14
information about the hospital. See id. § 20.1.2.7. If CMS gives the go-ahead,
the MAC must then calculate the difference between the original and revised
outlier payments, finalize the hospital's cost report, issue a Notice of Program
Reimbursement, and "make the necessary adjustment from or to the provider." Id.
The manual is less clear about what happens if a hospital does not meet the
reconciliation criteria after the cost report for a given year settles: on the
one hand, it suggests that no reconciliation will occur because "the cost report
shall be finalized[;]" on the other hand, it notes that "[e]ven if a hospital
does not meet the criteria for reconciliation . . . the Medicare contractor has
the discretion to request that a hospital's outlier payments . . . be reconciled
if the hospital's most recent cost and charge data indicate that the outlier
payments to the hospital were significantly inaccurate." Id. § 20.1.2.5(A).
Notably, as mentioned, the Secretary's statement in the preamble to the 2003
Rule hinted at the possibility that the agency might eventually adopt these two
qualifying criteria for initiating reconciliation, see Change in Methodology, 68
Fed. Reg. at 34,503, but these reconciliation standards did not become official
agency policy until the 2010 claims processing manual was published. It is
undisputed that the 2010 manual was produced without notice or an opportunity
for the public to comment on the selected standards, and the manual contains no
statement from the agency that sets forth any justification for these particular
criteria. The only record evidence regarding the agency's reasoning appears in
the preamble to the 2003 Rule, which notes the agency's general view that these
thresholds "would appropriately capture those hospitals whose outlier payments
will be substantially inaccurate when using the ratio from the contemporaneous
cost reporting period." Change in Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 14 of 46 15 34,503. C. Instant
Facts And Procedural History10 Clarian West Medical Center is a 127-bed hospital
that is located in Avon, Indiana. (See Compl., ECF No. 1, &para; 8.) Clarian
began operating in December of 2004 (see id. &para; 48), and according to the
complaint, in its relatively brief existence, Clarian has already been subjected
to the whims of the outlier-payment reconciliation process twice. The first
instance (which Clarian is not challenging in the instant lawsuit) purportedly
occurred in 2005; Clarian maintains that its outlier payments for that year
should have been--but were not--reconciled, and as a result, the hospital lost
out on $1 million in outlier payments. (See Compl. &para;&para; 48-49; Pl.'s
Mem. at 23-24.) 11 It is the second instance of alleged unfairness with respect
to the outlier-payment reconciliation process that is the subject of the instant
dispute; specifically, Clarian insists that the agency has improperly identified
it as a turbocharger under the criteria laid out in the 2010 manual, and then
subjected its outlier payments for the year 2007 to reconciliation, which has
wrongly resulted in a recoupment demand of more than $2 million. (See id. at
24-25.) The problem, according to Clarian, was the agency's alleged failure to
recognize that the cost-to-charge ratio for new hospitals starts high and
inevitably decreases in the 10 The Secretary has not disputed any of the factual
allegations contained in Clarian's complaint and this Court therefore accepts
these facts as true for purposes of analyzing the cross-motions for summary
judgment. See Lee v. United States, 570 F. Supp. 2d 142, 152 (D.D.C. 2008). 11
Under the 2003 Rule, outlier payments for new hospitals (like Clarian) are
calculated according to the statewide average cost-to-charge ratio, rather than
the hospital's actual cost-to-charge ratio, because, by its very nature, a brand
new hospital has not submitted any cost reports from which a genuine
cost-to-charge ratio can be predicted. See 42 C.F.R. § 412.84(i)(3). Clarian
asserts that if its actual cost-to-charge ratio in 2005 had been considered,
then the reconciliation criteria would have been met, and it would have netted
an extra $1 million worth of outlier payments for that year as a result of the
reconciliation process. (See Compl. &para; 49.) Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document
26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 15 of 46 16 first few years of operation, not because of
turbocharging but because initial hospital operations are inherently costly when
evaluated on a per-patient basis. (See Compl. &para; 50.) 12 Per standard
practice, the cost-to-charge ratio that was used to calculate Clarian's outlier
payments for 2007 was based on Clarian's cost reports from 2005 and 2006; those
cost reports necessarily generated a higher cost-to-charge ratio than Clarian's
actual (decreased) cost-to-charge ratio for 2007. (See Pl.'s Mem. at 24.)
Consequently, the MAC that undertook the retrospective evaluation of Clarian's
2007 outlier payment once the cost reports for that year had settled determined
that the two qualifying criteria for reconciliation were met, and on March 30,
2012, the MAC informed Clarian that its outlier payments from 2007 were being
revised downward to reflect updated information regarding Clarian's actual
cost-to-charge ratio for that year. (See Compl. &para; 52.) The upshot of
Clarian's claim is that, due to the reconciliation process, the agency demanded
that Clarian pay back more than $2.4 million worth of outlier payments that it
had received during the period at issue, when, according to Clarian,
reconciliation should not have been undertaken in the first place. (See id.
&para; 53.) To challenge the agency's recoupment demand, Clarian appealed the
repayment decision to the Provider Reimbursement Review Board ("PRRB"), which is
the administrative tribunal that Congress has authorized to review cost-report
disputes between MACs and service providers. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395oo; 42 C.F.R.
12 This is apparently because new hospitals see a sharp increase in the "patient
utilization rate" in the first few years, which decreases their "per-unit
costs[.]" (Compl. &para; 50; see Pl.'s Mem. at 24, 38.) Put another way, all
other things being equal, a new hospital with few patients has higher costs per
patient than a more established hospital with more patients, and as a hospital
gains patients, its average costs decrease even as the amount it charges stays
constant, which results in a decrease in its cost-to-charge ratio. (See Compl.
&para; 50.) Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 16 of 46 17
§§ 405.1835-77. Clarian requested expedited judicial review of the dispute
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1395oo(f)(1) (see Pl.'s Mem. at 25), and on January 3,
2014, the PRRB permitted expedited judicial review of some of Clarian's
arguments, paving the way for the instant action (see id.). 13 Clarian's
one-count complaint, which was filed in this Court on March 3, 2014, asserts
that "the Secretary's 2012 [reconciliation] determination, and the agency rules
governing that determination, are invalid and should be set aside" because they
violate the Administrative Procedure Act and the Medicare statute. (Compl.
&para; 58; see id. &para; 60.) Thus, Clarian challenges not only the $2.4
million recoupment demand but also the administrative acts that form the
backbone of that repayment determination: the 2003 Rule that authorizes
reconciliation and the 2010 guidelines that implement that rule. And Clarian's
memorandum of law in support of its motion for summary judgment, which was filed
October 10, 2014, clarifies that it seeks to attack these regulatory enactments
on three fronts. First, Clarian argues that the Secretary failed to adhere to
the Medicare statute's notice-and-comment rulemaking requirements when the
agency adopted the standards 13 Expedited judicial review permits the PRRB to
grant an appellant access to federal court when the PRRB has jurisdiction over
an appeal but lacks the authority to decide the controlling question of law. See
42 U.S.C. § 1395oo(f)(1); Three Lower Ctys. Cmty. Health Servs., Inc. v. U.S.
Dep't of Health & Human Servs., 517 F. Supp. 2d 431, 435 n.4 (D.D.C. 2007),
aff'd, 317 F. App'x 1 (D.C. Cir. 2009). In this instance, the PRRB decided that
it lacked jurisdiction over three of Clarian's claims; as to the other three,
including the key claim that the governing reconciliation standards "were not
adopted in accordance with the notice and comment rulemaking requirements
mandated by the [APA] and Medicare Act" (Administrative Record ("AR"), ECF No.
19, at 10), the PRRB concluded that it possessed jurisdiction but lacked the
authority to decide the question of law, and granted Plaintiff's request for
expedited judicial review. (See id. at 11-12.) When a party challenges the
PRRB's determination that it lacks jurisdiction over an issue, the Court "must
limit its review to the PRRB's jurisdiction determination" and not reach the
merits of the claim. Eagle Healthcare, Inc. v. Sebelius, 969 F. Supp. 2d 38, 45
(D.D.C. 2013). However, in this case, the Court addresses only the merits of the
claims over which the PRRB granted expedited judicial review, and addressing
these claims is sufficient to resolve the case. Therefore, there is no need for
this Court to assess whether the PRRB was correct in its determination that it
lacked jurisdiction over some of Clarian's claims. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 17 of 46 18 for reconciliation that appear in
the 2010 manual. (Pl.'s Mem. at 29-30, 32-33.) 14 Second, Clarian argues that
the Secretary's decision to authorize reconciliation for outlier payments in the
2003 Rule was not the product of reasoned decision making, because the Secretary
improperly failed to consider a host of factors, including the effect of
reconciliation on new hospitals (id. at 37-40); the procedures for implementing
the reconciliation rules (id. at 40-43); and whether the retrospective
reconciliation process was justified, given the broader prospective payment
scheme (id. at 43-45). (See also id. at 47-49 (arguing that the Secretary did
not have sufficient evidence from which to conclude that retroactively
correcting cost-to-charge ratios through reconciliation would actually lead to
more accurate outlier payments).) Third, and finally, Clarian argues that, to
the extent that the 2003 Rule and the 2010 implementing guidelines permit MACs
to recover interest on payments owed as a result of the reconciliation process
(see id. at 50-53) and transgress certain statute of limitations and beneficiary
notification requirements (see id. at 33-36), these agency pronouncements are
inconsistent with the Medicare statute. The Secretary filed a cross-motion for
summary judgment on October 10, 2014. In that motion, the Secretary argues that
the agency fully complied with the procedural requirements of the Medicare
statute's notice-and-comment rulemaking provision when it promulgated the 2003
Rule and undertook the 2010 implementation. (See Def.'s 14 Clarian specifically
objects to the two qualifying criteria for initiating the reconciliation process
that the agency adopted in the 2010 manual (see Pl.'s Mem. at 29-35), and it
also challenges the Secretary's decision "to use an 'offline' process 'to
reprice outlier claims' [and thereby] make[] hospitals subject to retroactive
outlier adjustments to prior outlier-payment determinations even after
expiration of the four-year reopening period for those determinations" (id. at
33). Clarian's attack is procedural in nature, because it maintains that these
guidelines for the implementation of the authorized reconciliation process are
substantive rules and thus the agency should only have adopted them after
undertaking adequate notice-and-comment procedures. (See id. at 29-30.) Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 18 of 46 19 Mem. at 26-34.)
The Secretary further argues that the substance of the 2003 Rule is entirely
consistent with the terms of the Medicare statute. In particular, the Secretary
contends that there is nothing improper about using an "offline" process for
reconciling outlier payments (id. at 35-37), or in requiring that interest be
paid on all reconciled outlier payments (id. at 46-49). Finally, the Secretary
defends the 2003 Rule's emphasis on revising bloated cost-to-charge ratios
without altering other elements of the outlier-payment formula, and also the
fact that it does not exempt new hospitals from the outlier-payment
reconciliation process. (Id. at 37-42, 44-46.) This Court held oral argument on
the parties' cross-motions for summary judgment on February 10, 2015, and it
took the motions under advisement at that time. On March 9, 2015, the Court
ordered the parties to submit supplemental briefs on significant questions of
law regarding the Medicare statute and the agency conduct at issue here. (See
Order, ECF No. 20.) Those supplemental briefs became ripe on May 1, 2015. (See
Pl.'s Supplemental Brief ("Pl.'s Suppl. Br."), ECF No. 21; Def.'s Supplemental
Brief ("Def.'s Suppl. Br."), ECF No. 22.) II. LEGAL STANDARDS A. Motions For
Summary Judgment In APA Cases "Summary judgment is the proper mechanism for
deciding, as a matter of law, whether an agency action is supported by the
administrative record and consistent with the APA standard of review." Hill
Dermaceuticals, Inc. v. FDA, No. 11-cv-1950, 2012 WL 5914516, at *7 (D.D.C. May
18, 2012) (citing Richard v. INS, 554 F.2d 1173, 1177 & n.28 (D.C. Cir. 1977));
see also Am. Bioscience, Inc. v. Thompson, 269 F.3d 1077, 1083-84 (D.C. Cir.
2001) (collecting cases). Although, in general, a court will grant Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 19 of 46 20 summary judgment
"if the movant shows that there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact
and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[,]" Fed. R. Civ. P.
56(a), due to the limited role a court plays in reviewing the administrative
record, the typical summary judgment standards set forth in Rule 56(c) are not
applicable in APA cases, see Stuttering Found. of Am. v. Springer, 498 F. Supp.
2d 203, 207 (D.D.C. 2007). Rather, "[u]nder the APA, it is the role of the
agency to resolve factual issues to arrive at a decision that is supported by
the administrative record, whereas 'the function of the district court is to
determine whether or not as a matter of law the evidence in the administrative
record permitted the agency to make the decision it did.'" Id. (quoting
Occidental Eng'g Co. v. INS, 753 F.2d 766, 769 (9th Cir. 1985)). In other words,
"when a party seeks review of agency action under the APA, the district judge
sits as an appellate tribunal[,]" and "[t]he 'entire case' on review is a
question of law." Am. Bioscience, 269 F.3d at 1083 (footnote and citations
omitted); see also Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass'n v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.,
463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983) (explaining that a reviewing court cannot "substitute its
judgment for that of the agency"). This Court's review of the Secretary's
interpretation of the Medicare Act is governed by the familiar two-step test
that the Supreme Court adopted in Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources
Defense Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837, 843-44 (1984). Under that test, a court
first determines "whether Congress has directly spoken to the precise question
at issue[,]" id. at 842; and if not, the court defers to the agency's
interpretation so long as it is permissible and reasonable, see id. at 843-44.
However, when the question posed is whether or not a particular agency enactment
should have been subjected to notice-and-comment rulemaking or is exempted from
that Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 20 of 46 21
requirement, no deference is owed to an agency's characterization of its own
rule. See Am. Hosp. Ass'n v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037, 1056 (D.C. Cir. 1987) ("[W]e
are not compelled to defer to agency characterizations of rules as [being exempt
from notice and comment.]"); Citizens to Save Spencer Cty. v. U.S. Envtl. Prot.
Agency, 600 F.2d 844, 879 n.171 (D.C. Cir. 1979) ("The . . . characterizations
of these rules as interpretive by EPA counsel are of no avail. . . . The label
that the particular agency puts upon its given exercise of administrative power
is not, for our purposes, conclusive; rather it is what the agency does in
fact." (internal quotation marks and citation omitted)). B. Medicare's
Notice-and-Comment Requirements In the APA, Congress requires that agency
policymaking be subjected to noticeand-comment procedures (unless an exemption
applies) in order "to reintroduce public participation" and "assure[] that the
agency will have before it the facts and information relevant to a particular
administrative problem, as well as suggestions for alternative solutions." Am.
Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1044 (internal quotation marks and citations omitted);
see also id. (explaining that notice-and-comment requirements instantiate
"policy goals of maximum participation and full information"). In the Medicare
context, the HHS generally must proceed by notice-and-comment rulemaking, but
the notice-and-comment mandate emerges from the Medicare statute itself rather
than the APA. 15 Section 1395hh(a)(1) of the Medicare statute authorizes the
Secretary to "prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the
administration" of the 15 Medicare is, in fact, statutorily exempt from the
APA's notice-and-comment requirements because those requirements do not apply to
"matter[s] relating to . . . benefits[.]" 5 U.S.C. § 553. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 21 of 46 22 Medicare statute, 42 U.S.C. §
1395hh(a)(1), and Section 1395hh(b)(1) states that, "[e]xcept as [otherwise]
provided . . . , before issuing in final form any regulation under subsection
(a) of this section, the Secretary shall provide for notice of the proposed
regulation in the Federal Register and a period of not less than 60 days for
public comment therein[,]" id. § 1395hh(b)(1). The Secretary's rulemaking power
encompasses any "rule, requirement, or other statement of policy . . . that
establishes or changes a substantive legal standard governing the scope of
benefits, the payment for services, or the eligibility of individuals, entities,
or organizations to furnish or receive services or benefits[,]" id. §
1395hh(a)(2)--a Medicare-related policy pronouncement that falls within this
definition and that is not subject to an exemption in the Medicare statute is
considered to be a "substantive" rule with respect to which the HHS must provide
notice and an opportunity for comment prior to its adoption. See Allina Health,
2016 WL 4409181, at *8. As a general matter, courts use the APA's standards for
determining whether or not a particular Medicare rule is a "substantive" one for
notice-and-comment purposes. See Monmouth Med. Ctr. v. Thompson, 257 F.3d 807,
814 (D.C. Cir. 2001); Adirondack Med. Ctr. v. Sebelius, 935 F. Supp. 2d 121, 130
(D.D.C. 2013). This is because the Medicare statute's notice-and-comment
rulemaking requirements are substantially similar to those of the APA; however,
the two statutes' notice-and-comment provisions do differ in certain respects,
most notably with respect to the recognized exemptions. The APA provides four
exemptions to notice-and-comment rulemaking: three under Section 553(b)(A) of
Title 5 of the U.S. Code and one under Section 553(b)(B). See 5 U.S.C. § 553(b).
The three exemptions under Section 553(b)(A) are for interpretive Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 22 of 46 23 rules, policy
statements, and procedural rules. See id. § 553(b)(A). 16 And the APA exemption
in Section 553(b)(B) is for situations in which a federal agency finds that
notice-and-comment rulemaking would be "impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary
to the public interest." Id. § 553(b)(B). The D.C. Circuit has cautioned that
"Congress intended the exceptions to § 553's notice and comment requirements to
be narrow ones[,]" Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1044; therefore, rules that do
not fit into any one of these four categories are typically deemed "substantive"
rules and, as such, must be subjected to notice-and-comment procedures, see U.S.
Telecom Ass'n v. FCC, 400 F.3d 29, 34 (D.C. Cir. 2005). The Medicare statute
expressly exempts the HHS from notice-and-comment rulemaking in three
circumstances: (1) when a statutory provision permits an interim regulation to
be issued, see 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2)(A); (2) when a statutory provision
requires that a rule be promulgated within 150 days of the passage of that
provision, see id. § 1395hh(b)(2)(B); and (3) when the rule at issue would be
exempt under the APA's Section 553(b)(B) exemption, see id. § 1395hh(b)(2)(C).
The Medicare statute thus expressly incorporates only the APA's exemption for
situations where notice and comment would be impracticable, unnecessary, or
contrary to the public interest, but it does not contain any provision that
expressly contains or references the APA's exemptions for interpretive rules,
policy statements, and procedural rules. Nevertheless, courts have interpreted
the Medicare statute to import the APA's 16 Although courts sometimes use the
term "interpretive rules" as a catchall term to encompass all three exceptions
contained in 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(A), see, e.g., Cent. Tex. Tel. Co-op., Inc. v.
FCC, 402 F.3d 205, 210 (D.C. Cir. 2005), the instant Memorandum Opinion
differentiates between these three different exemptions; the opinion's
references to "interpretive rules" are intended to address that exemption alone.
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 23 of 46 24 exemption for
interpretive rules because one of the Medicare statute's provisions requires
that the Secretary publish certain material in the Federal Register and
indicates that "manual instructions, interpretative rules, statements of policy,
and guidelines of general applicability," 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(c)(1) (emphasis
added), may not fit the definition of a "regulation" under Section 1395hh(a)(1).
See Monmouth Med. Ctr., 257 F.3d at 814 n.2 ("Although no explicit exception to
those requirements is made for 'interpretive rules,' an exception is implicit in
the provision for periodic publication for such rules, see 42 U.S.C. §
1395hh(c), and courts generally have assumed the exception."). Thus, while the
Medicare Act has been interpreted to incorporate the APA's distinction between
substantive and interpretive rules, this Court is not aware of any case that
squarely holds that the Medicare statute should be read to incorporate the other
exemptions contained in APA Section 553(b)(A)--i.e., policy statements and
procedural rules. III. ANALYSIS By pressing a bevy of legal arguments about the
agency's reconciliation process and the rules that undergird it, Clarian seeks
to challenge the Secretary's decision to recoup from Clarian the $2.4 million
that the agency previously provided to the hospital for outlier payments under
Medicare's prospective payment system. As explained above, Clarian's opening
salvo is its contention that the agency guidelines that establish the criteria
for eligibility for reconciliation and other specifics regarding the mechanics
of the reconciliation process constitute a substantive rule, and as such, can
only be valid if promulgated through notice-and-comment rulemaking, which
indisputably did not occur when the Secretary adopted those guidelines in 2010.
(See Pl.'s Mem. at 29-32.) Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16
Page 24 of 46 25 If Clarian is right about this threshold issue, then there is
no need for this Court to proceed to consider the merits of Clarian's myriad
contentions regarding the unlawful and/or improper substance of the guidelines;
it can vacate the agency's recoupment decision and remand this matter to the
agency simply and solely because of the agency's failure to comply with required
notice-and-comment procedures. See, e.g., Catholic Health Initiatives v.
Sebelius, 617 F.3d 490, 497 (D.C. Cir. 2010); United Steel, Paper & Forestry,
Rubber, Mfg., Energy, Allied Indus. & Serv. Workers Int'l Union v. Fed. Highway
Admin., 151 F. Supp. 3d 76, 89, 91-92, 94 (D.D.C. 2015). Consequently, the
parties have devoted a considerable amount of time and effort to the
notice-and-comment inquiry--and have even engaged in a round of supplemental
briefing--in an attempt to persuade this Court that the qualifying criteria and
other standards regarding the reconciliation process that the Secretary adopted
long after promulgating the reconciliation rule are substantive provisions that
required notice-andcomment procedures (Clarian's argument), or, alternatively,
are the types of enactments that the Medicare statute exempts from
notice-and-comment rulemaking (the Secretary's position). 17 This Court has
evaluated the legal standards for characterizing agency guidelines such as those
at issue here, and, in particular, the requirement that notice-and-comment 17
Prior to oral argument on the cross-motions for summary judgment, the Secretary
had argued only that the 2010 guidelines qualify as an interpretive rule, and as
a result, that it was proper for the agency to adopt them without notice and
comment. (See Def.'s Mem. at 30-34.) Following oral argument, it became clear
that it might also be feasible to consider the 2010 guidelines exempt from
notice-andcomment rulemaking as a so-called procedural rule, but only if the
Medicare statute, like the APA, contains an exemption for procedural rules. On
March 9, 2015, this Court ordered the parties to submit supplemental briefing on
two questions related to the applicability of the procedural-rule exemption:
first, whether the guidelines for reconciliation established in the 2010 manual
fall within the procedural-rule exemption as contained in the APA, and if so,
second, whether the procedural-rule exemption is available under the Medicare
statute's notice-and-comment provision. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 25 of 46 26 procedures be afforded unless the agency's
pronouncement is interpretive, procedural, or otherwise fits into one of the
statutory exemptions from notice-and-comment rulemaking. For the reasons
explained below, the Court concludes that the qualifying criteria for being
subjected to the outlier-payment reconciliation process that the agency adopted
in the 2010 manual and applied to Clarian do not qualify as an interpretive rule
or a procedural rule (even assuming that there is a procedural-rule exemption in
the Medicare statute), and thus, must be deemed a substantive rule that should
have been promulgated through notice-and-comment rulemaking. Accordingly, and
without characterizing the other reconciliation standards that Clarian
challenges or reaching the merits of Clarian's arguments regarding the propriety
of the policies that the guidelines embody, this Court will grant Clarian's
motion for summary judgment and remand this matter to the agency for proceedings
consistent with the findings in this opinion. 18 A. The Qualifying Criteria For
Reconciliation That CMS Established In The 2010 Guidelines Are Not Interpretive
Rules 1. Interpretive Rules Must Relate To Specific Text In A Statute Or A
Regulation As noted, this Court's determination regarding whether or not the
qualifying criteria in the 2010 manual are "substantive" rules involves
eliminating the possibility 18 To be clear, Clarian's notice and comment-based
challenge is broader than the Court's holding in this case: Clarian challenges
not only the two criteria governing the determination of which hospitals undergo
reconciliation but also the rules governing retroactive adjustments to payments
following reconciliation (including the use of a so-called "offline" re-pricing
process), on the ground that the guidelines did not undergo notice and comment.
(See Pl.'s Mem. at 32-36.) The Court addresses only the validity of the
qualifying criteria, which alone is sufficient to merit judgment for the
Plaintiff. See Catholic Health Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 494 (declining to reach
a plaintiff's various other challenges to an agency's policy where the court
determined, as an "antecedent" matter, that the rule was substantive yet did not
undergo notice and comment); cf. PDK Labs. Inc. v. DEA, 362 F.3d 786, 799 (D.C.
Cir. 2004) (Roberts, J., concurring) (stating where there "is a sufficient
ground for deciding th[e] case," the "cardinal principle of judicial
restraint--if it is not necessary to decide more, it is necessary not to decide
more--counsels [the Court] to go no further"). Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document
26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 26 of 46 27 that these guidelines are the type of
pronouncement that is exempted from notice-andcomment procedures by statute,
because a substantive rule is defined in opposition to the various exemptions.
Cf. Mendoza v. Perez, 754 F.3d 1002, 1021 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (defining substantive
rules as "the category of rules to which the notice and comment requirements do
apply"); U.S. Telecom Ass'n, 400 F.3d at 34 (same). Put another way, a
substantive rule is any rule that is not interpretive, procedural, or otherwise
subject to an exemption, and because the statutory exemptions represent a
departure from the default notice-and-comment requirement, the D.C. Circuit has
instructed that "the various exceptions . . . will be narrowly construed and
only reluctantly countenanced." N.J., Dep't of Envtl. Prot. v. U.S. Envtl. Prot.
Agency, 626 F.2d 1038, 1045 (D.C. Cir. 1980). Beginning with the Court's
consideration of whether the qualifying criteria are interpretive in nature, the
Court notes that agency rules are deemed interpretive when the particular
promulgation "clarif[ies] a statutory or regulatory term, remind[s] parties of
existing statutory or regulatory duties, or merely track[s] preexisting
requirements and explain[s] something the statute or regulation already
required." Mendoza, 754 F.3d at 1021 (internal quotation marks and citation
omitted). "To fall within the category of interpretive, the rule must derive a
proposition from an existing document whose meaning compels or logically
justifies the proposition[,]" and "[t]he substance of the derived proposition
must flow fairly from the substance of the existing document." Catholic Health
Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 494 (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).
Courts have warned that "the spectrum between a clearly interpretive rule and a
clearly substantive one is a hazy continuum," Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1045;
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 27 of 46 28 consequently,
any analysis that seeks to categorize agency action as interpretive or
substantive is necessarily "an extraordinarily case-specific endeavor[,]" id.
There are some guideposts, however; for example, an interpretive rule must be
grounded in the specific text of a statute or a regulation. See Catholic Health
Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 494 ("If the rule cannot fairly be seen as interpreting
a statute or a regulation, and if (as here) it is enforced, the rule is not an
interpretive rule exempt from notice-and-comment rulemaking." (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted)); Cent. Tex. Tel. Co-op., Inc. v. FCC, 402
F.3d 205, 212 (D.C. Cir. 2005) ("If, despite an agency's claim, a rule cannot
fairly be viewed as interpreting--even incorrectly--a statute or a regulation,
the rule is not an interpretive rule exempt from notice-and-comment
rulemaking."). Failure to meet this requirement is fatal to the contention that
the 2010 guidelines constitute an interpretive rule. 2. The Purported Textual
Basis For The Qualifying Criteria Is Too Broad And Attenuated To Render These
Guidelines Merely Interpretive The Secretary's cross-motion for summary judgment
suggests only one textual reference point that potentially could support the
agency's contention that the qualifying criteria for reconciliation that were
adopted in the 2010 manual are interpretive rules: the statement in Section
1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii) that outlier payments must "'approximate the marginal cost
of care beyond' the fixed-loss threshold." (Def.'s Mem. at 30 (quoting 42 U.S.C.
§ 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii)). But under binding precedent, this statutory language is
too broad to support the invocation of the interpretive-rule exemption to
Medicare's notice-and-comment requirements, and the link between it and the
technical details of a reconciliation program is too attenuated. See Catholic
Health Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 28 of 46 29
Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 496; United Steel, Paper & Forestry, Rubber, Mfg.,
Energy, Allied Indus. & Serv. Workers Int'l Union, 151 F. Supp. 3d at 89. The
D.C. Circuit's opinion in Catholic Health Initiatives v. Sebelius, 617 F.3d 490
(D.C. Cir. 2010), requires this conclusion. That case involved an agency manual
that provided for the reimbursement of a hospital's insurance costs, see id. at
491-92, but the relevant statutory and regulatory language said only that the
government would reimburse a hospital's "reasonable costs" and left the
determination of what costs are "reasonable" to the Secretary, id. at 491. The
Secretary subsequently determined that insurance costs were in the realm of
reasonable costs, and also permitted reimbursement of insurance costs even where
those costs were paid to so-called "captive" insurers-- i.e., insurers that were
actually a wholly owned subsidiary of the hospital--but the agency expressly
differentiated between "domestic" captives and "offshore" captives, with
insurance costs paid to offshore captives being reimbursable only if those
captives satisfied a series of requirements not imposed on domestic captives.
See id. at 492 (noting that, unlike domestic captives, a covered offshore
captive could not invest more than ten percent of its assets in equity
securities). Significantly for present purposes, when setting out the additional
coverage requirements for offshore captives, the Secretary did not use
notice-and-comment rulemaking, see id. at 493, and the D.C. Circuit held that
the requirements that the agency imposed on offshore captives had to be
promulgated through notice-and-comment rulemaking because the requirements were
substantive and not interpretive, see id. at 497. Two principles undergirded the
Circuit's conclusion in Catholic Health Initiatives and are instructive here.
First, the panel reasoned that, if the statutory or Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 29 of 46 30 regulatory language that is
purportedly being interpreted is sufficiently broad, then any attempt by the
agency to implement that language would necessarily involve making substantive
policy judgments that require notice-and-comment rulemaking. See id. at 494-95.
In the context of the Catholic Health Initiatives case, the Circuit concluded
that the statutory term "reasonable cost" was so broad that "the sort of
detailed--and rigid--investment code" that the agency imposed when it determined
which offshore captives would be covered could not have been derived from an act
of interpretation. Id. at 496. Second, the Catholic Health Initiatives Court
noted that, if an interpretive rule imposes "arbitrary" numeric criteria, then
it likely reflects a substantive, rather than interpretive, policy judgment. See
id. at 495-96. By "arbitrary," the Circuit meant numeric criteria that
represented just one "choice among [many] methods of implementation[,]" id. at
495 (quoting Hoctor v. U.S. Dep't of Agric., 82 F.3d 165, 170 (7th Cir. 1996))
(internal quotation marks omitted), and the panel viewed the manual's
requirement that equity securities not exceed ten percent of an offshore
captive's assets as precisely the sort of numeric requirement that reflects an
agency's substantive policy determination rather than mere interpretation of
statutory provisions, see id. at 496. Applying these two principles to the
circumstances at issue in the instant case, this Court concludes that the
qualifying criteria for the outlier-payment reconciliation process that the
agency adopted in the 2010 manual are not merely interpretive of Congress's
command that outlier payments must "approximate the marginal cost of care
beyond" the fixed-loss threshold. 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(A)(iii). This is so
because the statutory phrase "marginal cost of care"--much like "reasonable
cost"--is quite broad and does not, on its own, suggest any particular
application. Furthermore, Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page
30 of 46 31 as the complicated nature of the outlier-payment formula
demonstrates, giving effect to that term requires a series of interlocking
policy and technical considerations, see Dist. Hosp. Partners, 786 F.3d at
49-51, which means that the Secretary's identification and adoption of the two
qualifying criteria inherently involved the sort of "reasonable but arbitrary .
. . choice among methods" that the D.C. Circuit found to be substantive in
Catholic Health Initiatives. 617 F.3d at 495 (quoting Hoctor, 82 F.3d at 170).
The numeric thresholds that the agency has selected also plainly reflect an
arbitrary policy determination, because nothing in the language of "marginal
cost of care" suggests that a ten percent change in cost-to-charge ratios should
trigger the reconciliation process, as opposed to a five percent or fifteen
percent change. And however solid the Secretary's reasons for adopting those
specific numeric requirements might have been, the fact that the agency's policy
choice is supported and justified does not make its decision merely interpretive
(i.e., less substantive). The Secretary objects to this conclusion on a number
of grounds, none of which succeeds. Starting with the most sweeping contention,
the agency argues that the qualifying criteria must be deemed interpretive rules
simply and solely because they are set forth in CMS instruction manuals. (See
Def.'s Reply, ECF No. 18, at 12-13 ("Courts construing [Medicare Provider
Reimbursement Manual] provisions have concluded that they are interpretive rules
and do not require notice and comment rulemaking." (internal quotation marks and
citation omitted).) The D.C. Circuit's Catholic Health Initiatives case belies
this contention; the provisions under review in that case were contained in a
CMS manual and were nevertheless found to be substantive, not interpretive. See
Catholic Health Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 497. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26
Filed 08/26/16 Page 31 of 46 32 Undaunted, the Secretary further insists that
the qualifying criteria and other, similar manual instructions provide
"technical details of issues such as calculation methodologies" in order "to
help intermediaries and providers better understand the regulations" and are
exempt from Medicare's notice-and-comment requirements on that basis as well.
(Def.'s Mem. at 31 (internal quotation marks and citations omitted)). Even if
this is an accurate statement regarding the agency's intentions, it does not
help the Secretary, because the particular criteria that Clarian challenges are
much more than mere "technical details"--they reflect substantive policy
decisions, as explained further below. See infra Part III.C. Moreover, as
discussed above, the two qualifying criteria are not sufficiently grounded in
the statutory phrase "marginal cost of care" for them to amount to an
implementation of that language, and their seeming consistency with Medicare's
outlier-payment provisions and/or the text of the 2003 Rule (see Def.'s Mem. at
32-33) is beside the point; it is well established that an agency's
wellintentioned efforts to adopt provisions that are consistent with the text of
a statute or regulation is not a reason to sidestep Medicare's
notice-and-comment requirements if the rule that emerges "is simply too
attenuated to represent an interpretation of those terms[,]" Catholic Health
Initiatives, 617 F.3d at 496. Finally, the Secretary argues that the qualifying
criteria are distinguishable from the reimbursement instructions at issue in
Catholic Health Initiatives because the investment instructions in Catholic
Health Initiatives were mandatory whereas the qualifying criteria for the
outlier-payment reconciliation process do not necessarily result in
reconciliation--in this regard, the agency emphasizes that the CMS manual builds
in an extra layer of discretion whereby CMS must approve reconciliation once a
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 32 of 46 33 hospital has
been shortlisted. (See Def.'s Mem. at 33-34.) See also Ctrs. for Medicare &
Medicaid Servs., Pub. No. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Ch. 3 §
20.1.2.5 (providing that reconciliation of any hospitals that satisfy the
qualifying criteria will be "[s]ubject to the approval of the CMS Central
Office"). However, the mandatory-versus-discretionary distinction between the
investment instructions in Catholic Health Initiatives and the qualifying
criteria for outlier-payment reconciliation does not bear on the fundamental
question of whether the challenged provisions are tied to any reasonably
specific statutory or regulatory language, or whether those provisions reflect a
substantive policy judgment. In other words, when a rule is plainly not
interpretive in light of the ordinary criteria for making this designation, its
mandatory or voluntary nature is of no moment. Cf. Catholic Health Initiatives,
617 F.3d at 494- 97 (holding that the agency instruction is a substantive rule
without reference to its mandatory nature). Thus, in this Court's view, the
difference between the qualifying criteria and the agency instructions in
Catholic Health Initiatives that the Secretary has identified is not a
meaningful one for the purpose of determining whether the former are
interpretive rules, and the D.C. Circuit's analysis compels the conclusion that
the qualifying criteria cannot be labeled as such. B. The Medicare Statute Does
Not Provide For A Procedural-Rule Exemption And, In Any Event, The Qualifying
Criteria Are Not A Procedural Rule 1. There Is No Express Exemption For
Procedural Rules In The Medicare Statute And One Cannot Reasonably Be Inferred
Procedural rules are agency provisions that are "primarily directed toward
improving the efficient and effective operations of an agency, not toward a
determination of the rights [or] interests of affected parties." Mendoza, 754
F.3d at Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 33 of 46 34 1023
(quoting Batterton v. Marshall, 648 F.2d 694, 702 n.34 (D.C. Cir. 1980))
(alteration in original, internal quotation marks omitted). According to the
D.C. Circuit, a "prototypical procedural rule" is an agency's determination that
it will not search for documents produced after the date of a requester's letter
when responding to a FOIA request, Pub. Citizen v. Dep't of State, 276 F.3d 634,
641 (D.C. Cir. 2002); but "the distinction between substantive and procedural
rules" is not always that clear, Elec. Privacy Info. Ctr. v. U.S. Dep't of
Homeland Sec., 653 F.3d 1, 5 (D.C. Cir. 2011), and the difference can be "one of
degree depending upon whether the substantive effect is sufficiently grave so
that notice and comment are needed to safeguard the policies underlying the
APA[,]" id. at 5-6 (internal quotation marks and citation omitted). Generally
speaking, to determine whether or not a rule qualifies as procedural, courts
often inquire into "whether the agency action . . . encodes a substantive value
judgment or puts a stamp of approval or disapproval on a given type of
behavior." Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1047. As mentioned, the Medicare statute
does not contain any express exemption from notice-and-comment rulemaking for
procedural rules, unlike the APA. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2). That fact would
ordinarily be sufficient to dispose of the issue of the applicability of the
procedural-rule exemption to the qualifying criteria for the outlierpayment
reconciliation process, but it is at least theoretically possible that an
exemption for procedural rules could be read into the Medicare statute just as
the exemption for interpretive rules has been. Cf. Monmouth Med. Ctr., 257 F.3d
at 814 n.2 (holding that the interpretive-rule exemption exists in the Medicare
Act despite its absence from the Act's express exemptions). This Court has
reviewed the parties' submissions regarding Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26
Filed 08/26/16 Page 34 of 46 35 this possibility (see Order, ECF No. 20; see
also Pl.'s Suppl. Br., ECF No. 21; Def.'s Suppl. Br., ECF No. 22), and concludes
that the language and structure of Medicare's notice-and-comment requirements
foreclose any such reading, for several reasons. First of all, given that the
Medicare statute expressly provides for some of the exemptions contained in the
APA but not the exemption for procedural rules, see 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2)(C),
the canon expressio unius est exclusio alterius--"the expression of one is the
exclusion of others[,]" Adirondack Med. Ctr. v. Sebelius, 740 F.3d 692, 696
(D.C. Cir. 2014)--strongly suggests this Court should treat the exclusion of
procedural rules from the list of exemptions to Medicare's notice-and-comment
requirement as an intentional policy choice, see United States v. Vonn, 535 U.S.
55, 65 (2002) (explaining that, under this canon of interpretation, the
legislature's "expressi[ion of] one item of a commonly associated group or
series" is considered the intentional "exclu[sion of] another left
unmentioned"). Of course, this canon applies only where "it is fair to suppose
that Congress considered the unnamed possibility and meant to say no to it[.]"
Marx v. Gen. Revenue Corp., 133 S. Ct. 1166, 1175 (2013) (internal quotation
marks and citation omitted). And so it is here, because Congress has expressly
incorporated into the Medicare statute one of the four express APA exemptions,
see 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2)(C), which makes it entirely plausible that Congress
actually considered--and rejected--the possibility of incorporating the APA's
other exemptions, including the one for procedural rules. Cf. Council for
Urological Interests v. Burwell, 790 F.3d 212, 221 (D.C. Cir. 2015) ("Congress
knew how to permit per-click payments explicitly, suggesting that the omission
in this particular context was deliberate."). In addition, the exemptions that
Congress expressly included Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16
Page 35 of 46 36 in Section 1395hh(b)(2) of the Medicare statute are all of a
common type--that is, exemptions to notice-and-comment rulemaking--and the
procedural-rules exemption is also of that type, which makes application of the
expressio unius canon even more reasonable. See Barnhart v. Peabody Coal Co.,
537 U.S. 149, 168 (2003) (asserting that the expressio unius canon "has force
only when the items expressed are members of an 'associated group or series,'
justifying the inference that items not mentioned were excluded by deliberate
choice, not inadvertence"). To be sure, the D.C. Circuit has indicated that the
expressio unius canon has limited utility in the administrative law context. See
Adirondack Med. Ctr., 740 F.3d at 697. But it can still be relevant where there
are no other reasonable explanations for the exclusion, see Indep. Ins. Agents
of Am., Inc. v. Hawke, 211 F.3d 638, 644 (D.C. Cir. 2000), and, here, the
Secretary has offered none (see Def.'s Suppl. Br. at 20-22 (arguing that the
procedural-rule exemption should be read into the Medicare statute without
providing any rationale for importing this exemption)). Thus, the expressio
unius canon provides a clear and compelling reason to find that the Medicare
statute does not incorporate the APA's procedural-rule exemption. The text and
structure of the Medicare statute also supports the conclusion that there is no
procedural-rule exemption in the Medicare context. First, and foremost,
Medicare's notice-and-comment provisions are plainly distinguishable from those
that appear in the APA, which means that exemption conformity cannot be assumed.
See Allina Health Servs. v. Sebelius, 746 F.3d 1102, 1109 (D.C. Cir. 2014)
(noting that the fact "that the Medicare statute is similar to the APA hardly
means it is identical"). Moreover, Section 1395hh(b) proceeds in definitive
terms, and those terms provide no Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed
08/26/16 Page 36 of 46 37 indication that any exemptions beyond the three
specified in that section are applicable. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(1) (stating
that notice-and-comment rulemaking shall apply "[e]xcept as provided" by the
three enumerated exemptions). And Congress's silence regarding procedural rules
is especially telling in light of the fact that the Medicare statute expressly
cross-references one of the APA's exemptions, see 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(b)(2)(C);
that is, Congress has specified in the clearest possible terms that the APA
exemption contained in 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(B) applies, but says nothing of the
exemptions contained in 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(A). Couple this with the fact that the
Medicare statute expressly recognizes that "statements of policy" may not
constitute regulations subject to Medicare's notice-and-comment procedures, see
42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(c)(1), but makes no such references to the types of
non-policy procedural pronouncements that are sometimes needed in order to
effectuate the agency's policy statements, and one is left with the distinct
impression that the exemptions in Medicare's notice-and-comment procedures were
not intended to incorporate procedural rules. The Secretary is certainly correct
to point out that courts have found that certain APA exemptions have been
implicitly incorporated into the Medicare statute under similar circumstances
(see Def.'s Suppl. Br. at 21), as this Court acknowledges above. See, e.g.,
Vencor Nursing Centers, L.P. v. Shalala, 63 F. Supp. 2d 1, 11 (D.D.C. 1999)
("The court treats the Medicare Act's exemption for interpretive rules as
identical to the APA's."). However, courts have made this finding based on a
separate subsection of the Medicare statute that expressly references
"interpretative rules[.]" 42 U.S.C. § 1395hh(c)(1) (emphasis added); see
Monmouth Med. Ctr., 257 F.3d at 814 ("[I]t seems Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document
26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 37 of 46 38 fair to infer that, as the Medicare Act was
drafted after the APA, § 1385hh(c)'s reference to 'interpretive rules' without
any further definition adopted an exemption at least similar in scope to that of
the APA."); see also id. at 814 n.2 ("Although no explicit exception to those
requirements is made for 'interpretive rules,' an exception is implicit in the
provision for periodic publication for such rules . . . ."). The Secretary has
not demonstrated that procedural rules are likewise specifically referenced in
another provision of the Medicare statute; therefore, this Court doubts that the
reasoning that has compelled several courts to infer an exemption for
interpretive rules actually supports the conclusion that the Medicare statute
has, sub silentio, adopted an additional exemption for procedural rules. The
Secretary's suggestion that this Court should infer that a procedural-rule
exemption exists in the Medicare context nevertheless, because the D.C. Circuit
appears to have done so in American Hospital Association v. Bowen, 834 F.2d 1037
(D.C. Cir. 1987), is also unavailing, and it fails for one simple reason: the
challenged agency action in the American Hospital Association case occurred
before the passage of the Medicare statute's notice-and-comment provision--at a
time when the Secretary had voluntarily adopted the APA's notice-and-comment
requirements, including the APA's exemptions. See 36 Fed. Reg. 2532 (Feb. 5,
1971) (directing agencies "to utilize the public participation procedures of the
APA, 5 U.S.C. 553"); see also Timothy Stoltzfus Jost, Governing Medicare, 51
Admin. L. Rev. 39, 88 & n.272 (1999). Thus, while it was entirely appropriate
for the D.C. Circuit to apply a procedural-rule exemption in the American
Hospital Association case, that case says nothing about the applicability of a
procedural-rule exemption to Medicare's current notice-and-comment provisions.
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 38 of 46 39 Nor is this
Court persuaded by fact that more recent decisions from this district have
relied upon a procedural-rule exemption in the Medicare context. (See Def.'s
Suppl. Br. at 22 (citing Sierra-Nevada Mem'l-Miners Hosp., Inc. v. Shalala, No.
91-cv- 2198, 1994 WL 675720, at *4-6 (D.D.C. Nov. 21, 1994); Beverly Health &
Rehab. Servs. v. Thompson, 223 F. Supp. 2d 73, 99-101 (D.D.C. 2002); and Gentiva
Healthcare Corp. v. Sebelius, 857 F. Supp. 2d 1, 13 (D.D.C. 2012)).) "[A]
decision from another Judge in this District is not controlling authority on
this [Court.]" Carik v. U.S. Dep't of Health & Human Servs., 4 F. Supp. 3d 41,
54 n.8 (D.D.C. 2013) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted); see also
Cmty. Health Sys., Inc. v. Burwell, No. 14-cv-1432, 2015 WL 4104644, at *20 n.22
(D.D.C. July 7, 2015) (noting that, "[w]hile potentially persuasive," other
District Court "decisions are not binding"). And it appears that the opinions on
which the Secretary relies merely assumed the applicability of a procedural-rule
exemption to Medicare's notice-and-comment requirement, without specifically
analyzing the issue. See Sierra-Nevada Mem'l-Miners Hosp., 1994 WL 675720 at *4;
Beverly Health & Rehab. Servs., 223 F. Supp. 2d at 99; Gentiva Healthcare Corp.,
857 F. Supp. 2d at 13. Finally, this Court rejects the Secretary's suggestion
that a procedural-rule exemption must necessarily be implied because an agency's
ability to develop procedural rules is a "basic tenet of administrative law[.]"
(Def.'s Suppl. Br. at 20 (quoting Perez v. Mortg. Bankers Ass'n, 135 S. Ct.
1199, 1207 (2015)) (internal quotation marks omitted).) It is no doubt true that
an agency must have the capacity to provide for the implementation of the
policies it adopts, especially in the APA context, see 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(A), but
that is beside the point; what matters for present purposes Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 39 of 46 40 is whether
Congress intended to excuse the agency from its duty to provide the public with
notice of any such procedural command, and an opportunity to comment on it,
prior to its adoption. And the fact that a rule is procedural in nature (and
thus important to the agency's function) does not, in itself, establish that
Congress implicitly desired to permit the agency to forgo the public vetting
that it has otherwise prescribed. 2. Even If The Medicare Statute Could Be Read
To Contain A Procedural-Rule Exemption, The Qualifying Criteria For
Reconciliation Are Not Procedural Rules The two qualifying criteria for the
initiation of the reconciliation process that the Secretary adopted in the 2010
manual--(1) that a hospital's actual cost-to-charge ratio for a given year is
"plus or minus 10 percentage points" from the cost-to-charge ratio that was used
to calculate the hospital's outlier payments for that year, and (2) that the
hospital's "[t]otal outlier payments in that cost reporting period exceed[ed]
$500,000[,]" Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., Pub. No. 100-04, Medicare
Claims Processing Manual, Ch. 3 § 20.1.2.5(A)--unquestionably "encode[] a
substantive value judgment" about the hospital's charges and cost reporting for
Medicare reimbursements and "put[] a stamp of . . . disapproval" on the
hospitals that are singled out by the rule. Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1047.
Indeed, according to the Secretary, the entire purpose of the reconciliation
process was to prevent the manipulation of outlier payments by nefarious
turbochargers, see 68 Fed. Reg. at 34,5001 (claiming that reconciliation process
was needed to "completely eliminate" the ability of "hospitals to manipulate the
system to maximize outlier payments"), and the selected criteria purportedly
reflect the agency's substantive judgment regarding how best to "appropriately
capture those hospitals whose outlier payments will be substantially inaccurate
when using the ratio from the contemporaneous cost reporting period." Id. at
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 40 of 46 41 34,503. In
other words, because the qualifying criteria are the mechanism by which the
agency identifies those hospitals that it has deemed potentially worthy of this
metaphorical "stamp of . . . disapproval[,]" Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1047,
the Secretary is hard-pressed to make a convincing argument that the qualifying
criteria fall within the category of agency actions that properly can be deemed
mere "procedural" rules. In its supplemental briefing, the agency makes a
valiant effort, nevertheless. The Secretary contends, in essence, that the
qualifying criteria are procedural for two reasons: first, because they are a
"type[] of agency guidance" that merely "provide[s] details as to the
operational aspects of reconciliation" (Def.'s Suppl. Br. at 17), and second,
because the qualifying criteria are not the final say in determining whether a
hospital's outlier payments are reconciled because reconciliation is still
subject to the approval of CMS (see id. at 16-17). The first argument is belied
by the analysis above, and in particular, by this Court's finding that the
qualifying criteria initiate the process pursuant to which the agency disgorges
prior Medicare payments and thereby visits opprobrium upon a hospital, and
insofar as the criteria speak to which hospitals may be subjected to this
treatment, they represent substantive policy choices on the part of the agency.
The Secretary's second contention fails because it is the flip-side of the
(misguided) argument that the mandatory nature of a rule makes it less
non-substantive, which is an assertion that this Court has already rejected. See
supra Part III.A.2. What is more, the D.C. Circuit has already held that agency
discretion does not, alone, transform an otherwise substantive rule into a
procedural one. In Electronic Privacy Information Center v. U.S. Dep't of
Homeland Sec., 653 F.3d 1 (D.C. Cir. 2011), the government sought to defend the
introduction of a new type of security-screening machine Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ
Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 41 of 46 42 at airports without going through
notice-and-comment rulemaking, on the ground that "there are no [machines] at
some airports and the agency retains the discretion to stop using the scanners
where they are in place." Id. at 7.19 The D.C. Circuit rejected this argument,
noting that, although the government retained discretion to use the machines or
not, "[m]ore clearly significant is that a passenger is bound to comply with
whatever screening procedure the TSA is using on the date he is to fly at the
airport from which his flight departs." Id. In other words, the D.C. Circuit has
made clear that the existence of agency discretion to adopt a rule that mandates
certain procedures (or not) does not ameliorate the fact that the rule has
consequences for those subject to its terms, and this Court finds that principle
fully applicable here. That is, although CMS may, in its discretion, decide not
to reconcile a hospital's outlier payments despite the fact that the qualifying
criteria are satisfied, those criteria have a very real effect on those
hospitals that do not receive the benefit of the agency's discretionary
determination that reconciliation is not warranted, and thus, the discretionary
nature of the challenged criteria is of no moment with respect to the
characterization of those agency pronouncements as of the type that requires
notice-and-comment rulemaking. C. The Qualifying Criteria Have The Typical
Characteristics Of A Substantive Rule Because They Govern The Scope Of Benefits
Having determined that the qualifying criteria for reconciliation of outlier
payments that the Secretary adopted in the 2010 manual are neither interpretive
nor procedural as the Secretary claims, and seeing no other exemption in the
Medicare statute under which these 19 The discretion argument that was addressed
in the EPIC case arose in the context of a dispute about whether the
introduction of the screening machine fell within the APA's policy statement
exemption, but the circuit panel also addressed the government's attempt to rely
on the procedural-rule exemption. See Elec. Privacy Info. Ctr., 653 F.3d at 5-6.
Thus, the fact that the rule contemplated agency discretion did not transform it
into a procedural rule. Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page
42 of 46 43 guidelines might fit, this Court has already effectively deemed
those criteria substantive. See Mendoza, 754 F.3d at 1021; U.S. Telecom Ass'n,
400 F.3d at 34. Because courts have also articulated a number of positive
characteristics that tend to indicate that a rule is substantive rather than
interpretive or procedural, see, e.g., Mendoza, 754 F.3d at 1021 (explaining
that a rule is likely substantive if it "supplements a statute, adopts a new
position inconsistent with existing regulations, or otherwise effects a
substantive change in existing law or policy"); Syncor Int'l Corp. v. Shalala,
127 F.3d 90, 95 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that a substantive rule "modifies or
adds to a legal norm based on the agency's own authority"), this Court observes
additionally that the qualifying criteria in the instant case have at least two
quintessential "substantive rule" characteristics. First, the qualifying
criteria for reconciliation of outlier payments clearly effect a change in
agency policy. In the Secretary's notice of proposed rulemaking for the 2003
Rule, the Secretary stated that reconciliation was adopted for a singular
purpose: "to correct those situations in which hospitals would otherwise receive
overpayments for outlier cases due to excessive charge increases." Proposed
Change in Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at 10,421. The Secretary emphasized the
agency's findings regarding the substantial number of hospitals that it deemed
guilty of engaging in the practice of drastically increasing charges for care
provided to beneficiaries in order to decrease the cost-to-charge ratio, and
explained the agency's view that combatting such turbocharging justified the new
reconciliation process. See id. at 10,428 ("[W]e have identified 123 hospitals
that appear to have been most aggressively gaming the current policy."). But the
qualifying criteria that the agency subsequently adopted do not plainly
distinguish between turbocharging hospitals and those hospitals that experience
a significant change in their cost-to-charge ratio for different reasons, as
Clarian Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 43 of 46 44
asserts. Indeed, the qualifying criteria are such that hospitals whose
cost-to-charge ratio increases (i.e., the opposite of turbocharging) by 10
percentage points or more, as well as hospitals whose cost-to-charge ratio
decreases by that much because of a decrease in costs rather than an increase in
charges, are also implicated. The qualifying criteria thus broaden the
applicability of the outlier-payment reconciliation process beyond the specific
problem of turbocharging, and while that approach may well be justified for
reasons of policy and practicality, it clearly represents a substantive
departure from the purposes of the reconciliation process that were identified
when the 2003 Rule was proposed. The qualifying criteria also plainly "implicate
the policy interests animating notice-and-comment rulemaking." Elec. Privacy
Info. Ctr., 653 F.3d at 6. The purpose of notice-and-comment rulemaking is "(1)
to reintroduce public participation and fairness to affected parties after
governmental authority has been delegated to unrepresentative agencies; and (2)
to assure that the agency will have before it the facts and information relevant
to a particular administrative problem." MCI Telecomm. Corp. v. FCC, 57 F.3d
1136, 1141 (D.C. Cir. 1995) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted);
accord Am. Hosp. Ass'n, 834 F.2d at 1044. There were a number of public comments
that addressed how the reconciliation process would be applied during the 2003
Rule's notice-and-comment period, despite the fact that the notice of proposed
rulemaking did not discuss how the reconciliation process would be implemented.
See Change in Methodology, 68 Fed. Reg. at 34,503 ("Some commenters suggested
that we clarify how reconciliation will be implemented and only reconcile
outlier payments to those providers whose cost-to-charge ratios increased or
decreased outside of certain Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16
Page 44 of 46 45 parameters."). And not only was there a desire among members of
the public to comment on the specific criteria that would subject a hospital to
reconciliation, there is also reason to think that subjecting those criteria to
notice and comment may have led the agency to a different result. For example,
and as noted above, the current qualifying criteria do not take into account
fluctuations in the cost-to-charge ratio that are caused by decreasing costs
rather than increases in the amount that a hospital charges beneficiaries.
According to Clarian, this scenario is common among new hospitals in particular
(see Pl.'s Mem. at 37-40), and notice-and-comment rulemaking would have allowed
the Secretary to respond to these concerns and/or develop a rule that accounted
for this circumstance. Thus, in addition to the fact that the qualifying
criteria are neither interpretive nor procedural--which is sufficient to trigger
the requirement of notice-and-comment rulemaking standing alone--this Court
finds that the criteria also share at least two of the characteristics that
courts have established as being indicative of a substantive rule. IV.
CONCLUSION Clarian has sustained its contention that the qualifying criteria CMS
issued to MACs in the 2010 manual, which were used to identify Clarian as a
candidate for the outlier-payment reconciliation process, needed to be subjected
to notice-and-comment rulemaking prior to their adoption. This is because, for
the reasons explained above, the criteria are not sufficiently grounded in any
statutory or regulatory text to fall within the interpretive-rule exemption, and
the qualifying criteria cannot be construed as a procedural rule, even assuming
that the procedural-rule exemption applies in the Medicare context. (The Court
concludes herein that it does not.) The inapplicability of Case
1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 45 of 46 46 these exemptions
means that the qualifying criteria count as a substantive rule, and the fact
that the criteria also exhibit the characteristics of substantive rules further
reinforces that conclusion. Accordingly, and as set forth in the accompanying
order, Clarian's motion for summary judgment will be GRANTED, the Secretary's
motion for summary judgment will be DENIED, the matter will be REMANDED to the
Secretary for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. DATE: August 26,
2016 Ketanji Brown Jackson KETANJI BROWN JACKSON United States District Judge
Case 1:14-cv-00339-KBJ Document 26 Filed 08/26/16 Page 46 of 46



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


