                              167 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Experts criticise meagre allocation for health, 10% of overall budget

BYLINE: Maitri Porecha

LENGTH: 480  words


The city's health budget has turned out to be a mere copy-paste exercise. Not
only are there no plans to make Mumbai's civic hospital infrastructure robust,
but also the promises made in previous year's budget have not been fulfilled.

In 2015-16, Rs3,359.78 crore have been allocated for the health department, a
marginal increase of 0.8% from last year. However, the increase itself is a
hogwash, say experts.

BMC's budget planning is spread over three years, so the actual utilisation of
money that occurred in 2013-14 was revealed in the budget announcements of
2015-16 on Wednesday. While close to Rs2,508 crore was allotted for health in
2013-14, only Rs1,894.47 crore were utilised. "Nearly Rs614 crore (up to 25%)
lie unutilised," said Ravi Duggal, researcher, International Budget Partnership.

In 2014-15, many new promises were made - constructing hospitals, acquiring
advanced machinery, such as MRI machines, and increasing the bed strength. The
promise of constructing hospitals, including one 600-bed facility in Bhandup, or
reconstruction of Bhagwati Hospital in Borivli was made over a year ago, but
neither has become a reality yet.

Corporators said the promises made in last year's budget have been repeated.
"For the past three years, the talk of refurbishing maternity homes in Mumbai is
on. The same pointers have been copied and pasted from last year's budget this
year. BMC has failed to implement its promises and proposals related to
augmentation of health infrastructure," said corporator from Kurla Rais Shaikh.

Shaikh added that BMC has got its priorities wrong. For a burgeoning population
of over 35,000 people suffering from TB, to allot a mere Rs1 crore for
constructing an 11-bed Intensive Respiratory Care Unit is nothing but a joke, he
said, slamming the Rs45 crore allotment for building a cultural centre.

Experts said BMC's health infrastructure is rotting in stagnation. "The health
budget is 10% of the overall BMC budget of Rs33, 540 crore, but if you look at
how BMC's money is spent a huge gap in actual spending is revealed," said
Duggal.

BMC's additional health commissioner Sanjay Deshmukh admitted there were
procedural delays in constructing hospitals and equipping them with
infrastructure. "The cost of building the hospitals escalated due to procedural
delays over the last two years," said Deshmukh.

More empty promises?

11

bed Intensive Respiratory Care Unit is proposed for TB patients at GTB Hospital
in Sewri; Rs1 crore has been set aside for it.

68

dialysis beds will be added to the current 38 through public-private
partnership.

1,000

bed Bhagwati Hospital in Borivli is being redeveloped.

Rs13cr

has been kept for cleaning up GTB Hospital premises, work of which will be
outsourced to an NGO.

Rs1,000

a month will be given to every handicapped leprosy patient.

Rs50L

has been earmarked for Arogya Bhavan to be built in Kasturba Hospital campus.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


