                              212 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 5, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Research and Markets: Global Medical Simulation Market Outlook: 2013-2020

LENGTH: 521  words


May 5 -- Research and Markets
(http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/8ccmg4/global_medical) has announced
the addition of the "Global Medical Simulation Market Outlook: 2013-2020" report
to their offering.

The global medical simulation market is projected to grow at a CAGR of 14.8%
from 2015 to 2020

In spite of these driving forces, medical simulation did not gain widespread
acceptance in the recent past, principally for the reasons of high cost of
simulators and reluctance to adopt new training methods. These factors are still
expected to restrain the growth of the global medical simulation market across
the globe during the forecast period to a certain extent. Moreover, limited
availability of funds, especially in the developing and underdeveloped countries
further restricts the growth of this market.

The research report on the medical simulation market provides comprehensive
analysis of the global market with a country level analysis and helps in
understanding the driving forces for the growth of this market. The report also
provides analysis of major product and service segments such as patient
simulators, task trainers, procedural skills trainers, web-based simulation,
audiovisual solutions, and simulation training services.

The procedure skills trainers market is further sub-segmented into IV
simulators, Endovascular trainers, Airway Management Products, Orthroscopy
Trainers, Laparoscopy trainers, Dental Trainers, and other procedural/Surgical
Trainers. Similarly, the simulation training services market is categorized into
Educational Services, Hospital Services, and other vendor-based services. The
major end-users of the medical simulation products and services are analyzed by
categorizing into healthcare education, hospitals, military, emergency medical
services, and voluntary organizations.

Market size estimates and forecasts for the period 2015 to 2020 has been
provided for each segment and its sub-segment, in terms of USD million,
calculating growth rates from 2015 to 2020, considering 2014 as the base year
for calculations.

Key Topics Covered:

1 Introduction to Global Medical Simulation Market

2 Executive Summary

3 Market Insights

4 Global Medical Simulation Market Crackdown ($ Value Analysis), By Product Type

5 Global Medical Simulation Market Crackdown ($ Value Analysis), By Service
Types

6 Technological Assessment

7 Global Medical Simulation Market Crackdown ($ Value Analysis), By End-user

8. Medical Simulation Market Crackdown ($ Value Analysis), By Geography

9 Global Medical Simulation Market Competitive Outlook

10 Competitive Profiles Major Players

* 3B Scientific GmbH

* 3D Systems, Inc. (Simbionix)

* Adam,Rouilly Limited

* Altay Scientific S.p.A.

* CAE Healthcare

* Cardionics, Inc

* Gaumard Scientific Company, Inc

* IngMar Medical

* KaVo Dental GmbH

* Kyoto Kagaku Co., Ltd

* Laerdal Medical As

* Limbs & Things, Ltd

* Medical Simulation Corporation

* Mentice Ab

* Moog Inc

* Simulab Corporation

* Simulaids, Inc.

* Surgical Science Sweden Ab

* Yuan Technology Limited

For more information visit
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/8ccmg4/global_medical

Source: Research and Markets

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


