                              215 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           January 8, 2014 Wednesday

Pakistan: Govt sends 13 pre-PPP IT projects to NAB

LENGTH: 359  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Jan. 8 -- On direction of Minister of State for Information
Technology Anusha Rehman, the government has referred 13 IT projects to National
Accountability Bureau (NAB) after allegations of gross financial, administrative
and procedural irregularities.

According to an official announcement made by the Ministry of Information
Technology (MoIT) here on Monday, the ministry has ordered to refer the internal
audit reports showing gross financial, administrative and procedural
irregularities of thirteen (13) PSDP IT projects, executed by Pakistan Computer
Bureau (PCB) and Electronic Government Directorates (EGD), to NAB.

Most of the projects started during the period in between 2004-2006 with
completion period of 2-3 years thereof. However, despite a lapse of more than 7
years, the projects desired deliverable were not achieved within the defined
timelines. It had become a yearly trend of PCB/EGD to seek extension of these
projects on one pretext or the other.

The projects include 'Provision of E-Services at CDA, Islamabad', 'M/o
Information Technology - Health NET Telemedicine Project for Rural/Remote Areas
in Punjab (Holy Family Hospital Rawalpindi)', 'HMIS and Networking facilities at
Children Hospital, PIMS, Islamabad', 'E-Enablement of Establishment Division',
'Federal Government Data Centre and Intranet', 'E-Services at Chief/Deputy
Commissioner's Office', 'E-Services of Islamabad Police', 'E-Office at MoIT',
'E-Office Replication at Federal Ministries/Divisions', 'E-Services at FIA',
'E-Services at Ministry of Health', 'E-Services at Ministry of Interior' and
'E-Services at Ministry of Population'. The minister way back in September 2013
ordered to conduct a special audit of all the projects of MoIT attached
departments/entities to ensure the transparency, efficiency in their business
processes and in-time delivery of the project deliverables. The reports of
special audit to be conducted by AGP are still awaited

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


