                              225 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                                 Delhi Edition

Drugs numb her maternal instinct

BYLINE: Ambika Pandit TNN

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 493 words



HIGHLIGHT:Â 24-Yr-Old Pregnant Woman Rescued By NGO But Violently Fends Off Help


New Delhi: Twenty-fouryear-old Anita (name changed) begs and sells flowers at
the famous Hanuman Mandir complex in Connaught Place.She is homeless and reeling
under the effects of substance abuse.What makes her condition worrisome is that
she's expecting twins.Due to the high-risk full-term pregnancy,she needs
immediate medical attention.But providing help isn't all that easy.On Saturday,a
rescue operation was carried out to take her to a safe place but it was marred
by procedural delays.She was rescued from the Hanuman Mandir complex around noon
on Saturday.She was found in a mentally unstable and violent condition - the
fallout of substance abuse and a traumatic street life.The rescue team consisted
of the state-appointed Mother NGO for homeless,St Stephen's Hospital,a mental
health team from the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences and Delhi
Police.Though Anita was picked up from Hanuman Mandir around noon,she could be
admitted to Lok Narayan Jai Prakash Hospital only by 8.30pm.Getting clearances
and completing procedures took up all the time.Anita lives at the Hanuman Mandir
complex with her husband and four children.They scrounge a meal by begging and
also sell flowers and balloons to visitors.Like many others in the area,the
couple is into substance abuse.The community workers from MNGO found her during
a survey of the homeless last year."We have been tracking Anita throughout her
pregnancy.Staying on the streets in this condition is fraught with risks," said
Dr Amod Kumar from the MNGO.The rescue team found Anita in a violent
state.According to Kumar,her husband and community members,too,felt that she
should be admitted to a hospital but they did not accompany her.The rescue team
first took Anita in an ambulance to St Stephen's Hospital but she refused to go
inside and turned violent.The IHBAS team expressed their helplessness in
admitting Anita as she was a case of a full-term pregnancy and they are not
equipped enough.Times City found Anita in the ambulance urging the team to leave
her back at Hanuman Mandir and growing violent every now and then.With the law
making it mandatory for NGOs to get orders from the lower court in such cases to
enable hospitals to admit the patient,the ambulance headed for the Patiala House
court.The metropolitan magistrate gave its order around 5.30pm,directing that
the patient be placed for treatment in Lok Narayan Jai Prakash Hospital.Once at
LNJP,she was shunted from one department to another despite her delicate
condition.Finally,she was admitted to the hospital around 8.30pm.Minister Kiran
Walia,in charge of social welfare and women and child development,said that such
cases are difficult to deal with and agreed that procedural delays in these
matters are a big concern."This is why we involve NGO and institutions like
IHBAS who specialize in mental health.In this case,I have asked LNJP Hospital to
cooperate fully as it is a delicate matter," Walia added.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


