                              230 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. John's Telegram (Newfoundland)

                             August 21, 2006 Monday

Fewer doctors offering specialized services

BYLINE: DEANA STOKES SULLIVAN

SECTION: METRO/PROVINCIAL NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 527 words


In recent years, fewer Newfoundland and Labrador family physicians have been
providing specialized services such as obstetrical care, hospital inpatient care
and surgical assistance.

A new publication by the Canadian Institute for Health Information (CIHI),
contains data from annual surveys in all provinces from 1994 to 2003.

The report is titled "The Evolving Role of Canada's Fee-for- Service Family
Physicians."

The 2003 survey involved 354 fee-for-service family physicians in this province
while 421 family doctors were surveyed in 1994.

The provision of obstetrical services by family physicians has been steadily
dropping, reaching a low of 9.3 per cent in 2003, from 25.7 per cent in 1994.

National trend

Nationally, a similar trend has been emerging. In 2003, only 15.7 per cent of
female family physicians and 13.2 per cent of male family physicians in the
country provided obstetrical care, compared to 27 per cent of female family
physicians and 26 per cent of male family physicians who offered obstetrical
services in 1994.

Hospital inpatient care was offered by more than half of all family doctors in
Newfoundland and Labrador in 1994 but in 2003, their participation rate in that
category dropped slightly to 42.1 per cent.

The CIHI report notes that while the percentage of family doctors providing
hospital inpatient care in this province has been on the decline, record high
average numbers of hospital inpatient services were provided in 2002 and 2003 by
fewer family physicians. The average number of services, provided by family
doctors, who continued to participate in obstetrical care, rose to 1,300 in 2003
from 955 a year earlier.

Surgical assistance by family physicians in this province has also been
declining, going to 15.5 per cent in 2003 from 28 per cent in 1994.

In the latest survey, 92.9 per cent of Newfoundland and Labrador family
physicians said they were in office practices, with 83.9 per cent offering basic
procedural skills services. Advanced procedural skills services were offered by
76.8 per cent.

Mental-health care is also offered, but this area of practice has also been
declining slightly among family doctors in this province.

In 2003, 60.5 per cent of family physicians said they offered mental health
services, compared to 71 per cent in 1994.

Nationally, in 2003, more than 84 per cent of family doctors said they offered
mental health services, which was no change from 1994.

According to the CIHI report, 68.4 per cent of family physicians in this
province in 2003 were male and 31.6 per cent female.

Half of all fee-for-service family physicians in the province practice in urban
centres, with 15.8 per cent providing services in what's termed "mid-size"
communities and 34.2 per cent practising in rural areas.

Nationally only 15.8 per cent of all family physicians worked in rural Canada in
2003. Newfoundland and Labrador, Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, New
Brunswick and Saskatchewan had markedly higher percentages than other provinces,
all over 30 per cent.

The percentages of family physicians working in rural areas were lowest in
Ontario (10.4 per cent) and British Columbia (12.8 per cent).

dss@thetelegram.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 St. John's Telegram, a division of Transcontinental Media Group
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


