                              233 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 8, 2015 Thursday

Washington: King Calls on Congress to Increase Funding for Veterans' Care

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Office of the Senator Angus King has issued the following news
release:



 After opposing a procedural motion on a bill that drastically underfunds
critical veterans' health care programs, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-Maine)
released the following statement calling on his colleagues to draft and pass
appropriations legislation that adequately meets and serves the needs of
America's veterans:





             &ldquo;America's veterans deserve the best, highest-quality care
and services available, but unfortunately, that's not what they're getting with
this bill,&rdquo; Senator King said. &ldquo;Instead, this bill maintains sharp
spending reductions under sequestration that would severely underfund the
Department of Veterans Affairs, thereby jeopardizing medical care, VA facility
improvements, and other critical services that our veterans have earned through
their service to our nation. We shouldn't be cutting corners when it comes to
caring for those who have borne the battle. I call on my colleagues to pass a
bill that boosts VA funding and properly serves those who so selflessly served
us.&rdquo;



 Senator King today voted against a procedural motion that would have advanced
H.R.2029, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies
Appropriations Act of 2016, (MilCon-VA) because the bill maintains severe
spending reductions imposed under sequestration that result in substantial
underfunding of critical veterans programs.



 More specifically, the bill reduces funding for the Department of Veterans
Affairs by approximately $857 million below the President's budget request,
which would lead to the underfunding of VA medical care by more than half a
billion dollars - equivalent to the cost of providing care for tens of thousands
of veterans. Furthermore, according to the Office of Management and Budget, the
Senate MilCon-VA bill, if enacted, would negatively impact veterans' medical
care services, including reducing the VA's ability to maintain sufficient staff
and equipment at VA hospitals. It would also underfund programs aimed at
maintenance to address deficiencies at hospitals and clinics.



 The bill is also opposed by the American Legion, the largest veterans
organization in the country, because it does not adequately support critical
veterans care.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


