                              26 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 23, 2016 Tuesday

Atrial Fibrillation and Post-PCI Clinical Outcomes

LENGTH: 413  words

DATELINE: New York



 Santa Fe: Air Conditioning Contractors of America Association, Inc has issued
the following news release:



 Study Questions:



 What is the association between atrial fibrillation (AF) and in-hospital
adverse outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) using a large
prospective multicenter registry?



 Methods:



 Data for consecutive PCI cases from 47 hospitals performed between April 2011
and December 2014 were utilized for the analysis. Propensity-matched
multivariate analysis was used to adjust for differences in baseline
characteristics between patients with and without a history of AF.

 Results:



 Of 113,283 PCI cases during the study period, a history of AF was present in
13,912 patients (12%), which varied by institution (range, 2.5-18.4%). At
baseline, patients with a history of AF were older and were more likely to have
comorbid congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy, cerebrovascular disease, and
chronic lung disease. Patients with a history of AF were more likely to have in-
hospital complications, including in-hospital mortality (3% vs. 1%). In
propensity-matched analysis, patients with a history of AF were more likely to
be treated with a bare-metal stent (27% vs. 18%). In the propensity-matched
model, AF remained independently associated with an increased risk of developing
post-procedural bleeding (odds ratio [OR], 1.32; 95% confidence interval [CI],
1.15-1.52), heart failure (OR, 1.33; 95% CI, 1.17-1.52), cardiogenic shock (OR,
1.26; 95% CI, 1.08-1.48), and in-hospital mortality (OR, 1.41; 95% CI,
1.18-1.68).

 Conclusions:



 The authors concluded that AF is common among patients undergoing PCI and
independently associated with in-hospital post-procedural heart failure,
cardiogenic shock, and mortality.

 Perspective:



 This study reports that AF is strongly associated with in-hospital adverse
outcomes after PCI, even after extensive adjustment for other relevant factors.
Those with a history of AF were found to have a higher rate of post-procedural
bleeding, need for transfusion, heart failure, cardiogenic shock, and mortality.
Overall, these findings indicate that a history of AF is a marker of patients
who are vulnerable to serious in-hospital complications after PCI. Additional
studies are indicated to better understand the mechanism of the adverse
consequences of AF among patients undergoing PCI.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


