                              245 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                               May 4, 2015 Monday

US Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania) Issues Solicitation
for "Zimmer Orthopedic Knee, Hip, Spine, Extremity, and Trauma "procedural
packages""

LENGTH: 735  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations Officer has issued
requirement for "Zimmer Orthopedic Knee, Hip, Spine, Extremity, and Trauma "
procedural packages""

Solicitation no. SPE2DE15R0001

Notice Type: Presolicitation
Posted Date:
May 4, 2015
Response Date:
Jul 15, 2015 3:00 pm Eastern

Description: The goal of the Manufacturer Direct Program is to establish an
alternative to manual open market purchase activity, re-engineer the business
process with automated e-

commerce business solution. The objective of this solicitation is to establish a
Fixed Price (with Economic Price Adjustment) Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite
Quantity

(IDIQ) Contract with Zimmer US, Inc. for their hip, knee, spine, extremity
(shoulders and elbows), trauma "procedural packages," orthobiological products,
auxiliary

products (such as drill bits, saw blades, bone cement etc.) and instrumentation
sets needed for implantation. Other Zimmer Orthopedic product groups determined
to be

in the scope of the contract may be solicited at a future date under this
solicitation.
There are (2) two delivery methods (Just-In-Time (JIT) and Direct Vendor
Delivery (DVD)) utilized to support DLA customers' requirement for orthopedic "
procedural

packages". Under the JIT delivery method, the Medical Treatment Facilities
(MTFs) will call the sales representative when a surgery is scheduled to discuss
the case,

make a product selection and inform him or her of the surgery date and time. The
manufacturer's representative will transport the "procedural package" to the

designated site at the scheduled time. The representative may be requested by
the MTFs to have in their possession a number of "back-up" components available
to the

physician during the entire procedure. Under the DVD method, MTFs may order
product in advance of a scheduled surgery or purchase replacement inventory on
an as needed

basis. Under this method all items are packaged for shipment to the delivery
point cited on the purchase order.
This solicitation also contains an on-site personnel requirement for the
contractor to provide advice and guidance to physician's before, during and
after implantation

of the device at the request of the Medical Treatment Facility. Technical
support shall be available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week.
Market Research has revealed that there are no other manufacturers or
distributors other than Zimmer who can provide DoD hospitals with the complete
Zimmer "Procedural

Package" (Zimmer Orthopedic implants, use of the instrumentation sets,
orthobiological products and the auxiliary products) at the required time for
surgery and be

available on-site if needed to answer questions on all these products. The
Zimmer Sales Representatives are experts on Zimmer's products and are a vital
part of

helping to ensure that the patient is getting the necessary treatment. Only
Zimmer has these capabilities.
Zimmer will have their product line loaded in the DLA Troop Support Medical
Electronic Catalog (ECAT). All Orders, Order Acknowledgements and Invoice
transactions are

required to be electronic. Items will be delivered to various Department of
Defense (DoD) research centers, hospitals, and clinics, and any federal customer

participating in this program.
The term of the contract will be a one-year Base Period and four one-year
unilateral Option Periods. This procurement has an estimated value of
approximately $6.3

Million for the Base Period and the first option period (if exercised), $6.4
million each for the second and third option periods (if exercised), and $6.5
million for

the fourth option periods (if exercised), for a total of approximately $32
million over the five-year life of the procurement.
Solicitation SPE2DE-15-R-0001 is expected to be issued June 01, 2015 and can be
found on the DLA Internet Bid Board System (DIBBS) at
https://www.dibbs.bsm.dla.mil/.

The point of contact is John R. Jackson, DSCP-FSCB, 215-737-0850,
john.r.jackson@dla.mil The solicitation will not become available until the
solicitation issue date.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia,
 Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United States

Point of Contact(s): John R. Jackson,
 Acquisition Specialist john.r.jackson@dla.mil Phone: 2157377487

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


