                              263 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 23, 2003 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Time to pour oil on troubled litigation waters;
LETTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 509 words


As the contending arguments in the medical insurance/legal rights debate incline
towards hyperbole and hysteria, we have, at one extreme, the caricature of the
self-serving, pinstripe-suited, slick city lawyers hell-bent on preserving a
system that is steadily strangling the saintly, civic-minded and selfless
medical profession. At the other extreme, we have the equally inaccurate
caricature of the profiteering robber-baron insurers spinning their way to the
emasculation of long-established rights for the halt and the lame victims of
callous and negligent doctors and other shameful wrongdoers.

Having practised law in this state for a couple of decades - with the first half
almost exclusively in personal injuries litigation - and having recently emerged
from an intensive encounter with the medical profession during the course of
inpatient treatment at three separate Melbourne hospitals, some general
observations come to mind:

· First, it is the nature of things that those lawyers whose livelihoods are
dependent on the current model will protest long and loud at any threat of
change - but equally, there will be other lawyers who will be keen to embrace
the opportunities, both personally and for their clients, presented by new ways
of doing things.

· Second, as civil litigation has become increasingly preoccupied with ever more
complex formal procedures, it has become ever more the province of the
specialist litigation lawyer whose expertise depends upon mastery of the
procedural minutiae and who then becomes part of a self-perpetuating club of
procedural aficionados.

· Third, medicine is an imperfect science performed by medical practitioners who
share with their patients all the foibles and frailties of human nature; the
trouble is that most doctors are not comfortable about acknowledging this. It is
also fairly obvious that chronic, but unavoidable, funding constraints on the
health system often result in medical practitioners having to provide care at a
level well short of that which would be optional in a much better funded system.

So using our current legal system to address perceived inadequacies in our
medical system is bound to be an expensive, slow and frustrating process for all
concerned. It is little wonder that some medical practitioners seem inclined to
now throw up their hands in exasperation and declare that continuing in practice
is just too risky, hard and expensive.

I suggest we would be far better off with a court-supervised process for
subordinate judicial officers, aided by well-qualified and independent medical
practitioners drawn from a panel, to be charged with arranging and providing to
the court binding reports as to the nature and extent of injury and, in medical
negligence cases, prima facie opinions as to whether the medical treatment
complained of falls short of the required standard.

In the majority of cases, such a process could radically narrow the scope of
trial issues and thus the cost, complexity and delay of litigation.

Anthony Burke, solicitor, Burke & Associates, Armadale

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2003 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


