                              271 of 999 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright (c) 2013 by the Tulane Law Review Association
                               Tulane Law Review

                                 December, 2013

                               Tulane Law Review

                              88 Tul. L. Rev. 397

LENGTH: 13321 words

COMMENT: The Most Dangerous Directive: The Rise of Presidential Memoranda in the
Twenty-First Century as a Legislative Shortcut

NAME: Jessica M. Stricklin*

BIO: * © 2013 Jessica M. Stricklin. J.D. candidate 2014, Tulane University Law
School; B.A. 2011, University of Wisconsin-Madison. I would like to thank
Professor Saru Matambanadzo for her insightful feedback and guidance, the
dedicated members of the Review for their careful editing and hard work, and my
amazing parents, family, and friends for all their love and support throughout
this process known as law school.

HIGHLIGHT:

   The modern president faces an increasingly divided and polarized legislature.
In the face of this legislative inertia, presidents must increasingly rely on
the executive power to institute policy change. This Comment examines the
historical expansion of the executive power through the use of presidential
directives. Recently, there has been a resurgence in the use of presidential
memoranda as a vehicle for significant policy change. This Comment will use
President Barack Obama's Hospital Visitation Memorandum to illustrate the issues
and implications of using memoranda to enact significant presidential policy
objectives with the force of law. Because memoranda lack effective procedural
safeguards that are necessary to ensure a government of separated powers, this
Comment argues that memoranda should not be used as a substitute for legislation
that affects the rights of individuals.


 TEXT:
 [*398]

   I. Introduction

 President William J. Clinton had a busy day on his third day in office: he
lifted the abortion "gag rule" prohibiting abortion counseling in publicly
funded clinics, lifted the ban on abortions at U.S. military hospitals, ended
the "Mexico City Policy" that prohibited nongovernmental organizations providing
abortion counseling from receiving aid, lifted the federal research ban on fetal
tissue from abortions, and ordered the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to
reconsider the ban on the French-made "abortion pill" RU-486. n1 President
Clinton did not have to persuade members of Congress, seek approval from
Executive Branch actors, or even notify anyone before executing these
controversial policy changes. How did President Clinton manage to reverse years
of controversial and divisive policy all before dinnertime? With the stroke of
his pen, President Clinton's use of memoranda began a new chapter in executive
lawmaking. n2

   President Clinton did not invent the memorandum; rather, the memorandum has
long been a type of unilateral presidential directive available to presidents.
n3 However, President Clinton may be credited with the memorandum's "comeback"
as a major policy tool. n4 Historically, memoranda were used to address
temporary matters or instruct agency officials on regulatory action. n5 In fact,
because executive orders have long been viewed as the most powerful of the
executive instruments, very little attention has been paid to memoranda. n6 This
Comment argues that in the modern state  [*399]  characterized by congressional
division and polarization, there is a need to scrutinize presidential memoranda
as they increasingly become vehicles for significant policy change. n7

   This Comment will examine presidential memoranda as a strategic policy-making
tool of the modern president. First, it will begin by examining the historical
expansion of the executive power through the use of unilateral presidential
directives. Second, it will examine and analyze memoranda as unilateral
presidential directives and the rise of the tool as a vehicle of executive
policy change. Last, this Comment will use President Barack Obama's Hospital
Visitation Memorandum to illustrate the issues and implications of using
memoranda to enact significant presidential policy objectives with the force of
law. Memoranda, this Comment will demonstrate, lack effective procedural
safeguards that are necessary to ensure a government of separated powers.
Because trends indicate that future presidents will continue to rely on
memoranda for presidential lawmaking, in order to preserve the separation of
powers and limit presidential lawmaking, memoranda must have the same internal
and external checks as executive orders.

   II. Presidential Directives: Unilateral Policy Making

   A. Constitutional Foundations: The Separation of Powers and the Executive
Power

 The doctrine of separation of powers is a defining feature of the United States
Constitution, reflecting the Framers' concern regarding preventing institutional
tyranny. n8 The division of power between the Executive Branch and the
legislature was one of the most debated issues throughout the Constitutional
Convention and subsequent ratification period. n9 In dividing the power between
the two branches, the Framers aimed to create an executive that was "strong
enough to counter a strong legislature, but weak enough so monarchy need not be
feared." n10 To strike this balance and avoid legislative overreaching, the
[*400]  Framers created an independent "unitary executive not elected by
Congress." n11

   Although the Framers were particularly worried about legislative overreach,
the president had the most opportunity to expand executive power. n12 The
Vesting Clause in Article II, Section 1, unambiguously vests all executive power
directly in the individual president, rather than the Executive Branch of the
national government. n13 Unlike Article I, which limits legislative powers to
those "herein granted," there is no express limit in Article II to the powers
enumerated in the text of the Constitution. n14 Because of the ambiguity
surrounding the definition of the executive power, the president and the courts
have had to define its parameters over time. n15 As a result, presidential
strength has historically fluctuated with different executive administrations
and court compositions. n16

   Open-ended executive constitutional power creates the opportunity for both
flexibility and abuse. On one hand, the president's unenumerated "implied"
powers allow flexibility over time for varying governmental contexts and
challenges unanticipated by the Framers. n17 For example, administrative
agencies have played an important role in the expansion of executive power. n18
The Framers knew the president could not personally administer all of the laws,
and the implied constitutional powers allow Congress to delegate power and
create administrative agencies to assist the president. n19 On the other hand,
by placing executive power in a single president, there is an inherent danger in
the overexpansion of executive power, embodying the tyranny the Framers feared.
n20 Implied powers present the opportunity for a unitary executive to shift the
power balance between  [*401]  the branches, undermining the separation of
powers and the Framers' intentions. n21 While the system of checks and balances
is in place to limit overexpansion of power, it functions only when each
institution exercises their checks and safeguards. n22

   The United States Supreme Court's early recognition of the legitimacy of
implied executive powers presented presidents with the opportunity to expand
greatly the scope of their power. n23 By relying on their implied powers,
presidents have utilized executive tools and unilateral directives to expand
gradually the executive power over time. n24 The unitary executive envisioned by
the Framers and embodied in the Constitution, wholly separate from the lawmaking
body, no longer exists. n25 As governments face changing contexts, "We the
People" have come to accept greater presidential policy making and power to
ensure a functioning federal government. n26 As a result, modern presidents use
the executive power to engage in presidential lawmaking, blurring the autonomous
categories delineated between the executive and the legislature in the
Constitution. n27

   B. Contextual Incentives: Presidential Lawmaking in the Modern State

 While the executive's implied constitutional powers provide the authority for
presidential lawmaking, the context of the modern state provides the catalyst
for unilateral executive action. Throughout U.S. history, presidents have often
relied on their power as a unilateral executive to accomplish their policy and
legislative goals, without any bargaining, interference, or check from the other
branches of government. n28 There are three main factors that make presidential
lawmaking attractive to the Executive Branch: (1) the constitutional  [*402]
legislative process, (2) political parties and polarization, and (3) the high
costs of checks and balances. n29

   First, the myriad of separate institutional powers and various constitutional
checks and veto points creates a convoluted and inefficient legislative process.
n30 Stakeholders may capitalize on these veto points to block new action and
policy and preserve the status quo. n31 Of course, this inefficiency is what the
Framers envisioned as a weapon to secure democracy; however, the effect is that
the constitutional safeguards create a constant "tug and pull" between Congress
and the Executive Branch in which substantial policy change is slow and complex.
n32 This "tug and pull" is compounded by the second factor, the rise of
political parties and partisanship. n33

   The modern presidency is in an era where Congress is increasingly polarized
and divided, making it extremely difficult to pass legislation. n34 Therefore,
bipartisan compromises in policy change that were more common in the
mid-twentieth century happen less often. n35 As the most recent 112th Congress
demonstrates, the legislative process may be stuck in gridlock when opposing
increasingly partisan parties control the United States Senate and the House of
Representatives. n36 The composition and partisanship of Congress has a large
effect on the success of presidential initiatives; when they fail or are likely
to fail, the president is incentivized to act unilaterally or is forced to
abandon the policy initiative altogether. n37

    [*403]  Third, there are high costs associated with checking the executive's
unilateralism and expansion of power, allowing the president to push the limits
of executive power with a low threat of repercussion. n38 For one thing,
congressional members rarely gain any political advantage by challenging
unilateral presidential action. n39 For most members of Congress, who are more
interested in pursuing legislation to benefit their constituents and their
position as a party rather than strengthening the institution itself, there is
little personal gain by taking actions back from the executive. n40 The lack of
legislative action to check the president also affects the judiciary's incentive
to intervene. n41 The Supreme Court may limit presidential unilateralism through
judicial review; however, as a court of last resort trying cases and
controversies, it is unlikely to get involved when Congress has not asserted its
own institutional checks. n42 As a result, the president may act unilaterally to
achieve policy they may not otherwise be able to achieve in the legislature, and
even when such action is met with judicial or legislative skepticism, the threat
either branch will intervene is minimal. n43

   C. Unilateral Presidential Directives: The Power of the Pen

 When presidents choose to engage in presidential lawmaking, they have many
executive tools at their disposal; the most common are the various forms of
unilateral presidential directives (UPDs). n44 Executive orders are the oldest
and most well-known types of UPDs, but other types include presidential
proclamations and memoranda. n45 In general, UPDs are distinct in form rather
than in substance. n46 These written instruments direct and govern governmental
and agency actors  [*404]  within the Executive Branch. n47 When issued validly
and legitimately, UPDs operate with the force of law. n48 This authorization, in
turn, triggers judicial recognition. n49

   The Constitution is silent on UPDs. n50 The president's authority to issue
them derives from the executive's implied powers in Article II. n51 In the
absence of constitutional or statutory definitions, historically there has been
broad disagreement about the proper scope, legal authority, and application of
UPDs. n52 This ambiguity presents the opportunity for presidents to use the
tools strategically to define policy and exert their will without the need to
bargain or compromise with the opposing party or rally congressional majorities.
n53 Additionally, by acting unilaterally, UPDs allow the president to make the
first move and wait for either Congress or the courts to respond or retaliate.
n54 In reality, the ability of either Congress or the judiciary to respond is
limited. n55

   III. Presidential Memoranda: Looks Like an Order, Acts Like an Order, Is an
Order?

   A. Memoranda in the Twenty-First Century

 Although there was no system for tracking UPDs until the twentieth century,
every president has utilized these executive tools to engage in presidential
lawmaking. n56 Since the mid-twentieth century, presidents have shifted away
from issuing routine or symbolic UPDs directing action within the executive
branch and devoted more UPDs to significant policy issues. n57 Presidents
wishing to act unilaterally to set new policy in the domestic and foreign
spheres have traditionally used executive orders, and many of the most
controversial executive  [*405]  policy decisions originated in presidential
executive orders. n58 While executive orders have been the primary executive
tool for policy change for over two centuries, they are no longer the only tool.
n59 Presidential memoranda have become an increasingly important executive
weapon in the modern president's arsenal. n60

   In the face of congressional gridlock and inertia, unilateral action may be
the only realistic vehicle for policy change in the modern state. n61 Since
President Clinton's abortion memoranda on his third day in office, presidents
have increasingly relied on memoranda, instead of executive orders, to enact
significant policy change. n62 Not only did President George W. Bush follow
President Clinton's initiative to accomplish major policy objectives through
memoranda, he expanded it. n63 The Bush Administration utilized all executive
tools at its disposal to institute unilaterally sweeping domestic and foreign
policy changes. n64 At the center of this aggressive use (and abuse) of
executive power are presidential memoranda.

   In addition to routine and symbolic memoranda, President Bush employed the
use of what Phillip Cooper deemed "quasi-memoranda" - memoranda used to
"accomplish tasks of the sort generally considered grist for an executive
order." n65 Much of the controversy surrounding President Bush's policies
centered on the fact that he issued many memoranda secretly, without public
notification. n66 One of the most controversial policies of the Bush
Administration was President Bush's secret "Torture Memo." n67 This 2002 Office
of Legal Counsel memorandum stated that the president, as Commander-in-  [*406]
Chief, had the authority to authorize the use of enhanced interrogation
techniques during the War on Terror, notwithstanding the federal statute
criminalizing torture. n68 It was not until two years later when the Torture
Memo leaked that the general public learned of its existence. n69 President
Bush's two terms provide an important snapshot of presidential memoranda and
their place within the larger debate concerning executive power: the state of
national emergency faced by President Bush following September 11, 2001,
enhanced the need for a strong executive and reliance on implied powers and
presidential lawmaking. n70 However, the terms also demonstrate the dangers of
using memoranda as a substitute for legislation. n71

   President Obama's first term suggests that memoranda may be the new normal
for presidential lawmaking. n72 In his first 100 days in office, President Obama
signed more UPDs (many of which were memoranda) than any other president had
since President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. n73 President Obama began his
presidency with a strong mandate and high public expectations for change in many
of the social policy areas he campaigned on, such as health reform and LGBT
rights. n74 As many pieces of his policy agenda were stalled or vetoed in the
legislative process, President Obama recognized the need to bypass Congress in
order to enact any policy reform. n75 The president realized, as his
predecessors before him had, that memoranda are a strategic and effective policy
shortcut.

   B. The Benefits of Memoranda

 Although the Clinton, Bush, and Obama Administrations have largely treated them
as interchangeable, memoranda are not executive orders and executive orders are
not memoranda. n76 The most fundamental difference between the two instruments
is that memoranda do not have to go through any formal procedure to take  [*407]
effect. n77 Executive orders are the only of the UPDs with a formal process for
issuance. n78 To issue an executive order, the order must (1) clearly cite the
statutory and/or constitutional authority under which the order is issued, (2)
receive approval by both the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the
Attorney General of the United States, and (3) be published in the Federal
Register. n79 Memoranda allow the president to act more unilaterally than
executive orders because they are not subjected to the same internal veto checks
by the OMB or Attorney General, and they have no formal notification
requirement. n80

   While the procedural requirements vary, executive orders and memoranda have
the same end result - they have the force and effect of law. n81 Although the
president need not state his specific statutory authority, their memorandum will
be binding as long as it is issued with a valid grant of authority. n82 As a
result, memoranda offer the benefits of executive orders, namely bypassing the
legislature to enact policy change with the force of law, but have less
procedural and administrative red tape. n83 Thus, while memoranda and executive
orders are interchangeable in effect, they have significant procedural
distinctions. n84

   Because executive orders and many memoranda operate with the force of law,
the judiciary and legislature must recognize their legal effect and, as a
result, may exercise their institutional check to challenge them. n85 In Little
v. Barreme, the Supreme Court first established its power to review executive
orders and presidential directives. n86 The Court held that statutes passed by
Congress bind the president and that presidents cannot rely on their implied
constitutional powers to disregard any statutory restrictions. n87 The most
important  [*408]  statement by the Court on presidential power came in
Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer. n88 Youngstown arose during the Korean
War when President Harry Truman issued Executive Order 10,340, which directed
the Secretary of Commerce to seize the operation of the nation's steel mills in
order to avert a workers' strike. n89 The Supreme Court invalidated the order,
holding that President Truman unconstitutionally issued the steel seizure order
because he did not have legitimate authority to do so. n90

   Youngstown is recognized for Justice Robert Jackson's tripartite analysis of
presidential power in his concurring opinion. n91 First, when the president acts
pursuant to express or implied congressional authorization, they are acting with
maximum authority and their act is only unconstitutional if the federal
government itself lacks the power. n92 Second, the president is acting in a
"zone of twilight" when Congress is silent on the act. n93 In the zone of
twilight, the president is regarded as having concurrent authority with Congress
and must rely on their independent powers as authority. n94 Last, the
president's power is at a minimum when their act is "incompatible with the
expressed or implied will of Congress." n95 President Truman's actions fell in
this third zone. n96 In this last category, courts may uphold the action only if
(1) the president had exclusive power to act and (2) the courts disable Congress
from acting on the subject. n97

   Although Justice Jackson's Youngstown criteria remain applicable today to all
presidential directives, in practice, federal courts are reluctant and generally
unwilling to intervene in presidential lawmaking. n98 In 1981, the Court applied
Justice Jackson's test in upholding President Jimmy Carter's executive order
that suspended private cases filed against Iran in federal courts. n99 In Dames
& Moore v. Regan, the Court reasoned that legislative acquiescence in executive
[*409]  action constituted congressional delegation of authority. n100 Dames is
often regarded as signaling the Court's return to executive deference. n101
Aside from President Truman's steel seizure order, federal courts have only
overturned one other executive order in history. n102

   It is difficult for private citizens to seek enforcement of the provisions of
an executive order or memorandum. n103 Courts consistently hold that in general,
presidential directives do not permit individuals to claim judicial enforcement
of the substance of the directive. n104 As added insulation from judicial review
and liability, presidents often use boilerplate language in their directives
denying the intention to create any private, enforceable right. n105 As a
result, even when an individual may have standing to sue, it is extremely
difficult and often impossible to challenge a piece of presidential lawmaking.
n106

   Congress, like the courts, may exercise its institutional powers to check and
limit presidential lawmaking. n107 One institutional defense is that Congress
may repeal or nullify the statutory authority for the directive. n108 However,
this repeal process is very difficult in practice, and Congress has only fully
overturned two executive orders since 1970. n109 If Congress does attempt to
pass new legislation to overturn or modify a directive, such legislation would
still be subject to the  [*410]  presidential veto under Article I, Section 7 of
the Constitution. n110 Alternatively, Congress may limit the effect of an order
through the power of the purse, by modifying appropriations and denying expenses
to the agency or executive actor the order concerns. n111 This economic coercion
has been the most successful way Congress has challenged orders. However, it is
only available for orders that require funding and not to stop a current
practice. n112

   In sum, there are important procedural differences between memoranda and
executive orders, but both directives have a very powerful effect: both are
vehicles to enact significant policy change with the force and effect of law
without any legislative interference. n113 Additionally, the infrequency with
which Congress and the judiciary challenge executive orders and memoranda
demonstrates the staying power of presidential lawmaking. n114 Most often, a
directive will endure until a subsequent president overturns it. n115 As a
result, presidents have used this legislative and judicial deference to their
advantage, enacting significant policy with little risk of subsequent challenge.
n116

   C. The Constitutional Dangers of Memoranda

 Memoranda today increasingly look and act like executive orders, but their
procedural differences must not be overlooked. Without the formal procedural
requirements of executive orders, memoranda are "quick and dirty" policy
shortcuts that provide an easy opportunity for exploitation. First, they are
procedurally problematic, "quick" unilateral tools lacking effective checks and
balances. Second, they are inherently "dirty" - by bypassing the legislature and
public, the president may pass a memorandum without notice or discussion. As the
modern presidents increasingly use memoranda to enact significant policy change
with the effect of law, there is a need to reexamine memoranda and the
constitutional and separation of powers dangers they raise. n117

    [*411]  First, without formal procedural requirements, memoranda lack
effective institutional checks and balances. Under Youngstown, presidents may
issue memoranda as long as they have a valid grant of authority from a
congressional act or from the Constitution itself. n118 However, unlike in
executive orders, presidents do not have to cite their specific authority when
issuing a memorandum. n119 The executive order procedural requirement to cite
the specific statutory or constitutional authority functions as a check on the
president. n120 By requiring the president to comply with Youngstown at the very
beginning of the executive order process, the check reduces the likelihood of a
later challenge to the order for lack of authority. n121 Absent this check,
memoranda provide more opportunities for presidents to cite vague, blanket
assertions of power. n122 Because the institutional checks are largely reactive,
the president may wish to hedge their bets by passing a broad memorandum and
waiting to see if there is any institutional response. n123

   Additionally, presidential memoranda do not have to be approved by any other
actor before issuance. The executive order process requires both the OMB and the
Department of Justice to sign off on the order. n124 These internal executive
checks and potential veto points are absent when memoranda do not go through the
same process as is required of executive orders. n125 Presidents may choose to
consult with agencies and executive actors in writing their memoranda, but they
are not required to do so, allowing memoranda to be completely unilateral if the
president chooses. n126 Without any formal procedural require-ments, presidents
may issue memoranda completely unchecked. This lack of internal checks is even
more problematic when considering the infrequency with which the legislature and
the judiciary exercise their institutional checks to challenge a presidential
directive. n127 Without  [*412]  effectively functioning internal and external
checks, memoranda raise fundamental constitutional separation of powers issues.
n128

   Second, memoranda are inherently undemocratic tools. Unlike executive orders,
memoranda are not governed by the Federal Register Act and do not have to be
published. n129 In fact, memoranda are not subject to any notification
requirement at all. n130 This removes the important democratic check of public
notice and transparency. n131 As a result, memoranda are largely passed out of
the public eye, allowing presidents to "hide" executive action and avoid public
attention. n132 Occasionally, presidents will choose to publish their memoranda
in the Federal Register or in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents,
but in general, the public is largely unaware of their existence. n133 The lack
of notice raises significant issues of accountability as the tool is
increasingly used for substantial policy change affecting individual rights.
n134

   IV. A Closer Look: Civil Rights Policy and the Hospital Visitation Memorandum

   A. Background: The Executive Power and Civil Rights Policy

 The antidemocratic nature of the memorandum and its procedural shortcomings may
be illustrated within the context of civil rights policy. Under the separation
of powers doctrine, the president may not affect individual rights unless
Congress delegates this authority. n135 Without such delegation, UPDs are only
supposed to "direct" agencies to take action. n136 However, as this Comment has
discussed, the substance of executive orders and memoranda often goes beyond the
Executive Branch to create policy with the force of legislation. n137 The civil
rights movement provides important examples of presidents using  [*413]
executive directives to make "laws" significantly altering and expanding
individual rights and freedoms. n138

   Presidential initiatives were crucial to broadening the scope of civil rights
policies, often initiating the process of legislation that prohibited
discrimination on the basis of race, religion, national origin, and gender. n139
Presidents often pulled the trigger in the face of congressional inaction by
issuing controversial executive orders expanding the protections for different
groups, beginning a civil rights dialogue that ultimately would end with
congressional legislation and recognition by the courts. n140 Executive action
led to the most important civil rights legislation, the Civil Rights Act of 1964
and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which prohibit discrimination and segregation
on the basis of race, color, religion, and national origin. n141

   Since the end of the twentieth century, there has been a push to expand the
civil rights protections to LGBT individuals. n142 Much like the congressional
inertia faced during the civil rights movement, very little federal legislation
has passed protecting the rights of LGBT individuals on the basis of their
sexual orientation or gender identity. n143 In Executive Order 13,087, President
Clinton expanded a prior executive order prohibiting employment discrimination
in federal agencies by adding sexual orientation as a protected class. n144 The
order received considerable congressional criticism, but ultimately survived
congressional nullification attempts. n145 Like President Clinton, President
Obama focused on expanding LGBT protections through unilateral directives. n146
During his first term, the president successfully  [*414]  issued several
memoranda focused on ending sexual orientation discrimination. n147

   Thus, historically, many of the most important civil rights protections began
as executive actions, primarily without any congressional involvement. n148
These protections clearly extend beyond agency direction to create and protect
the rights of different categories of people. n149 By circumventing public
deliberation and congressional participation, civil rights directives illustrate
just how powerful a tool unilateral executive action can be to affect the
private rights of individual citizens. n150

   B. The Hospital Visitation Memorandum

 On April 15, 2010, President Obama issued a memorandum to Secretary of Health
and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services on the subject of "Respecting the Rights of Hospital Patients to
Receive Visitors and to Designate Surrogate Decision Makers for Medical
Emergencies" (the Hospital Visitation Memorandum). n151 In the Memorandum, the
president acknowledged the unique struggle faced by gay and lesbian  [*415]
Americans who are barred from seeing their partners and making medical decisions
on their behalf in medical emergencies. n152 The advisory Memorandum instructed
the department to take three steps toward ensuring that patients may receive
equal treatment during their hospital stays. n153 First, the Memorandum requires
the initiation of rulemaking to ensure that hospitals participating in Medicaid
and/or Medicare respect the rights of patients to designate visitors. n154 The
Memorandum decrees that hospitals may not deny visitation privileges based on
"race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, or disability." n155 Second, the Memorandum requires that all
Medicaid/Medicare hospitals guarantee that all patients' advance directives are
respected and that representatives have the opportunity to make informed
decisions for medical care on their behalf. n156 Last, the Memorandum directs
the Department of Health and Human Services to make additional recommendations
to the president to address hospital visitation, medical decision making, and
health issues affecting LGBT families. n157

   President Obama's Memorandum is codified in two sections of the Code of
Federal Regulations, sections 482.13 and 485.635, which became effective on
January 18, 2011. n158 The rule applies both to hospitals and critical access
hospitals participating in Medicare and/or Medicaid and requires facilities to
have written policies and procedures regarding visitation rights of patients.
n159 The new rule enumerates the rights of patients (or their representatives,
as allowed under state law) and requires hospitals to ensure such rights as
Conditions of Participation in Medicare/Medicaid. n160 Such patient rights
include (1) the right to be informed, (2) the right to participate in the plan
of care, (3) the right to make informed decisions regarding  [*416]  care, (4)
the right to formulate advance directives and have staff comply with them, and
(5) the right to have a family member or representative of their choosing be
notified upon admission. n161 Because the majority of hospitals in the United
States participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, the effect of the
Memorandum ensured a broad protection from discrimination for LGBT individuals
and their families. n162

   C. Analysis: The Hospital Visitation Memorandum and the Executive Power

 The Hospital Visitation Memorandum illustrates both the power and the limits of
using presidential memoranda as an alternative to legislation. First, the
Memorandum demonstrates the need for procedural safeguards to check the
president's use of the executive power to issue memoranda. n163 Formal procedure
ensures presidents are checked and held publicly accountable for their
memoranda. Second, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum illustrates the limits of
UPDs as a substitute for legislation. While memoranda are quick policy tools
that allow the president to expand their executive power greatly, substantive
policy change, especially change affecting individual rights, must be left to
the legislature.

   First, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum demonstrates the importance of
functioning procedural safeguards as a check on the president. n164 Without any
formal procedural requirement, presidents may issue memoranda however they
choose. The Hospital Visitation Memorandum is a unique example because President
Obama adhered to many of the procedural requirements of executive orders: he
directed an executive agency, cited the agency's statutory authority to
implement his rule, and had the new rule published in the Federal Register. n165
As a result, many of the internal checks on executive power were functioning as
the Memorandum passed through multiple executive actors and the Department of
Health and Human Services before becoming legally binding. n166

   Similar to ensuring that the internal procedural safeguards were functioning,
President Obama increased his own accountability for the  [*417]  Memorandum by
following the notification requirement of executive orders. n167 In his effort
to increase government transparency and participation, the majority of President
Obama's memoranda instruct that they are to be published in the Federal
Register. n168 Consistent with this practice, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum
was published in the Federal Register and subject to the notice and comment
rulemaking process. n169 In addition to the notification and added transparency
of enacting the Memorandum, the codification process was extremely
participatory: over 7600 comments were submitted and responded to prior to
issuing the final rule. n170 Thus, while issued unilaterally, the transparent
procedure of the Hospital Visitation Memorandum democratized the directive by
notifying the public and allowing participation in the details of the final
rule. n171

   Although President Obama adhered to many of the procedural requirements of
executive orders, he was under no obligation to do so. n172 By cherry-picking to
comply with most of the procedural requirements of executive orders, but not
all, President Obama reintroduced many procedural safeguards to the memorandum
process that would otherwise be absent. n173 However, neither President Obama
nor any other future president is bound by this practice. While the Hospital
Visitation Memorandum illustrates that "something is always better than
nothing," until all memoranda must follow the same procedural requirements as
executive orders, it will be in the president's discretion whether or not
internal checks and democratic safeguards are functioning. n174

   Second, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum illustrates the outer
constitutional limits of using memoranda to initiate significant policy change
affecting individual rights. On its face, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum
appears less controversial than many of the civil rights directives of past
presidents because it does not boldly order the desegregation of schools or
prohibit segregation in the military. To the contrary, the Memorandum speaks
generally to the rights of all  [*418]  hospital patients to receive visitors
and designate surrogate decision makers. n175 Despite this all-encompassing
language, much like the controversial civil rights legislation of presidents
past, the Memorandum appears to recognize a new individual protection for LGBT
individuals.

   The Hospital Visitation Memorandum represents a return to using executive
initiatives to trigger legislative civil rights change. n176 Despite its caveat
that it does not create any enforceable legal right, the Memorandum effectively
legislates new protections for a class of individuals. By inserting the
discrimination provision within the conditions for participation in Medicare and
Medicaid, the Memorandum binds the large majority of hospitals to recognize a
new individual protection for LGBT individuals and their families. n177 Thus,
like many of the presidential directives prohibiting discrimination in specific
contexts, such as schools and the military, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum
ensures that hospitals do not discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation.
n178

   The Hospital Visitation Memorandum differs in one significant way from past
presidential directives prohibiting discrimination: previous civil rights
directives initiated legislation, rather than serving as the legislation itself.
n179 Unlike the civil rights era directives that were later codified in the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum is not a trigger
for legislative action but attempts to be a substitute for it. n180 Although
there has been a push over the last fifty years for LGBT protections, sexual
orientation remains absent from the Civil Rights Act and very little proequality
congressional legislation has passed with respect to LGBT individuals. n181 By
affecting the private rights of individuals without congressional delegation,
the Hospital Visitation Memorandum poses  [*419]  Youngstown concerns about
separation of powers by attempting to act as a substitute for legislation. n182

   The unenforceability of the Memorandum also demonstrates why Congress must
enact policy change affecting private individual rights. n183 As is found in
most memoranda, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum contains boilerplate language
denying the intention to create an enforceable right. n184 Thus, while the
Memorandum ostensibly recognizes a new private right for LGBT individuals, this
right is hollow - individuals discriminated against on the basis of sexual
orientation have no right of action. n185 The unenforceability implicates the
importance of the creation of congressional legislation to supplement or
initiate civil rights policies substantially affecting the rights of
individuals. n186

   V. Conclusion

 The modern presidency is in a new era of lawmaking. Presidents have greatly
expanded the executive power beyond the enumerated powers in Article II, and the
American people have come to accept greater presidential policy making. In the
modern state characterized by legislative inertia and expanding political
polarization, presidents must increasingly rely on the executive power to
accomplish their legislative goals and to institute policy change. n187 While
executive orders have long been recognized as a procedural shortcut around
Congress, presidential memoranda are even quicker. n188 Without any formal
procedural requirements, memoranda lack important procedural safeguards that are
necessary to preserve the separation of powers. Thus, as a policy tool,
memoranda offer presidents the best of both worlds. The president is able to
enact policy with the binding legal effect of executive orders, while
circumventing both Congress and the procedural red tape required by executive
orders. n189

   The Hospital Visitation Memorandum illustrates the need to reexamine and
scrutinize the use of presidential memoranda in the  [*420]  modern state. Most
critically, the Memorandum demonstrates how powerful a weapon memoranda can be -
like past civil rights directives, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum appears to
create a new protection for LGBT individuals. However, while past directives
triggered civil rights legislation, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum appears
to be a substitute for legislation. Because the Memorandum affects the private
rights of individuals without congressional participation and delegation, there
are no external checks on this unilateral use of executive power. While
memoranda and directives have historically played an important role in civil
rights protections, they lack the procedural external checks and enforceability
of legislation.

   Additionally, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum demonstrates the need for
memoranda to have the same procedural requirements as executive orders. As
presidential memoranda increasingly look and act like executive orders, they
must have the same internal checks and balances. The Bush Torture Memo provides
an example of passing controversial policy without any procedure at all. The
American disapproval of President Bush was not based on the amount of power he
possessed, but how he exercised his authority, largely out of the legislative
and public eye. n190 If the Torture Memo exemplifies the procedural shortcomings
of memoranda, the Hospital Visitation Memorandum may provide insight into the
solution: by following most of the procedural requirements of executive orders,
including going through multiple actors and notice and comment rulemaking, the
Memorandum was passed with functioning internal procedural safeguards.

   Although President Obama addressed many of the constitutional issues raised
by memoranda in practice, this is not a permanent solution binding on future
presidents. If the last three administrations are any indication, memoranda will
continue to be an important presidential policy tool in the future. Memoranda
must have effective internal and external procedural safeguards if they are to
be legally binding and constitutionally sound. Because historically the
legislature and judiciary are unlikely to intervene in presidential lawmaking,
it is especially critical that memoranda enacting significant policy change have
effective internal checks and provide notice to the public. Moreover, although
memoranda are a quick tool for presidents to enact policy in the face of a
gridlocked Congress, they are not a substitute  [*421]  for all legislation. To
ensure that private rights are protected and enforced, civil rights memoranda
and memoranda affecting individual rights must be a supplement, not a
substitute, for legislation. Although the executive power today looks much
different than what the Framers envisioned, the president should not be able to
"opt out" of checks and balances.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Administrative LawSeparation of PowersLegislative ControlsImplicit Delegation of
AuthorityConstitutional LawCongressional Duties & PowersGeneral
OverviewGovernmentsFederal GovernmentExecutive Offices

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Phillip J. Cooper, The Law: Presidential Memoranda and Executive Orders: Of
Patchwork Quilts, Trump Cards, and Shell Games, 31 Presidential Stud. Q. 126,
126 (2001), available at http://www.jstor.org/stable/27552170; Memorandum on
Abortions in Military Hospitals, 29 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 88 (Jan. 22, 1993);
Memorandum on Importation of RU-486, 29 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 89 (Jan. 22,
1993); Memorandum on the Mexico City Policy, 29 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 88 (Jan.
22, 1993); Memorandum on the Title X "Gag Rule," 29 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 87
(Jan. 22, 1993).





n2.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 126-27.





n3.  Id. at 127.





n4.  Id.





n5.  Kenneth R. Mayer, With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and
Presidential Power 35 (2001).





n6.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127.





n7.  Id. at 127-28; An Update on Political Polarization Through the 112th
Congress, Voteview Blog (Jan. 16, 2013), http://voteview.com/blog/?p=726.





n8.  Abner S. Greene, Checks and Balances in an Era of Presidential Lawmaking,
61 U. Chi. L. Rev. 123, 148-49 (1994).





n9.  See Thomas J. Cleary, A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing: The Unilateral Executive
and the Separation of Powers, 6 Pierce L. Rev. 265, 267-68 (2007).





n10.  Greene, supra note 8, at 148.





n11.  Id.





n12.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 273; see The Federalist No. 51, at 257-58 (James
Madison) (Lawrence Goldman ed., 2008) ("In republican government, the
legislative authority necessarily predominates... . As the weight of the
legislative authority requires that it should be thus divided, the weakness of
the executive may require, on the other hand, that it should be fortified.").





n13.  U.S. Const. art. II, § 1, cl. 1; Gary Lawson, The Rise and Rise of the
Administrative State, 107 Harv. L. Rev. 1231, 1242-43 (1994).





n14.  See U.S. Const. art. I, § 1; id. art. II; Cleary, supra note 9, at 285.





n15.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 274.





n16.  Id.





n17.  Id.





n18.  Lawson, supra note 13, at 1242.





n19.  Id.





n20.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 276; see also Martin S. Flaherty, The Most
Dangerous Branch, 105 Yale L.J. 1725, 1727-32 (1996) (arguing that the Executive
Branch long ago replaced the legislature as the most threatening branch to the
separation of powers).





n21.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 276.





n22.  William J. Olson & Alan Woll, Executive Orders and National Emergencies:
How Presidents Have Come To "Run the Country" by Usurping Legislative Power,
Policy Analysis (Cato Inst., Wash. D.C.), Oct. 28, 1999, at 2,
http://www.cato.org/sites/cato.org/ files/pubs/pdf/pa358.pdf; see Lawson, supra
note 13.





n23.  See In re Debs, 158 U.S. 564, 599 (1895) ("While it is a government of
enumerated powers, it has within the limits of those powers all the attributes
of sovereignty ... ."); In re Neagle, 135 U.S. 1, 59 (1890) (upholding the
executive's power to take action not explicitly authorized by the Constitution
or by statute).





n24.  Cleary, supra note 9, at 286-87.





n25.  Greene, supra note 8, at 134-35; see Lawson, supra note 13, at 1241-46
(arguing that the unitary executive is dead).





n26.  Greene, supra note 8, at 134-35.





n27.  Id.





n28.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 4.





n29.  Richard E. Matland & Andrea L. Walker, Obama and Social Policy:
Acclamation or Alienation Among Women, Minorities, and Gays?, in Transforming
America: Barack Obama in the White House 189, 189-90 (Steven E. Schier ed.,
2011).





n30.  Id.





n31.  Lawrence R. Jacobs & Desmond King, Varieties of Obamaism: Structure,
Agency, and the Obama Presidency, in Obama at the Crossroads 3, 19 (Lawrence R.
Jacobs & Desmond King eds., 2012). For example, the 112th Congress demonstrates
the challenges and legislative impasse in a divided government. Many of
President Obama's policy initiatives, including energy and climate change,
financial reform, and health care, were predictably stalled, compromised, or
defeated by the Republican majority in House of Representatives. Id. at 18-20.





n32.  Neal Devins, Presidential Unilateralism and Political Polarization: Why
Today's Congress Lacks the Will and the Way To Stop Presidential Initiatives, 45
Willamette L. Rev. 395, 396 (2009).





n33.  Id. at 409-10.





n34.  Id. at 410.





n35.  Suzanne Mettler, Reconstituting the Submerged State: The Challenges of
Social Policy Reform in the Obama Era, in Obama at the Crossroads, supra note
31, at 71, 74.





n36.  Jacobs & King, supra note 31, at 18. The most recent DW-NOMINATE figures,
the industry standard of measuring ideology in the House and Senate, reveal that
polarization is at an all-time high in Congress, exceeding levels in the
nineteenth century. An Update on Political Polarization Through the 112th
Congress, supra note 7.





n37.  Devins, supra note 32, at 410.





n38.  Id. at 413-14.





n39.  Id.





n40.  Id.





n41.  Id. at 413; see, e.g., Sanchez-Espinoza v. Reagan, 770 F.2d 202, 211 (D.C.
Cir. 1985) (Ginsburg, J., concurring) ("Congress has formidable weapons at its
disposal - the power of the purse and investigative resources far beyond those
available in the Third Branch... . "If the Congress chooses not to confront the
President, it is not our task to do so.'" (quoting Goldwater v. Carter, 444 U.S.
996, 998 (1979) (Powell, J., concurring))).





n42.  Devins, supra note 32, at 413; see Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. (1 Cranch)
137 (1803).





n43.  Graham G. Dodds, Unilateral Directives, in The Obama Presidency: A
Preliminary Assessment 343, 343 (Robert P. Watson et al. eds., 2012).





n44.  Id. at 343-44.





n45.  Id.





n46.  Vanessa K. Burrows, Cong. Research Serv., RS20846, Executive Orders:
Issuance and Revocation 1 (2010).





n47.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 344.





n48.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n49.  Id.





n50.  Id.





n51.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 344.





n52.  Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 9.





n53.  William G. Howell, Power Without Persuasion: The Politics of Direct
Presidential Action 15 (2003).





n54.  Id. at 14.





n55.  See Mayer, supra note 5, at 59.





n56.  Id. at 34; see Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 11-18 (outlining how
individual presidents have used executive orders to affect policy).





n57.  Adam L. Warber, Executive Orders and the Modern Presidency: Legislating
from the Oval Office 60 (2006).





n58.  Howell, supra note 53, at 6-7. President Roosevelt's 1942 order during
WWII to create Japanese internment camps is the most notable of such orders,
invading the rights of over 100,000 U.S. citizens. Other examples include
President Abraham Lincoln's suspension of habeas corpus, President Truman's 1948
executive order abolishing racial discrimination in the armed forces and, most
recently, President Obama's executive order regarding federal funding for
abortion under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Burrows, supra
note 46, at 2 & n.11.





n59.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n60.  Id.





n61.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 358-59.





n62.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n63.  See Christopher S. Kelley, Rhetoric and Reality? Unilateralism and the
Obama Administration, 93 Soc. Sci. Q. 1146, 1146-47 (2012).





n64.  See Michael P. Allen, George W. Bush and the Nature of Executive
Authority: The Role of Courts in a Time of Constitutional Change, 72 Brook. L.
Rev. 871, 895-96 (2007).





n65.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 139.





n66.  Kelley, supra note 63, at 1147.





n67.  Dawn E. Johnsen, What's a President To Do? Interpreting the Constitution
in the Wake of Bush Administration Abuses, 88 B.U. L. Rev. 395, 403 (2008).





n68.  Jay S. Bybee, Memorandum for Alberto R. Gonzales, Counsel to the
President: Re: Standards of Conduct for Interrogation Under 18 U.S.C.§§2340
-2340A, U.S. Dep't of Justice (Aug. 1, 2002),
http://www.justice.gov/olc/docs/memo-gonzales-aug2002.pdf.





n69.  Johnsen, supra note 67, at 403-04.





n70.  Allen, supra note 64, at 874-78.





n71.  Id.





n72.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 358.





n73.  Id.





n74.  Mettler, supra note 35, at 72; Mathew S. Nosanchuk, The Endurance Test:
Executive Power and the Civil Rights of LGBT Americans, 5 Alb. Gov't L. Rev.
440, 444 (2012).





n75.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 446.





n76.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n77.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 128.





n78.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1. The proper format and process was
established in Executive Orders 11,030 and 11,354. Mayer, supra note 5, at 60.





n79.  1 C.F.R. §§19.1-.2 (2013). Presidents may skip this formal process without
penalty, often doing so when under time pressure in the beginning or end of
their term. Mayer, supra note 5, at 60-61.





n80.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 138-40.





n81.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n82.  Id.





n83.  See Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n84.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n85.  Id.





n86.  6 U.S. (2 Cranch) 170 (1804).





n87.  Id. at 170 ("A commander of a ship of war of the United States, in obeying
his instructions from the President of the United States, acts at his peril. If
those instructions are not strictly warranted by law he is answerable in damages
to any person injured by their execution.").





n88.  343 U.S. 579 (1952).





n89.  Id. at 583.





n90.  Id. at 585, 587-89.





n91.  Id. at 635-37 (Jackson, J., concurring).





n92.  Id.





n93.  Id. at 637.





n94.  Id.





n95.  Id.





n96.  Id.





n97.  Id. at 637-38.





n98.  Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 9.





n99.  Dames & Moore v. Regan, 453 U.S. 654, 674 (1981).





n100.  Id.





n101.  Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 18.





n102.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 3-4; see Chamber of Commerce of U.S. v. Reich,
74 F.3d 1322 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (holding that President Clinton's executive order
was regulatory in nature, in violation of the National Labor Relations Act).





n103.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 59.





n104.  Id.; see, e.g., Zhang v. Slattery, 55 F.3d 732, 747-48 (2d Cir. 1995)
("Only when executive orders have "specific foundation in Congressional action'
are they "judicially enforceable in private civil suits.'" (quoting In re
Surface Mining Regulation Litig., 627 F.2d 1346, 1357 (D.C. Cir. 1980)));
Facchiano Constr. Co. v. U.S. Dep't of Labor, 987 F.2d 206, 210 (3d Cir. 1993)
("Generally, there is no private right of action to enforce obligations imposed
on executive branch officials by executive orders."); Indep. Meat Packers Ass'n
v. Butz, 526 F.2d 228, 235-36 (8th Cir. 1975) (holding that an executive order
broadly stating policy objectives of the Agricultural Marketing Act was
"intended primarily as a managerial tool for implementing the President's
personal economic policies and not as a legal framework enforceable by private
civil action").





n105.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 59-60.





n106.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 137.





n107.  Devins, supra note 32, at 395.





n108.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 3-4. Prior to 1983, Congress often responded
to executive orders through the use of the legislative veto. Mayer, supra note
5, at 27. This trend changed in 1983 when the Supreme Court held that one-house
legislative vetoes were unconstitutional and Congress needed to use the normal
legislative process to overturn executive action. INS v. Chadha, 462 U.S. 919,
921-22 (1983).





n109.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 27-28. Between 1973 and 1997, over 1,400
executive orders were issued. Id. Of these, there were only thirty-six attempts
to reverse orders legislatively and only one was successful. Id.





n110.  Warber, supra note 57, at 108.





n111.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 4-5.





n112.  See id.





n113.  Id. at 1-2.





n114.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 469. Between 1936 and 1995, there were 5,392
executive orders issued by presidents. Of these, only 3.8% were reformed by
Congress. Warber, supra note 57, at 39, 119-20.





n115.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 469.





n116.  Id.





n117.  See Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-31.





n118.  343 U.S. 579, 585 (1952).





n119.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 2.





n120.  Id.





n121.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 136-37.





n122.  Id. For example, "By the authority vested in me as President by the
Constitution and laws of the United States of America." Id. (quoting Federal
Actions To Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income
Populations, Exec. Order No. 12,898, 3 C.F.R. 859 (1995) (internal quotation
marks omitted)); see Memorandum on Engaging in Public Health Research on the
Causes and Prevention of Gun Violence, 2013 Daily Comp. Pres. Doc. 21 (Jan. 16,
2013).





n123.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 359.





n124.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 60.





n125.  See id. at 60-61.





n126.  See id. at 61.





n127.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 469.





n128.  See Cleary, supra note 9, at 286-89.





n129.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 128, 138.





n130.  Id. at 138.





n131.  Id.





n132.  Id.





n133.  Id.





n134.  Id. at 127-28.





n135.  See Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n136.  Id.





n137.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 5.





n138.  Id. at 35, 184; see, e.g., Exec. Order No. 10,730, 22 Fed. Reg. 7628
(Sept. 24, 1957) (authorizing the Secretary of Defense to federalize the
Arkansas National Guard in response to Little Rock's defiance of the
desegregation order).





n139.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 5, 184-85.





n140.  Id. Kenneth Mayer presents a detailed chronology of the history of civil
rights and the executive power, arguing that executive action can spark national
dialogue and draw Congress and the courts to the consensus. Id. at 217.





n141.  Id. at 184-85; Voting Rights Act of 1965, Pub. L. No. 89-110, 79 Stat.
437; Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352, 78 Stat. 241. For example,
President Truman's order desegregating the military and President Dwight
Eisenhower's order desegregating public schools began as executive orders and
were later incorporated in the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Mayer, supra note 5, at
192, 194.





n142.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 441.





n143.  Id. at 442.





n144.  Id.; Exec. Order No. 13,087, 3 C.F.R. 191 (1999).





n145.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 214-15.





n146.  Id.; Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 445-46.





n147.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 445-46. President Obama and Executive Branch
departments issued memoranda and directives on the subjects of expanding federal
benefits for same-sex partners, eliminating discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation and gender identity in housing programs, school district
obligations with respect to bullying in schools, lifting the HIV travel ban,
eliminating passport barriers for transgender individuals, and changing familial
definitions for LGBT families in housing and development programs. See, e.g.,
Equal Access to Housing in HUD Programs Regardless of Sexual Orientation or
Gender Identity, 77 Fed. Reg. 5662 (Feb. 3, 2012) (to be codified in scattered
sections of 24 C.F.R.); Medical Examination of Aliens, 42 C.F.R. pt. 34 (2010)
(removing HIV from the definition of communicable disease of public health
significance); Memorandum of June 17, 2009: Federal Benefits and
Non-Discrimination, 74 Fed. Reg. 29,393 (June 22, 2009); Fiscal Year 2010
Transformation Initiative: Homeless Families Demonstration Small Grant Research
Program, Dep't of Housing & Urban Dev., http://archives.hud.gov/funding/2010/
homelessfamnofa.pdf; Guidance Targeting Harassment Outlines Local and Federal
Responsibility, U.S. Dep't of Educ. (Oct. 26, 2010),
http://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/guidance-targeting-harassment-outlines-loc
al-and-federal-responsibility.





n148.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 446.





n149.  See id. at 441-42.





n150.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 214-15.





n151.  Memorandum on Respecting the Rights of Hospital Patients To Receive
Visitors and To Designate Surrogate Decision Makers for Medical Emergencies,
2010 Daily Comp. Pres. Doc. 267 (Apr. 15, 2010) [hereinafter Presidential
Memorandum on Hospital Visitation] ("For all of these Americans, the failure to
have their wishes respected concerning who may visit them or make medical
decisions on their behalf has real consequences... . All too often, people are
made to suffer or even to pass away alone, denied the comfort of companionship
in their final moments while a loved one is left worrying and pacing down the
hall.").





n152.  Id. The Memorandum was issued in response to the case Langbehn v. Public
Health Trust, in which Janice Langbehn sued a Florida hospital after the
hospital denied her and her children visitation rights to Langbehn's life
partner Lisa Marie Pond. See 661 F. Supp. 2d 1326, 1331-32 (S.D. Fla. 2009). The
hospital refused to recognize Langbehn's power of attorney or provide
information on Pond's medical condition, stating that they were "in an "anti-gay
city and state.'" Id. at 1332. Acknowledging the hospital's lack of sensitivity,
the court ultimately dismissed the case for lack of relief under Florida law.
Id. at 1333.





n153.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151.





n154.  Id.





n155.  Id.





n156.  Id.





n157.  Id.





n158.  A. Nicole Kwapisz, Note, In Times of Medical Crisis: Inadequacy of Legal
Remedies Available to Sexual Minorities, 14 Scholar 447, 467 (2011).





n159.  42 C.F.R. §§482.13, 485.635 (2012).





n160.  Id. § 482.13.





n161.  Id.





n162.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 355.





n163.  See Olson & Woll, supra note 22, at 1.





n164.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1-2.





n165.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151.





n166.  Id.





n167.  See 1 C.F.R. § 19.2 (2013).





n168.  Dodds, supra note 43, at 351-52. In addition to having most memoranda
published in the Federal Register, all memoranda appear on the White House Web
site. Id. at 352.





n169.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151.





n170.  Fay A. Rozovsky, Complying with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services Visitation Rule, J. Health Care Compliance, Mar.-Apr. 2011, at 15, 16.





n171.  See Cooper, supra note 1, at 138.





n172.  Burrows, supra note 46, at 1.





n173.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n174.  See Burrows, supra note 46, at 2; Mayer, supra note 5, at 60-61.





n175.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151 ("For all
of these Americans, the failure to have their wishes respected concerning who
may visit them or make medical decisions on their behalf has real consequences."
(emphasis added)).





n176.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 184-87.





n177.  Presidential Memorandum on Hospital Visitation, supra note 151.





n178.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 192-94; Presidential Memorandum on Hospital
Visitation, supra note 151; see, e.g., Exec. Order No. 10,730, 22 Fed. Reg. 7628
(Sept. 24, 1957) (authorizing the Secretary of Defense to federalize the
Arkansas National Guard in response to Little Rock's defiance of the
desegregation order); Exec. Order No. 9981, 13 Fed. Reg. 4313 (July 26, 1948)
(ordering equal treatment in the armed services without regard to race, color,
religion, or national origin).





n179.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 192-94.





n180.  See id. at 195.





n181.  Nosanchuk, supra note 74, at 442; see Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L.
No. 88-352, § 410, 78 Stat. 241, 249.





n182.  See Burrows, supra note 46, at 1-20.





n183.  See Meredith Fileff, Comment, Hospital Visitation: The Forgotten Gay
Rights Struggle, 45 J. Marshall L. Rev. 939, 957-61 (2012).





n184.  Mayer, supra note 5, at 59-60; Presidential Memorandum on Hospital
Visitation, supra note 151.





n185.  Fileff, supra note 183, at 957-58.





n186.  Id.





n187.  Greene, supra note 8, at 134-35.





n188.  Cooper, supra note 1, at 127-28.





n189.  Id. at 138-40.





n190.  Devins, supra note 32, at 414.


