                              281 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            October 15, 2010 Friday
                                  1st Edition

Tees Trust sees rise in harmful incidents...even n as deaths fall;
Patient care priority for health staff

BYLINE: SARAH JUDD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 746 words


A HOSPITAL trust has seen harmful incidents such as patient accidents, treatment
and medication errors increase by more than 11% in the last year.

However, figures released by the National Patient Safety Agency show the number
of deaths resulting from serious incidents in Teesside hospitals fell in the
last year.

Hospitals must report serious incidents to the National Reporting and Learning
System (NRLS) of the Patient Safety Agency, including patient accidents,
treatment or procedural errors, problems relating to access, admission, transfer
or discharge and medication errors.

Problems with infrastructure such as staffing or issues with hospital
facilities, equipment, documentation, consent, communication, confidentiality,
clinical assessment and patient care, must also be reported. Out of 1,783
incidents North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation Trust reported to the NRLS
between October 1, 2008 and March 31, 2009, 601 resulted in patients being
harmed, including 24 deaths. A year later, 668 out of the 1,728 incidents it
reported resulted in patients being harmed -11.3% up on the previous year - but
only one death was reported.

Sue Smith, director of nursing and patient safety at North Tees said: "Patient
safety is our main concern so we encourage our staff to report all incidents
that put patients at risk, no matter how small. Learning from past experiences
is the best way to prevent them happening again.

"In 2009 we set ourselves the extremely hard target of reducing our patient
mortality ratio by 15% and we have not only achieved that target but have gone
beyond it.

CARE: James University South Tees "Latest mortality data shows that where 100
patients would die in the average NHS hospital in England, only 78 would die in
ours. Mortality data is reported in monthly board reports and to our Council of
Governors."

South Tees NHS Foundation Trust reported eight deaths between October 1, 2009
and March 31, 2010 from 3,779 incidents reported in the period. However, last
year, between October 1, 2008 and March 31, 2009, 50 patients died and 4,762
incidents were reported by the larger trust, which runs James Cook University
Hospital in Middlesbrough and The Friarage in Northallerton.

South Tees assistant director of nursing and patient safety Bev Walker said:
"Patient safety is the number one priority. We encourage staff to report all
patient safety incidents - or unexpected incidents which could have caused harm
to a patient - so we can learn from them and ensure the risk of a repeated
episode is minimised."

Of the 3,779 incidents South Tees reported in the six months to March 31, 26
resulted in "severe harm" to patients, 95 patients suffered moderate harm and
613 suffered low harm. The term severe harm relates to incidents that appear to
have resulted in permanent harm, while moderate harm could include a patient
being given the wrong medication, with no ill effect.

Cook Hospital, run by NHS Trust In North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation
Trust - a "medium acute organisation" - there was one further death between
April 1, 2009 and September 30, 2009.

In the six months to March 31 this year, 16 patients suffered severe harm in the
period, 282 suffered moderate harm and 369 suffered low harm. The remaining
incidents resulted in no harm to patients.

SOUTH TEES NHS FOUNDATION TRUST LATEST figures show that of all incidents
reported by "large acute organisations" like South Tees, 12.8% related to
treatment or procedural errors, but the figure within South Tees was 14.5%.

Patient accidents accounted for 29.4% of incidents within the trust, compared to
31.8% across all large acute organisations across England and Wales between
October 1 2009 and March 31 2010.

Incidents involving medication accounted for 9.6% of incidents and issues around
clinical assessment accounted for 7%, compared with 5.5% across all similar
sized trusts.

NORTH TEES NHS FOUNDATION TRUST IN the latest figures, 44.2% of incidents at
North Tees were a result of patient accidents - almost 14% higher than similar
sized trusts in other parts of England and Wales.

However, only 7.6% of incidents in North Tees were related to treatment or
procedure, compared to 12.9% in medium trusts nationally, and 6.3% of incidents
in North Tees related to medication, compared to 10.9% in other similar sized
trusts.

Issues around clinical assessment accounted for 7.9% of incidents in North Tees,
compared to a figure of 5.1% nationally.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CARE: James Cook University Hospital, run by South Tees NHS Trust

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


