                              280 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright (c) 1996 Hofstra Law Review
                               Hofstra Law Review

                                  Spring, 1996

                             24 Hofstra L. Rev. 845

LENGTH: 8591 words

COMMENT: SWEET WITHOUT THE BITTER?  n1 THE ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFER OF CIVILLY
COMMITTED PSYCHIATRIC PATIENTS IN NEW YORK: SAVASTANO V. NURNBERG  n2

NAME:  Daniel A. Rosen *

BIO:



   * I wish to thank Professor Michael L. Perlin of New York Law School, Dennis
Feld, Esq., and Elliott Raines, Esq., for their constructive criticism, abundant
resources, and advice. Deepest appreciation to Hon. Maxine K. Duberstein, who
gave me the opportunity to see the "special term" at work. Finally, thank you to
Christine A. Cirillo, whose patience, assistance, and understanding have been a
constant source of strength.

 TEXT:
 [*845]


   I. Introduction

 Three involuntarily committed patients were to be transferred from Queens
Hospital Center, a general hospital containing acute care psychiatric
facilities, to Creedmoor Psychiatric Center, a state-operated psychiatric
hospital.  n3 Dr. H. George Nurnberg, director of the Department of Psychiatry
at Queens Hospital Center, determined at a hearing that the patients satisfied
the administrative criteria for transfer to a long-term ward at Creedmoor.  n4

    The patients objected to this transfer.  n5 They alleged that this decision
violated their constitutionally protected liberty interest in avoiding transfer
to a long-term psychiatric hospital, and that the aforementioned administrative
hearing denied them due process of law [*846]  in violation of State and Federal
Constitutions.  n6 The New York Supreme Court of Queens County concluded that
the statutory and administrative authority under which the patients were to be
transferred violated the Due Process Clauses of the State and Federal
Constitutions.  n7

    Dr. Nurnberg appealed to the Appellate Division, Second Department.  n8 The
Second Department reversed the judgment and dismissed the action, holding that
the aforementioned authority did not violate the Due Process provisions of the
State and Federal Constitutions.  n9

    The New York Court of Appeals affirmed.  n10 The court, which assumed,
arguendo, that such a transfer implicated a constitutionally protected liberty
interest, held that the administrative hearing prior to transfer satisfied the
requirements of procedural due process.  n11 However, the court also held that
the patient could have judicial recourse by instituting an article 78 proceeding
prior to transfer, which offers the possibility of injunctive relief.  n12

    This Comment argues that transfer from a short-term, acute care hospital to
a long-term psychiatric facility  n13 implicates a constitutionally protected
liberty interest, and that the aforementioned statutory and regulatory scheme
provides inadequate procedural protection for the opposing patient.  n14 No de
jure negation of this liberty interest exists upon confinement in a psychiatric
hospital.  n15 Additionally, this Comment argues that the holding in Savastano
in no way serves the constitutional interest in judicial economy and efficiency
and often has the de facto effect of actually hampering these goals.  n16

    Part II establishes that, through the creation of an elaborate [*847]
mandatory statutory and regulatory scheme, New York has created a
constitutionally protected liberty interest for a patient who opposes transfer.
Although a patient surrenders some rights when involuntarily hospitalized, Part
III maintains that no general de jure negation of liberty interests exists upon
confinement.

    Part IV documents the markedly increased stigma and "transfer trauma"
associated with a transfer from a short-term general care facility to a
long-term psychiatric hospital. Although such stigma alone does not create a
liberty interest, this Part reveals that the law mandates adequate procedural
protection when stigma is a factor.

    Having established that transfer implicates a constitutionally protected
liberty interest, or at the least, the need for adequate procedural protection,
Part V argues that the administrative hearing currently in use is violative of
procedural due process. Additionally, regardless of the constitutional
arguments, the de facto result of Savastano has created the potential for
additional fiscal and administrative burdens. Finally, the transfer regulations
implemented by the New York Office of Mental Health are ultra vires, in that
they serve to abrogate psychiatric patients' rights when its enabling statutes
were promulgated with the express purpose of increasing patients' rights. Part
VI concludes by offering two possible solutions to these infirmities.


   II. State-Created Liberty Interest  n17

 By requiring specific substantive predicates prior to transfer  n18 through
mandatory language in the relevant statutes and regulations, New York has
created a protected liberty interest in avoiding transfer to a [*848]
state-operated psychiatric hospital.  n19 For example, the Office of Mental
Health uses the following mandatory language in its regulation regarding
transfer: "No request for the transfer of an objecting patient shall be made by
the sending hospital until such patient has been given an opportunity to appeal
such request to the sending hospital's director."  n20 Additionally, the
regulation requires that the director or his designee shall consider numerous
criteria when deciding on the issue of transfer, the requisite legal standard
being the best interests of the patient.  n21

    Although this director or his designee has a waiver right in regard to this
regulatory criteria,  n22 this waiver is limited in nature and has no impact
upon the mandatory effect of the regulation.  n23 Additionally, while the
director or his designee has the right to waive consideration of two enumerated
criteria, these criteria relate solely to jurisdictional issues and are in
addition to the elements regarding the "best interests" standard.  n24

    Another method by which New York has created a liberty interest [*849]  is
by instilling in the civilly committed psychiatric patient a reasonable
"expectation that adverse actions will not be taken ... except upon the
occurrence of specified behavior."  n25 The New York Mental Hygiene Law requires
that a patient receive care suited to his needs and with respect for "dignity
and personal integrity."  n26

    Additionally, a civilly committed patient has a right to an individualized
treatment plan, as well as the right to participate in its creation and
implementation.  n27 It is unlikely that such an administrative transfer can be
argued as being outside the bounds of such a treatment plan. Therefore, the
decision to transfer is clearly subsumed within the aforementioned liberty
interest in treatment participation guaranteed by the Mental Hygiene Law.  n28
Commitment itself is the strongest example of an impact upon a treatment plan,
and clearly implicates a patient's liberty interest.  n29 In addition to
commitment, other areas of the Mental Hygiene Law relating to a course of
treatment have been held to implicate a patient's liberty interest.  n30

   III. No De Jure Negation of Liberty Interests

 The decision of the New York Court of Appeals in Savastano implies that the
involuntary psychiatric patient surrenders a multitude of rights when committed.
n31 This loss of rights is said to come under the "penumbra of commitment,"
which does require procedural due process.  n32 Such a holding ignores the
authority under which such commitments may be carried out, and discards the
"best interests" analysis found throughout the Mental Hygiene Law.  n33

    "Involuntary confinement deprives a person of physical liberty to the extent
necessary to carry out a prescribed function of the parens patriae or police
power. It does not have the legal effect of taking away any [*850]  other
rights."  n34 A patient may not be committed to the hospital solely for the
purpose of treatment.  n35 In addition to the "need of treatment" requirement,
there must be a showing that the patient poses a danger to himself, society, or
both.  n36 In this context, the parens patriae power is concerned with
protecting the patient from himself and the police power is concerned with
protecting society from the patient.  n37 Once this patient has been committed
to a psychiatric hospital, both of these powers have effectively been carried
out. Any further action on the part of the hospital is beyond this immediate
power of commitment.

    New York has long recognized a patient's right to self-determination -
including involuntary psychiatric care - and the New York Court of Appeals has
held that this self-determination must be adequately protected by procedural due
process.  n38 In Rivers v. Katz, the court of appeals found that the due process
clause of the state constitution provides involuntarily committed patients a
fundamental right to refuse medication.  n39 Although the Rivers case dealt with
involuntary medica-  [*851]  tion - as opposed to involuntary transfer in
Savastano - both decisions implicate the due process guarantee of a patient's
self-determination in the course of a treatment plan.  n40 Additionally, the
regulations regarding both involuntary medication and transfer use similar
language in regard to noncompliance.  n41

    New York has defended its administrative procedures by analogizing civilly
committed patients to prisoners, who have no liberty interests. Although
prisoners have no "liberty interest is [sic] choosing the place of his or her
confinement,"  n42 any comparison between prisoners' rights and the rights of
the civilly committed is bound to be faulty. "The considerations underlying our
penal system are vastly different from those regarding our responsibility, care
and concern for the mentally ill."  n43 The language of United States Supreme
Court decisions speaks in terms of convictions, not civil commitments, as
removing the liberty interest of a prisoner regarding transfer from one facility
to another.  n44

    For civil commitment of psychiatric patients to be constitutional, treatment
must be the goal of such commitment, not mere custodial confinement.  n45
Commitment must not be punitive in nature, and any deprivation in liberty must
be narrowly tailored to the purpose of [*852]  confinement.  n46 Wholesale
derogation of fundamental constitutional rights is permissible only if such
derogation is related to therapeutic, not punitive goals.  n47

   IV. Stigma Requires Procedural Protection  n48

 Although not necessarily implicating a liberty interest by itself, the
increased stigma associated with a transfer from a general hospital to a state
psychiatric hospital requires adequate procedural protection.  n49 The stigma
associated with treatment in a psychiatric hospital is not open to dispute and
courts readily take judicial notice of its existence.  n50

    In Savastano, the court of appeals entirely failed to discuss stigma. The
appellate division recognized that stigma was inherent in an involuntary
commitment, but failed to acknowledge any increase in stigma resulting from a
transfer to a chronic-care state psychiatric facility.  n51 Although the Mental
Hygiene Law explicitly requires patients'  [*853]  clinical records to remain
confidential,  n52 the appellate division ignored the de facto realities
regarding this confidentiality in dismissing its relevance to an increase in
stigma upon involuntary transfer.  n53 While "stigma is...absent when
confidentiality is maintained,"  n54 true confidentiality regarding the location
of a psychiatric patient is not adequately protected.  n55

    The increase in stigma regarding the location of the patient is not
difficult to identify. If a patient were in the psychiatric ward of a general
hospital, this hospitalization does not carry the inference that treatment is
for a psychiatric illness. This is not generally the case when a patient is
transferred to a state psychiatric hospital:



   The cases of the patient-plaintiffs herein are illustrative. All were
patients at Queens Hospital Center, a general hospital providing general
inpatient medical services not limited to psychiatric care... Relation of the
fact that they were patients [there] does not, by itself, convey the information
that they were confined for treatment of mental illness. However, Queens
Hospital Center sought to transfer them to Creedmoor Psychiatric Center, a State
facility operated...exclusively for the treatment of mental illness. Had the
transfers to Creedmoor been carried out, anyone informed that the individuals
were Creedmoor Psychiatric Center patients would know that they were treated for
mental illness. The name alone broadcasts that information ...  n56



    The court of appeals in Savastano failed to consider the trauma [*854]
associated with a transfer from one psychiatric hospital to another.  n57 "While
transfer may be viewed by professionals as a routine procedure, the patient and
his family often experience transfer as a stressful and intimidating event and
as an ongoing crisis that may take weeks or evenmonths to resolve. The transfer
process requires special understanding and special management."  n58 At the very
least, this trauma requires that patients receive procedural protection against
the concomitant stigma upon transfer.

   V. Hearing Is Constitutionally Inadequate

 Thus, a constitutionally protected liberty interest exists on the issue of
transfer from a short-term general hospital to a long-term psychiatric hospital.
n59 Additionally, the stigmatizing consequences of such a transfer mandate
adequate procedural protection, regardless of whether or not a liberty interest
is implicated.  n60 This Part argues that the administrative framework, which
must be followed prior to such a transfer, is constitutionally inadequate and
procedurally unfair.  n61

    An objecting patient is entitled to an appeal of the decision to transfer
him or her to a long-term care psychiatric facility.  n62 This appeal is heard
by the director of the sending hospital or his designee.  n63 Thus, the person
conducting the hearing and the person seeking the transfer are [*855]  likely to
be either the same person or co-workers.  n64 In fact, this was the situation in
Savastano.  n65 This hearing may be conducted without regard to the rules of
evidence, the ability of the patient to cross-examine witnesses, and without the
necessity of keeping a record.  n66 The hearing officer must review the
patient's clinical history, give the opportunity for the patient to voice
objection, and consider enumerated criteria for transfer.  n67

    To determine whether or not this procedural framework meets the requirements
of procedural due process, the appropriate inquiry is into the private interest
that will be affected, the risk of erroneous deprivation of that interest, and
the government's interest in the proceeding.  n68 This "accuracy-oriented"
approach is known as the three part Mathews analysis, and is the current model
employed by the United States Supreme Court in determining "what process is
due."  n69  [*856]

    The private interest affected has been established as a liberty interest.
n70 At the very least, the stigma and "transfer trauma" associated with such a
transfer also mandates adequate procedural protection.  n71 At most, New York
has created a constitutionally protected liberty interest regarding such a
transfer.  n72

    The court of appeals in Savastano downplayed the risk of erroneous
deprivation.  n73 The court characterized the decision regarding transfer as
being primarily medical in nature, and thus better left to medical
professionals.  n74

    There are numerous problems with this characterization. A cursory analysis
of the elements, which merit consideration prior to transfer, reveals that they
are essentially non-clinical in nature.  n75 Examples of some of these factors
are proximity of family and friends to the sending hospital, availability of
services, and bed capacity.  n76 These criteria require no clinical expertise or
skill and do not need to be "left to those who have expertise in that field."
n77

    Even if one accepted the court of appeals' characterization of the transfer
decision as being primarily medical in nature, the regulation in question in no
way guarantees that the person hearing the appeal will be  [*857]  a medical
professional.  n78 Not only does the statute speak of a designee of the hospital
director - who may or may not be a medical professional - but it also fails to
specify whether the director himself need be medically trained.  n79

    The question arises as to the impartiality of the factfinder in such a
proceeding. The United States Supreme Court has generally required such
impartiality.  n80 An impartial factfinder "helps to guarantee that life,
liberty, or property will not be taken on the basis of an erroneous or distorted
conception of the facts or the law."  n81 As stated previously, the factfinder
in such a hearing may be party to the dispute, and as such, may have a
constitutionally impermissible conflict of interest.  n82 Additionally, as
stated by the trial court in Savastano, the pressure to relieve overcrowding in
city and municipal hospitals may also adversely affect the impartiality of the
factfinder:



   The mere fact that the transfer might be motivated by the desire or necessity
to alleviate overcrowding to meet the demand for inpatient treatment in
acute-care psychiatric facilities is a conflict which prevents the director of
the transferring facility from deciding the issues in an unbiased and impartial
manner. Under present rules, this same director may apply for an order of
transfer and thereafter may be called upon to review his own decision should
objection be raised.  n83



    As part of the Mathews analysis regarding erroneous deprivation of liberty,
n84 the court of appeals in Savastano opined that "any potential for undue
influence [regarding the transfer decision] is offset by the receiving
facility's right to refuse any transfer [that] it finds inappropriate."  n85
Yet, this right of refusal does not carry with it the right of the [*858]
objecting patient to be heard, and thus fails to ameliorate the constitutional
infirmities of the initial transfer hearing.  n86 The United States Supreme
Court has stated that even when the interest under consideration is "not one of
great consequence,"  n87 minimal due process requires some right to be heard.
n88

    In addition to this "right of refusal" vested in the receiving hospital, the
court of appeals stated that any possibility of erroneous liberty deprivation
would be offset by the availability of an article 78 proceeding subsequent to
the transfer.  n89 Yet, this so-called remedy also fails to cure the
constitutional infirmities of the administrative transfer hearing. An article 78
proceeding is essentially a writ of mandamus to review, which places the burden
on the patient to show that the administrative determination was arbitrary and
capricious.  n90 This procedure falls short of the constitutional guarantee of
an impartial factfinder determining whether or not transfer to a long-term state
psychiatric center is appropriate.  n91

    The court of appeals summarily dismissed the due process importance of a
patient's ability to cross-examine witnesses.  n92 In support of this position,
the court quoted Basciano v. Herkimer:  n93 "The value of cross-examination to
discredit a professional medical opinion at best is limited."  n94 Yet, as
stated previously, the enumerated factors considered concerning transfer contain
mostly non-clinical components.  n95 Absent the medical characterization
espoused in Basciano, this transfer determination falls short of due process
requirements. When decisions involve questions of fact, due process requires an
opportunity [*859]  to confront and cross-examine witnesses.  n96



   The inability to cross-examine the facility's witnesses prevents a patient's
attorney from eliciting such pertinent information as the witnesses' familiarity
with the patient, what information the witnesses relied upon in forming their
opinions, and the extent to which any administrative considerations such as bed
space or budgetary concerns may have influenced a decision to recommend
transfer, all of which touch upon the reliability of the testimony of any
witness in the administrative proceeding.  n97



    The final element of the Mathews analysis involves the state's interest in
the transfer, taking into account the requisite "fiscal and administrative
burdens that [a judicial hearing] would entail."  n98 The court of appeals in
Savastano concluded that "significant administrative and fiscal burdens...would
result from the necessity of holding a prior judicial hearing each time an
involuntary patient objects to being transferred to a State institution."  n99
This conclusion is empirically wrong. The effect of denying the right to a
judicial hearing has been to hamper, not help, the goals of economy and
efficiency.

    In order to meet the current requirements for the administrative hearing,
the hospital must produce a physician as a witness.  n100 This would not change
if the hearings were conducted in front of a judge.  n101 The hospital director
or his designee already must sacrifice his or her time to conduct such a
hearing.  n102 Therefore, it is unlikely that the fiscal and administrative cost
will increase much, if at all, if the hearing [*860]  is instead conducted by a
judge.

    This argument is bolstered by the fact that "special terms" are in place
which hold weekly calendars to review cases involving the Mental Hygiene Law.
These "special terms" consist of judges and clerks who are thoroughly familiar
with this area of the law and are able to move cases through quickly and
efficiently.  n103 Therefore, they provide a "ready solution" to the
constitutional infirmities inherent in the current administrative transfer
framework.

    Arguing in support of this premise, the appellant in Savastano stated that
"since the special terms presently hold and historically have held regular
weekly calendars to deal with mental health matters such as commitment and
medication hearings, transfer hearings can continue to be incorporated into said
calendars (as is presently the case)."  n104 Although judges had long
incorporated transfer hearings into the Mental Hygiene calendar, the
"unfortunate effect" of Savastano has been to bifurcate this hearing, even when
it would clearly be in the interest of judicial economy and efficiency to
incorporate.  n105

    Historically, hospitals have sought transfer in concert with receiving a
court-ordered, six-month retention.  n106 A patient is guaranteed the right
[*861]  to a judicial hearing when such a commitment is sought.  n107 Although
prior to Savastano the hearings on commitment and transfer would have been
condensed into one judicial proceeding, this does not represent current
practice.  n108 After the retention hearing, the relevant parties must return to
the hospital for a transfer hearing. The expenditure of legal and medical
professional time is greatly increased under such a scenario, and defeats the
underlying purpose of the third part of the Mathews analysis.

    The final consideration which must be given to New York's interest in
economy and efficiency concerns the aforementioned "remedy" of an article 78
proceeding.  n109 The substitution of an article 78 proceeding for a Mental
Hygiene Law article 9 hearing has the effect of hampering the goals of economy
and efficiency, as does the failure to condense commitment and transfer hearings
into one proceeding.  n110 The amount of paperwork and pre-hearing court
involvement in an article 9 hearing is minimal.  n111 An article 78 proceeding,
on the other hand, is much more complex. It involves, inter alia, notice of
petition, supporting affidavits, and motion papers.  n112 Most importantly, the
date for such a hearing "cannot be set for earlier than the 20th day after
service."  n113 It is questionable that the use of a relatively complex article
78 proceeding in lieu of a relatively simple article 9 hearing on the issue of
transfer will advance an economy-efficiency objective.

    Consideration also must be given to the scope of the Office of Mental Health
regulations for administrative psychiatric transfer. These [*862]  regulations -
in particular 29 NYCRR 517.4 - are ultra vires  n114 because they go beyond the
legislature's declared purpose of article 9 to bolster the rights of psychiatric
patients, not further abrogation of these rights.  n115

    Prior to 1964, the only way that an involuntary psychiatric patient could be
transferred against his will was by certification from the court.  n116 Article
9 was created with the express purpose of increasing patients' rights,  n117 and
statements concurrent with its passage reinforce this notion.  n118 It is clear
that the passage of article 9 was understood to be a step in the right direction
for increasing the rights of psychiatric patients.

   VI. Conclusion

 The opinion of the New York Court of Appeals in Savastano  n119 provides
inadequate procedural protection for a patient contesting transfer.
Additionally, it fails to prevent the diversion of scarce resources from the
care and treatment of mentally ill patients.  n120

    The New York Legislature should mandate a judicial determination on the
issue of transfer. The sending hospital should be required to prove, by clear
and convincing evidence,  n121 that transfer is in the best [*863]  interests of
the patient. Despite the court's characterization, the special terms created to
deal solely with the Mental Hygiene Law are more than able to condense transfer
proceedings into current calendars economically,  n122 while at the same time
ensuring the procedural due process denied to patients by the current
administrative proceeding.

    Although judicial determination on the issue of transfer would be the most
economical solution to the current regulatory infirmities, another option would
be to amend 14 NYCRR 517.4 to provide for a hearing before an impartial
administrative officer.  n123 "A hearing officer who is employed by the
institution or the Office of Mental Health cannot but feel, rightly or wrongly,
that his/her career might be affected by decisions which overturn administrative
decisions in a situation of overcrowded short-term facilities."  n124 The right
to present evidence, cross-examine witnesses, and have a record made of the
proceedings should also be required.  n125 As with other administrative
proceedings,  n126 strict conformity to the rules of evidence would not be
required. This "administrative  [*864]  solution" would solve the infirmities of
the present system without "unduly burdening the transfer process."  n127



Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawTreatmentIncompetent, Minor & Mentally Disabled
PatientsInstitutionalizationPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental Health
ServicesCommitmentInstitutional Transfers for AdultsPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial ServicesInstitutionalized IndividualsConfinement Conditions

FOOTNOTES:




n1. " Where the grant of a substantive right is inextricably intertwined with
the limitations on the procedures which are to be employed in determining that
right, a litigant...must take the bitter with the sweet." Arnett v. Kennedy, 416
U.S. 134, 153-54 (1974) (plurality opinion), overruled by Cleveland Bd. of Educ.
v. Loudermill, 470 U.S. 532, 540-41 (1985).




n2.  529 N.Y.S.2d 403 (Sup. Ct. 1987), rev'd, 548 N.Y.S.2d 555 (App. Div. 1989),
aff'd, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990). See generally 1Michael L. Perlin, Mental
Disability Law: Civil and Criminal 3.67, at 403-06 (1989 & Supp. 1995)
(outlining the limited jurisprudence associated with the transfer of civil
committees).




n3.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 422 (N.Y. 1990).




n4.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 548 N.Y.S.2d 555, 559 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569
N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990); see N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 29.11 (McKinney 1988); N.Y.
Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4 (1995) (requiring merely an informal
administrative hearing prior to such a transfer with no right of patient to call
witnesses or cross-examine and no adherence to the rules of evidence).




n5.  Savastano, 529 N.Y.S.2d at 403.




n6.  Id. at 404.




n7.  Id. at 410.




n8.  Savastano, 548 N.Y.S.2d 555.




n9.  Id. at 556.




n10.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 422 (N.Y. 1990).




n11.  Id. at 424.




n12.  N.Y. Civ. Prac. L. & R. 7805 (McKinney 1994 & Supp. 1995). Article 78 of
the CPLR provides for judicial review of administrative determinations.
Savastano, 569 N.E.2d at 423-24; see infra notes 97-99 and accompanying text.




n13.  Although the New York Mental Hygiene Law technically allows commitment
directly into long-term psychiatric facilities, in practice this is the clear
exception rather than the rule. See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.37 (McKinney
1988). In New York City, for example, the vast majority of all initial
commitments are made into short-term city hospitals. Telephone Interview with
Elliott Raines, Esq., Law Secretary to Hon. Maxine K. Duberstein, Supreme Court,
Kings County, N.Y. (Oct. 25, 1995).




n14.  See infra parts II-IV.




n15.  See infra parts II-IV.




n16.  See infra part V.




n17.  In Savastano, the court of appeals did not even consider whether or not
transfer implicates a constitutionally protected liberty interest. The court
assumed, in arguendo, that such an interest was implicated and proceeded to the
procedural due process analysis. Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 424
(N.Y. 1990).

   Liberty interests have been found, independent of state law, regarding both
the inter-hospital and intra-hospital transfer of civil committees in certain
circumstances. See, e.g., Eubanks v. Clarke, 434 F. Supp. 1022, 1029 (E.D. Pa.
1977) (holding that transfer to a more secure hospital implicates a patient's
liberty interest and invokes procedural due process protections); see also
Christy v. Hammel, 87 F.R.D. 381, 390 (M.D. Pa. 1980) (holding that transfer to
a secure section of the same hospital "triggered the plaintiff's liberty
interest under the Due Process Clause").




n18.  See Logan v. Zimmerman Brush Co., 455 U.S. 422, 432 (1982) (holding that
since ""minimum [procedural] requirements [are] a matter of federal law, they
are not diminished by the fact that the State may have specified its own
procedures that it may deem adequate for determining the preconditions to
adverse official action'" (alterations in original) (quoting Vitek v. Jones, 445
U.S. 480, 491 (1980))).




n19.  N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 29.11 (McKinney 1988); N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs.
tit. 14, 517.4 (1995); see Hewitt v. Helms, 459 U.S. 460, 472 (1983) (holding
"that the repeated use of explicitly mandatory language in connection with
requiring specific substantive predicates demands a conclusion that the State
has created a protected liberty interest"); see also Joseph P. Messina, Comment,
Kentucky Department of Corrections v. Thompson: The Demise of Protected Liberty
Interests Under the Due Process Clause, 17 New Eng. J. on Crim. & Civ.
Confinement 233, 252 (1991) (stating that "a statute...using what the Court
recognizes as mandatory language (such as "shall' or "must') would almost
certainly, in light of precedent, create a protected liberty interest"); Leon
Friedman, New Developments in Civil Rights Litigation and Trends in Section 1983
Actions, in 1 Section 1983 Civil Rights Litigation and Attorneys' Fees 317, 396
(Practicing Law Institute ed., 1995) (noting that "shall" or "will" language in
rules regarding hearings has the effect of creating a liberty interest).

   It is of no significance that the mandatory language "alleged" to create a
liberty interest in Savastano is in a regulation, as opposed to a statute. In
Hewitt, it was mandatory regulatory language, not statutory language, that the
United States Supreme Court held created a liberty interest regarding an
administrative hearing. 459 U.S. at 472 (holding that the mandatory language
contained in regulations promulgated by the State Bureau of Corrections created
a constitutionally protected liberty interest).




n20.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995).




n21.  Id. 517.4(c)(3)(i), (d)(1) (stating, inter alia, that the following
factors shall be considered in order to serve the best interests of the patient,
prior to transfer: (a) the proximity of the hospital to the patient's
significant others and (b) the ability of the sending and/or the receiving
hospital to provide adequate treatment by evaluating such factors as bed
capacity and overcrowding).




n22.  See id. 517.4(d)(2)(ii) (stating that "a patient to be transferred from a
municipal or general hospital in New York City to a hospital operated by the
Office of Mental Health must satisfy [additional] requirements, unless waived by
the commissioner or a designee thereof").




n23.  Id.




n24.  Id. 517.4(c)(3), (d)(1) (discussing a number of the mandatory best
interests elements); id. 517.4(d)(2)(ii) (dealing only with the transfer of New
York City patients to state hospitals).




n25.  Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480, 491 (1980) (holding that a state has created
a liberty interest under such circumstances).




n26.  N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 33.03(a) (McKinney 1988).




n27.  Id. 33.02(a)(11).




n28.  See, e.g., In re K.K.B., 609 P.2d 747, 752 (Okla. 1980) ("If the law
recognizes the right of an individual to make decisions about...life out of
respect for the dignity and autonomy of the individual, that interest is no less
significant when the individual is mentally or physically ill.").




n29.  Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418 (1979).




n30.  See, e.g., Rivers v. Katz, 495 N.E.2d 337, 341 (N.Y. 1986) (holding that
the power to involuntarily medicate implicates a patient's liberty interest).




n31.  See Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n32.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.27, 9.31, 9.33 (McKinney 1988).




n33.  Id.




n34.  Appellant's Reply Brief at 8, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y.
1990) (No. 2771/87); see, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 29.03 (McKinney 1988)
(stating that commitment shall not "be construed or deemed to be a determination
or finding that such person is incompetent or is unable adequately to conduct
his personal or business affairs").




n35.  Zinermon v. Burch, 494 U.S. 113, 134 (1990); O'Connor v. Donaldson, 422
U.S. 563, 574 (1975); see John Parry, Involuntary Civil Commitment in the 90s: A
Constitutional Perspective, 18 Mental & Physical Disability L. Rep. 320, 324
(1994) ("The first Supreme Court decision to address dangerousness was O'Connor
v. Donaldson, which introduced the notion that dangerousness is a major
justification for civil commitment. Later, in Zinermon v. Burch, a majority of
the justices agreed that dangerousness is a constitutional requirement for civil
commitment." (footnotes omitted)).

   Many members of the medical and legal community believe that need of
treatment alone is, or should be, the requisite standard for the establishment
or maintenance of involuntary commitment. The following is a statement by the
chairman of psychiatry and psychology at a Long Island hospital: "It's not a
question of civil liberties, unless you are talking about the liberty to be
psychotic, and that is not among one's basic rights ...." David Firestone, For
Their Own Good? With Public Pressure Mounting to Get the Mentally Ill Off the
Streets, Lawyers Say They Don't Always Get a Fair Hearing, Newsday, May 31, 1989
at 8. Yet, the decisions in Zinermon and O'Connor do just this; psychosis
without dangerousness is constitutionally insufficient for involuntary civil
commitment.




n36.  Zinermon, 494 U.S. at 134; O'Connor, 422 U.S. at 575; see also Foucha v.
Louisiana, 112 S. Ct. 1780, 1788 (1992) (restating that dangerousness is
required to confine a mental patient, and that the state cannot place the burden
on the patient to show lack of dangerousness); Parry, supra note 35, at 327.




n37.  See Black's Law Dictionary 1114, 1156-57 (6th ed. 1990); see generally
Bruce A. Arrigo, Paternalism, Civil Commitment and Illness Politics: Assessing
the Current Debate and Outlining a Future Direction, 7 J.L. & Health 131
(1992-93).




n38.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 33.02(a)(11) (McKinney 1988) (providing
that patients have a right to participate in the creation of the treatment
plan); Fosmire v. Nicoleau, 551 N.E.2d 77, 80-81 (N.Y. 1990); Rivers v. Katz,
495 N.E.2d 337, 341 (N.Y. 1986).




n39.  Rivers, 495 N.E.2d at 340-41.




n40.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990); Rivers, 495 N.E.2d at
341.




n41.  See N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(1) (transfer); id.
527.8(c)(3) (psychotropic medication).




n42.  Respondent's Brief at 23, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y.
1990) (No. 2771/87); see Montanye v. Haymes, 427 U.S. 236, 242 (1976).




n43.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 529 N.Y.S.2d 403, 408 (Sup. Ct. 1987), rev'd, 548
N.Y.S.2d 555 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990) (stating that
"we do not agree...that a transfer does not implicate due process protections"
and rejecting the comparisons made to criminal transfers).




n44.  See, e.g., Meachum v. Fano, 427 U.S. 215, 224 (1976) (holding that a
"conviction[, not an involuntary commitment,] has sufficiently extinguished the
defendant's liberty interest to empower the State to confine him in any of its
prisons"). But cf. Eubanks v. Clarke, 434 F. Supp 1022, 1029 (E.D. Pa. 1977)
(holding that transfer of a civil committee to a more secure hospital does
invoke a patient's liberty interest).

   "One student author has suggested that, in cases involving mental patients,
the Eubanks approach "seems more appropriate than that in Meachum and
Montayne.'" 1 Perlin, supra note 2, at 403 n.1107 (quoting Note, 51 Temp. L.Q.
357, 371 (1978)).




n45.  O'Connor v. Donaldson, 422 U.S. 563, 575-76 (1975).




n46.  See Washington v. Harper, 494 U.S. 210, 223 (1990); see also Kesselbrenner
v. Anonymous, 305 N.E.2d 903, 905 (N.Y. 1973) (holding that "to subject a person
to a greater deprivation of personal liberty than necessary to achieve the
purpose for which he is being confined [for psychiatric purposes] is, it is
clear, violative of due process").




n47.  See Harper, 494 U.S. at 223 (stating that civil commitment must be viewed
as presenting "other circumstances" and cannot be permitted to have the same
adverse impact on a person's liberty interests as a criminal conviction).




n48.  See, e.g., Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 631 (1979) (stating that "the
right to be free from wrongful incarceration, physical intrusion, and
stigmatization has significance for the individual surely as great as the right
to an abortion" (Brennan, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)).




n49.  Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480, 494 (1980) (stating that "the stigmatizing
consequences of a transfer to a mental hospital for involuntary psychiatric
treatment...constitute the kind of deprivations of liberty that requires
procedural protections").




n50.  See, e.g., Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418, 425-26 (1979).



   It is indisputable that involuntary commitment to a mental hospital...can
engender adverse social consequences to the individual. Whether we label this
phenomena "stigma" or choose to call it something else is less important than
that we recognize that it can occur and that it can have a very significant
impact on the individual.



   Id.




n51.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 548 N.Y.S.2d 555, 561 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569
N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).

   The stigmatization associated with mental illness is not limited solely to
the need for psychiatric treatment. Societal perception of "stand alone"
psychiatric facilities carries with it a unique, additional brand of stigma. See
Ed Struzik, MDs Buoys Grey Nuns Supporters, Edmonton J., Apr. 18, 1994, at B1
("Dr. Lorne Warneke, head of psychiatry for the Grey Nuns, said the trend in
psychiatry is to move away from the kind of large institution that is being
proposed for Mill Woods... The large institution enhances the stigma associated
with psychiatric illness."); Marybeth Burke, Hospitals Seize New Opportunities
in State Privatization Efforts, Hospitals, Apr. 5, 1992, at 50, 51 ("The
privatization process will allow clients to be treated in their own communities
in normal settings, offsetting the stigma that is often associated with
facilities geared solely to the mentally ill.").




n52.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 33.13(c) (McKinney 1988) (mandating that
patients' psychiatric records are not public records).




n53.  See Savastano, 548 N.Y.S.2d at 561.




n54.  M. Gregg Bloche & Francine Cournos, Mental Health Policy for the 1990s:
Tinkering in the Interstices, 15 J. Health Pol. Pol'y & L. 387, 392 (1990); see
also Edwin J. Mikkelsen, Mental Illness, 269 J. Am. Med. Ass'n 417 (1993)
(reviewing Paul J. Fink & Allan Tasman, Stigma and Mental Illness (1992)).




n55.  See N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 33.02 (McKinney 1988) (providing that contacts
with outsiders such as friends and employers must be maintained, without stating
that they are subject to the confidentiality requirements of the Mental Hygiene
Law).




n56.  Appellant's Brief at 17, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990)
(No. 2771/87). The stigmatization associated with institutions such as Creedmoor
has found description outside of the arguments proffered by appellants in
Savastano. See, e.g., The Creedmoor Experiment: Vacation as Therapy, Newsday,
Feb. 6, 1983, at 11 (stating that "the physical image of Creedmoor itself is
ominous - a towering medical building of dreary beige brick and wire enclosed
windows looming near the Grand Central Parkway in Queens Village, like
everyone's nightmare of what a mental hospital looks like"); see also Outdoor
Sculptures to Soften Creedmoor's Image, New York Daily News, Nov. 7, 1979, at
14-15 (describing that "for generations of Queens residents, the Creedmoor
Psychiatric Center in Queens Village has been a place of mysterious
foreboding").




n57.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n58.  Shugar et al., Moving Experiences: A Model for Inpatient Transfer Based on
Interviews with Patients and Their Families, 37:10 Hosp. and Community
Psychiatry 1035 (Oct. 1986).

   Avoidance of transfer trauma may be subject to greater procedural protection
than stigma upon transfer requires; the issue of whether or not transfer trauma
may give rise to a constitutionally protected liberty interest was answered in
the affirmative by the Second Circuit. Yaretsky v. Blum, 629 F.2d 817 (2d Cir.
1980), rev'd on other grounds, 457 U.S. 991 (1982) (reversing based on the issue
of state action, and never reaching the liberty interest issue of transfer
trauma).




n59.  See supra notes 17-58 and accompanying text.




n60.  See supra notes 48-58 and accompanying text.




n61.  See Henry J. Friendly, Some Kind of Hearing, 123 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1267,
1278-94 (1975) (enumerating the following factors, "roughly in the order of
priority," that have been considered to be elements of a fair hearing: (1) an
unbiased tribunal; (2) notice of the proposed action and the grounds asserted
for it; (3) an opportunity to propose reasons why the proposed action should not
be taken; (4) the right to call witnesses; (5) to know the evidence against one;
(6) to have decision based only on the evidence presented; (7) counsel; (8) the
making of a record; (9) a statement of reasons; (10) public attendance; and (11)
judicial review).




n62.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. and Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995) (providing that
"no request for the transfer of an objecting patient shall be made by the
sending hospital until such patient has been given an opportunity to appeal such
request to the sending hospital's director").




n63.  Id. 517.4(c)(3)(i).




n64.  See id.




n65.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 529 N.Y.S.2d 403, 409 (Sup. Ct. 1987), rev'd, 548
N.Y.S.2d 555 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n66.  N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 29.11 (McKinney 1988); N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs.
tit. 14, 517.4 (1995).




n67.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4 (1995).




n68.  Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335 (1976). The "Mathews approach,"
employed by the New York Court of Appeals in Savastano, received much academic
criticism. See, e.g., Laurence H. Tribe, American Constitutional Law 718 (2d ed.
1988). The Eldridge



   Court's unwillingness to consider values beyond accuracy of result in the
context of a utilitarian balancing test when deciding what process is due, and
the Court's grant of a strong presumption of constitutionality to statutory
procedural provisions, amount to a serious abdication of traditional notions of
judicial responsibility under the due process clauses.

Id.



   At a minimum, procedural due process contemplates some kind of hearing - an
opportunity to join issue, through the presentation of evidence to a decision
maker who is then obliged to reach a reasoned determination on the basis of the
submissions. Underlying this conception [in Mathews] is the vital interest in
promoting an accurate decision, in assuring that facts have been correctly
established and properly characterized in conformity with the applicable legal
standard ...

   ...

   [Yet, f]undamental to the concept of procedural due process is the right to a
reasoned explanation of government conduct....It is crucial that this value be
seen as distinct from the concern about administrative accuracy - the interest
in correcting wrong decisions. Obviously, the two are related....I would insist
that the respect for individual autonomy that is at the foundation of procedural
due process imposes a distinct obligation upon the government to explain fully
its adverse status decision.



   Robert L. Rabin, Job Security and Due Process: Monitoring Administrative
Discretion Through a Reasons Requirement, 44 U. Chi. L. Rev. 60, 76-78 (1976).




n69.  Mathews, 424 U.S. at 335; see Cleveland Bd. of Educ. v. Loudermill, 470
U.S. 532, 541 (1985) (stating that "the right to due process "is conferred, not
by legislative grace, but by constitutional guarantee'...once it is determined
that the due process clause applies, "the question remains what process is due'"
(quoting Arnett v. Kennedy, 416 U.S. 134, 167 (1974), and Morrissey v. Brewer,
408 U.S. 471, 481 (1972), respectively)).




n70.  See supra notes 17-58 and accompanying text.




n71.  See supra notes 48-58 and accompanying text.




n72.  See supra notes 17-30 and accompanying text.




n73.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 424 (N.Y. 1990).




n74.  Id.




n75.  See N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995).




n76.  Id.




n77.  Savastano, 569 N.E.2d at 424 (citing Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 607
(1979)). The patient's right to a judicial hearing regarding the initial
transfer determination has found support in recent decisions. See, e.g., In re
Jerome G., 607 N.Y.S.2d 709, 710 (App. Div. 1994).

   The "so-called" medical-legal distinction has been the subject of much
academic criticism. See, e.g., Jerry L. Mashaw, Due Process in the
Administrative State 111 (1985). Mashaw argues that the Parham court did not
believe that a minor needed a hearing prior to commitment to a mental
institution,



   apparently in substantial part, because a hearing would provide little
additional protection from error....Yet, somehow, when in Vitek the question was
whether a prisoner should have a hearing prior to being transferred to a mental
hospital, the suggestion that psychiatric judgment was involved elicited the
following judicial response: "The medical nature of the inquiry... does not
justify dispensing with due process requirements. It is precisely the subtleties
and nuances of psychiatric diagnoses that justify the requirement of adversary
hearings."



   Id. (quoting Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480, 495 (1980)).




n78.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3)(i) (1995) (providing that
the hospital's director, unit chiefs, supervisors or psychiatrists are
appropriate parties to hear the appeal).




n79.  Id.




n80.  Marshall v. Jerrico, Inc., 446 U.S. 238, 242 (1980).




n81.  Id.




n82.  United Retail & Wholesale Employees Teamsters Union Local No. 115 v. Yahn
& Mc Donnell, Inc., 787 F.2d 128, 138 (1986), aff'd per curiam, 481 U.S. 735
(1987) (stating that although there is a presumption of factfinder impartiality,
all that need be shown to rebut the presumption is a "possible temptation" or an
"underlying incentive" to manifest bias). The temptation is evident in this
situation. See supra notes 62-67 and accompanying text.




n83.  Savastano v Nurnberg, 529 N.Y.S.2d 403, 409 (Sup. Ct. 1987), rev'd, 548
N.Y.S.2d 555 (App. Div. 1989), aff'd, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n84.  Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335 (1976).




n85.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 425 (N.Y. 1990). But see Parratt v.
Taylor, 451 U.S. 527, 539 (1981) (holding that absent "the necessity of quick
action by the State or the impracticality of providing any meaningful
predeprivation process," a post-deprivation hearing would be constitutionally
inadequate).




n86.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(g)(iv) (1995) (providing that
"if the receiving hospital determines that the patient is not appropriate for
admission, the order of transfer...may be canceled"). The regulation fails to
provide for any patient input into the decision.




n87.  Hewitt v. Helms, 459 U.S. 460, 473 (1983).




n88.  Id. at 472 (stating that in order to satisfy procedural due process,
respondent was entitled to offer any "statement respondent wished to submit").




n89.  Savastano, 569 N.E.2d at 423-24 (stating that "a patient who is
dissatisfied with a transfer determination may challenge it by commencing an
article 78 proceeding").




n90.  See N.Y. Civ. Prac. L. & R. 7803 (McKinney 1994 & Supp. 1995); David D.
Siegel, New York Practice 870-97 (2d ed. 1991).




n91.  See supra notes 80-81 and accompanying text.




n92.  See Savastano, 569 N.E.2d at 425.




n93.  605 F.2d 605 (2d Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 442 U.S. 929 (1979).




n94.  Id. at 611.




n95.  See supra notes 75-77 and accompanying text.




n96.  See, e.g., Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480, 494-95 (1980) (holding that there
is a right to confront and cross-examine witnesses prior to a transfer from a
penitentiary to a psychiatric institution).




n97.  Appellant's Brief at 34, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990)
(No. 2771/87). In Savastano, the court of appeals downplayed the impact of
institutional pressures such as overcrowding on the proceeding's impartiality.
The court stated that "such concerns are relevant to decisions regarding
treatment, inasmuch as overcrowding has a direct impact on the level and quality
of hospital services." 569 N.E.2d at 425. Yet, as stated previously,
overcrowding is but one of many factors which must be considered in a transfer
proceeding.




n98.  Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335 (1976).




n99.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421, 425 (N.Y. 1990) (concluding from
the holding in Parham that permitting such a judicial hearing would "accomplish
little else than the diversion of scarce resources from the care and treatment
of mentally ill patients").




n100.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995).




n101.  See, e.g., In re Jerome G., 607 N.Y.S.2d 709, 710-11 (App. Div. 1994)
(stating that when a judge entertains a transfer hearing, the same requisite
elements must be established).




n102.  N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 14, 517.4(c)(3) (1995) (providing that
"no request for the transfer of an objecting patient shall be made by the
sending hospital until such patient has been given an opportunity to appeal such
request to the sending hospital's director").




n103.  For example, the New York Supreme Court of Kings County utilizes a fixed
staff of clerks and a judge who has expertise in the Mental Hygiene Law and
criminal commitments. This part of the court is extremely specialized and
efficient, issuing on average one thousand mental hygiene warrants, inter alia,
per annum. Telephone Interview with Elliott Raines, Law Secretary to Hon. Maxine
K. Duberstein, Supreme Court, Kings County (Oct. 25, 1995).




n104.  Brief for Appellant at 35, Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y.
1990) (No. 2771/87).




n105.  Although Savastano does not prevent a judge from entertaining a hearing
on transfer if he or she so wishes, the personal experience of this author with
the Mental Hygiene Part is that judges generally refuse to do so when the issue
is presented, even when economy and efficiency would clearly be the result. It
should be noted that the New York Court of Appeals has emphasized that a central
aim of judicial discretion is the promotion of economy and efficiency. See,
e.g., Kane v. Parry, 364 N.E.2d 846 (N.Y. 1977). For a defense of the "judge's
position," see infra note 108.

   Even for those judges who do not explicitly refuse to entertain transfer
hearings, the current practice is that the transfer issue is rarely, if ever,
raised by the hospital at a commitment hearing subsequent to Savastano.
Westchester County is the only jurisdiction in which transfer hearings are
currently tried in court. Telephone Interview with Dennis B. Feld, Assistant
Director of Mental Hygiene Legal Service, 2d Dep't. (Jan. 23, 1995).




n106.  See N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.33(b) (McKinney 1988) (providing that the
first period of retention requiring court authorization not to exceed six
months); Interview with Elliott Raines, Law Secretary to Hon. Maxine K.
Duberstein, Supreme Court, Kings County (Jan. 22, 1994) ("Hospitals, prior to
the Savastano decision, traditionally sought, and continue to administratively
seek, transfer orders in concert with their six-month orders of retention. This
is so because this was now for the "long haul,' and the city hospitals want to
free up beds.").




n107.  N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.33(c) (McKinney 1988) ("Upon the demand of the
patient or of anyone on his behalf...the court shall, or may on its own motion,
fix a date for the hearing....").




n108.  See supra note 105. An additional point should be made: judges who refuse
to entertain transfer hearings have legitimate reasons for doing so. Prior to
the decision in Savastano, transfer hearings were regularly heard in the courts.
It was the Office of Mental Health that chose to appeal the Supreme Court,
Queens County's ruling to the New York Court of Appeals to ensure that the
administrative hearing be declared constitutional. Now, after all the time and
expense that went into the appeals process, the feeling is that it is
inappropriate for the same agency to attempt to bifurcate the transfer issue in
court. The sentiment is "be careful what you ask for, because you may just get
it." Telephone Interview with Elliott Raines, Law Secretary to Hon. Maxine K.
Duberstein, Supreme Court, Kings County (Oct. 25, 1995).




n109.  See supra notes 89-91 and accompanying text.




n110.  Id.




n111.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.31(c) (McKinney 1988) (mandating that
the court must "fix the date of such hearing at a time not later than five days
from the date such notice is received by the court").




n112.  See Siegel, supra note 90, at 890-92.




n113.  Id. at 890.




n114.  See Black's Law Dictionary 1522 (6th ed. 1990) (defining ultra vires as
an "act...which is beyond powers conferred...by law").




n115.  See infra notes 116-18 and accompanying text.




n116.  See N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 81(2), (3), (5) (repealed 1963).




n117.  The revamping of the Mental Hygiene Law was the work of the Special
Committee of the Bar of the City of New York. See, e.g., Special Committee to
Study Commitment Procedures of the Association of the Bar of the City of New
York & Cornell Law School, Mental Illness and Due Process: Report and
Recommendations on Admission to Mental Hospitals Under New York Law, at 14
(1962) (stating that the purpose of revamping this area of the law is to ensure
that "any person hospitalized against his will is entitled to watchful
protection of his rights, because he is a citizen first and a mental patient
second").




n118.  The revamped statutory scheme "preserves due process safeguards of every
person who is admitted to a psychiatric facility for care and treatment." 1964
N.Y. Rules 1968 (statement of Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, upon approving the
statutory change).

   Executive statements and those of the drafters are not the only evidence of
the "rights bolstering purpose" in the revamping. See, e.g., Proceedings of the
Seminar of Supreme Court Justices on the Subject of Hospitalization of the
Mentally Ill, 1965, at 37 (stating that the Justices were "firmly convinced"
that patients should continue to enjoy judicial transfer determinations).




n119.  Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990), reargument dismissed,
575 N.E.2d 401 (N.Y. 1991).




n120.  See Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 605-06 (1979).




n121.  See, e.g., N.Y. Mental Hyg. Law 9.31 (McKinney 1988) (mandating the clear
and convincing standard of proof for involuntary commitment); Addington v.
Texas, 441 U.S. 418, 433 (1979); Rivers v. Katz, 495 N.E.2d 337, 344 (N.Y. 1986)
(mandating the same standard for the involuntary administration of psychotropic
medication).




n122.  A hospital within the jurisdiction of a particular special term is given
a weekly calendar day on which the patients requiring hearings on commitment
and/or involuntary medication are "bussed in," or judges travel to the
institution for in-hospital proceedings. These hearings tend to be brief, and
most judges require that retention and medication hearings be condensed for a
particular patient. Condensing transfer poses little additional burden on this
procedure.

   It is interesting to note that when the issue concerns further abrogation of
patients' rights, hospitals advance similar "condensation arguments" regarding
economy and efficiency. See, e.g., In re Lesley B., 567 N.Y.S.2d 999, 1000 (Sup.
Ct. 1991) ("The hospital maintains that the proceedings pursuant to 9.13
[conversion from voluntary to involuntary status] and 9.33 [involuntary
retention] should be consolidated and such consolidation is not prohibited by
statute. Furthermore, the hospital argues that such consolidation is in the
interest of judicial economy....").




n123.  It must be remembered that the fear of the "courts being flooded with
transfer determinations" is unfounded. It is in a relatively small number of
cases that the decision to transfer is contested.




n124.  Brief of the American Orthopsychiatric Association and National
Federation of Societies for Clinical Social Work as Amici Curiae at 38,
Savastano v. Nurnberg, 569 N.E.2d 421 (N.Y. 1990).




n125.  See supra note 61 and accompanying text.




n126.  See generally Jay Carlisle, Getting a Full Bite of the Apple: When Should
the Doctrine of Issue Preclusion Make an Administrative or Arbitral
Determination Binding in a Court of Law?, 55 Fordham L. Rev. 63 (1986)
(describing the general inapplicability of formal rules of evidence for
administrative hearings).




n127.  See supra note 123. But see supra note 121.


