                              321 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

Regulatory update: The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio; OHIO EDISON COMPANY,
has submitted (14-1297-EL-SSO ) Reply in Support of Joint Motions to Reopen the
Hearing Record and to Establish a Procedural Schedule electronically filed by
Madeline Fleisher on behalf of Environmental Law and Policy Center and Ohio
Environmental Council and Environmental Defense Fund and Buckeye Association of
School Administrators and Constellation NewEnergy, Inc. and Electric Power
Supply Association and Exelon

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbus: The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio has issued the following
document:



 BEFORE

 THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO

 In the Matter of the Application of Ohio Edison

 Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating

 Company, and The Toledo Edison Company for

 Authority to Provide for a Standard Service

 Offer Pursuant to R.C. 4928.143 in the Form of

 an Electric Security Plan.



 )

 )

 )

 )

 )

 )

 Case No. 14-1297-EL-SSO

 REPLY OF BUCKEYE ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS,

 CONSTELLATION NEWENERGY INC.,

 ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY ASSOCIATION,

 ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND,

 ENVIRONMENTAL LAW AND POLICY CENTER,

 EXELON GENERATION COMPANY LLC,

 INTERSTATE GAS SUPPLY, INC.,

 NORTHEAST OHIO PUBLIC ENERGY COUNCIL,

 OHIO ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL BUSINESS OFFICIALS DBA POWER4SCHOOLS,

 OHIO CONSUMERS' COUNSEL, OHIO ENVIRONMENTAL COUNCIL,

 OHIO HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION,

 OHIO MANUFACTURERS' ASSOCIATION ENERGY GROUP,

 OHIO SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION,

 OHIO SCHOOLS COUNCIL,

 PJM POWER PROVIDERS GROUP,

 RETAIL ENERGY SUPPLY ASSOCIATION

 AND

 SIERRA CLUB

 IN SUPPORT OF JOINT MOTIONS TO REOPEN THE HEARING RECORD AND TO

 ESTABLISH A PROCEDURAL SCHEDULE

 I. INTRODUCTION

 On December 2, 2015, the Ohio Edison Company, the Cleveland Electric
Illuminating

 Company, and the Toledo Edison Company (collectively,
&ldquo;FirstEnergy&rdquo;) filed a Memorandum

 Contra the December 1, 2015 Motion by Buckeye Association of School
Administrators,

 Constellation NewEnergy Inc., the Electric Power Supply Association, Exelon
Generation

 Company LLC, Interstate Gas Supply, Inc., Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council,
Ohio2

 Association of School Business Officials, Ohio Consumers' Counsel, Ohio
Hospital Association,

 Ohio Manufacturers' Association Energy Group, Ohio School Boards Association,
Ohio Schools

 Council, PJM Power Providers Group, Retail Energy Supply Association, and
Sierra Club

 (collectively, &ldquo;Joint Movants&rdquo;). The Joint Movants represent a wide
array of residential and

 commercial customers, power providers, marketers, and organizations that will
be impacted by

 the outcome of this proceeding and that impact could be felt for the next eight
years.

 The Joint Movants requested that the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(&ldquo;Commission&rdquo;)

 reopen the record in this proceeding and set a procedural schedule allowing
adequate discovery

 and hearing in response to a new Third Supplemental Stipulation filed on
December 1, 2015.1

 The Commission should grant that Motion so that it has before it adequate
information

 upon which to base its decision in this precedential case where billions of
dollars could be

 charged to FirstEnergy customers. Joint Movants have shown good cause for
granting their

 Motion, which proposes a reasonable procedural schedule which will not unduly
delay the

 PUCO's consideration of this matter.

 II. ARGUMENT

 The Third Supplemental Stipulation is 21 pages long, including 11 full pages of


 substantive provisions that contain wholly new or greatly expanded subject
areas such as

 renewable energy, grid modernization, energy efficiency and carbon reduction
planning, and

 potential alterations to FirstEnergy's base distribution rates. Even the
extensions of previously

 contemplated Electric Security Plan (&ldquo;ESP&rdquo;) provisions such as the
Delivery Capital Recovery

 1 The Environmental Law & Policy Center, Ohio Environmental Council, and
Environmental

 Defense Fund (&ldquo;Environmental Intervenors&rdquo;) filed a separate motion
to set a procedural schedule

 on December 2, 2015. The Environmental Intervenors join the Joint Movants in
opposing the

 schedule proposed by FirstEnergy, but reserve the right to file a separate
reply in the event that

 FirstEnergy files an additional memorandum contra the Environmental
Intervenors' Motion that

 raises independent issues.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


