                              327 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily Balochistan Express

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Seminar underscores need for legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect victims

LENGTH: 433  words


There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber Crime law  due to incidents against
unassuming victims , recommended participants of a seminar organised to
celebrate 25th anniversary of WAR, the NGO working against women.

Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour on the
occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Sharmila Farooqi presided
the session that attracted  diverse segments of people, comprising members of
the Civil Society, representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers, teachers, human
rights activists.

Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in the
Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gangrape, could be reduced
through "no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against women.

They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and implementation of all
laws recently passed for women protection and welfare.

Participants urged to empower the existent Women Police Stations and increase
their numbers in every district.

Moreover, medico legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded to be made
operational in all major hospitals, including those  in private sector as Aga
Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.

Mandatory DNA testing for all cases was also recommended besides provision for
DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.

They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state prosecutors,
judges, police officers, medicolegal officers and clerical force in judiciary.

Guest of honour Mukhtaran Mai pleaded for speedy trials  to ensure prosecution
of  offenders of the heinous crime.

The Minister for  Culture and Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising the work of
NGOs , reiterated the Government's resolve to continue its work for  the welfare
of women.

The seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan who
reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in the late 1980s.

The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &amp;
Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh
Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint  Act, but urged the government to
focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.

Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges in context
of medicolegal and the  procedural obstructions hindering disbursement of fair
trial and justice to survivors.  Going through her experience as a past Director
in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms

in the MedicoLegal Sector.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Daily Balochistan Express
                              All Rights Reserved


