                              329 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                           February 19, 2011 Saturday

'The reason I get up in the morning is simple... I enjoy my job'

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 42

LENGTH: 913  words



HIGHLIGHT:Â making a difference to his community in his own inimitable way


AFTER 20 years on the job, Richard Heath is used to being bailed up in
supermarket aisles.

Giving out medical advice between the canned tomatoes and pasta shells is all
part of being one of the few remaining procedural general practitioners on the
Sunshine Coast.

The 52-year-old's talents stretch from obstetrics to general anaesthetics and
minor surgery.

When the average waiting time at the Coast's biggest public hospital emergency
department is eight hours, being multi-skilled means being in demand.

He has more than 45,000 patient records in the Noosa Health Centre's database.
This means he has cared, at some time, for about 65% of the district's
population, and their visiting friends and families.

Prior to his arrival in 1991, Dr Heath was a medical superintendent at a Broome
hospital in Western Australia.

He could have had his pick of positions across Australia.

But a love for the "good old fashioned GP practice" attracted him to this small
corner of the world.

"Noosa for me is all about the interesting people and the diverse work," he
said.

"You never know who or what is going to walk through the door.

"This morning, for example, I saw an office worker with a drug problem.

"Then I treated a baby with tummy pain."

After two years in local practice, he became Noosa Triathlon's race medical
director.

A role not to be taken on lightly, there are an average of 20,000 spectators and
8000 competitors.

"Covering this event takes a lot of preparation and help from my staff," he
said.

"It is an extreme sport and people have died. You can't mess around."

A professional approach to elite sport paved the way for Dr Heath to secure a
position as a treating doctor at the Mooloolaba, Sydney and Hamburg triathlons.

As word spread of his on-the-ground triage and medical management skills, Dr
Heath was recruited for the Woodford Folk Festival in 2003 and then the Gympie
Muster in 2005.

He was also instrumental in the establishment of the Noosa After Hours Medical
Centre in 1993 and the associated medical retrieval service.

"That's been my professional highlight in Noosa so far," he said.

"I truly believe we saved many, many lives during the nearly six years that the
after hours clinic was open because of the improved access to medical care it
gave the community.

"The clinic saw more than 85,000 people. There were 42 doctors from the district
who worked a roster to ensure it was staffed."

The centre is now located at Noosa Private Hospital and continues to be a
success despite recently losing government funding.

The paperwork and red tape to maintain procedural credentials is often
mountainous, with compulsory training every three years to update his skills.

But Dr Heath reckons in the end, it was all worth it.

"The reason why I keep getting up in the morning is simple really ... I enjoy my
job," he said.

"I like caring for people."

Although he is gruff and a little rough around the edges, it is not hard to
believe his passion.

Dr Heath said health services seemed to have come a full circle on the Coast.

"When I first moved here, people were dying on Main Beach because there was no
hospital in the area," he said.

"Now instead of having no hospitals, they are over crowded and on bypass.

"The ambulance officers are run off their feet.

"Provisions for after hours care are not good."

Mr Heath said he believed the Coast had sufficient health infrastructure, but
said it was being used inefficiently.

"Queensland Health has more bureaucrats than doctors and nurses," he said.

"There is too much red tape.

As a member of the committee looking at e-health reforms, Dr Heath looks forward
to the advances in the health industry.

"Noosa Health was one of the first private practices in Australia to complete a
virtual amalgamation of medical records," he said.

"Recently, one of my patients was over in Russia having difficulty explaining
the history of his gut ache.

"I was able to email over his records and within minutes the issue was sorted
out."

Dr Heath said ultimately technology would also benefit patients through shorter
waiting times.

"If your gynie checks are all up-to-date and you're healthy, there is no reason
why you should come in every single time and sit around for 20 minutes just
because you need a new script for the pill," he said.

"This morning we sent out 10 to 15 electronically encrypted prescriptions."

In hasn't all been peaches and cream for the good doctor, however.

In 2001, he was piloting a twin-engine Cessna when it crashed 80 metres short of
the runway at Sunshine Coast Airport, just moments after take off.

The crash left him and passenger Gerry Geltch with serious injuries.

It wasn't the first time he had crashed a light aircraft, either.

He was charged with operating the plane in a careless or reckless manner and
banned from flying for three years.

"I would say that period of my life was the worst," he said.

His Noosa patients still occasionally remind him to make sure there's "fuel in
the tanks", but their banter is in jest.

And he is now back flying thanks to their encouragement.

Dr Heath said every day since that accident he wakes up at dawn.

"Just so I can see the sunrise. I know I'm lucky to be alive," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


