                              333 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 31, 2016 Monday

Results from the NOBLE trial presented at TCT 2016 and published in The Lancet

LENGTH: 633  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Coronary artery bypass (CABG) surgery is the standard treatment for
revascularization in patients with left main coronary artery (LMCA) disease, but
use of percutaneousa coronary intervention (PCI) for this indication is
increasing. Findings from the Nordic-Baltic-British Left Main Revascularization
Study (NOBLE) trial found that despite similar mortality, the five-year risk of
major adverse events was higher after PCI compared to CABG for the treatment of
unprotected LMCA disease.





 Findings were reported today at the 28th annual Transcatheter Cardiovascular
Therapeutics (TCT) scientific symposium. Sponsored by the Cardiovascular
Research Foundation (CRF), TCT is the world's premier educational meeting
specializing in interventional cardiovascular medicine. The study was also
published simultaneously in The Lancet.



 The NOBLE trial is a prospective, randomized, open label, clinical,
non-inferiority trial that was conducted at 36 sites in Latvia, Estonia,
Lithuania, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Finland, United Kingdom and Denmark.
Eligible patients had stable angina pectoris, unstable angina pectoris or non-ST
elevation myocardial infarction. The primary endpoint was major adverse cardiac
or cerebrovascular events (MACCE) - a composite of all-cause mortality, non-
procedural myocardial infarction, any repeat coronary revascularization and
stroke.



 The original primary endpoint was evaluation of non-inferiority of PCI to CABG
assessed by MACCE at two years follow-up in the complete study cohort. Due to
lower than expected endpoint rates, the primary endpoint assessment was
ultimately changed to a median follow-up of three years.



 A total of 1,201 patients were randomized 1:1 to PCI (598) or CABG (603), and
592 in each arm entered analysis by intention to treat. Kaplan-Meier five-year
estimates of MACCE were 28.9% for PCI (121 events) and 19.1% for CABG (81
events), [HR 1.48 (95% CI 1.11-1.96)], exceeding the limit for non-inferiority
and demonstrating superiority of CABG over PCI (P=0.0066). As-treated estimates
were 28.1% vs. 19.2% [HR 1.55 (95% CI 1.18-2.04), P=0.0015]. Comparing PCI with
CABG, five-year estimates were 11.6% vs. 9.5% [HR 1.07 (95% CI 0.67-1.72),
P=0.7701] for all-cause mortality; 6.9% vs. 1.9% [HR 2.88



 (95% CI 1.40-5.90), P=0.0040] for non-procedural myocardial infarction; 16.2%
vs. 10.4% [HR 1.50 (95% CI 1.04-2.17), P=0.0315] for any revascularization; and
4.9% vs. 1.7% [HR 2.25 (95% CI 0.93-5.48), P=0.0731] for stroke.



 "Our findings of similar mortality but higher rates of myocardial infarction
and repeat revascularization in patients undergoing PCI compared to CABG are
consistent with previous studies of coronary revascularization in patients with
LMCA disease," said Evald H. Christiansen, MD, PhD, lead researcher from Aarhus
University Hospital, Skejby in Denmark. "However, the low mortality following
treatment in both groups demonstrates that modern revascularization techniques
can lead to excellent survival in stable LMCA patients. Further, the increased
rates of non-procedural myocardial infarction, repeat revascularization and
stroke associated with PCI are important considerations in selecting the optimal
treatment for individual patients."



 The NOBLE trial was funded by Aarhus University Hospital and an institutional
research grant from Biosensors. Dr. Christiansen reported receiving
institutional grants from Biosensors.



 The results of the NOBLE Trial will be presented on Monday, October 31 at 9:15
AM ET in the Main Arena (Ballroom, Level 3) at the Walter E. Washington
Convention Center.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


