                              346 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   Herald Sun

                             July 5, 1995 Wednesday

DOCTORS WARN OF RURAL BIRTHS CRISIS

BYLINE: EDMUNDS M

LENGTH: 291 words


SOARING medical insurance premiums are forcing country GPs to stop delivering
babies, a doctors' group says.The Rural Doctors Association said a $3900 premium
rise for procedural GPs (who practice surgery obstetrics and anaesthetics) would
aggravate the critical lack of obstetric care in rural areas. Association
president Dr Mark Robinson said premiums had leapt from $1600 last year to $5500
on July 1 for GPs who delivered babies."If they choose to stop performing
obstetric work they only pay the $1600 non-procedural GP premium, which is an
attractive option because obstetric work is not profitable anyway," he said.Dr
Robinson said most procedural GPs worked in rural areas and their services were
vital."There are not a lot of specialist obstetricians in country Victoria and
they are already overworked," he said.He wants the State Government to pay all
or part of the premium for rural doctors, as the NSW Government does, so they do
not give up obstetrics.Dr Trevor Mudge, federal secretary of the National
Association of Specialist Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, said the Medicare
rebate was the real problem.He said law suits against gynaecologists and
obstetricians had increased after courts awarded several multi-million-dollar
payouts for negligence during delivery."It's not worth doing obstetrics because
the rebate is too low and that has created a rural crisis," Dr Mudge
said.Director of medical services at Goulburn Valley Base Hospital Dr Andrew
Perrignon said the hospital flew obstetricians in from Sydney because of a local
shortage.A spokesman for Health Minister Marie Tehan said the minister was
considering a Department of Health and Community Services report on the
matter.END OF STORY

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -KEYS- -LIB- -SECT- NEWS

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 1995 Nationwide News Pty Limited


