                              342 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 9, 2015 Monday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
Ohio: MARGARET ROCKWOOD, Plaintiff,V.MELINDA J. SHOEN, et al., Defendants.

LENGTH: 3859  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of Ohio has issued
the following order:



 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO EASTERN DIVISION
MARGARET ROCKWOOD, Plaintiff, Case No. 2:15-cv-1134 v. JUDGE GREGORY L. FROST
Magistrate Judge Elizabeth P. Deavers MELINDA J. SHOEN, et al., Defendants.
OPINION AND ORDER This matter is before the Court for consideration of
Defendants' motion for judgment on the pleadings (ECF No. 10), Plaintiff's
memorandum in opposition (ECF No. 16), and Defendants' reply memorandum (ECF No.
17). For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART
Defendants' motion. I. Background Prior to September 11, 2014, Plaintiff,
Margaret Rockwood, a resident of Delaware County, Ohio, was an enrolled student
at Defendant Central Ohio Technical College (&ldquo;COTC&rdquo;) in the
Diagnostic Medical Sonography (&ldquo;DMS&rdquo;) Program. During Plaintiff's
second semester in the program, COTC's Program Director for the DMS Program,
Defendant Melinda J. Shoen, allegedly advised Plaintiff that Plaintiff could
create a special course of study that would allow Plaintiff to &ldquo;fulfill
the cardiac registry examination requirements of the American Registry for
Diagnostic Medical Sonography ('ARDMS')&rdquo; and to &ldquo;bypass her
remaining vascular course work and related clinical assignments.&rdquo; (ECF No.
1, at Page ID # 3, &para; 16.) Thereafter, Plaintiff began her required clinical
rotations at various nearby institutions.

Subsequent to a clinical rotation at Licking Memorial Hospital, Plaintiff began
a second rotation Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 1
of 11 PAGEID #: 2 at Berger Hospital. Plaintiff discussed her specialized
program with Berger Hospital staff in early September 2014. Plaintiff alleges
that despite her attempted explanation, hospital staff did not understand the
specialized program. Berger Hospital staff then contacted Defendant Elizabeth M.
Eyster, COTC's Clinic Coordinator for the DMS Program, for clarification. Eyster
purportedly failed to explain the cardiac-only program in which Plaintiff was
supposedly enrolled and instead informed the hospital that Plaintiff would not
return to finish her clinical rotation. On September 10, 2014, Plaintiff was
contacted by Shoen, Eyster, and Defendant Sandra Walker, COTC's Dean of Health
Sciences and Nursing Programs Administrator, and told not to return to Berger
Hospital, but to meet with them instead. Plaintiff requested that Defendants
inform her of the nature of the meeting but was allegedly denied such
information. During the meeting, which took place on September 11, 2014,
Plaintiff was handed a letter that indicated that she &ldquo;had been formally
dismissed as a cardiovascular clinical student at Berger Hospital and that
Plaintiff was dismissed from the DMS Program in accordance with policy, without
the possibility to apply for re-admission.&rdquo; (ECF No. 1, at Page ID # 5,
&para; 29) (internal quotation marks omitted). At no time prior to their meeting
did Defendants offer any explanation for Plaintiff's dismissal from Berger
Hospital or provide any details regarding their intent to dismiss Plaintiff.
Plaintiff was informed that the hospital was not required to provide any
justification for her dismissal and that she should not contact the hospital
&ldquo;under any circumstance.&rdquo; (Id. at Page ID # 6, &para; 32.) On
September 15, 2014, COTC's President, Defendant Bonnie Coe, agreed to meet with
Plaintiff. Coe informed Plaintiff that Plaintiff had a right to an appeal but
that the right had been exhausted during the September 11 and 15, 2014 meetings
with Defendants. Plaintiff was Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed:
11/06/15 Page: 2 of 11 PAGEID #: 3 allegedly never provided with any substantive
justification for her dismissal from either COTC or Berger Hospital. Rather, the
only justification Plaintiff purportedly received was in the form of a statement
that Plaintiff was &ldquo;self-evaluating.&rdquo; (Id.) On March 30, 2015,
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Shoen, Eyster, Walker, Coe, and
COTC. Thereafter, on July 7, 2015, Defendants filed a motion for judgment on the
pleadings pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(c). The parties have
completed briefing on the motion, which is ripe for disposition. II. Discussion
A. Standard of Review Defendants have filed a motion for judgment on the
pleadings pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(c). Rule 12(c) provides
that &ldquo;[a]fter the pleadings are closed--but early enough not to delay
trial--a party may move for judgment on the pleadings.&rdquo; Fed. R. Civ. P.
12(c). A court must review motions made under Rule 12(c) in the same manner it
would review a motion made under Rule 12(b)(6). Vickers v. Fairfield Med. Ctr.,
453 F.3d 757, 761 (6th Cir. 2006). Accordingly, to survive a motion for judgment
on the pleadings, a complaint must provide fair notice of each claim and the
grounds upon which it rests. Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544, 555, 570,
127 S.Ct. 1955, 167 L.Ed.2d 929 (2007) (citing Conley v. Gibson, 355 U.S. 41,
47, 78 S.Ct. 99, 2 L.Ed.2d 80 (1957)). The complaint must also state a claim to
relief that is plausible on its face. Id. A plaintiff's factual allegations must
be enough to raise the claimed right to relief above the speculative level and
to create a reasonable expectation that discovery will reveal evidence to
support the claim. Id. at 556. In ruling on a Rule 12(b)(6) or Rule 12(c)
motion, a court must construe the complaint in the light most favorable to the
plaintiff and treat all well-pleaded allegations contained therein as true. Id.
at 555-56. If the Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 3
of 11 PAGEID #: 4 &ldquo;well-pleaded facts do not permit the court to infer
more than the mere possibility of misconduct,&rdquo; the court should dismiss
the complaint. Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 678, 129 S.Ct. 1937, 173 L.Ed.2d
868 (2009). B. Analysis 1. Procedural Due Process Claim In her first claim,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated her procedural due process rights
with respect to the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United
States Constitution. Plaintiff claims that she has a &ldquo;clearly recognized
liberty and property interest in her continued education at COTC, in her
reputation and good name, and in the value of a clear academic record as a COTC
student.&rdquo; (ECF No. 1, at Page ID # 7, &para; 40.) Plaintiff further
alleges that her &ldquo;clearly recognized liberty and property interest&rdquo;
guarantees her the right to adequate procedural safeguards. Therefore,
Plaintiff's summary dismissal from COTC, which according to Plaintiff failed to
include the requisite procedural protections, robbed her of constitutionally
guaranteed rights. Defendants argue that they are entitled to judgment on this
claim on the ground of qualified immunity. Defendants also argue that they are
entitled to judgment even without qualified immunity because they did not deny
Plaintiff any process that she was due. But given the pleadings involved, this
Court cannot at this time agree with either proposition. The doctrine of
qualified immunity operates under certain circumstances to shield from civil
liability governmental officials who are performing official duties. Sinick v.
Summit, 76 F. App'x 675, 679 (6th Cir. 2003). It shields government officials
from liability for civil damages so long as their conduct does not violate
clearly established statutory or constitutional rights of which a reasonable
person would have known. Harlow v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 800, 818 (1982). Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 4 of 11 PAGEID #: 5 Courts
generally use a two-step analysis to address the potential applicability of
qualified immunity. First, the Court determines &ldquo;whether, considering the
allegations in a light most favorable to the injured party, a constitutional
right has been violated&rdquo;; second, the Court must determine &ldquo;whether
that right was clearly established&rdquo; at the time of the incident in
question. Campbell v. City of Springboro, Ohio, 700 F.3d 779, 786 (6th Cir.
2012) (citing Saucier v. Katz, 533 U.S. 194, 201 (2001)); Simmonds v. Genesee
Cnty., 682 F.3d 438, 443-44 (6th Cir. 2012). It is important to note that the
Court need not address these factors in order, but may consider either factor
first. Pearson v. Callahan, 555 U.S. 223, 236 (2009). The problem here is that
the Court cannot reach any conclusion on whether a constitutional right has been
violated or whether any such right was clearly established. This is because the
key facts are uncertain. These facts matter because the Supreme Court of the
United States has &ldquo;frequently emphasized that [t]he very nature of due
process negates any concept of inflexible procedures universally applicable to
every imaginable situation.&rdquo; Bd. of Curators of Univ. of Missouri v.
Horowitz, 435 U.S. 78, 86, 98 S. Ct. 948, 953, 55 L. Ed. 2d 124 (1978) (quoting
Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367 U.S. 886, 895, 81 S.Ct. 1743, 1748, 6 L.Ed.2d
1230 (1961)) (internal quotations omitted). This flexibility is directly
applicable to the academic field: The need for flexibility is well illustrated
by the significant difference between the failure of a student to meet academic
standards and the violation by a student of valid rules of conduct. This
difference calls for far less stringent procedural requirements in the case of
an academic dismissal. Since the issue first arose 50 years ago, state and lower
federal courts have recognized that there are distinct differences between
decisions to suspend or dismiss a student for disciplinary purposes and similar
actions taken for academic reasons which may call for hearings in connection
with the former but not the latter. Id. Thus, the nature of the dismissal here
should control the outcome of the arguments for dismissal. But review of the
pleadings fails to indicate whether Plaintiff was dismissed for academic reasons
or disciplinary reasons. Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15
Page: 5 of 11 PAGEID #: 6 Defendants characterize the events at issue as solely
an academic dismissal based on unprofessional conduct and explain that,
consequently, Plaintiff was afforded all of the process she was due. Plaintiff
in turn pleads facts suggesting by inference that the dismissal was disciplinary
in nature, which would necessitate her being afforded more procedural due
process under clearly established law. This Court cannot say which side is
correct because, based on the curiously crafted pleadings, it is impossible to
tell why Plaintiff was dismissed. There is arguably a substantial difference
between mandated dismissal from COTC as a result of dismissal from the hospital
and dismissal from the hospital at the direction of COTC leading to subsequent
dismissal from COTC. Absent clarity as to the events surrounding the dismissal
or dismissals involved, it is unclear whether the dismissal from COTC was
academic or disciplinary. Therefore, it is inappropriate at this time to grant
Defendants' motion and dismiss the procedural due process claim on the grounds
that there was no constitutional violation, with or without application of
qualified immunity. It may turn out that qualified immunity applies or that the
claim fails on other grounds, but absent sufficient context this Court cannot
reach such conclusions at this time. Through discovery and subsequent filings,
the parties can present to this Court the nature of the dismissal. The Court
DENIES Defendants' motion for judgment on the pleadings in regard to Plaintiff's
first claim for relief, the procedural due process claim. 2. Substantive Due
Process Claim In her second claim, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated
her substantive due process rights when Defendants offered no rational basis to
support her dismissal. She asserts that Defendants failed to conduct any
substantive investigation into the events that preceded her Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 6 of 11 PAGEID #: 7
dismissal and that this failure to investigate and the dismissal were arbitrary,
capricious, motivated by ill will, and a direct result of Defendants' custom and
policy regarding the dismissal of students. As a direct result of these alleged
acts, Plaintiff alleges, she &ldquo;was wrongfully denied the right to continue
and complete her education, she has suffered the loss of future employment
opportunities, and she has suffered damage to her reputation, embarrassment and
emotional distress.&rdquo; (ECF No. 1, at Page ID # 9, &para; 57.) Similar to
claim one, Defendants again first assert that they are entitled to qualified
immunity. Alternatively, they argue that substantive due process does not apply
here. This Court agrees with both propositions. Plaintiff argues that she has
both a clearly recognized property and liberty interest in her continued
education at COTC; that those interests are subject to the protections of
substantive due process; and that the actions of Defendants deprived her of
those interests and denied her that protection. Her principal contention is that
her allegedly arbitrary dismissal from COTC without justification violated her
&ldquo;clearly recognized&rdquo; property and liberty interest in continued
education. The interests protected by substantive due process, however, are much
narrower than those protected by procedural due process. The Sixth Circuit has
explained that the &ldquo;[i]nterests protected by substantive due process
include &hellip; those protected by specific constitutional guarantees, such as
the Equal Protection Clause, freedom from government actions that shock the
conscience, and certain interests that the Supreme Court has found so rooted in
the traditions and conscience of our people as to be fundamental.&rdquo; Bell v.
Ohio State Univ., 351 F.3d 240, 250 (6th Cir. 2003) (citations and quotations
omitted). Cognizant of the limitations that restrict the interests protected by
substantive due process, the Sixth Circuit has consistently refused to Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 7 of 11 PAGEID #: 8
recognize substantive due process as protecting a student's interest in
continuing education. See Yoder v. Univ. of Louisville, 526 F. App'x 537, 549
(6th Cir.) cert. denied, 134 S. Ct. 790 (2013); Rogers v. Tenn. Bd. of Regents,
273 F. App'x 458, 463 (6th Cir. 2008); McGee v. Schoolcraft Cmty. Coll., 167 F.
App'x 429, 436-37 (6th Cir. 2006); Bell v. Ohio State Univ., 351 F.3d 240,
249-51 (6th Cir. 2003). Plaintiff argues that she has a viable substantive due
process claim because Defendants' actions were so outrageous and egregious that
they &ldquo;shock the conscience.&rdquo; Her claim purportedly rests on the
&ldquo;the right to be free of 'arbitrary and capricious' action by government
actors.&rdquo; Bowers v. City of Flint, 325 F.3d 758, 763 (6th Cir.2003)
(quoting Pearson v. City of Grand Blanc, 961 F.2d 1211, 1217 (6th Cir. 1992)).
But as the Sixth Circuit has recognized, &ldquo;the 'arbitrary and capricious'
standard set forth in Pearson is simply another formulation of, but is no less
stringent than, the more traditional 'shocks the conscience' standard.&rdquo;
Bowers v. City of Flint, 325 F.3d 758, 763 (6th Cir. 2003). Therefore,
Plaintiff's second claim can only survive if Defendants' actions shock the
conscience in the constitutional sense. What this means is that Plaintiff's
second claim can survive only if the pleadings present action by Defendants that
is &ldquo;so severe, so disproportionate to the need presented, and such an
abuse of authority as to transcend the bounds of ordinary tort law and establish
a deprivation of constitutional rights.&rdquo; Parate v. Isibor, 868 F.2d 821,
832 (6th Cir. 1989). But the pleadings in this case simply do not support the
proposition that Defendants' actions shock the conscience. No facts pled suggest
that Defendants engaged in actions that &ldquo;violate[d] the decencies of
civilized conduct&rdquo; or that were &ldquo;so brutal and offensive that [they
do] not comport with traditional ideas of fair play and decency.&rdquo; Range v.
Douglas, 763 F.3d 573, 589-90 (6th Cir. 2014) (internal quotation marks
omitted). No facts pled suggest that Defendants &ldquo;intended to Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 8 of 11 PAGEID #: 9 injure
without any justifiable government interest,&rdquo; which matters because
&ldquo;[m]erely negligent tortious conduct is categorically beneath
constitutional due process.&rdquo; Id. at 590 (internal quotation marks
omitted). No facts pled therefore preclude the dismissal of this claim. The
Court GRANTS Defendants' motion for judgment on the pleadings in regard to
Plaintiff's second claim for relief, the substantive due process claim. 3.
Negligence Claim In her third claim, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted
negligently in numerous ways. For example, she asserts that Shoen was negligent
in failing to properly formulate the special program in which Plaintiff was
supposedly enrolled and that Shoen and Eyster were negligent in failing to
communicate Plaintiff's specialized program to Berger Hospital. Defendants argue
that this third claim fails because of statutory tort liability immunity
pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Chapter 2744 and because Ohio does not recognize a
claim of the sort asserted here. This Court need not reach the statutory
immunity issue because Ohio law indeed precludes Plaintiff's third claim. State
precedent teaches that &ldquo;[a] claim that educational services provided were
inadequate constitutes a claim for 'educational malpractice.' &rdquo; Lawrence
v. Lorain Cty. Cmty. Coll., 127 Ohio App.3d 546, 549, 713 N.E.2d 478, 480
(1998). That same precedent reveals that, regardless of the label a plaintiff
places on such a claim, &ldquo;Ohio does not recognize educational malpractice
claims for public policy reasons.&rdquo; Id. Therefore, Plaintiff's third claim,
which targets allegedly substandard educational services, is in actuality an
impermissible claim for educational malpractice that this Court cannot
entertain. See id. (&ldquo;The trial court properly characterized [the
plaintiff's] claims as masking allegations of educational malpractice, which is
barred as a cause of action in this state. Thus, we find that the trial court
properly dismissed his complaint pursuant to Civ.R. 12(B)(6).&rdquo;); see Case:
2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 9 of 11 PAGEID #: 10 also
Hopkins v. Columbus Bd. of Educ., No. 07AP-700, 2008 WL 852608, at *5 (Ohio Ct.
App. 10th Dist. Mar. 31, 2008) (&ldquo;there is a lack of authority supporting
[an educational malpractice] cause of action under Ohio law&rdquo;); Lemmon v.
Univ. of Cincinnati, 112 Ohio Misc.2d 23, 29, 750 N.E.2d 668, 672 (2001)
(rejecting negligence claim because it was &ldquo;essentially one of educational
malpractice&rdquo; and &ldquo;the claim is not recognized in the state of
Ohio&rdquo;). The claim is therefore inappropriate for this federal forum. See
Hutchings v. Vanderbilt Univ., 55 F. App'x 308, 310 (6th Cir. 2003) (explaining
that the plaintiff's &ldquo;claims concern the adequacy of the educational
services provided by the University&rdquo; and that &ldquo;[c]ourts are not
inclined to review educational malpractice claims or breach of contract claims
based on inadequate educational services&rdquo;); Buescher v. Baldwin Wallace
Univ., No. 1:13 CV 2821, 2014 WL 1910907, at *4 (N.D. Ohio May 12, 2014)
(rejecting educational malpractice claim asserted under Ohio law). In her reply
memorandum, Plaintiff attempts to circumvent an adverse decision on this claim
by transforming the claim into one targeting willful and reckless conduct. She
dubiously offers that &ldquo;[t]he Complaint may have been inartfully drafted,
and the Third Claim should have perhaps included a specific reference to the
wanton and reckless nature of Defendants' conduct, but the allegations in the
Complaint in their totality are sufficient to place the Defendants on notice
that Plaintiff is asserting something more than simple negligence.&rdquo; (ECF
No. 16, at Page ID # 93.) But even applying notice pleading standards leniently,
no fair reading of the complaint supports Plaintiff's self-serving contention.
Plaintiff's complaint expressly and repeatedly targets only negligence in the
third claim: &ldquo;Defendant Shoen was negligent in failing to properly
research and advise Plaintiff . . .&rdquo; (ECF No. 1, at Page ID # 10 &para;
63); &ldquo;Defendants Shoen and Eyster were negligent in failing to communicate
Plaintiff's cardiac only program requirements . . .&rdquo; (id. &para; 64);
&ldquo;Defendant Eyster was negligent in failing to clarify . . .&rdquo; (id.
&para; 65); &ldquo;The Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19 Filed: 11/06/15
Page: 10 of 11 PAGEID #: 11 negligence of Defendants Shoen and Eyster in failing
to properly communicate . . .&rdquo; (id. &para; 66); &ldquo;In furtherance of
Defendants' negligence, Plaintiff was dismissed . . .&rdquo; (id., at Page ID #
11 &para; 67); &ldquo;Plaintiff did not learn of Shoen's mistake . . .&rdquo;
(id. &para; 68); &ldquo;Defendant COTC is vicariously liable for the negligent
acts and omissions of Defendants Shoen and Eyster.&rdquo; (id. &para; 69);
&ldquo;After learning of the mistakes made by Defendants Shoen and Eyster . .
.&rdquo; (id. &para; 70); &ldquo;As a direct result of the aforementioned
negligent acts and omissions . . .&rdquo; (id. &para; 71); &ldquo;As a direct
result of Defendants' negligence, Plaintiff was wrongfully dismissed . .
.&rdquo; (id. &para; 72); &ldquo;As a direct result of Defendants' negligence,
Plaintiff was wrongfully denied . . .&rdquo; (id. &para; 73). Plaintiff cannot
use a reply memorandum to rewrite that which she actually pled in an effort to
salvage an impermissible claim. This Court GRANTS Defendants' motion for
judgment on the pleadings in regard to Plaintiff's third claim for relief, the
educational malpractice claim disguised as a negligence claim. III. Conclusion
The Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Defendants' motion. (ECF No. 10.)
The Clerk shall enter judgment in favor of Defendants on claims two and three,
while claim one remains pending. IT IS SO ORDERED. /s/ Gregory L. Frost GREGORY
L. FROST UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE Case: 2:15-cv-01134-GLF-EPD Doc #: 19
Filed: 11/06/15 Page: 11 of 11 PAGEID #:



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


