                              359 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           February 23, 2017 Thursday

Multiple lapses led to nurse's death, finds AIIMS probe

BYLINE: Durgesh Nandan Jha

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 638 words


NEW DELHI: An AIIMS committee has identified several procedural lapses leading
to the death of a 28-year-old staffer in childbirth, raising serious questions
on the services offered at the country's most prestigious medical
institution.The victim, Rajbir Kaur, a nursing officer, was admitted on January
16 for normal delivery. The labour was progressing well till 5am the next day
when there was a sudden drop in fetal heart rate, necessitating emergency
surgery. The probe committee, headed by Dr S C Sharma of the ENT department,
found that an anesthesiologist was not present during the caesearean section
operation. Instead, the job was performed by a junior resident (JR) who neither
had the experience nor was trained enough to handle such a complicated
case.Sources said the JR gave general anesthesia to make Kaur completely
unconscious when most caesarean sections are done under spinal anesthesia.

He also intubated the patient improperly. Intubation is meant to maintain oxygen
level during surgery. However, in Kaur's case, "instead of trachea - the pipe
that connects the mouth to the lungs - the tube was inserted into the food
pipe", a source said.The child was stillborn and Kaur went into distress due to
aspiration - entry of stomach material into the respiratory tract. The nursing
officer also suffered a cardiac arrest. She was revived but then she remained in
coma for three weeks before being declared dead on February 4.The inquiry
committee also found that the consultant-on-call of obstetrics and gynaecology -
whose presence is mandatory - did not turn up for the emergency operation
despite being informed. She has been issued a show-cause notice by the hospital
while the senior resident (SR) of anesthesiology, who was on duty, has been
dismissed.A displeasure memorandum has been issued to the SR of gynaecology, who
can complete his medical training but will remain unemployable at AIIMS in
future. A warning has been issued to the JR of anesthesiology who prepared the
patient for surgery but later left under pressure from the residents of
obstetrics and gynaecology.Though instances of alleged medical negligence at
AIIMS are many, sources said, this is a rare case where institute has been
forced to accept negligence and take stern action. Also, for the first time,
institute has agreed to pay Rs 10 lakh as compensation to the next of kin of the
nursing officer and assured a job to a family member on compassionate grounds.Dr
K K Aggarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association, said the
responsibility of consultants too should be fixed in case of procedural failure.
"Residents cannot be blamed solely for such lapses," he said.V Srinivas, deputy
director (administration) at AIIMS, has ordered the head of anesthesiology to
ensure consultants from his department are available round-the-clock to oversee
and supervise anesthesiology services. The panel also directed the setting up of
a committee under the chairmanship of the hospital management to augment health
services to AIIMS employees.Two years ago, the son of an AIIMS employee had died
at the hospital during dengue treatment. Five senior residents tendered their
resignation after an inquiry report found lapses."Overall, we are satisfied with
the AIIMS decision. But a meeting is planned with Union health minister J P
Nadda to discuss certain issues," said Manish Behl, husband of Rajbir Kaur.TOI
was the first to report on Tuesday about possible action against doctors in the
medical negligence case."The lapses found in Kaur's case have dented AIIMS'
image as the most prestigious medical institution in the country. If this is how
the institute treats its own staff, god knows what happens in case of ordinary
citizens getting treatment," said a senior doctor at the institute.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


