                              38 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 24, 2017 Friday

Quality of Care at Outlier Hospitals and Outcomes for PCI

LENGTH: 523  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American College of Cardiology has issued the following news
release:



 Study Questions:



 What are the procedural management and in-hospital outcomes of patients treated
for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) before and after a hospital was publicly
identified as a negative outlier?



 Methods:



 The investigators used state reports to identify hospitals that were recognized
as negative PCI outliers in two states (Massachusetts and New York) from
2002-2012. State hospitalization files were used to identify all patients with
an AMI within these states. Procedural management and in-hospital outcomes were
compared among patients treated at outlier hospitals before and after public
report of outlier status. Patients at nonoutlier institutions were used to
control for temporal trends. The authors used multivariable modified Poisson
regression to examine the association of the pre- and post-report time periods
with procedural management (coronary angiography/percutaneous coronary
intervention (PCI)/coronary artery bypass grafting) and mortality at both
outlier and nonoutlier hospitals.

 Results:



 Among 86 hospitals, 31 were reported as outliers for excess mortality. Outlier
facilities were larger, treating more AMI patients and performing more PCIs than
nonoutlier hospitals (p < 0.05 for each). Among 507,672 AMI patients
hospitalized at these institutions, 108,428 (21%) were treated at an outlier
hospital after public report. The likelihood of PCI at outlier (relative risk
[RR], 1.13; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.12-1.15) and nonoutlier institutions
(RR, 1.13; 95% CI, 1.11-1.14) increased in a similar fashion (interaction
p-value, 0.50) after public report of outlier status. The likelihood of in-
hospital mortality decreased at outlier institutions (RR, 0.83; 95% CI,
0.81-0.85) after public report, and to a lesser degree at nonoutlier
institutions (RR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.87-0.92; interaction p-value < 0.001). Among
patients who underwent PCI, in-hospital mortality decreased at outlier
institutions after public recognition of outlier status compared with prior (RR,
0.72; 95% CI, 0.66-0.79), a decline that exceeded the reduction at nonoutlier
institutions (RR, 0.87; 95% CI, 0.80-0.96; interaction p-value < 0.001).

 Conclusions:



 The authors reported that after outlier designation, in-hospital mortality
declined at outlier institutions to a greater extent than was observed at
nonoutlier facilities.

 Perspective:



 This study reports that in-hospital mortality among patients undergoing
percutaneous revascularization was substantially lower at outlier institutions
after public report of outlier status. Furthermore, the reduction in in-hospital
mortality was in excess of that observed for patients treated in the same state
and same time period at nonoutlier institutions. The improved clinical outcomes
in the absence of enhanced risk aversion highlight the benefits of public
reporting and overall transparency in the healthcare system. Additional studies
are indicated to optimize patient care and improve in-hospital mortality among
patients with AMI with a focus on continued quality improvement.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


