                              394 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1984, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                   July, 1984

                          Vol. 17, No. 7, HOSPLW Pg. 3

LENGTH: 259 words

TITLE: State health planning agency committed prejudicial procedural error.

TEXT:

     A Georgia Superior Court has upheld a state health planning review board's
order that remanded a certificate of need case to the state planning agency
because the agency committed prejudicial error in its consideration of a CON
application. The court explained that the agency committed the error when it
failed to notify interested health care facilities that it was advancing its
planning horizon from 1987 to 1988 on April 1, 1983, rather than on July 1,
1983. However, the court noted that the agency was correct in its perception
that new population data should be applied promptly.

     The court explained that, heretofore, the agency had advanced its planning
horizon on July 1, 1983, in accordance with its rules and in light of the
release of information by the Georgia Office of Planning and Budget. However,
the Office released planning figures on April 1, 1983, and the agency applied
new population date to the CON application under review at that time. The
agency, however, refused to notify other interested health facilities that the
project would be evaluated based on the new population projections.
     When the CON was granted, the matter was appealed to the review board which
remanded the case to the agency because of the prejudicial procedural error. The
court affirmed the board's decision and directed that the case be remanded for
further action by the agency (State Health Planning Agency v Chatham County
Hospital Authority, Georgia Superior Court, Fulton County, No D-3396, April 30,
1984).

REFERENCE: State Health Planning Agency v Chatham County Hospital Authority,
Georgia Superior Court, Fulton County, No D-3396, April 30, 1984.  The American
Academy of Hospital Attorneys was formerly the American Society of Hospital
Attorneys.


