                              408 of 999 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright (c) 2004 Boston University School of Law
                       American Journal of Law & Medicine

                                      2004

                            30 Am. J. L. and Med. 85

LENGTH: 10958 words

NOTE AND COMMENT: If Roth were a Doctor: Physician Reputation under the HCQIA

NAME: Guillermo A. Montero +

BIO:



   + B.A. Political Science, Boston University, 1999; J.D., Boston University
School of Law, 2004. I would like to thank the AJLM Editorial Board and Staff
Members for their contribution to this Note. Thank you in particular to Bethany
Engel for her editorial comments and encouragement.

 TEXT:
 [*85]  I. INTRODUCTION

   Hospitals in the United States rely on peer review committees to make
credentialing decisions and to conduct ongoing evaluations of all medical care,
thereby ensuring the quality of the physicians they employ.  n1 Physicians,
however, may be reluctant to serve on peer review committees for fear of
retaliatory litigation.  n2 In response, and in an effort to improve the quality
of healthcare in the United States, Congress passed the Health Care Quality
Improvement Act of 1986 ("HCQIA").  n3

   Congress designed the HCQIA to improve the quality of healthcare in two ways.
First, it increased the effectiveness of peer review by providing review
committees  n4 with immunity from lawsuits filed in response to professional
review actions.  n5 Second, it authorized the Secretary of Health and Human
Services ("HHS") to create the National Practitioner's Data Bank ("NPDB").  n6
Any disciplinary action taken by a review committee must, as a condition to
immunity, be reported for listing in the NPDB.  n7

   "Listing" in the NPDB can, and is in fact designed to, stigmatize the
practitioner against whom the review action is taken. The NPDB lists a
physician's name, address, and social security number, as well as the
physician's history of malpractice payouts, adverse licensure actions, and
sanctions regarding his or her clinical  [*86]  privileges.  n8 Hospitals are
reluctant to hire a physician after he or she has been terminated or otherwise
sanctioned by his or her prior employer. In extreme cases, practitioners may
effectively be precluded from practicing at all.  n9 This potential deprivation
raises questions regarding the constitutional validity of the HCQIA.

   The HCQIA establishes reasonableness  n10 and notice and hearing requirements
n11 with which review committees must comply before claiming immunity. Assuming
the employer is a state actor for purposes of Fourteenth Amendment
jurisprudence, compliance with these requirements will generally ensure that a
physician receives constitutionally adequate procedural protections prior to
sanction or termination. Thus, termination of employment in compliance with the
procedural requirements of the HCQIA will rarely result in the unconstitutional
deprivation of a practitioner's property right to employment. For reasons
developed later, however, listing in the NPDB is likely to result in the
deprivation of a practitioner's liberty interest in good reputation. Moreover,
unlike termination of employment, which may be done by private healthcare
providers, "listing" will always be a government action and thus subject to the
strictures of the Due Process Clause,  n12 since only HHS, a federal agency, may
list practitioner specific information in the NPDB.  n13

   This Note explores two issues. First, it explores the threshold question of
whether the Constitution creates a liberty interest in good reputation. The
Supreme Court has been careful to limit the protection of reputation as a
liberty interest,  n14 but  [*87]  has indicated that such an interest may be
implicated "when there is harm to reputation if it is accompanied by a tangible
detriment, such as the loss of employment."  n15 Assuming that listing in the
NPDB constitutes the deprivation of a recognized liberty interest, the second
issue is whether the procedural protections already provided by sections
11112(b) and 11112(c) of the HCQIA satisfy the requirements of due process at
the listing stage. This Note argues that they do not.

   Part II of this Note discusses the relevant provisions of the HCQIA insofar
as they relate to peer review and the NPDB. Part III explores whether and under
what circumstances the Supreme Court should recognize a medical practitioner's
liberty interest in reputation. Part IV assumes that such a liberty interest
exists, and explores whether the Fifth Amendment requires that HHS provide
additional procedural protection before listing potentially stigmatizing
information on the NPDB. Finally, Part V explores the means by which HHS may
meet its constitutional mandate under the Fifth Amendment without diminishing
the effectiveness of the NPDB, or derailing the policy objectives behind the
HCQIA.

II. THE HEALTH CARE QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ACT

A. THE NATIONAL PRACTITIONER'S DATA BANK

   In 1986, Congress passed the HCQIA in an effort to "improve the quality of
medical care by encouraging physicians to identify and discipline other
physicians who are incompetent or who engage in unprofessional behavior."  n16
Congress found that peer review, though vital for maintaining the quality of
healthcare, was not as effective as it needed to be.  n17 Physicians were
generally reluctant to participate in peer review activities due to fear of
subsequent lawsuits for discrimination, defamation, or anticompetitive behavior.
n18 Moreover, even aggressive peer review was of little help in improving
healthcare on a nationwide basis. Often, physicians who were disciplined or
terminated in one part of the United States simply relocated and continued
practicing medicine in another.  n19

   In response, the HCQIA authorized the Secretary of HHS to create the NPDB.
n20 The NPDB is a national clearinghouse that houses information on medical
malpractice payouts and disciplinary actions taken by a licensing board,
hospital, or medical society.  n21 When a healthcare entity, such as a hospital,
suspends or restricts the clinical privileges of a physician for more than
thirty days, it must report the action to the Board of Medical Examiners.  n22
The Board of Medical Examiners then reports this information to HHS,  n23 which
in turn causes the report to be published in the NPDB.  n24 Proper reporting is
vital to the maintenance of the NPDB, and the NPDB, as explained below, is vital
to the furtherance of the policy objectives  [*88]  underlying the HCQIA.  n25
To that end, the HCQIA sanctions healthcare entities that fail to comply with
its reporting requirements by disqualifying non-compliant healthcare entities
from the HCQIA's grant of immunity for three years.  n26

   The general public cannot access the information contained in the NPDB.  n27
This information, however, is available for review by state licensure boards,
hospitals, and other healthcare entities.  n28 The HCQIA requires that hospitals
and other healthcare entities request information from the NPDB every time a
physician applies for a medical staff position or clinical privileges, as well
as every two years with respect to physicians already on the medical staff or
with clinical privileges.  n29 While HHS does not take any precautions sua
sponte to ensure that the reported review action was merited, HHS does require
that reporting healthcare entities report any revisions to the original action.
n30 HHS also allows aggrieved physicians to dispute the accuracy of information
contained in the NPDB, and sets out specific procedures for doing so.  n31

B. HCQIA IMMUNITY PROVISION

   A physician's reluctance to serve on a peer review committee is often well
founded.  n32 In Patel v. Midland Memorial Hospital and Medical Center,  n33 for
example, a peer review committee at Midland Memorial Hospital ("Midland") found
that Dr. Patel, a cardiologist, had an unusually high rate of catastrophic
outcomes among his non-cardiac interventions.  n34 Upon further investigation,
an outside source confirmed that a sample of Dr. Patel's cardiac cases suggested
the use of poor medical judgment.  n35 As a result, Midland's Medical Executive
Committee suspended Dr. Patel's clinical privileges.  n36 Dr. Patel sued Midland
and several of its doctors, alleging that his suspension was the result of
racial discrimination and anticompetitive behavior.  n37 Dr. Patel also alleged
breach of contract, and sought damages for defamation and tortious interference
with contractual relations.  n38 All of Dr. Patel's claims were dismissed on
summary judgment. In many cases, however, the potential for such litigation
creates a disincentive for physicians to serve on peer review committees.  n39

    [*89]  In response, the HCQIA provides legal immunity from damage claims to
physicians who serve on peer review committees.  n40 In order to qualify for
immunity, a committee's review actions must comply with several reasonableness
and procedural requirements. A committee may only take a professional review
action if it reasonably believes that the action will further the quality of
healthcare after having made "a reasonable effort to obtain the facts of the
matter."  n41 Upon challenge, compliance with this requirement is determined at
the summary judgment stage  n42 and reviewed under an objective standard,
thereby precluding a physician from alleging that the review action was taken in
bad faith.  n43

   A review committee must further comply with notice and hearing requirements
in order to qualify for immunity under the HCQIA.  n44 Section 11112(b) creates
a list of requirements which, if followed, will establish a safe harbor for
immunity. Specifically, the committee must notify the physician that a
professional review action is pending, and that the physician has at least
thirty days after the date of notice within which to request a hearing.  n45 The
hearing must be held before an arbitrator, hearing officer, or panel of
individuals, none of which may be in direct economic competition with the
physician involved.  n46 In the hearing, the physician has the right to
representation by an attorney, to call, examine and cross-examine witnesses, to
present evidence, and to receive a record of the proceedings.  n47

   A review committee, however, is not strictly required to follow all of these
procedures to qualify for immunity.  n48 Upon review, a court may find that a
committee has satisfied the HCQIA's "due process-like" requirements with
substantially less procedure than suggested in section 11112(b), especially
where immediate suspension or restriction of clinical privileges is necessary to
prevent imminent danger to the health of any individual.  n49 Whether reduced
procedural protections will also suffice for purposes of the Due Process Clause,
however, will turn on the threshold determination of whether the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments recognize a physician's liberty interest in good
reputation.

 [*90]  III. DO PHYSICIANS HAVE A CONSTITUTIONALLY PROTECTED LIBERTY INTEREST IN
REPUTATION? MAKING SENSE OF THE PAUL V. DAVIS "STIGMA-PLUS" TEST

A. RECONCILING PAUL V. DAVIS WITH BOARD OF REGENTS V. ROTH

   The Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments impose procedural requirements upon the
government deprivation of a constitutionally protected property or liberty
interest.  n50 The Supreme Court, however, has refused to find that harm to
reputation in and of itself is a deprivation of liberty.  n51 In Paul v. Davis,
for example, the Louisville police chief distributed flyers to hundreds of local
merchants in an effort to alert them that the plaintiff, Davis, was an active
shoplifter.  n52 At the time, Davis was employed as a photographer for the
Louisville Courier-Journal.  n53 Davis' supervisor at the newspaper became aware
of the flyer and "informed [Davis] that although he would not be fired, he 'had
best not find himself in a similar situation in the future.'"  n54

   Davis brought a claim against the chief of police alleging that circulation
of the defamatory flyer had impinged upon his liberty interest in reputation by
impairing his future employment opportunities,  n55 but the Court refused to
find that Davis' interest in reputation was within the scope of the term
"liberty" as it is used in the Due Process Clause.  n56 Rather, the Court held
that an interest only "attain[s] this constitutional status by virtue of the
fact that [it] has been initially recognized and protected by state law . . . ."
n57 Four years earlier, however, the Court in Board of Regents of State Colleges
v. Roth  n58 reaffirmed an earlier decision, Wisconsin v. Constantineau,  n59
recognizing that "where a person's good name, reputation, honor, or integrity is
at stake because of what the government is doing to him, notice and an
opportunity to be heard are essential."  n60 Davis, then, is not easily
reconciled with Roth and Constantineau.

   In Constantineau, the Court held that a Wisconsin statute authorizing the
posting of the identities of known alcoholics violated due process because the
posting damaged the plaintiff's reputation.  n61 There, a Wisconsin police chief
posted a notice in several liquor outlets prohibiting the sale of liquor to the
plaintiff.  n62 While upholding the State's power to regulate the sale and
consumption of intoxicating beverages,  n63 the Supreme Court held that the
State's attachment of "a badge of infamy" to the plaintiff infringed on the
plaintiff's private interests such  [*91]  that due process required the State
to grant him the procedural protections of notice and a hearing.  n64

   In Davis, however, the Court limited Constantineau, stating that "the
governmental action taken in that case deprived the individual of a right
previously held under state law[:] the right to purchase or obtain liquor in
common with the rest of the citizenry."  n65 The Court, therefore, reconciled
Constantineau by adopting a "positive law" approach to identifying
constitutionally protected liberty interests. The Court held that "the
procedural guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment apply whenever the State seeks
to remove or significantly alter [a] protected status" that has "been initially
recognized and protected by state law."  n66

   Roth, on the other hand, was not as easily reconciled with Davis. In Roth, a
professor sued the Board of Regents at Wisconsin State University, alleging that
the decision to not renew his one-year contract infringed on his Fourteenth
Amendment rights.  n67 Specifically, the plaintiff alleged "that the failure of
University officials to give him notice of any reason for non-retention and an
opportunity for a hearing violated his right to procedural due process of law."
n68 Finding for the defendant, the Court nonetheless recognized that the
plaintiff's liberty interests included the freedom "to engage in any of the
common occupations of life."  n69 Thus, the Court recognized that "there might
be cases in which a State refused to re-employ a person under such circumstances
that interests in liberty would be implicated."  n70 Specifically, the Court in
Roth suggested that a liberty interest would have been violated if the Board of
Regents, in deciding not to rehire Roth, "imposed on him a stigma or other
disability that foreclosed his freedom to take advantage of other employment
opportunities."  n71 Today, this manner of identifying liberty interests
independent of state law is commonly referred to as the "stigma-plus" theory.

B. SEPARATING THE POSITIVE LAW AND STIGMA-PLUS THEORIES

   The Davis Court interpreted Roth narrowly, recognizing the violation of a
constitutionally protected liberty interest only when the defamation "occurred
in the course of the termination of employment."  n72 However, the Roth Court's
recognition of a liberty interest under these circumstances is inconsistent with
the positive law theory established in Davis, since it fails to ground that
interest in a previously recognized state right to employment.  n73 Moreover,
the Roth Court's failure to ground that liberty interest in a previously
recognized state right is inconsistent with its own reasoning, since the Court
in that very opinion recognized  [*92]  that a constitutional interest depends
on the nature, rather than the weight, of the interest at issue.  n74

   The Supreme Court may have reconciled these apparent inconsistencies in
Kentucky Department of Corrections v. Thompson.  n75 In Thompson, the Supreme
Court acknowledged that liberty interests could be grounded in either state laws
or the Due Process Clause itself.  n76 One may assume, then, that the Roth
Court's willingness to find a liberty interest in reputation under a stigma-plus
theory was based at least in part on the notion that the Due Process Clause
provides a qualified "right to engage in the common occupations of life."  n77
This "right," as articulated in Meyer v. Nebraska,  n78 has never been binding
authority in constitutional law.  n79 The Court's reference to Meyer in the Roth
opinion,  n80 however, suggests that some underlying concept of fundamental
fairness, grounded in the Due Process Clause rather than state law, is driving
the Court's recognition of reputation as a liberty interest when a stigma is
imposed incident to the loss of employment.  n81

   The source of the liberty interest in reputation as articulated in Roth is
vital for the purposes of this Note because, in deciding whether an employee has
a liberty interest in reputation under the stigma-plus theory, one's reasoning
should not be clouded by a positive law analysis. Michael K. Cantwell, for
example, has predicted that the Supreme Court may limit the protection of
liberty interests under a stigmaplus theory to cases where the stigma arises in
connection with the loss of government employment.  n82 This approach to the
stigma-plus test seems to conflate a property rights and liberty rights analysis
by tying the source of a liberty interest in reputation to the deprivation of a
recognized property right, such as government  [*93]  employment. The
requirement of a property right, however, is more properly the province of a
positive law analysis, as illustrated in the Davis Court's interpretation of
Constantineau.  n83 In contrast, the Davis Court's interpretation of Roth
suggests that the recognition of a liberty interest under the stigma-plus test
does not require the identification of a right grounded in state law.

   A better approach is illustrated in Vanelli v. Reynolds School District No.
7.  n84 In Vanelli, the Ninth Circuit held that a person's liberty interests
were implicated for purposes of procedural due process if, among other things, a
charge that impaired the person's reputation was either "[1] made in connection
with the termination of employment or [2] the altercation of some right or
status recognized by law."  n85 By stating the test in disjunctive terms, this
holding rightfully separates the liberty interest analysis into two independent
prongs, such that either the stigma-plus test (former) or the positive law test
(latter) will independently suffice to trigger procedural due process
protections.

   Having separated the two theories, the elements of the stigma-plus test may
now be more easily distilled from Davis. The Court in Davis interpreted Roth as
holding that a plaintiff could establish a due process claim under the
stigma-plus theory only if the government employer, "in declining to re-employ
the [plaintiff], imposed on him a stigma or other disability that foreclosed his
freedom to take advantage of other employment opportunities," and the stigma was
imposed in the course of the termination of employment.  n86 Thus, in order to
claim a liberty interest in reputation, a physician will have to show that: (1)
he was terminated; (2) that a stigma was imposed upon him incident to the
termination; and (3) that the stigma foreclosed him from practicing medicine in
the future.

IV. DOES "LISTING" IN THE NATIONAL PRACTITIONER'S DATA BANK VIOLATE A
PHYSICIAN'S LIBERTY INTEREST IN REPUTATION?

   A court must understand the definition and scope of the termination,
incidence, and foreclosure elements before determining whether a public employer
has violated an employee's liberty interest in reputation. The Supreme Court,
however, has only partially defined those terms. With regard to termination, the
Court in Davis made clear that a mere demotion would not suffice.  n87 In Moore
v. Otero,  n88 Judge Gee interpreted the Davis opinion as holding that "when an
employee retains his position even after being defamed by a public official, the
only claim of stigma he has derives from an injury to his reputation, an
interest that [Davis] reveals does not rise to the level of a liberty interest."
n89 In Siegert v. Gilley, the Supreme Court further expanded on this definition
by implying that resignation does not constitute termination for purposes of the
stigma-plus test.  n90 There, the Court held that the  [*94]  plaintiff,
Siegert, had not established the element of termination because Siegert had
voluntarily agreed to resign from his position.  n91 The fact that Siegert had
been notified of his impending termination, and only resigned in an effort to
avoid the damage termination would have inflicted on his reputation, did nothing
to persuade the Court that Siegert had met the termination pleading requirement
of the stigma-plus test.  n92

   With regard to incidence, the Supreme Court has again failed to give much
guidance beyond Siegert. There, the Court refused to find that a defendant's
writing of a defamatory letter was incident to the plaintiff's resignation
because the letter was written several weeks after the resignation, and then
only in response to a potential employer's request for information on the
plaintiff.  n93 Read narrowly, this finding in Siegert implies that an action
taken by an employer in response to a third party's request will not constitute
action incident to termination for purposes of the stigma-plus test. Read
broadly, however, Siegert may also stand for the proposition that an employer's
action is not incident to termination unless that action occurs within a certain
temporal proximity to the employee's termination.  n94

   Finally, with regard to the foreclosure element, many courts will require a
plaintiff to show that the employer's defamation completely precludes that
plaintiff from working in the medical arts. In Simpkins v. Shalala,  n95 the
plaintiff, Dr. Simpkins, claimed that the Secretary of HHS had violated his due
process rights by failing to give him "meaningful notice and opportunity to
contest his listing" in the NPDB.  n96 Judge Lamberth, while acknowledging the
Fifth Amendment's protection of individual liberty interests from government
deprivation, determined that the Secretary had not impinged on any such
interest.  n97 Finding that the NPDB provides adverse information about
physicians to potential employers, Judge Lamberth nonetheless determined that
the plaintiff's listing on the NPDB would not "broadly preclude [him] from
continuing in [his] chosen career" as a physician.  n98

   As defined above, the elements of incidence, termination, and foreclosure may
prove very difficult for an aggrieved physician to establish in the context of
an HCQIA review action. Because this liberty interest in reputation is grounded
in the Due Process Clause itself rather than a state protected right,  n99
however, the application of the stigma-plus test should be guided by fairness.
Thus, in applying the stigma-plus test to listing in the NPDB, the definitions
of termination, incidence, and foreclosure should accommodate the unique
realities of the healthcare industry.

 [*95]  A. APPLYING THE "INCIDENCE" ELEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A PEER REVIEW
ACTION

   Relying on a broad interpretation of Siegert, as described above, a lower
court may find that the listing of a physician's disciplinary record on the NPDB
is "not incident" to termination, since the listing of information would not
occur until several weeks after the sanction or termination takes place.  n100
Moreover, even under the narrow interpretation of Siegert, a court may refuse to
find the element of incidence since HHS, and not the physician's employer, lists
information on the NPDB. Thus, a plaintiff will fail to establish the incidence
element since the "defamation" will not have been caused by the party
effectuating the termination.

   Listing in the NPDB, however, is intended to be an inevitable consequence of
all peer review actions. Because proper reporting is vital to the maintenance of
the NPDB,  n101 Congress included in the HCQIA a provision by which healthcare
entities that failed to comply with the Act's reporting requirements would be
disqualified from the HCQIA's grant of immunity for three years.  n102 It should
not matter, therefore, if there is a delay between the time of the review action
and the time the physician is listed on the NPDB, especially in light of the
Siegert Court's very tentative reference to temporal proximity in defining
incidence for purposes of the stigma-plus test.  n103

   Nor should it matter that a third party, rather than the physician's
employer, causes review action-related information to be listed on the NPDB.
While in Siegert there was no relationship between the defendant employer and
the third party potential employer,  n104 in the HCQIA context there is a
symbiotic relationship between the healthcare entity and HHS. A healthcare
entity instituting a peer review action gains the benefit of immunity from
retaliatory suits in exchange for its cooperation with HHS in effectuating the
quality goals of the HCQIA.  n105 An aggrieved physician seeking to challenge an
injury to his reputation, therefore, should not be denied the element of
incidence simply because two distinct parties collaborated in causing the
physician to be listed in the NPDB.

B. APPLYING THE "TERMINATION" AND "FORECLOSURE" ELEMENTS IN THE CONTEXT OF A
PEER REVIEW ACTION

   The most severe review actions generally result in the suspension of staff
and clinical privileges. Because suspension is not technically a termination of
employment, an aggrieved physician may not be able to present the prima facie
[*96]  elements required under the stigma-plus test.  n106 The loss of
privileges, however, has the same practical effect on a physician as
termination, since a physician must be able to access a hospital in order to
practice medicine.  n107 Moreover, physicians who have lost their staff and
clinical privileges at one hospital will likely be unable to acquire staff or
clinical privileges with another hospital or healthcare provider.  n108

   In Simpkins, Judge Lamberth trivialized the stigma imposed by the NPDB on a
listed physician when she described the role of the NPDB as "merely providing
future employers with information about doctors."  n109 In reality, a listed
status may substantially limit or even foreclose a physician's ability to
continue practicing medicine. The rise of direct corporate liability has created
pressure for healthcare providers to heighten the scrutiny of their
credentialing procedures.  n110 The HCQIA facilitates this credentialing process
by allowing healthcare providers to access information regarding adverse peer
review actions that have been taken against any physician. More importantly, the
ready availability of such information may allow a malpractice plaintiff in a
corporate liability claim to present as evidence the fact that the credentialing
committee hired a physician despite his or her being listed in the NPDB.  n111 A
healthcare provider, therefore, may be reluctant to hire a listed physician for
fear that the physician's listed status will create a presumption of negligence
with regard to credentialing in a corporate liability malpractice claim. As a
result, a physician's ability to practice medicine at any hospital will be
severely limited by the occurrence of any prior adverse action against that
physician.  n112 The suspension of clinical privileges, while not technically a
loss of employment, will nonetheless create a hardship tantamount to the
termination of current employment and the foreclosure of future employment
opportunities.

 [*97]  V. WHAT PROCEDURE IS DUE PRIOR TO LISTING IN THE NPDB?

   Section 11112 of the HCQIA generally requires that a peer review committee
notify the physician of an impending professional review action and of his or
her right to request a hearing.  n113 If requested, the hearing must be held
before a neutral party,  n114 and the physician must be allowed to retain an
attorney, to call, examine and cross-examine witnesses, to present evidence, and
to receive a record of the proceedings.  n115 Therefore, assuming the Due
Process Clause recognizes a liberty interest in reputation, the standards for
professional review actions suggested by section 11112 of the HCQIA will
generally ensure that a physician receives the procedural protections required
by due process prior to being terminated or listed on the NPDB.  n116

   Moreover, even the reduced procedural protections allowed by the HCQIA will
generally meet the requirements of due process in the context of a health
emergency. Under the HCQIA, the presence of exigent circumstances would allow a
peer review committee to sanction and report a physician with substantially less
procedure than suggested in sections 11112(a) and (b).  n117 This is, for the
most part, consistent with procedural due process jurisprudence, for it is well
settled that the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments afford less procedural
protection in the presence of exigent circumstances.  n118 Nonetheless, there
may be times when the presence of exigent circumstances will cause the HCQIA's
procedural requirements to fall short of what is mandated by due process.

A. THE MATHEWS V. ELDRIDGE TEST

   In order to determine the "dictates of due process," the Supreme Court in
Mathews v. Eldridge  n119 instructed the lower courts to consider:


     first, the private interest . . . affected by the official action;
     second, the risk of an erroneous deprivation of such interest through
     the procedures used, and the probable value, if any, of additional or
     substitute procedural safeguards; and [third], the Government's
     interest, including the function involved and the fiscal and
     administrative burdens that the additional or substitute procedural
     requirement would entail.  n120


Applying this test to the peer review context, the private interest of a
physician in maintaining his or her reputation or keeping his or her clinical
privileges would  [*98]  remain constant under the first prong, regardless of
the presence or absence of exigent circumstances. Under the second prong, the
risk of an erroneous deprivation of either employment or reputation would
actually increase due to the reduced provision of procedural safeguards.
Additional procedural protections, therefore, would be valuable in that they
would likely reduce the risk of erroneous deprivation. The government's interest
in preserving the public health under the third prong, however, weighs heavier
than the second prong in the context of peer review actions, and favors reduced
procedural protections.  n121 Therefore, due process, consistent with section
11112(c)(2) of the HCQIA, will afford less procedural protection when a
physician's practice may reasonably be thought to pose an imminent danger to the
safety of his or her patients.  n122

   Notwithstanding, the Eldridge test in some cases may require that HHS provide
procedural protections beyond those afforded by the HCQIA. A court applying the
Eldridge test may find that due process requires different degrees of procedural
protection at different stages of the peer review process--e.g., the
investigative, sanctioning, reporting, and listing stages.  n123 While a public
health risk may exist at the investigative and sanctioning stages, this risk
ceases to exist once the physician is suspended. Thus, the Eldridge factors may
balance in favor of providing enhanced procedural protections at the reporting
and listing stages.  n124

   Applying the Eldridge test to the listing phase of the peer review process,
the first prong would once again be a non-factor, since the physician's private
interest in maintaining his or her reputation or keeping his or her job would
remain constant during the listing stage, despite the removal of exigent
circumstances. Similarly, under the second prong, the risk of an erroneous
deprivation of either employment or reputation would once again be high as a
result of reduced procedural protections at the investigative and sanctioning
stages. Under the third prong, however, the government's interest would no
longer be compelling enough to justify the  [*99]  abrogation of procedural due
process protections, since the physician will have already been suspended from
the practice of medicine. Thus, in the absence of an imminent public health
risk, the Eldridge test would balance in favor of providing additional
procedural safeguards at the listing stage, so as to prevent the erroneous
deprivation of a physician's right to good reputation.

B. CURRENT PROCEDURES DO NOT MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF DUE PROCESS

   HHS has provided several means by which to ensure the accuracy of the
information reported in the NPDB. Healthcare entities are required to divulge
any errors or omissions contained in their original report to the NPDB, and are
further required to report any revisions to a peer review action, such as the
reversal of a sanction.  n125 In addition, HHS has established procedures by
which an aggrieved physician may challenge the accuracy of information reported
to the NPDB.  n126

   The Secretary of HHS "will routinely mail a copy of any report filed in the
NPDB to the subject individual."  n127 An aggrieved physician may then dispute
the accuracy of the report within sixty days of the mailing date of the
Secretary's letter by "(1) informing the Secretary and the reporting entity, in
writing, of the disagreement, and the basis for it, (2) requesting
simultaneously that the disputed information be entered into a 'disputed' status
and be reported to inquirers as being in a 'disputed' status, and (3) attempting
to enter into discussions with the reporting entity to resolve the dispute."
n128

   If, upon discussion with the reporting healthcare entity, the entity admits
to an error in its original report to the NPDB, "the Secretary will notify all
[other] entities to whom reports have been sent that the original information
has been revised."  n129 If, however, the reporting healthcare entity does not
admit to an error or omission in the originally reported information, "the
Secretary will, upon request, review the written information submitted by both
[the entity and the aggrieved physician]."  n130 Upon review of this
information, the Secretary will determine whether the information as originally
reported is accurate. If the Secretary determines that the information is
inaccurate, he or she will notify previous inquirers to the NPDB of any
corrections concerning the aggrieved physician.  n131

   These procedures are helpful in maintaining the accuracy of information
contained in the NPDB. These procedures do not, however, meet the requirements
of procedural due process. When a physician disputes the veracity of information
in the NPDB but is unable to persuade the reporting healthcare entity that
revision is merited, 45 C.F.R. § 60.14(c)(2) directs the Secretary to review all
written information submitted by both parties and base his decision thereon.
n132 The record on which the Secretary must base his decision, therefore,
excludes any evidence of a nature that could only be obtained through a hearing,
such as the testimony of  [*100]  witnesses or their cross examination. Thus, in
situations where a suspension or sanction was doled out without the benefit of a
hearing--as often happens when there is an imminent health risk--neither party
will be able to submit to the Secretary the sort of information that would only
surface in a pre- or post-termination hearing.  n133 Moreover, the "judicial
review of administrative action under the APA is limited to the administrative
record before the agency at the time the agency issues its decision."  n134 Even
upon judicial review, therefore, the reviewing court will decide the aggrieved
physician's fate without the benefit of evidence that may have surfaced during a
hearing.

   As a result, an aggrieved physician will have a more difficult time
challenging a perceived error in the NPDB if the peer review action at issue was
taken without the benefit of a pre- or post-termination hearing. An adverse
decision by the Secretary under these circumstances will always be a violation
of due process, so long as due process would have required that the physician
receive a hearing in the absence of exigent circumstances at the investigative
and sanctioning stages.  n135

C. CONCLUSION

   The Department of Health and Human Services should, under its rulemaking
power,  n136 create an explicit requirement that healthcare entities inform
sanctioned physicians of their right of appeal and all relevant procedural
requirements and limitations. More importantly, HHS should require name-clearing
hearings where they would otherwise have been required prior to termination or
suspension but for the presence of an emergency. Congress could accomplish this
by amending section 11112 of the HCQIA so as to require (as a condition to
section 11111(a) immunity) that peer review committees provide a
post-termination hearing to all sanctioned physicians. In this manner, HHS would
not be forced to carry out its own investigative procedures for every physician
it lists on the NPDB--a necessary accommodation since the imposition of such
duties would clearly exceed the agency's investigative capacity. Rather, the
burden of investigating further would rest on the healthcare provider that
employs the sanctioned physician. Thus Congress, without derailing the policy
objectives underlying the HCQIA, could ensure that sanctioned physicians are
provided with the procedural protections due process requires at all stages of
the peer review process.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawSubstantive Due ProcessScope of ProtectionHealthcare
LawActions Against FacilitiesGovernmental & Nonprofit LiabilityHealth Care
Quality Improvement ActHealthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationPeer
ReviewOrganizations

FOOTNOTES:




n1  See Matthew J. Cate, Physician Peer Review: Serving the Patient or the
Physician?, 20 J. LEGAL MED. 479, 479 (1999).




n2  Jeanne Darricades, Medical Peer Review: How is it Protected By the Health
Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986?, 18 J. CONTEMP. L. 263, 263 (1992).




n3  Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11153
(2000).




n4  For purposes of the HCQIA, "review committee" includes "the professional
review body, . . . any person acting as a member or staff to the body, . . . any
person under a contract or other formal agreement with the body, and . . . any
person who participates with or assists the body with respect to the
[professional review] action . . . ." Id. § 11111(a)(1).




n5 " Professional review action" is defined as "an action or recommendation of a
professional review body which is taken or made in the conduct of professional
review activity, which is based on the competence or professional conduct of an
individual physician." Id. § 11151(9).




n6  See id. § 11134(b).




n7  See id. § 11133.




n8  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 60.7-.9 (2003).




n9  A pre-HCQIA case illustrates the potentially draconian consequences of a
peer review action. See Craig W. Dallon, Understanding Judicial Review of
Hospitals' Physician Credentialing and Peer Review Decisions, 73 TEMP. L. REV.
597, 615-16 (2000) (quoting Ritter v. Bd. of Comm'rs, 637 P.2d 940 (Wash.
1981)).

     At the invitation of a community hospital, a physician left his large
     city practice after ten years and began a practice at the community
     hospital. After eight years of staff privileges at the hospital, the
     physician's privileges were summarily suspended. The consequences to
     his practice were devastating: The findings of fact show that
     immediately after his suspension [he] lost 25 percent of his patients,
     necessitating staff lay-offs at his clinic. Additionally, [he] lost
     his courtesy privileges at Odessa Hospital, and his application for
     staff privileges at Moses Lake Good Samaritan Hospital was put on hold
     until they received additional information on the Adams County
     suspension. [His] subsequent attempts to enroll in the United States
     Navy and the United States Air Force Physician Corps were similarly
     rebuffed for the same reason. In short, the summary suspension
     effectively deprived [him] of the pursuit of his medical practice.

Id. (citations omitted).




n10  42 U.S.C. §§ 11112(a)(1)-(2) (2000).




n11  Id. §§ 11112 (a)(3), (b)-(c).




n12  U.S. CONST. amend. V.




n13  See 42 U.S.C. § 11134(b); 45 C.F.R. § 60.1 (2003). In reality, a private
corporation manages the NPDB and lists all new information. The use of a private
corporation for such limited purposes, however, will not likely convert the
listing of information on the NPDB into a private action for purposes of the Due
Process Clause. See Driscoll v. Int'l Union of Operating Eng'rs, Local 139, 484
F.2d 682 (7th Cir. 1973) (holding that the activity of a private entity is
subject to the strictures of the Fifth Amendment insofar as the entity's
activity is endorsed by a regulatory agency); Lathan v. Block, 627 F. Supp. 397
(D.N.D. 1986) (holding that a government agency may be responsible for a private
party's decisions when the agency has exercised coercive power or has provided
encouragement such that the private party's action may be deemed to be that of
the agency).




n14  See Siegert v. Gilley, 500 U.S. 226, 231 (1991) (holding that there was not
a claim for denial of liberty because the Constitution does not protect an
interest in reputation without more); Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 712 (1976)
(holding that injury to the interest in reputation "does not result in a
deprivation of any 'liberty' or 'property' recognized by state or federal law .
. . [and] for these reasons . . . is neither 'liberty' nor 'property' guaranteed
against state deprivation without due process of law").




n15  ERWIN CHEMERINSKY, CONSTITUTIONAL LAW: PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES § 7.3.3, at
447 (1997) (citing Owen v. City of Independence, 445 U.S. 622, 661 (1980)).




n16  See H.R. REP. NO. 99-903, at 2, reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. (P.L.
99-660) 6384.




n17  Id.




n18  See Cate, supra note 1, at 490-91.




n19  See H.R. REP. NO. 99-903, at 2, reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. (P.L.
99-660) 6384.




n20  See 42 U.S.C. § 11134(b) (2000).




n21  45 C.F.R. §§ 60.1, .2, .7-.9 (2003).




n22  42 U.S.C. § 11133(a).




n23  Id. § 11134(b).




n24  See id.; see also 45 C.F.R. § 60.1.




n25  SUBCOMMITTEE ON NATIONAL ECONOMIC GROWTH, NATURAL RESOURCES, AND REGULATORY
AFFAIRS, U.S. GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE, PUB. NO. GAO-01-130, NATIONAL
PRACTITIONER DATA BANK: MAJOR IMPROVEMENTS ARE NEEDED TO ENHANCE DATA BANK'S
RELIABILITY (2000) [hereinafter GAO REPORT].




n26  42 U.S.C. § 11111(b); see also 45 C.F.R. § 60.9(c).




n27  42 U.S.C. § 11137(b).




n28  45 C.F.R. § 60.11(a).




n29  42 U.S.C. §§ 11135(a)(1)-(2); see also 45 C.F.R. § 60.10(a).




n30  45 C.F.R. § 60.6(b).




n31  Id. § 60.14.




n32  Darricades, supra note 2, at 263.




n33  298 F.3d 333 (5th Cir. 2002).




n34  Id. at 336.




n35  Id. at 337.




n36  Id.




n37  Id. at 338.




n38  Id.




n39  See Scott M. Smith, Annotation, Construction and Application of Health Care
Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C.A. §§ 11101-11152), 121 A.L.R. FED.
255 § 2 (1994).




n40  H.R. REP. NO. 99-903, at 2, reprinted in 1986 U.S.C.C.A.N. (P.L. 99-660)
6384.




n41  42 U.S.C. §§ 11112(a)(1)-(2) (2000).




n42  Bryan v. James E. Holmes Reg'l Med. Ctr., 33 F.3d 1318, 1332 (11th Cir.
1994).




n43  See Singh v. Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Mass., Inc., 308 F.3d 25, 32 (1st
Cir. 2002).




n44  See 42 U.S.C. § 11112(a)(3).




n45  Id. §§ 11112(b)(1)-(2).




n46  Id. § 11112(b)(3)(A).




n47  Id. § 11112(b)(3)(C).




n48  Id. § 11112(b) ("A professional review body's failure to meet the
conditions described in this subsection shall not, in itself, constitute failure
to meet the standards of subsection (a)(3) of this section."); see also Smith v.
Ricks, 31 F.3d 1478, 1485 n.5 (1994) (holding that the procedural protections
described by § 11112(b) create a "safe harbor" for immunity under § 11111(a)(1),
but are not "necessary" to receive that immunity).




n49  See 42 U.S.C. § 11112(c)(2).




n50  Board of Regents of State Colleges v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 569 (1972).




n51  Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 712 (1976).




n52  Id. at 695.




n53  Id. at 696.




n54  Id.




n55  Id. at 696-97.




n56  Id. at 710.




n57  Id. at 710-11.




n58  408 U.S. 564 (1972).




n59  400 U.S. 433 (1971).




n60  Roth, 408 U.S. at 573.




n61  Constantineau, 400 U.S. at 437.




n62  Id. at 435.




n63  Id. at 436.




n64  Id. at 437.




n65  Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 708 (1976). The Davis court did not deny the
broader grant of liberty in Constantineau, but instead reasoned that it would
"not read this language as significantly broadening [prior] holdings . . . if
there [was] any other possible interpretation of Constantineau's language." Id.




n66  Id. at 710-11.




n67  Board of Regents of State Colleges v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 568 (1972).




n68  Id. at 569.




n69  Id. at 572.




n70  Id. at 573.




n71  Id.




n72  Davis, 424 U.S. at 710.




n73  CHEMERINSKY, supra note 15, § 7.3.3, at 447 ("In deciding if there is a
liberty interest, the Court is to look at the positive law and not base its
decision on a conclusion about the importance of the interest of the
individual." (citing Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693 (1976))) (emphasis added).




n74  See Roth, 408 U.S. at 570-71 (reasoning that, in "determining whether due
process requirements apply in the first place, [the court] must look not to the
'weight' but to the nature of the interest at stake") (emphasis added).




n75  490 U.S. 454 (1989).




n76  Id. at 460.




n77  See Roth, 408 U.S. at 572 ("While this court has not attempted to define
with exactness the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, the term has
received much consideration and some of the included things have been definitely
stated. Without a doubt, it denotes not merely freedom from bodily restraint but
also the right of the individual to . . . engage in any of the common
occupations of life." (quoting Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U.S. 390, 399 (1923)))
(emphasis added).




n78  Meyer, 262 U.S. at 399.




n79  See, e.g., Boyanowski v. Capital Area Intermediate Unit, 215 F.3d 396, 404
(3d Cir. 1999) (holding that the reversal of a teacher's conviction under an
English-only statute in Meyer v. Nebraska did not rely on the Court's
"celebrated language about the right to engage in any of the common occupations
of life," but rather was based on the effect of that statute on a parent's
liberty right to control the raising of his or her children).




n80  Roth, 408 U.S. at 572.




n81  Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 711 n.5 (1976) ("There are other interests, of
course, protected not by virtue of their recognition by the law of a particular
State, but because they are guaranteed in one of the provisions of the Bill of
Rights which has been 'incorporated' into the Fourteenth Amendment."); see also
RONALD A. CASS ET AL., ADMINISTRATIVE LAW: CASES AND MATERIALS 605-07 (4th ed.
2002). Jack Beermann takes it a step further, reasoning that the Roth Court's
reliance on Meyer v. Nebraska, rather than on the Davis positive law analysis,
"suggests that liberty is a purely constitutional concept to be elaborated
exclusively by the Court." Id. at 605.




n82  See Michael K. Cantwell, Constitutional Torts and the Due Process Clause, 4
TEMP. POL. & CIV. RTS. L. REV. 317 (1995). Specifically, Cantwell states, "The
Supreme Court has yet to address whether the defamation must be in connection
with dismissal from a government job, or whether this 'stigma plus' is satisfied
by defamation that results in the plaintiff's loss of employment, coupled with
an impairment of future employment opportunities. [However,] the bulk of lower
court authority requires that the defamation occur in the course either of a
dismissal from a government position or termination of any other legal right or
status enjoyed by the plaintiff." Id. at 324 (emphasis added).




n83  Davis, 424 U.S. at 708.




n84  667 F.2d 773 (9th Cir. 1982).




n85  Id. at 777-78 (emphasis added). The full test, as stated in Vanelli, for
determining if an assault on an individual's reputation violates that
individual's liberty is that, "The procedural protections of due process apply
if the accuracy of the charge is contested, there is some public disclosure of
the charge, and it is made in connection with the termination of employment or
the alteration of some right or status recognized by state law." Id.




n86  Davis, 424 U.S. at 709-10.




n87  Id. at 710.




n88  557 F.2d 435 (5th Cir. 1977).




n89  Id. at 438.




n90  Siegert v. Gilley, 500 U.S. 226, 233-34 (1991).




n91  Id.




n92  Id. at 234.




n93  Id. at 228.




n94  See id. at 233-34. In Siegert, the plaintiff's claim failed in part because
the defamatory letter at issue had been written several weeks after the
plaintiff's resignation, and as such was not incident to termination. Id.




n95  Simpkins v. Shalala, 999 F. Supp. 106 (D.D.C. 1998).




n96  Id. at 117.




n97  Id. at 118.




n98  Id. (citing Kartseva v. Dep't of State, 37 F.3d 1524, 1527 (D.C. Cir.
1994)).




n99  See Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 711 n.5 (1976).




n100  See 45 C.F.R. § 60.5(c) (2003) ("A health care entity must report an
adverse action to the Board within 15 days from the date the adverse action was
taken. The Board must submit the information received from a health care entity
within 15 days from the date on which it received this information.").




n101  GAO REPORT, supra note 25.




n102  See 42 U.S.C. § 11133(c)(1) (2000); see also 45 C.F.R. § 60.9(c)(1)(iii)
(2003). But see, GAO REPORT, supra note 25, at 13 (discussing the HHS Office of
Inspector General's concern that there has been a "relatively low number of
reported clinical privileges restrictions since NPDB's early years of
operation," and suggesting that the Health Resources and Services Administration
"seek legislative authority to fine nonreporting providers"); Sara Hoffman
Jurand, Managed Care Companies Don't Report Bad Doctors, Federal Study Finds,
TRIAL MAG., Aug. 1, 2001, at 80.




n103  See Siegert v. Gilley, 500 U.S. 226, 234 (1991).




n104  See id. at 228.




n105  See 42 U.S.C. §§ 11111(a), 11133(a).




n106  See Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 709-10 (1976).




n107  See Dallon, supra note 9, at 612-13; see, e.g., Simpkins v. Shalala, 999
F. Supp. 106, 112 (D.D.C. 1998) (noting that there was no meaningful distinction
between the resignation of the plaintiff physician's employment and the
surrender of his clinical privileges).




n108  See Dallon, supra note 9, at 613.




n109  Simpkins, 999 F. Supp. at 118.




n110  See Johnson v. Misericordia Cmty. Hosp., 301 N.W.2d 156, 164 (Wis. 1981)
("The failure to investigate a medical staff applicant's qualifications for the
privileges requested gives rise to a foreseeable risk of unreasonable harm and
we hold that a hospital has a duty to exercise due care in the selection of its
medical staff."); see also John D. Blum, The Evolution of Physician
Credentialing into Managed Care Selective Contracting, 22 AM. J.L. & MED. 173,
189 (1996) ("Capitated plans, like hospitals, are engaging in credentialing not
only to ensure quality, but also as a form of risk management to protect
themselves from potential liability.").




n111  The HCQIA prohibits disclosure of information contained in the NPDB to
parties other than those specifically authorized by the Act. See 42 U.S.C. §
11137(b)(1) (2000). Thus, the public, malpractice insurers, and third party
payers are precluded from accessing the NPDB. See Ruth E. Flynn, Demand for
Public Access to the National Practitioner Data Bank: Consumers Sound Their Own
Death Cry, 18 HAMLINE J. PUB. L. & POL'Y 251, 252 (1996). It is unclear,
however, whether this provision would also preclude a plaintiff in a medical
malpractice claim from acquiring such information, through discovery, to prove
that the healthcare entity negligently selected its medical staff. Compare 42
U.S.C. § 11137(b)(1) ("Information reported under this part is considered
confidential and shall not be disclosed (other than to the physician or
practitioner involved)"), with id. ("Nothing in this subsection shall prevent
the disclosure of such information by a party which is otherwise authorized,
under applicable State law, to make such disclosure.").




n112  See Dallon, supra note 9, at 614.




n113  42 U.S.C. §§ 11112(b)(1)-(2).




n114  Id. § 11112(b)(3)(A).




n115  Id. § 11112(b)(3)(C).




n116  See, e.g., id. § 11112(a) (stating that a review committee may only take a
review action if, after making "a reasonable effort to obtain the facts of the
matter," it reasonably believes the action will further the quality of
healthcare); id. § 11112(b) (requiring notice and opportunity for a hearing,
with assistance of counsel, before an arbitrator, hearing officer, or panel of
unbiased individuals).




n117  See id. § 11112(c)(2) ("Nothing in this section shall be construed as . .
. precluding an immediate suspension or restriction of clinical privileges . . .
where the failure to take such an action may result in an imminent danger to the
health of any individual.").




n118  See, e.g., Patel v. Midland Mem'l Hosp. and Med. Ctr., 298 F.3d 333, 340
(5th Cir. 2002) (relying on due process principles rather than the HCQIA, the
court found that patient safety outweighed the physician's Due Process right to
a pre-termination hearing).




n119  424 U.S. 319 (1976).




n120  Id. at 335.




n121  While the Eldridge Court focused on the "fiscal and administrative burden"
created by additional procedural requirements, the third prong of the Eldridge
test also weighs a state's compelling interest in preserving the public health,
or, in this case, the federal government's interest in the regulation of
interstate commerce. See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 334; cf. Freilich v. Bd. of Dirs.
of Upper Chesapeake Health, Inc., 142 F. Supp. 2d 679, 694 (D. Md. 2001)
(holding that Congress may pass the HCQIA as a valid exercise of its power to
regulate commercial activity under the Commerce Clause).




n122  See Patel, 298 F.3d at 340 ("In some cases, 'where a state may act
quickly, or where it would be impractical to provide pre-deprivation process,'
post-deprivation process is enough to satisfy the requirements of due
process."); Caine v. Hardy, 943 F.2d 1406, 1412 (5th Cir. 1991) ("Under such
exigent circumstances, where the safety of the public is at risk, an adequate
post-suspension remedy satisfies the requirements of due process."); see also
FDIC v. Mallen, 486 U.S. 230, 240 (1998) ("An important government interest,
accompanied by a substantial assurance that the deprivation is not baseless or
unwarranted, may in limited cases demanding prompt action justify postponing the
opportunity to be heard until after the initial deprivation.").




n123  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 334 ("'Due Process,' unlike some legal rules, is
not a technical conception with a fixed content unrelated to time, place and
circumstances." (quoting Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367 U.S. 886, 895
(1961))).




n124  A healthcare entity, such as a hospital, will theoretically be required to
provide procedural protections at the reporting stage only if the entity can be
characterized as a public actor. See Freilich, 142 F. Supp. 2d at 691 (holding
that the plaintiff's claim, "that the HCQIA violates her right to due process
and equal protection under the Fifth Amendment must be dismissed against the
private hospital defendants because the Fifth Amendment restricts only actions
of the federal government."). Listing, however, will always constitute public
action, regardless of the hospital's status, since only HHS may list peer review
information in the NPDB pursuant to the HCQIA, 42 U.S.C. § 11134(b) (2000). See
also 45 C.F.R. § 60.1 (2003). For purposes of this Note, therefore, this
analysis will proceed only with regard to the listing stage of the peer review
process.




n125  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 60.6(a)-(b).




n126  See 42 U.S.C. § 11136(2); see also Simpkins v. Shalala, 999 F. Supp. 106,
111 (D.D.C. 1998) ("The HCQI Act requires HHS to establish procedures to govern
disputes concerning the accuracy of information contained in the Data Bank.").




n127  45 C.F.R. § 60.14 (a).




n128  Id. §§ 60.14(b)(1)-(b)(3). The physician, however, is summarily precluded
from challenging the listing if he fails to submit the required challenge within
sixty days. See id. § 60.14(b).




n129  Id. § 60.14(c)(1).




n130  Id. § 60.14(c)(2).




n131  Id. §§ 60.14(c)(2)(i)-(ii).




n132  Id. § 60.14(c)(2).




n133  Id.




n134  Simpkins v. Shalala, 999 F. Supp. 106, 110 (D.D.C. 1998) (citing Camp v.
Pitts, 411 U.S. 138, 142-43 (1973)). But see Citizens v. Overton Park, 401 U.S.
402, 420-21 (1971) (determining that the reviewing court may remand to the
Secretary so that he may supplement the record).




n135  Contra Ingraham v. Wright, 430 U.S. 651 (1977). The Supreme Court in
Ingraham, found that a student was able to vindicate his right to freedom from
bodily restraint and punishment through tort liability and held that due process
did not require a pre-sanction hearing. Id. at 678. In the HCQIA context,
however, the vindication of rights through alternative means is not available to
physicians who have been listed in the NPDB--the immunity provisions in section
11111 of that Act prevent an aggrieved physician from seeking damages, thereby
distinguishing Ingraham. Id.




n136  See 42 U.S.C. § 11114 (2000) ("The Secretary may establish, after notice
and opportunity for comment, such voluntary guidelines as may assist the
professional review bodies in meeting the standards described in section
11112(a) of this title."); see also id. § 11136 ("With respect to the
information reported to the Secretary . . . respecting a physician or other
licensed health care practitioner, the Secretary shall, by regulation, provide
for . . . procedures in the case of disputed accuracy of the information.").


