                              410 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                             March 10, 1997, Monday

Country doctor's hands are tied

SOURCE: QNP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1945 words


FROM July, I will no longer be able to accept maternity patients to deliver
privately myself. I have been forced to make this decision by rising costs in my
medical indemnity premiums.

The premium of $6700 will rise to more than $10,000 in July. Three years ago it
was only $1500.

As a general practitioner who does not perform anaesthetics, plastic surgery,
vasectomies or other surgical procedures, my only source of income to justify
this "procedural" premium is for hands-on obstetrics. For the 20 to 25 babies I
deliver each year, an out-of-pocket expense of $10,000 ($500 a patient) is not
viable. I will not force patients to pick up this expense by simply increasing
my fees.

This saddens me greatly. The babies I delivered on arriving in Kingaroy are
starting school this year. As the only female GP obstetrician in the South
Burnett I envisioned continuing obstetrics all my working life and delivering
second and third generations of Kingaroy babies. This is not to be.

I will, of course, try to refer my maternity patients to a GP who continues to
practise delivery obstetrics although I cannot say who they may be and for how
long.

Regardless of my personal disappointment, there are statewide repercussions.

While Queensland Health provides indemnity for doctors rendering services to
public patients, it ignores the fact that the vast majority of the rural medical
workforce is totally private.

This private workforce undertakes the major share of rural procedural work. If,
as expected, procedural indemnity cover rises significantly in July 1997, it
will be uneconomic for most private rural GPs to continue this work.

Significant numbers of patients will flow into the public system where there are
neither the staff numbers nor skills to cope with such an influx.

Hundreds of cases will be diverted to major teaching hospitals, causing
increases to long waiting lists and social dislocation to families of patients
seeking care.

Private GPs will become deskilled and no longer available for back-up to junior
doctors in the public system.

Doctors in rural traineeships will be unable to afford these premiums and we
will lose these rural doctors of the future at a time when the rural workforce
is drastically low.

Queensland is the only state that does not provide some form of assistance with
medical indemnity to all of its doctors._ Melanie Connah, Kingaroy.

March 6

I AM tired of political grandstanding by Lord Mayor Jim Soorley and Cr David
Hinchliffe, who are suddenly finding the need to "pork barrel" us with things
that they should have done anyway over the past three years.

At least Opposition leader Cr Bob Mills doesn't pander to the trendies. He wants
to help the rest of us out in the suburbs.

A change at City Hall will be refreshing and stimulating to ratepayers outside
the inner-city area. We riff-raff out here in the suburbs will see a fresh
approach from Mills _ just as John Howard had to provide a fresh approach after
Paul Keating._ R. Field, Gumdale.

March 6

THE Liberal Party's council election campaign lacked imagination and depth.

Lord mayoral candidate Cr Bob Mills has disappointed me with his concentration
on rates rather than mapping out his plan for Brisbane.

Politicians intimidate the electorate with talk of taxes and rates when there is
little else to concentrate on. This is insulting because many ratepayers
associate councils with much more than rates.

I approve of the way our city is developing and maturing and I understand the
community and social basis of Lord Mayor Jim Soorley's policies.

The Opposition says we pay too much, the cat laws may need reviewing and that we
can use all the water we like.

This does not make a modern, enterprising or vital city. This doesn't articulate
a vision for our city's cultural, social and environmental future. The decision
is clear-cut: vision and performance versus ad hoc promises._ Jenny McNaught,
Morningside.

March 3

I AM tired of political grandstanding by Lord Mayor Jim Soorley and Cr David
Hinchliffe, who are suddenly finding the need to "pork barrel" us with things
that they should have done anyway over the past three years.

At least Opposition leader Cr Bob Mills doesn't pander to the trendies. He wants
to help the rest of us out in the suburbs.

A change at City Hall will be refreshing and stimulating to ratepayers outside
the inner-city area. We riff-raff out here in the suburbs will see a fresh
approach from Mills _ just as John Howard had to provide a fresh approach after
Paul Keating._ R. Field, Gumdale.

March 6

THE Liberal Party's council election campaign lacked imagination and depth.

Lord mayoral candidate Cr Bob Mills has disappointed me with his concentration
on rates rather than mapping out his plan for Brisbane.

Politicians intimidate the electorate with talk of taxes and rates when there is
little else to concentrate on. This is insulting because many ratepayers
associate councils with much more than rates.

I approve of the way our city is developing and maturing and I understand the
community and social basis of Lord Mayor Jim Soorley's policies.

The Opposition says we pay too much, the cat laws may need reviewing and that we
can use all the water we like.

This does not make a modern, enterprising or vital city. This doesn't articulate
a vision for our city's cultural, social and environmental future. The decision
is clear-cut: vision and performance versus ad hoc promises._ Jenny McNaught,
Morningside.

March 3

I AM tired of political grandstanding by Lord Mayor Jim Soorley and Cr David
Hinchliffe, who are suddenly finding the need to "pork barrel" us with things
that they should have done anyway over the past three years.

At least Opposition leader Cr Bob Mills doesn't pander to the trendies. He wants
to help the rest of us out in the suburbs.

A change at City Hall will be refreshing and stimulating to ratepayers outside
the inner-city area. We riff-raff out here in the suburbs will see a fresh
approach from Mills _ just as John Howard had to provide a fresh approach after
Paul Keating._ R. Field, Gumdale.

March 6

THE Liberal Party's council election campaign lacked imagination and depth.

Lord mayoral candidate Cr Bob Mills has disappointed me with his concentration
on rates rather than mapping out his plan for Brisbane.

Politicians intimidate the electorate with talk of taxes and rates when there is
little else to concentrate on. This is insulting because many ratepayers
associate councils with much more than rates.

I approve of the way our city is developing and maturing and I understand the
community and social basis of Lord Mayor Jim Soorley's policies.

The Opposition says we pay too much, the cat laws may need reviewing and that we
can use all the water we like.

This does not make a modern, enterprising or vital city. This doesn't articulate
a vision for our city's cultural, social and environmental future. The decision
is clear-cut: vision and performance versus ad hoc promises._ Jenny McNaught,
Morningside.

March 3

I WOULD suggest that Des Partridge's chair be moved closer to the window so he
can see across to the Queensland Cultural Centre when he claims that "after
years of neglect" the arts in Queensland flourished only with the advent of the
Goss Labor government (Perspectives, Mar 6).

What also flourished from 1990 were arts bureaucrats, red tape and the
ultimately destructive concept of the arts as an industry.

Queensland always had a strong interest in the arts and the notion of a cultural
backwater is a classic cringe.

The coalition government in the 1970s and 80s had a deep commitment to the arts,
of which the Cultural Centre _ the legacy of former Liberal treasurer Sir Gordon
Chalk _ is the symbol.

The arts bodies also were strongly supported and in several cases founded by
senior public servants (Sir David Longland, Sir David Muir, Sir Leo Hielscher,
Sir Sydney Schubert and Peter Jones). Their influence and active participation
ensured that the arts were well-funded.

The arts are flourishing and Greg Andrews has played a major role in that
welcome state of affairs but Queensland has had several strong and at times
controversial directors of the arts whose legacy was the state-wide
infrastructure and funding on which Mr Andrews was able to build._ Allen
Callaghan, Manly.

March 6

GRAEME Turner, former chairman of the Arts Advisory Committee, thinks he smells
a pork barrel in the restructuring of the arts division (Letters, Mar 6).

The changes have nothing to do with pork-barrelling or any irresponsible or
politically cynical act, as Turner suggested.

The restructuring has followed a six-month review aimed at nipping in the bud a
state arts bureaucracy which was growing like Topsy and easing the unacceptable
drag it was placing on funding for front-line services and arts infrastructure.

It also aimed at refocusing my department's activities on delivering front-line
services to arts workers and organisations; giving statutory bodies more
independence and funding certainty; making the Arts Office and statutory
authorities more accessible and efficient providers of services.

The executive director's position will be advertised nationally and
internationally. Arts practitioners and organisations should be smelling nothing
but roses._ Joan Sheldon, Arts Minister, Brisbane.

March 7

Women as

victims, again

WHILE Dale Spender's juvenile writing style often can be refreshing, her
tiresome article on the use of the term "chairman" instead of "chairperson"
offers nothing new to explain the feminist assertion that it demeans women
(Perspectives, Mar 6).

Let's face it, she is no Germaine Greer. Men of my generation embraced Greer and
her ideas and I still chuckle at her acerbic wit as she continues to savage
males and females who refuse to stand up for themselves.

Dale's inane statement that "dogs are dogs and cats are cats" may appeal to the
logic of an eight-year-old, but some of us are old enough to remember putting in
our Vietnam national service papers. Is this constant "women as victims"
position really necessary? We're all in this together, you know._ Paul Blain,
Nundah.

March 3

SOMEONE should explain to Ms Spender that unlike the terms "man" and "woman",
dog and cat are not identifiers of different genders within the same species.
Cats belong to the feline species and dogs belong to the canine species._Rick
Kirkness, The Gap.

March 6

Bullies

at work

OUR ever-vigilant moral watchdogs have turned their attention to a 13-year-old
girl and the editor of an innocuous teenage-oriented magazine, Dolly.

They have managed only to increase temporarily the circulation of this vacuous
little magazine and distress a young lady whose only crime appears to be that
she is pretty. Memo to these overzealous bullies: get a life._ Peter Earsman,
Kallangur.

March 6

Waiting

for medal

NOT one combatant of the Korean war, the Malayan emergency and Borneo and the
Malay Peninsula campaigns has received a distinctly Australian medal for their
active service. Some have received the Australian Service Medal 1945-1975 for
service in Korea after the ceasefire (July 28, 1953) for garrison duties but it
has not been issued to recognise those who served as combatants between June
1950 and July 1953. Others have received it for service in Papua New Guinea as
trainers and advisers as well as for service in the Far Eastern Strategic
Reserve.

Combatants were first in but appear to be last on the priority list for
recognition.

Many do not have much time left to wait._ Kevin Wills, Broadbeach Waters.

March 6

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


