                              416 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 12, 2017 Saturday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "Stryker Craniomaxillofacial "Procedural Packages" -
SPE2DE17R0008"

LENGTH: 326  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "Stryker Craniomaxillofacial "Procedural Packages" -
SPE2DE17R0008"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE17R0008

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: August 11, 2017

Description: Added: Aug 11, 2017 7:20 am
The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing Stryker Craniomaxillofacial "procedural packages."  These "procedural
packages" include bone fixation systems, biomaterials, porous polyethylene
implants, microdissection needles and patient-specific implants to address a
wide variety of surgical specialties and procedures and Auxiliary products (such
as drill bits, saw blades, bone cement, etc.) that are necessary for the
maxillofacial, craniofacial, and neurosurgical procedures and surgeries.  The
instruments are purchased by the hospital so they are readily available on the
shelves.


All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
Craniomaxillofacial products must be delivered "Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor
Delivery", and "Consignment". Under "Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical
Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the manufacturer's field representative who
carries the products into the MTF just-in-time for the surgery. The
manufacturer's sales representative may bring many sizes and types of implants
and auxiliary products to the surgery along with the instrumentation sets. Under
the "Direct Vendor Delivery" method an order for products is placed through ECAT
and the product is delivered directly to the customer via any transportation
carrier. Under the "Consignment" method, an MTF have the products that make up
the "procedural set" consigned to their facility.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): Charles T. Reimer Charles.Reimer@dla.mil Phone:
215.737.3829


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


