                              409 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                           August 10, 2016 Wednesday

Sexual violence: Fewer cases being registered, finds report

LENGTH: 582  words


A disparity has been discovered in the number of medico-legal examinations (MLE)
and the FIRs registered in reported incidents of sexual violence as only 122
cases were registered despite 516 MLEs performed at the city's three public
hospitals from January 2015 to June 2016.

This was revealed in a report released by War Against Rape (WAR) which compiled
data from various sources, including police stations and Jinnah Postgraduate
Medical Center, Civil hospital and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

The nightmare of sexual violence for female farmworkers

During 2005-2014, 1,128 cases of sexual violence were reported as per the data
collected from the police stations, whereas the office of assistant inspector
general crime branch, Karachi mentioned 572 sexual assault cases.

According to WAR programme officer Sheeraz Ahmed, the significant difference of
51% is indicative that reliable data is missing, which according to the WAR
report indicates that the number of actual reported sexual violence cases is
much higher than the figures provided. Demographically, 17% of the cases were
recorded in Korangi and Orangi each, 10% in Sohrab Goth and seven per cent in
Gulistan-e-Johar, Saddar and Soldier Bazaar each. Out of the total cases
reported from January 2015 to June 2016, 48% are of gang-rape, 22% of sodomy
followed by 11% of incest.

Not making it easy

The report further states that the statistics on rape extracted from police
records are 'notoriously' unreliable because of significant under-reporting.
According to the report, the major impediment behind the under-reporting is the
"biased, judgmental and discouraging" attitudes of police and medico-legal
officers.

Furthermore, lengthy legal proceedings and insensitive court environments and
procedural inadequacies further push a significant 15-20% of cases towards
out-of-court settlements.

Pakistan's shameful denial of male rape

It is thus no surprise that the total number of reported sexual violence came
down to 939 in 2015 from 1,582 in 2014.

Majority kids, girls

Moreover, WAR reveals that 88% of sexual violence cases among children have
female victims whereas 40% of the survivors are between 12-18 years.

According to Ahmed, in 2015, 3,768 children were sexually assaulted across
Pakistan as compared to 3,508 in 2013.

The statistics reveal an increase of seven per cent in the registration of child
sexual abuse cases with 10 children sexually exploited a day in 2015.

Out of the total cases, 1,974 (52%) were girls compared to 1,794 (48%) boys,
whereas 97 children were murdered after being sexually assaulted, across the
country.

The study reveals that that the most vulnerable age group among boys and girls
was 11-15.

Way forward

Ahmed told The Express Tribune that in order to improve legal and procedural
deterrents to ensure speedy justice in sexual violence cases, it is important to
ensure the immediate passage and implementation of anti-rape laws (Criminal Laws
Amendment) Bill, 2014.

Most sexual abuse cases reported from Landhi, Korangi, Gulshan

He added that child friendly courts and spaces must be established to ensure
safety and protection of survivors.

He also emphasised on the mandatory recruitment, training, and empowerment of
women as prosecutors, judges, police officers and medico-legal officers to
eliminate gender biases.

According to Ahmed, human and sexual rights' education must also become part of
our curriculum to spread gender equality and the narrow definition of sexual
violence needs to be broadened.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


