                              449 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 6, 2017 Saturday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

LENGTH: 308  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "DEPUY SYNTHES JOINT RECONSTRUCTION"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE17R0006

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: May 5, 2017

Description: The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources
capable of providing DePuy Synthes Joint Reconstruction Orthopedic Products for
Hips, Knees, Shoulders, Extremity and Other Joints Implant "procedural
packages;" Orthopedic Cement Products; Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary
Products. The product mix that makes up the "procedural package" varies based on
the individual needs of the patient. The instruments are both "used" during the
surgery and return to the vendor or purchased by the hospital so they are
readily available on the shelves.


All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural packages" must be delivered
"Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery", and "Consignment". Under
"Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the
manufacturer's field representative who carries the products into the MTF
just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales representative may bring
many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products to the surgery along
with the instrumentation sets. Under "Direct Vendor Delivery" method an order
for products is placed through ECAT and the product is delivered directly to the
customer via any transportation carrier. Under the "Consignment" method, an MTF
will have the products that make up the "procedural packages" consigned to their
facility.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): JOHN R JACKSON JOHN.R.JACKSON@DLA.MIL Phone: 2157370850


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


