                              470 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            November 1, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Canadian expat behind TV's House: David Shore created the irascible doctor

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 1073  words


"There is a 15-year-old boy in that character," David Shore says of his most
famous fictional creation, Dr. Gregory House, "but with the power of an adult.
And that, I think, is it."

House returns to TV tonight (9 p.m., Fox, Global). It's the unlikeliest of
television success stories, a character-based medical mystery in which the lead
character, a genius in the art of "differential diagnosis," is as unlikable as
they come. Hugh Laurie, an unlikely actor playing an unlikable doctor, is
scalpel-sharp in the role of a diagnostician who gets a charge out of medical
mysteries, but who finds patients a royal pain.

Shore, the Toronto native who cut his teeth writing scripts for Due South and
the Toronto-based Traders for a year before heading south himself to try his
hand in TV's major leagues, is nothing like his fictional creation.

In conversation, Shore is affable where House is adversarial. Shore is
comfortable with people; House is a walking case study in misanthropy. Shore is
polite; House is politically incorrect. Shore recently won an Emmy Award for
writing; House is in a constant struggle to keep his job. Shore laughs easily;
House looks as if he's in pain much of the time. Which, come to think of it, he
is -- hence the Vicodin habit.

"House, in my opinion, is only as interesting as the people around him," Shore
said. "If they're not fully dimensional, fully informed characters, he's
diminished. I want to keep them fresh. I want to show what makes them tick and
why they are the way they are, because it would be very easy to just have
somebody yelling at House and have him yelling back."

Shore described his initial pitch to the Fox network as "a bit of a
bait-and-switch" (his words). He proposed a CSI-style procedural medical drama
-- CSI in a hospital -- then flipped that into a character study.

"At its core it's a procedural, but obviously it's a character-driven procedural
," Shore said. "I realized going in that the 'what' in a whatdunit isn't that
interesting. After all, the interesting thing about a whodunit is the who and
the why, and why people act the way they do."

Shore was determined to give his main character a fatal flaw, something other
than his brusque manner. That flaw was an addiction to painkillers.

"He had to be damaged in some way," Shore explained. "Once he's damaged, he's
trying not to be damaged. We wanted him to have something that he's dealing with
-- and addiction is certainly interesting. It made sense. It made a lot of
sense."

Every episode -- including last May's Emmy Award-winning Three Stories, in which
House lectures a class of medical students about three hypothetical cases -- is
constructed like a Rubik's Cube, with innumerable interlocking pieces that form
a logical pattern once the riddle is solved.

"The episodes are quite often about the person they're treating," Shore
explained. "Even when we don't see that person that much, their just being there
raises some issue that allows each of our characters to form their own attitude,
based on their life experiences and who they are as people."

House's mercurial rise in the ratings is harder to diagnose. When the program
debuted in November, it drew a respectable though not overwhelming seven million
viewers in the United States.

By March, that number was up to 17 million, making House one of the most-watched
programs on television. That was partly because it followed American Idol on the
Fox network in the U.S., but House's numbers remained solid during summer
reruns, when American Idol was no longer on. This season so far, the audience
has ranged between 14 million and 16 million viewers, strong enough to vault
House into the Top 20 in the weekly Nielsen ratings. House returns tonight after
a four-week break for baseball playoffs.

From the outset, Shore was determined that the medical mysteries not overwhelm
the characters in the story.

"What we've found is that it's less about the medical story and more about the
person who's sick, and what it is about that person that makes the story," Shore
explained. "It has to be something that people aren't expecting, but that makes
sense. It becomes about the personalities involved, and what that reveals about
House and our other doctors."

Once Shore knew what direction he wanted to take House, it was a question of
finding the right actor.

"Growing up in Canada, I was familiar with Hugh Laurie's work. When I heard that
he was auditioning, that he was actually putting himself on tape in Africa" --
Laurie was in Namibia, filming Flight of the Phoenix at the time -- "I thought,
'That's so cool, I'd love to get him in because I'd love to meet him.' But to be
honest, I never thought he'd be the right guy. I had this vision of him as being
this English, hysterically funny, talented actor -- but not House. And when I
saw the tape, he blew me away. It was like nothing I had seen before. We had
auditioned so many people -- but I realized then that those other people were
completely unsuited to the part."

Shore said his year as the head writer of Traders taught him a lot.

"I had a great year, but I also realized that I was not the writer I hoped I
could become, and I had a lot to learn. And yet I was in charge. There really
weren't opportunities to find mentors. When I was in Toronto, the system in
Canada, to be honest, is that the few television shows there were run by true
producers. They weren't run by writers. So I came to Los Angeles to learn,
basically, to become a good writer."

After moving to Los Angeles, Shore landed writing assignments with some of
television's most prestigious dramas -- Law & Order, for Dick Wolf; NYPD Blue,
for Steven Bochco; The Practice, for David E. Kelley, in that program's debut
season when it won the Emmy as TV's best drama; and for his fellow Canadian and
one-time Due South mentor Paul Haggis, on Haggis' short-lived, critically
acclaimed drama series EZ Streets.

Shore earned a pair of Emmy nominations as a producer of Law & Order. From the
outset, though, he knew House was special. House was his, for one thing. It was
his creation, from the foundation up.

The key to House is simple, Shore insists.

"For every question you answer, you have to raise two more questions. And I
think we're doing that. I still don't really know who House is. And I think if I
ever reach a point where I can summarize him, then it'll be time for me to pack
it in. Because I can't even summarize myself -- and I'm real."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Hugh Laurie as Dr. Greg House in the surprising new series.

