                              474 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 1999 Curators of the University of Missouri
                         Journal of Dispute Resolution

                                      1999

                            1999 J. Disp. Resol. 191

LENGTH: 5848 words

NOTE: FAA Pre-emption: When Should Conflicting State Law Be Pre-empted by the
Faa?: Weston Securities Corp. v. Aykanian n1

NAME: Suzanne H. Johnson

TEXT:
 [*191]  I. INTRODUCTION

   The Federal Arbitration Act ("F.A.A.") was created by Congress to alleviate
the judicial system's historical hostility toward arbitration. n2 To promote
arbitration as a means of alternative dispute resolution, Congress included
section 2 of the F.A.A.,  n3 which "declared a policy favoring arbitration and
withdrew the power of the states to require a judicial forum for the resolution
of claims which the contracting parties agreed to resolve by arbitration."  n4

   Since the creation of the F.A.A., courts, including the United States Supreme
Court, have considered whether the F.A.A. pre-empts conflicting state law.
Although courts generally find that the F.A.A. pre-empts state substantive and
procedural law when it stands as an obstacle to Congress' goal of enforcing
arbitration, n5 the Massachusetts Court of Appeals, in Weston Securities Corp.
v. Aykanian, made its own determination on this issue, since it was a case of
first impression for the court. The court faced the question of whether a
Massachusetts procedural rule, which did not allow an immediate appeal from an
order to arbitrate, was pre-empted by the F.A.A. The court's holding expanded
the federal policy favoring enforcement of arbitration agreements in
Massachusetts by upholding a state procedural rule that promoted arbitration
agreements by disallowing certain judicial appeals. The court, therefore, held
that the rule was not pre-empted by the F.A.A., even though it contradicted the
F.A.A.'s corresponding rule.

    [*192]  II. FACTS AND HOLDING

   Weston Securities Corporation, Douglas A. Biggar, I. Richard Horowitz, and
Joseph Robbat, Jr. are the plaintiffs in this suit. Weston Securities
Corporation is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers
("NASD"). n6 Horowitz and Biggar were registered principals of Weston Securities
Corporation, and Robatt was a registered representative.  n7 All the plaintiffs
signed a Uniform Application for Securities Registration or Transfer Form ("U-4
Form") that stated that they would agree to arbitrate any disputes that were
required to be arbitrated under the "NASD Code of Arbitration Procedure" ("NASD
Code").  n8

   In 1994, the defendants, Ara Aykanian and others, n9 claimed that the
plaintiffs had "violated various Federal and State statutes, breached its
fiduciary duties to the defendants, and concealed and misrepresented certain
material facts."  n10 The defendants each filed a "Uniform Submission Agreement"
for arbitration with the NASD, which bound them to arbitrate all claims they had
against Weston.  n11 Weston claimed, however, that the defendants' claims were
either barred by the six-year rule in the NASD Code,  n12 or else, not
arbitrable under the NASD Code.  n13 Accordingly, Weston refused to adhere to
the Uniform Submission Agreements.  n14

   In April of 1995, Weston called upon the NASD's Director of Arbitration
("director") to dismiss the defendants' arbitration claim. n15 Nevertheless, in
October of 1995, the director stated that the defendants had standing to compel
arbitration because they were "public customers of Weston."  n16 The director
then referred the defendants' claims that arose after June 16, 1988 to a panel
of arbitrators.  n17 Before the arbitration panel considered the claims, the
plaintiffs sued in the superior court to enjoin the defendants' ability to
proceed with arbitration.  n18

   In June 1996, a superior court judge issued a preliminary injunction against
the defendants. The injunction enjoined the defendants from proceeding with the
arbitration. n19 The judge also ordered submission of cross motions for summary
judgment by both parties.  n20 Weston's motion for summary judgment was denied
and  [*193]  the defendants' motion was allowed. n21 The judge then entered an
order compelling Weston to commence arbitration before the NASD.  n22 Weston
filed an appeal from the superior judge's order and a motion to stay arbitration
pending appeal.  n23 The plaintiffs' motion to stay was denied and its appeal
from the denial of its motion was consolidated with its appeal from the order
compelling arbitration.  n24

   In their appeal, the plaintiffs argued that the Massachusetts Uniform
Arbitration Act, which does not permit an immediate appeal from an order
compelling arbitration, was pre-empted by the F.A.A., which does permit such an
appeal. n25 The Massachusetts Court of Appeals held that state procedural law is
pre-empted by the F.A.A. only "to the extent that it is contrary to Congress'
purpose in enacting the F.A.A., which is to enforce arbitration agreements."
n26 The appeal was dismissed because the court found that the Massachusetts rule
promotes enforcement of arbitration agreements by not permitting an immediate
appeal from an order compelling arbitration, notwithstanding the F.A.A.'s
provision allowing the appeal.  n27

   III. LEGAL BACKGROUND

   The F.A.A. was enacted in 1925 to "overrule the judiciary's longstanding
refusal to enforce agreements to arbitrate." n28 Before this time, courts
refused to enforce arbitration agreements,  n29 clinging to ancient notions of
judicial province originating in England when the courts "opposed anything that
would altogether deprive every one of them of jurisdiction."  n30 In fact, the
incentive for Congress to enact the F.A.A. was its desire to change the courts'
"antiarbitration [sic] rule."  n31 The F.A.A. foresaw the potential
confrontation of the F.A.A. and conflicting state law and, therefore,
established federal substantive law, which applied in both state and federal
courts  n32 pursuant to Congress' authority under the Commerce Clause to enact
substantive rules of law.  n33 Thus, the F.A.A. is applicable to any transaction
involving interstate commerce.  n34

   Since the enactment of the F.A.A., courts have decided whether the Act
pre-empts state substantive and procedural law that is contrary to the Act. A
line of  [*194]  federal and state cases have considered this very issue, and
have consistently recognized the F.A.A.'s goal to promote enforcement of
arbitration agreements by stating that state substantive law will be pre-empted
by the F.A.A. when it is contrary to the F.A.A.'s purpose, n35 and that state
procedural law will be pre-empted when the state procedures serve to defeat the
substantive right to arbitration granted under the F.A.A.  n36

   In Hines v. Davidowitz, n37 the United States Supreme Court addressed the
issue of pre-emption, however, it did not specifically consider F.A.A.
pre-emption. Later courts, though, looked to the language of the F.A.A. when
dealing with the issue of F.A.A. pre-emption.  n38 In Hines, the Court decided
whether Pennsylvania's Alien Registration Act "encroached upon legislative
powers constitutionally vested in the federal government" in view of the Federal
Alien Registration Act, and if equal protection of the laws was denied by the
Pennsylvania Act. n39 Its analysis discussed the power of both state and
national governments.  n40 In determining whether the state law was valid in
light of the federal law created by Congress, the Court stated "there is
not--and from the very nature of the problem there cannot be--any rigid formula
or rule which can be used as a universal pattern to determine the meaning and
purpose of every act of Congress."  n41

   It then looked to Savage v. Jones n42 for help in discovering a manner of
determination.  n43 Specifically, Savage stated that if the purpose of the
federal act in question cannot be accomplished or is frustrated by the state
law, "the state law must yield to the regulation of Congress within the sphere
of its delegated power." n44 In light of Savage, the Hines Court stated that its
job was to decide whether the law of Pennsylvania stood as an "obstacle to the
accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress."
n45 The Court concluded that Congress' purpose in enacting the Federal Alien
Registration Act was the creation of a "uniform national registration system"
and, therefore, the Pennsylvania Act could not be enforced  n46 since it would
stand as an obstacle to such a system.

   In Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital v. Mercury Construction Corp., n47 the
Supreme Court not only dealt with the pre-emption issue as it did in Hines, it
specifically dealt with F.A.A. pre-emption. The case involved a dispute between
Moses H. Cone Hospital ("Hospital") and the defendant Mercury Construction
[*195]  Corporation ("Mercury"), which it hired to construct additions to the
hospital. n48 In its analysis of whether the dispute between the parties was
arbitrable, the Court adhered to the proposition that the F.A.A. pre-empts state
law, as it declared that any written arbitration agreement "in any maritime
transaction of a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce . . .
shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at
law or equity for the revocation of any contract."  n49 It further stated,
"section 2 is a congressional declaration of a liberal federal policy favoring
arbitration agreements, notwithstanding any state substantive or procedural
policies to the contrary."  n50 Hence, the Court said that the section
effectively creates "a body of federal substantive law of arbitrability,
applicable to any arbitration agreement within the coverage of the Act."  n51 It
agreed with numerous courts of appeals, which consistently stated that
"questions of arbitrability must be addressed with a healthy regard for federal
policy favoring arbitration."  n52

   In 1984, the Supreme Court continued to adhere to a policy favoring
arbitration when it was again presented with the F.A.A. pre-emption issue. In
Southland Corp. v. Keating, n53 the Court decided whether a California statute,
which did not allow the arbitration of suits brought under its law, could
invalidate a contract which called for arbitration under the F.A.A.  n54 It
concluded that the F.A.A.'s authority comes from Congress' power under the
Commerce Clause, which allows it to enact substantive rules.  n55 The Court
stated that it was implicit in the F.A.A.'s power stemming from the Commerce
Clause that the F.A.A. should apply in both federal and state courts.  n56 It
also noted that the Moses decision "reaffirmed" its stance on the scope of the
substantive federal arbitration law--that it applied to both federal and state
courts. n57 The Court reasoned that Congress would not want the validity of
arbitration provisions to reach different outcomes depending on whether the case
was tried in federal or state court.  n58 The Court, therefore, held that the
F.A.A.'s substantive law pre-empts conflicting state law, and that state
statutes that were anti-arbitration could not be used to defeat the goals of the
F.A.A.  n59

   Two years later, the Supreme Court was again presented with the F.A.A.
pre-emption issue. In Perry v. Thomas, n60 the Court decided whether the
F.A.A.'s policy of mandatory enforcement of agreements to arbitrate pre-empted a
California labor  [*196]  statute that provided for a judicial forum for
collection of wages actions irrespective of any contract to arbitrate. n61 The
petitioners sought arbitration under sections 2 and 4 of the F.A.A.  n62 Their
demand for arbitration stemmed from an arbitration provision in a U-4 Form that
the defendants had signed.  n63 The defendant opposed arbitration because
section 299 of the California Labor Code mandated a judicial forum for his case.
The Supreme Court looked to Moses which stated that section 2 of the F.A.A.
creates substantive law that is applicable to any agreement to arbitrate that
comes within the domain of the F.A.A. n64 It found in favor of arbitration by
looking to Keating, which stated that "Congress intended to foreclose state
legislative attempts to undercut the enforceability of arbitration agreements."
n65 It further stated that Congress' federal policy favoring arbitration took
away state's power to require the judicial hearing of a case when the parties
had contracted to arbitrate.  n66 The parties clearly contracted to arbitrate,
bringing their agreement within the coverage of the F.A.A.  n67 It was also
clear that the federal policy of the F.A.A. was in conflict with section 229 of
the California Code that required litigants to resolve wage disputes in court
and, therefore, the F.A.A. pre-empted the state statute under the Supremacy
Clause.  n68 This outcome revealed that the Supreme Court would continue to
stand firmly behind its pro-arbitration policy by striking down state law that
was contrary to such policy.

   The F.A.A. pre-emption issue surfaced again in Volt Information Sciences,
Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior University. n69 This time
the Supreme Court decided whether state procedural law contrary to the F.A.A.'s
policy applied if the parties contracted to have a certain state law apply to
their contract.  n70 The Court found that the state law would not be pre-empted
since the parties agreed in their contract to strictly be governed by a specific
state law.  n71 In its analysis, the Court first looked to Hines, concluding
that although the F.A.A. did not pre-empt state regulation of arbitration
agreements, state law would have to be pre-empted in one instance. n72 This
instance, the Court stated, occurred when state law ran contrary to the federal
policy of enforcing arbitration agreements and, therefore, was in conflict with
federal law.  n73 It recognized its long-standing adherence to finding that the
F.A.A. pre-empts state laws requiring "a judicial forum for the resolution of
[*197]  claims which the contracting parties agreed to resolve by arbitration."
n74 It noted that the F.A.A. does not prevent the enforcement of arbitration
agreements made under rules that are not within the F.A.A., as such a rule would
run contrary to the F.A.A.'s "primary purpose of ensuring that private
agreements to arbitrate are enforce according to their terms."  n75 The Court
followed that the parties to arbitration agreements have free reign in
structuring the agreements, such as by limiting the disputes that can be
arbitrated.  n76 It stated that as in the case before them where the parties had
agreed that state rules of arbitration would govern, enforcing the rules in
accordance with the agreement would be consistent with the F.A.A.'s goals, even
though by doing so the arbitration would be stayed rather than going forward as
it would under the F.A.A.  n77 The Court summed up its ruling by stating that by
permitting courts to enforce arbitration agreements rigorously in accordance
with their terms,  n78 it "give[s] effect to the contractual rights and
expectations of the parties, without doing violence to the policies behind by
the F.A.A."  n79

   Other courts have also followed the Supreme Court's ruling that state
substantive law contrary to the F.A.A. will pre-empt the F.A.A. However, these
courts have also helped further establish when a state's procedural rule will
pre-empt the F.A.A. The Missouri Court of Appeals stated in Duggan v. Zip Mail
Services, Inc., n80 that the F.A.A. is applicable when a contract involves
commerce.  n81 It asserted that Missouri courts "are not bound by the procedural
provisions of the F.A.A. and state procedural rules may be applied when
arbitration is pursuant to the F.A.A."  n82 The court further stated that "state
procedures may not be applied to defeat the substantive rights granted by the
F.A.A."  n83 However, in determining whether the Missouri act which dealt with
arbitration would be pre-empted by the F.A.A. it stated that applying the
Missouri act would "defeat arbitration in instances where the F.A.A. permits it"
and thus "would place the state act above the federal act, violating the
Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution."  n84 It then concluded by looking to
the Missouri Supreme Court's precedent, that the Missouri act could not be used
to render ineffective an arbitration provision that is covered by the F.A.A.
n85

   This interpretation of state's rights under the F.A.A. was further delineated
in Reis v. Peabody Coal Co. n86 In this case, the Missouri Court of Appeals
found that though the F.A.A. created substantive rights for the state courts to
enforce, the Missouri courts were not bound by F.A.A. procedural provisions,
provided that the  [*198]  Missouri procedural rules did not "defeat the
[substantive] rights granted by Congress." n87

   Missouri's view of the F.A.A.'s procedural pre-emption was echoed by the
Supreme Court of North Dakota in Superpumper, Inc. v. Nerland Oil, Inc. n88 This
court asserted that the F.A.A.'s objectives and purposes  n89 are effected
through its substantive provisions,  n90 and thus "a state is not obligated to
altogether ignore its own procedural requirements in light of the procedural
aspects of the F.A.A., provided the state-enacted procedure does not defeat the
rights granted by Congress."  n91 To the extent that a state enacted uniform
arbitration act "impedes the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes
and objectives of the F.A.A., the U.A.A. is pre-empted by federal law."  n92

   The Oregon Court of Appeals in Marr v. Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co.,
Inc. n93 was presented with the pre-emption question in the case of an appeal
from an order of arbitration. The court's analysis revealed the interweaving of
the F.A.A.'s pre-emption of state procedural and substantive law. The court
stated that federal law pre-empts conflicting state law that affects the party's
substantive rights for arbitration.  n94 Thus, pre-emption occurs when it
conflicts with the Congress' goal of enforcing arbitration agreements. The court
further stated that when the question is purely procedural, "the forum state is
free to apply its own law."  n95 However, the court noted that a state's
procedural law could not be applied if it limits the rights of the party's
federal claim, although the claim is asserted in state court.  n96 Therefore,
the court determined whether applying Oregon law, which did not allow appeal
from an order to arbitrate, would deny the party a federal substantive right.
n97 It held that the timing of the right to appeal is purely procedural and that
the party's substantive right would not be denied because it could appeal after
the arbitration award was made.  n98 Hence, the Oregon court was permitted to
apply its own procedural law since it did not deny a substantive right of the
party in that it allowed the party to have the right to appeal when the
arbitration award judgment was entered in the state proceeding.  n99

   It is clear that the F.A.A. has presented many courts with the pre-emption
question. In the instant case, however, the pre-emption question was one of
first impression for the Massachusetts Court of Appeals.

    [*199]  IV. INSTANT DECISION

   The Massachusetts Court of Appeals looked to the purpose of the F.A.A. to
decide the question of whether section 18 of the Massachusetts procedural rule
denying Weston the ability to immediately appeal an order compelling it to
arbitrate was contrary to the Federal goal of encouraging enforcement of
arbitration. n100 It first noted that the F.A.A. was enacted "to overrule the
judiciary's longstanding refusal to enforce agreements to arbitrate."  n101 The
F.A.A. created a staunch federal policy that favored arbitration by building a
large body of federal substantive law "applicable in state and federal courts."

 n102

   The court then looked to the fact that the F.A.A. does not expressly contain
a pre-emptive provision and that the state and federal courts have concurrent
jurisdiction to enforce the Arbitration Act. n103 It looked to Hines and
concluded that the F.A.A. pre-empts state law only when it is an obstacle to
Congress accomplishing its objectives. n104 The court, by further looking to
Hines and Volt, found that the case law established that states may usually
establish procedural rules for dealing with the arbitration process because
federal policy does not require arbitration to be done under a "certain set of
procedural rules." n105 The only way that the state's procedural rules would be
pre-empted by the F.A.A. is if the effect of the rule was contrary to the "goals
and policies of the F.A.A.," which is to encourage the enforcement of
arbitration agreements.  n106

   In the spirit of Volt, the appellate court determined that the right to
appeal from a court's order that compels arbitration is not a substantive right,
but rather a procedural right. n107 It then stated that Weston's substantive
rights would not be affected by its inability to immediately appeal the order
compelling it to arbitrate, as it would eventually be able to appeal the
defendant's application to confirm their award.  n108 The court's holding was in
line with the rule stated in Marr, Superpumper, Duggan, and Reis, which is that
a state's procedural rule will not be pre-empted by the F.A.A., unless the
procedure is contrary to the substantive rights granted by the F.A.A. n109
Hence, the court stated that since Weston's substantive rights were preserved by
the Massachusetts' procedural rule, the rule did not undermine the Federal goal
encouraging enforcement of agreements to arbitrate, and the rule was not
pre-empted by the F.A.A.  n110

    [*200]  V. COMMENT

   Although Weston was a case of first impression for the Appeals Court of
Massachusetts, the question before it had been presented to many other courts.
The court correctly held that state procedural rules are only pre-empted by the
F.A.A. when they defeat the substantive rights granted by Congress in the F.A.A.
n111 Its decision is consistent with those of other state courts and the United
States Supreme Court.

   The precedent this decision establishes in Massachusetts will serve to
further expand the federal policy of encouraging arbitration where the parties
have agreed to arbitrate. Not only is the court's opinion consistent with the
underlying policy considerations of the F.A.A., as stated before, it is also in
line with the precedent established by other courts which have dealt with the
pre-emption issue.

   Congress' enactment of the F.A.A. created a strong federal policy in favor of
arbitration. Since the creation of the F.A.A., almost all states have "passed
modern arbitration statutes that adopt the F.A.A.'s underlying policy of
promoting and enforcing arbitration agreements . . . ." n112 However, even
though only Mississippi, Alabama, and Nebraska  n113 cling to the "common law
hostility toward arbitration,"  n114 by only enforcing arbitration agreements
when the F.A.A. applies,  n115 there still exists conflict between state and
federal arbitration laws in the states that have embraced the F.A.A.'s policy of
encouraging arbitration. The instant case is an example of a state which is not
anti-arbitration, but which has a procedural rule in conflict with the F.A.A.
The procedural rule, though in direct conflict with the F.A.A. procedural rule,
did not defeat the substantive rights found in the F.A.A. The court, therefore,
refused to hold that the F.A.A. pre-empted the state rule. Though the
Massachusetts rule did not allow "an immediate appeal from the judge's order
compelling it to arbitrate" the court found that this rule was a purely
procedural rule and the timing of the right to appeal neither affected the
substantive right of the defendants to enforce the arbitration agreement, nor
Weston's right not to be bound by an illegal award.  n116 Thus, in effect, the
court's decision denying F.A.A. pre-emption of the state law rule showed its
adherence to the federal policy of enforcing arbitration agreements.

   The United States Supreme Court has stated that allowing a party who
contracted to arbitrate to avoid it by being allowed to bring his claim in a
judicial forum "could lead to prolonged litigation, one of the very risks the
parties, by contracting for arbitration, sought to eliminate." n117 The decision
in the instant case helps alleviate these risks of the contracting parties. A
party who has bargained for  [*201]  the right to arbitrate will not be usurped
by the other party to the arbitration agreement simply seeking relief in the
judicial system before the arbitration award is given. The holding will increase
the use of arbitration by parties who want their disputes remedied by a more
expedient mechanism than the judicial system. Parties can have faith that
arbitration will occur without the added delay of a judicial appeal. In effect,
each party will either get the benefit of its bargain (being able to arbitrate)
or be held to its bargain (being forced to arbitrate rather than use the
judicial system). The likely result is that contracting parties will more
readily place arbitration clauses in their contracts because they will be secure
in knowing that the court will not allow use of judicial proceedings when there
is such a clause.

   The courts, by creating pro-arbitration common law, have helped to further
Congress' policy favoring arbitration and the instant decision continues the
trend. Beginning with the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States in
Moses, n118 the courts have curtailed a state's ability to erect
anti-arbitration statutes to defeat the enforcement of arbitration agreements.
These rulings have helped ensure that parties to an arbitration agreement cannot
escape arbitration by selecting the forum to dispute arbitrability. That is, if
the courts would not have continually upheld the F.A.A.'s pre-emption power,
parties would be able to obtain different results depending on whether the suit
was brought in federal or state court. This would reward and encourage parties
to forum-shop, and, therefore, the better rule is to provide contracting parties
the same remedy in any forum.  n119 The courts have removed any motivation to
forum-shop as state anti-arbitration laws are pre-empted by the F.A.A. and other
courts have enacted pro-arbitration laws. The strong case law behind the F.A.A.
has served to further the federal policy of the F.A.A. by encouraging states to
be pro-arbitration and in the same respect has alleviated any potential
forum-shopping. The instant decision correctly falls within this great line of
legal history, and its decision encourages the enforcement of arbitration when
parties have agreed to do so. The Massachusetts decision will not only serve to
further arbitration in Massachusetts, but when another state court faces this
issue, the Massachusetts' decision will point the court in the right direction.

   VI. CONCLUSION

   The Massachusetts Court of Appeals made the correct decision in Weston, as it
found that the Massachusetts' state law, though in conflict with the F.A.A.,
would not be pre-empted by it. It made its decision by looking at the policy
behind the F.A.A. and to other cases that had dealt with the pre-emption issue.
By finding that its law, which does not allow an appeal before an arbitration
award has been given, was not pre-empted, the court added this case to a long
line of cases which encourage the federal policy of enforcing arbitration
agreements.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Civil ProcedureAlternative Dispute ResolutionMandatory ADRContracts LawContract
Conditions & ProvisionsArbitration ClausesSecurities LawSelf-Regulating
EntitiesNational Association of Securities Dealers

FOOTNOTES:




   n1 703 N.E.2d 1185 (Mass. App. Ct. 1998).


   n2 Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. v. Byrd, 470 U.S. 213, 219-20 (1985).


   n3 Section 2 states:

     A written provision in any maritime transaction or a contract
     evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
     controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction, or
     the refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof, or an agreement
     in writing to submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising
     out of such a contract, transaction, or refusal, shall be valid,
     irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law
     or in equity for the revocation of any contract.

9 U.S.C. § 2 (1994).


   n4 Southland Corp. v. Keating, 465 U.S. 1, 10 (1984).


   n5 Volt Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior
Univ., 489 U.S. 468, 477 (1988). The Supreme Court stated in this case that
state law may "be pre-empted to the extent it actually conflicts with federal
law-that is, to the extent that it 'stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment
and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress.'" Id. (quoting
Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S. 52, 67 (1940) (citing Savage v. Jones, 225 U.S.
501, 533 (1912))).


   n6 Weston Sec. Corp. v. Aykanian, 703 N.E.2d 1185, 1187 (Mass. App. Ct.
1998). Collectively the plaintiffs are called "Weston."


   n7 Id.


   n8 Id. Weston, under section 12(a) of the NASD Code, is required to
"arbitrate any 'dispute, claim or controversy . . . between a customer and a
member and/or associated person arising in connection with the business of such
member or in connection with the activities of such associated persons . . .
upon the demand of the customer.'"


   n9 They were customers of Weston.


   n10 Weston, 703 N.E.2d at 1187 n.3.


   n11 Id. at 1187.


   n12 Id. Section 15 of the NASD Code states that arbitration shall not be
available where six years have lapsed from the event causing the claim.


   n13 Id.


   n14 Id.


   n15 Id.


   n16 Id.


   n17 Id.


   n18 Id.


   n19 Id.


   n20 Id.


   n21 Id.


   n22 Id.


   n23 Id.


   n24 Id.


   n25 Id. at 1187-88.


   n26 Id. at 1188.


   n27 Id. at 1192.


   n28 Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. v. Byrd, 470 U.S. 213, 219-20 (1985).


   n29 Allied-Bruce Terminix Co., Inc. v. Dobson, 513 U.S. 265, 270 (1995)
(citing Volt Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Standford
Junior Univ., 489 U.S. 468, 474 (1989)).


   n30 Id. (quoting Bernhardt v. Polygraphic Co. of America, Inc., 350 U.S. 198,
211 n.5 (1956) (quoting United States Asphalt Ref. Co. v. Trinidad Lake
Petroleum Co., 222 F. 1006, 1007 (S.D.N.Y. 1915) (quoting Scott v. Avery, 5 H.L.
Cas. 811 (1856)))).


   n31 Id. at 270-71 (citing Dean Witter, 470 U.S. at 220).


   n32 Southland Corp. v. Keating, 465 U.S. 1, 12 (1984).


   n33 Id. at 10.


   n34 M & L Power Serv., Inc. v. American Networks Int'l, 44 F. Supp.2d 134,
140 (D.R.I. 1999) (citing 9 U.S.C. § 2 (1994)).


   n35 See Volt Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford
Junior Univ., 489 U.S. 468, 477 (1988) (quoting Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S.
52, 67 (1940)).


   n36 Duggan v. Zip Mail Serv., Inc., 920 S.W.2d 200, 203 (Mo. Ct. App. 1996)
(citing Greenwood v. Sherfield, 895 S.W.2d 169, 172-73 (Mo. Ct. App. 1995)).


   n37 312 U.S. 52 (1941).


   n38 See Volt Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford
Junior Univ., 489 U.S. 468 (1988); Weston Sec. Corp. v. Aykanian, 703 N.E.2d
1185 (Mass. App. Ct. 1998).


   n39 Hines, 312 U.S. at 59-60.


   n40 Id. at 62.


   n41 Id. at 67.


   n42 225 U.S. 501 (1912).


   n43 Hines, 312 U.S. at 67.


   n44 Savage, 225 U.S. at 533.


   n45 Hines, 312 U.S. at 67 (citing Savage, 225 U.S. at 533).


   n46 Id. at 74.


   n47 460 U.S. 1 (1983).


   n48 Id. at 5. Mercury entered into a contract with the Hospital which stated
that "disputes involving interpretation of the contract or performance of the
construction work were to be referred in the first instance to J.N. Pease
Associates, an independent architectural firm hired by the Hospital to design
and oversee the construction project." However, with only a few exceptions, any
dispute, regardless of whether it was decided by the architectural firm, could
be submitted to binding arbitration by either party under an arbitration clause
within the contract.  Id. at 4-5.


   n49 Id. at 24 (quoting 9 U.S.C. § 2 (1994)).


   n50 Id. at 24.


   n51 Id.


   n52 Id. at 24-25.


   n53 465 U.S. 1, 12 (1984).


   n54 Id. at 6.


   n55 Id. at 11.


   n56 Id. at 12.


   n57 Id.


   n58 Id. at 15-16.


   n59 Id.


   n60 482 U.S. 483 (1987).


   n61 Id. at 484.


   n62 Id. at 485. See 9 U.S.C. § 2 (1994) and 9 U.S.C. § 4 (1994) (allowing a
party to petition a United States district court for an order to arbitrate when
the other party to its arbitration agreement refuses to arbitrate).


   n63 Perry, 482 U.S. at 485. The provision stated, "I agree to arbitrate any
dispute, claim or controversy that may arise between me and my firm, or a
customer, or any other person, that is required to be arbitrated under the
rules, constitutions or by-laws of the organizations with which I register. . .
." Id.


   n64 Id. at 489 (citing Moses, 460 U.S. at 24).


   n65 Id. (quoting Keating, 465 U.S. at 16).


   n66 Id. (citing Keating, 465 U.S. at 10).


   n67 Id. at 483.


   n68 Id. at 491.


   n69 489 U.S. 468 (1989).


   n70 Id. at 470.


   n71 Id. at 477.


   n72 Id. (citing Hines, 312 U.S. at 67).


   n73 Id. (citing Hines, 312 U.S. at 67).


   n74 Id. at 478 (quoting Keating, 465 U.S. at 10).


   n75 Id. at 479.


   n76 Id. (citing Mitsubishi Motors Corp. v. Soler Chrysler-Plymouth, Inc., 473
U.S. 614, 628 (1985)).


   n77 Id.


   n78 Id. (citing Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. v. Byrd, 470 U.S. 213, 221 (1985)).


   n79 Id.


   n80 920 S.W.2d 200 (Mo. Ct. App. 1996).


   n81 Id. at 202 (citing 9 U.S.C. § 2 (1970)).


   n82 Id. at 203 (citing Greenwood v. Sherfield, 895 S.W.2d 169, 172 (Mo. Ct.
App. 1995)).


   n83 Id. (citing Greenwood, 895 S.W.2d at 172-73).


   n84 Id.


   n85 Id.


   n86 935 S.W.2d 625 (Mo. Ct. App. 1996).


   n87 Id. at 630 (citing McClellan v. Barrath Constr. Co., 725 S.W.2d 656, 658
(Mo. Ct. App. 1987)).


   n88 582 N.W.2d 647 (N.D. 1998).


   n89 The F.A.A.'s "purpose was to reverse the longstanding judicial hostility
to arbitration agreements that had existed at English common law and had been
adopted by American courts, and to place arbitration agreements upon the same
footing as other contracts." Id. at 650 (citing Gilmer v. Insterstate/Johnson
Lane Corp., 500 U.S. 20, 24 (1991)).


   n90 Id. at 651 (citing Reis, 935 S.W.2d at 630).


   n91 Id. (citing Reis, 935 S.W.2d at 630).


   n92 Id. (citing Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co., Inc. v. Luckie, 647 N.E.2d
1308, 1314 (N.Y. 1995)).


   n93 842 P.2d 801 (Or. Ct. App. 1991).


   n94 Id. at 803.


   n95 Id. (citing Nutbrown v. Munn, 811 P.2d 131 (Or. 1991)).


   n96 Id. (citing Rogers v. Saylor, 760 P.2d 232 (Or. 1988)).


   n97 Id.


   n98 Id. at 804.


   n99 Id.


   n100 Weston Sec. Corp. v. Aykanian, 703 N.E.2d 1185, 1188 (Mass. App. Ct.
1998).


   n101 Id. (citing Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. v. Byrd, 470 U.S. 213, 219-20
(1985)).


   n102 Id.


   n103 Id.


   n104 Id. (citing Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S. 52, 67 (1941)). See also Volt
Info. Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior Univ., 489
U.S. 468, 477 (1988).


   n105 Weston, 703 N.E.2d at 1188 (quoting Volt, 489 U.S. at 476).


   n106 Id. (quoting Volt, 489 U.S. at 477-78).


   n107 Id. at 1189.


   n108 Id. Massachusetts law allows a party to appeal an unfavorable
arbitration award confirmed by a superior court.  MASS. GEN. LAWS ch. 251, §
18(a)(3) (1988).


   n109 Weston, 703 N.E.2d at 1189.


   n110 Id.


   n111 Id.


   n112 Henry C. Strickland, The Federal Arbitration Act's Interstate Commerce
Requirement: What's Left for State Arbitration Law?, 21 HOFSTRA L. REV. 385, 400
(1992) (citing GABRIEL M. WILNER, DOMKE ON COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION 28 & app. 1
(1991)).


   n113 Id. at 460 n.93.


   n114 Id. at 400. The "old common law rule" is that "all pre-dispute
arbitration agreements are void as against public policy." Id. at 460 n.93.


   n115 Id. at 400.


   n116 Weston Sec. Corp. v. Aykanian, 703 N.E.2d 1185, 1189 (Mass. App. Ct.
1998).


   n117 Southland Corp. v. Keating, 465 U.S. 1, 7 (1984).


   n118 460 U.S. 1 (1983).


   n119 Id. at 15.


