                              50 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            November 22, 2015 Sunday

Hurdles Delay Opening of SCB Hospital

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: <img src="http://media.newindianexpress.com/SCB-Hospital.
jpg/2015/11/22/article3140740.ece/alternates/w620/SCB%20Hospital.jpg" />
HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, Nov. 22 -- The delay in opening the new 30-bedded super specialty
hospital in Bollaram is causing hardship to the poor patients in Secunderabad
Cantonment area as they are forced to depend on private hospitals.

Though the construction of building has been completed long ago, the opening of
hospital is being delayed due to procedural hurdles.

The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) took up the construction of the new
super speciality hospital three years ago, after demolishing the old Bollaram
Hospital, which was established eight decades ago. Though it was proposed to
construct a hundred-bed hospital initially, after much dilly dallying and
discussions the board decided to establish a 30-bedded hospital.

After sitting on the proposal for two years, SCB officials announced six months
ago that the hospital will be opened within a month after acquiring the required
equipment.

But the procurement of the equipment is facing procedural hurdles. Even the
required staff have not been recruited. It is the marginalised sections of the
society, who are most affected by the delay.

"The old hospital had the facility to accommodate 50 to 100 in-patients as it
was a major hospital in the locality. Now we are forced to depend on private
hospitals and clinics.

Officials are saying that they will soon open the hospital but it is always
being delayed. This is the only major government hospital in Cantonment area and
mostly poor people depend on it. Officials should make efforts to open the
hospital immediately," said J Pandurangam, a resident of Bollaram.

Being the only major hospital in Cantonment area, people from neighbouring
villages also depend on Bollaram hospital for health problems and accident cases
on Hyderabad -Karimnagar Highway are also referred to this hospital.

When contacted, SCB vice president S Keshava Reddy said that they have already
invited tenders and orders have been placed for the equipment. All efforts are
being made to open the hospital as soon as possible.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


