                              499 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

Regulatory update: The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio; OHIO EDISON COMPANY
, has submitted (14-1297-EL-SSO) Joint Motion to Reopen the Hearing Record and
to Establish a Procedural Schedule in Light of the Recently Filed Third
Supplemental Stipulation and Recommendation and Supporting Testimony
electronically filed by Mrs. Gretchen L. Petrucci on behalf of Buckeye
Association of School Administrators and Constellation NewEnergy, Inc. and
Electric Power Supply Association and Exelon Generatio

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbus: The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio has issued the following
document:



 BEFORE

 THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO

 In the Matter of the Application of Ohio

 Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric

 Illuminating Company, and The Toledo

 Edison Company for Authority to Provide

 for a Standard Service Offer Pursuant to

 R.C. 4928.143 in the Form of an Electric

 Security Plan.



 )

 )

 )

 ) Case No. 14-1297-EL-SSO

 ))

 )

 )

 JOINT MOTION OF

 BUCKEYE ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS,

 CONSTELLATION NEWENERGY INC.,

 ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY ASSOCIATION,

 EXELON GENERATION COMPANY LLC,

 INTERSTATE GAS SUPPLY, INC.,

 NORTHEAST OHIO PUBLIC ENERGY COUNCIL,

 OHIO ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL BUSINESS OFFICIALS,

 OHIO CONSUMERS' COUNSEL,

 OHIO HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION,

 OHIO MANUFACTURERS' ASSOCIATION ENERGY GROUP,

 OHIO SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION,

 OHIO SCHOOLS COUNCIL,

 PJM POWER PROVIDERS GROUP,

 RETAIL ENERGY SUPPLY ASSOCIATION

 AND

 SIERRA CLUB

 TO REOPEN THE HEARING RECORD AND TO ESTABLISH A PROCEDURAL

 SCHEDULE IN LIGHT OF THE RECENTLY FILED THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL

 STIPULATION AND RECOMMENDATION AND SUPPORTING TESTIMONY

 Buckeye Association of School Administrators, Constellation NewEnergy Inc., the


 Electric Power Supply Association, Exelon Generation Company LLC, Interstate
Gas Supply,

 Inc., Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council, Ohio Association of School Business
Officials,

 Ohio Consumers' Counsel, Ohio Hospital Association, Ohio Manufacturers'
Association Energy

 Group, Ohio Sehool Boards Association, Ohio Schools Council, PJM Power
Providers Group,

 1Retail Energy Supply Association, and Sierra Club (collectively, &ldquo;Joint
Movants&rdquo;) are full

 parties of record in the matter at bar and have actively participated
throughout this proceeding.

 On December 1, 2015, after the close of the hearing record, the applicants
filed the Third

 Supplemental Stipulation and Recommendation (&ldquo;third supplemental
stipulation&rdquo;) and

 supporting testimony for the Commission's consideration. The new stipulation
presents issues

 and facts that are not part of the current record. For instance, the third
supplemental stipulation

 contains new provisions, inter alia, setting different parameters for the
purchase power

 agreement, presents a proposed grid modernization plan, introduces energy
efficiency initiatives

 including CO2 reductions and renewable resources, and proposes changes to how
residential

 customers' distribution rates will be collected. These issues deserve to be
thoroughly examined

 and vetted. In light of this filing, the Joint Movants request, pursuant to
Rule 4901-1-34, Ohio

 Administrative Code, a new hearing schedule be adopted that provides for (a)
discovery

 regarding the elements of the new stipulation, (b) the right to file testimony
in opposition to the

 new stipulation and (c) a change in the briefing schedule to permit integration
of the evidence

 both supporting and opposing the third supplemental stipulation into the
record. Specifically, the

 Joint Movants request the following procedural schedule:

 &bull; Discovery requests related to the third supplemental stipulation (except
as

 to notices of deposition) be permitted through Monday, December 21,

 2015, with responses to written discovery requests provided within seven

 calendar days, consistent with the Attorney Examiner's July 2, 2015

 ruling.

 &bull; Testimony from opposing parties be filed by Friday, January 8, 2016.

 &bull; Hearing reconvened for testimony in support and in opposition to the
third

 supplemental stipulation on Tuesday, January 19, 2016.

 &bull; Initial Briefs be filed by Wednesday, February 10, 2016.

 &bull; Reply Briefs be filed by Wednesday, February 24, 2016.

 Further arguments supporting this Joint Motion are set forth in the attached
Memorandum in

 Support.

 2Respectfully submitted,

 M. Howard Petricoff

 Michael J. Settineri

 Gretchen L. Petrucci

 Vorys, Sater, Se)miour and Pease LLP

 52 E. Gay Street

 Columbus, OH 43215

 614-464-5414

 mhpetricoff@vorys. com

 mj settineri@vorys.com

 glpetrucci@vorys.com

 Attorneys for the PJM Power Providers Group, the

 Electric Power Supply Association, the Retail

 Energy Supply Association, Constellation

 NewEnergy Inc. and Exelon Generation Company

 LLC

 Larry S. Sauer ^ 0

 Maureen R. Grady

 Michael J. Schuler

 William J. Michael

 Ajay Kumar

 Office of the Ohio Consumers' Counsel

 10 West Broad Street, Suite 1800

 Columbus, OH 43215-3485

 larry. sauer@occ. ohio. go v

 maureen. grady@occ. ohio. gov

 william. michael@occ. ohio. gov

 aj ay .kumar @0 cc .ohio. gov

 On behalf of the Ohio Consumers' Counsel

 IGS Energy

 6100 Emerald Parkway

 Dublin, OH 43016

 j oliker@igsener gy. com

 On behalf of Interstate Gas Supply, Inc.

 3



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
