                              69 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday
                                Kolkata Edition

Cabin or ward? Rates differ for same treatment

BYLINE: Prithvijit Mitra & Udit Prasanna Mukherji

SECTION: THE TIMES OF INDIA

LENGTH: 612 words


Even as the new health law puts pressure on private clinical establishments to
rationalize their charges, a city hospital has set the cat among pigeons by
introducing uniform doctors' fees, investigation and procedural charges for
patients admitted across their rooms and cabins.

An overwhelming majority of hospitals in Kolkata continue to have differential
rates for patients admitted in their suites, private cabins and general wards.
Doctors' fees, investigation charges and other service costs vary as much as
10%-15%

depending on the kind of room you choose. The difference in charges for a
week-long stay in a six-bedded cabin and a suite could be as wide as 50%-60%.

But now, Belle Vue Clinic has done away with the differential rates. Other than
the bed charge, patients are being charged uniformly for everything else,
irrespective of whether they are being treated in a cabin or a ward. Every bill
is accompanied by a notice which declares that the 'charges for doctors' fees,
operation theatre and investigation have no link with the bed charges'. \x93We
believe the system of fixing charge as per the room category was not fair. So,
we have made it uniform,\x93 said

P Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue.

While it's not illegal to have different rates, many believe it's

unfair to differentiate between patients on the basis of the beds they opt for.
\x93While a doctor

might be paid more for attending to a patient individually in a private cabin,
there's no logic behind fixing a higher rate for an investigation or a procedure
for which no extra effort is being put in. Nor is the hospital incurring any
extra cost,\x93 said a hospital official.

A top official of a leading TPA said most city hospitals stick to differential
pricing for patients. \x93The doctors' fee, investigation charges, service
charges generally differ with the room. In a cabin, all the charges will be
higher than a bed in the ward,\x93 he said. The official added that hospitals
generally argue that through differential pricing they cross-subsidize patients
in the wards. But the difference is often much higher than the subsidy offered.

ATPA official said, \x93Ward patients are supposed to be subsidized with the
extra amount generated from patients in cabins or in semiprivate rooms who pay a
higher rate. But it's not always done very honestly . Some hospitals are
contemplating a move from the system.\x93

Patients in luxury suites and semi-private cabins have to be attended by extra
staff which raises the cost, according to Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals.
\x93Unless we charge a little more for the services, it will be difficult to
serve ward patients at a reasonable rate. We are looking into our charges,
though,\x93 said Barua.

At Fortis Hospital, too, investigation charges, doctors' fees and procedural
charges vary according to the kind of room a patient has been admitted into.
\x93Those admitted in a suite obviously pay the highest for services, followed
by those

in semi-private rooms and then wards,\x93 said a doctor at Fortis.Woodlands
Hospital follows a similar system.

Eminent cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar defended the pri

vate hospitals' decision to have differential rates. \x93If you look at it from
the point of view of morals and principles of healthcare, it's unfair. But you
can't deny the private healthcare sector the right to generate a decent
profit,\x93 said Sarkar.

A prominent cardiac hospital in south Kolkata has two rate categories, one for
its private cabins and the other for twinsharing rooms. \x93But our procedural
and investigation charges are uniform for all. Some extra charges are levied for
providing personal care, though,\x93 said a hospital representative.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


