                              74 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 29, 2016 Saturday

The Hybrid Algorithm for Treating Chronic Total Occlusions in Europe

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 Background  The hybrid algorithm for chronic total occlusion (CTO) percutaneous
coronary intervention (PCI) was developed to improve procedural outcomes. Large,
prospective studies validating the algorithm in a broad multicenter setting with
operators of different experience levels are lacking.





 Objectives  The RECHARGE (REgistry of Crossboss and Hybrid procedures in
FrAnce, the NetheRlands, BelGium and UnitEd Kingdom) registry aims to report
achievable results using the hybrid algorithm.



 Methods  Between January 2014 and October 2015, consecutive patients undergoing
hybrid CTO-PCI were prospectively enrolled in 17 centers. Procedural techniques,
outcomes, and in-hospital complications were analyzed.



 Results  A total of 1,253 CTO-PCIs were performed in 1,177 patients, of which
86% were men. Mean age was 66 ± 11 years. The average Japanese CTO score was 2.0
± 1.0, and was higher in the failure group (2.6 ± 0.6 vs. 1.9 ± 1.0; p < 0.001).
Overall procedure success was 86% and major in-hospital complications occurred
in 2.6%. Antegrade wire escalation was the preferred primary strategy in 77%,
followed by retrograde (17%) and antegrade dissection re-entry strategies (7%).
Primary strategies were successful in 60%. Consecutive strategies were applied
in 34% and were successful in 74%. Antegrade dissection re-entry and retrograde
strategies were the most common bailout strategies and were successful in 67%
and 62%, respectively. Median procedure and fluoroscopy time were 90
(interquartile range [IQR]: 60 to 120) min and 35 (IQR: 21 to 55) min, contrast
volume was 250 (IQR: 180 to 340) ml, and radiation doses (air kerma and dose
area product) were 1.6 (IQR: 1.0 to 2.7) Gy and 98 (IQR: 57 to 168) Gy·cm2,
respectively.



 Conclusions  High procedure and patient success rates, combined with a low
event rate and improved procedural characteristics, support further use of the
hybrid algorithm for a broad community of appropriately trained CTO operators.

 Perspectives



 COMPETENCY IN PATIENT CARE AND PROCEDURAL SKILLS: A hybrid algorithm based on
angiographic characteristics and specifying the procedure for percutaneous
revascularization of chronically occluded coronary arteries has been developed
and validated. Application of the hybrid algorithm by experienced operators at
several clinical centers in Europe improved procedural outcomes.



 TRANSLATIONAL OUTLOOK: Additional research is needed to identify specific
clinical predictors of angiographic success of the hybrid algorithm and
techniques in patients with CTOs undergoing coronary intervention, as well as
methods to select patients most likely to gain long-term benefit from this
interventional strategy.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


